Good morning. Would you bow your heads with me before we pray? Heavenly Father, we come this morning with grateful and thankful hearts You are so gracious and so kind to us, Father. You have blessed us beyond anything we could ever deserve And we are thankful this morning that because of what Christ has done on the cross, we have been reconciled to you through our faith and our trust in that sacrifice that He had made on our behalf. And Father, we ask this morning that you would be with those who are away today and uh pray God for your mercies upon them. May you grant them grace, and I pray that if they can be under your word, Lord, that you would teach them and encourage them. And bring them back to us safely. We thank you for those, Lord, who are here this morning. And Father, we ask that as we get ready to come to your word, that you will prepare our hearts. and our minds and our thoughts. Help us to set aside all those cares and those concerns that we've had for the week and as we even came in here. We pray that you will help us to concentrate upon your word and we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Paul called to be an apostle of Jesus Christ through the will of God, and Sothanes, our brother. To the Church of God, which is at Corinth, to those who are sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints, with all who is every place, call on the name of Jesus Christ our Lord. Both theirs and ours. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and our Lord Jesus Christ I thank my God always concerning you for the grace of God, which was given to you by Jesus Christ That you were enriched in everything by him in all utterance and all knowledge, even as the testimony of Christ was confirmed in you So that you come short in no gift, eagerly waiting for the revelation of our Lord Jesus Christ. Who will also confirm you to the end, that you may be blameless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ God is faithful, by whom you were called into the fellowship of his son, Jesus Christ our Lord. I hope you'll find this morning that this is such an important and practical and relevant study as we're going to see this church at Corinth this morning. I want to begin by asking you a very simple question. Are you at peace this morning? Are you at peace in your soul? In the human heart, in every human heart, there is a longing and yearning for peace. The truth is, there is actually a longing for peace in humanity and in society as well. You may have heard people say that hopefully one day we'll have world peace. Some suggest that that's actually should be The the goal of the meaning of life is world peace or the goal of humanity is to get to a place where we're ha going to experience World peace. And there is, in a sense, a desire for all of us to want to be at peace, and yet throughout history, we have not seen world peace ever. Now, what one of the reasons that Jesus, when he came to this earth, established the church was to show the world what it looked like for there to be true unity among a people and for there to be peace. the absence of hostility and therefore for there to be true unity. In fact, if you keep your you you can keep your finger in 1 Corinthians, we'll be back, but I'd invite you to look at Ephesians for a moment, Ephesians chapter 2. And we'll you'll see how this ties in in a moment, but in Ephesians chapter 2, we're going to actually see here the very essence of the church. And I think it's important for us to tie this in because as you're Perhaps turning there, because every book of the New Testament has a contribution to the gospel, the content of the gospel, and the work of the gospel. In other words, it's important for us to understand that not every n that that we can't just take a book of the Bible in the New Testament and say, well this is just a list of good things to think about or good things to do. It's it's much, much more than that. So what contribution is First Corinthians making to the work of the gospel. And it has to do with the work of the gospel in the work of the church, that the church is intended to reflect the gospel. At the very heart of the gospel in Romans chapter 3, we actually have this phrase, for there is no difference. That what the gospel does is it cr it removes hostility and creates peace So that there and there is so that there is no distinction and difference among people. That is the goal, the uh of the gospel. Not uniformity, because we are all different, but unity. I want you to see this for a moment in Ephesians chapter 2, verse 11, it says this. Therefore remember that you once Gentiles in the flesh who are called uncircumcision by what is called the circumcision made in the flesh by hands, that at that time you were without Christ, being aliens from the commonwealth of Israel and strangers for the covenants of promise having no hope and without God in the world. That describes Gentiles prior to Christ. Now if Gentiles uh they could proselytize to Israel, but as a whole they did not. But now, verse 13, in Christ Jesus, you who are off, far off, have been brought near by the blood of Christ, and he himself is our peace. who has made both one and has broken down the middle wall of separation, having abolished in his flesh the enmity that is the law of commandments contained in ordinances, and the case, and the case, and the case, and the case, and the case, and the case, and the c So as to create in himself one new person, one new man, one new person from the two, making, thus making peace. And that he might reconcile with them both to God in one body, that's the church, through the cross, thereby putting to death the enmity And he came and preached peace to you who are far off and to those who were near, for through him we both have access by one spirit to the Father. So this passage teaches us that the goal of the church, that God's goal, Christ's goal for the church, is there to be a unity that cannot be duplicated in the world. Not yet. And a unity that that uh so that there is a there is a a uh not a distinction between Jew and Gentile, bond or Greek, bond or free, those kinds of distinctions. But what happens when you are part of a society That really thrives on those distinctions, where you actually have a class system, if you will. And there are different statuses. There's different um you know, some people have are are wealthy, some people are not, some people uh or have have great respect in in the community, others do not. What happens when a group of those people come to Christ And yet they're missing the real unity they should have in Christ because they still are retaining the attitudes and the values of the world that they find themselves in. And that's exactly where we see the church at Corinth. The Church of Corinth, as as Paul is writing to them from the area, he's actually in Ephesus. writing to the church of Corinth, and he is writing to a church that is being influenced by the society. They're influenced by the world in In such a way that they as a church aren't able to reflect the gospel correctly. They are reflecting a distorted gospel because of what uh of of what is going on in their motives, in their attitudes, in their pursuits, in their goals, in those kinds of things. So that Key verse in Corinthians is actually in 1 Corinthians is actually in verse 10 where it says, Now I plead with you, brethren, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you all speak the same thing. And that there is no to be no divisions among you, but that you be perfectly joined together in the same mind, in the same judgment. For it has been declared to me concerning you, my brethren, by those of Chloe's household, that there are contentions among you, is reported by this household of Chloe, that there were contentions among you, and he recognized that that was the case. So the theme of the book of 1 Corinthians is living and reflecting gospel unity in a sin-distorted world. Living and reflecting gospel unity in a sin distorted world God's going to teach us how to do that. And I think what you're going to see and in a few moments as we look at this city of Corinth. Look at some of the background of the city. You're going to see really quite a few parallels between the city of Corinth and the society that was in Corinth and the society that we find ourselves in in the 21st century. The eastern coast on in the United States. So let's look at a few things about the city. The city of Corinth was a city that was a city that was throng at certain points in its history was thronging with people. It was a sports city. It was a city that hosted the Isthmian Games, which were b which were uh occurred a year before the Olympian Games and after the Olympian Games. It was originally a Greek city, but in 146 BC, it was decimated. It was sacked by the Roman Empire. And you can see a picture of that up there. You see the Roman Empire is sacking this Greek city. One of the things you'll notice about this picture is that in the upper your upper left-hand corner There's a mountain behind there. Just note that mountain in the upper left-hand corner for a moment that overlooks the city. You'll see more about that in a few moments In 44 B. C. , Caesar decided that this would be a great place for a city. So he developed it for as a Roman emp em uh city. He saw the topographical features of the city as to be ideal for commerce. He wanted it to be a a jewel in the in the in the Roman Empire as a as a great place for uh for economic growth and commerce And it became the administrative capital of the Roman province of Achaea. Now I have a map up here and I'll show you this The uniqueness of this city is that there was this peninsula of Achaea there, in the purple you'll see it there. That's uh Greek the Greek Greek area. Uh it's modern-day Greece. And uh you see that purple area is a is a peninsula. You see where the red area is and the purple area where they meet, there's a land bridge there. And you've got to cross that land bridge in order to get to that whole large peninsula where that was populated during the first century. That land bridge is exactly where this city of Corinth is. It was a pivotal strategic location that Caesar realized was going to be great. uh in in transporting goods and and uh promoting commerce in that re region. One of the features of the city we'll get to in a moment, but I want us to notice that also realize that this city was a city that was full of all kinds of religious diversity. It was a religious melting pot, probably because there were so many people traveling through the city. And the Roman the Roman thinking of religion was just just, you know, included in on there was this there was actually an imperial cult, the the the the imp the Roman Empire had es essentially its own religion, and then you could just add on any other religion to it you wanted as time went on. And so This city had it it celebrated and worshipped uh uh Apollo, Aphrodite, Asepalus, Athena, Dim Demeter Dionysus, uh uh Ephesian, Artemis, I mean, and the list goes on and on. Jupiter, Zeus, and there are many, many more. So it was a very religious religiously diverse and uh a city. The the the one of the greatest features of this city um was was the Acrocorinth that was the mountain that I mentioned before. And you could see pictures of the mountain there that overlooked the city. It was it towered pretty high over the city, and on top of that was it was the temple Aphrodite that was it was actually 1900 feet High that that uh that temple was the temple ap Aphrodite that sort of overlooked the city. And in the city, as you were in the city and you were you were uh moving about and doing your business you would constantly be worshiping and and s and uh and be involved in feasts and diets and all of these kinds of things in this particular city. Now that formed a bit of a problem for the church at Corinth, for Christians at Corinth, and Christians began to be known as misanthrops, misanthrops. Um because and it comes from the word anthropo anthropos, which means man, and basically the idea we they were against humanity because they would not participate as a whole in these various feasts as they were a part of the worship of these various gods. And of course, Christians only worship the one true God. And people began to hate them. They were certainly marginalized in this city if they didn't participate. They they they it it affected their business, it affected their livelihood, it affected all kinds of things And this became all of a major problem for this church at Corinth, among many other problems because of this. for a particular city. Now I'll make this observation. I think our society is becoming more and more this way. in the sense that we used to be sort of promote secularism, and we still do to some degree, but it is becoming uh in in our postmodern era it's becoming more acceptable to not just secularize where there is nobody that there's no God at all, but among among uh or not worshiping any God anyway, um or any religion. But what's happening among younger people is they're uh they're latching on to all kinds of different religious thinking and spiritual thinking of different kinds. And you have the rise, even in this country, of Buddhism and Taoism and um all kinds of different religions. So it's actually but the one thing that you have also in this country now, uh uh in the United States is this this in this intolerance against Christianity because of its exclusive nature, that Christianity believes in the one and only true God and in Christ. So there's an increasing intolerance. So some of the same challenges that the Church of Corinth are having are the same challenges that we as a church have and will continue to have in our country and our and as we as we seek to live out the gospel not just as individuals but as well as a church. Now we what Paul is going to do in his first in these first nine verses is he is going to establish Foundational truths that are going to be necessary to deal with this church because of all of the problems That they are facing as being influenced by their culture, by their society. And we're going to see that he establishes three foundational truths. One He's going to talk about the divine identity of the of of called out saints. If these this Church of Corinth has a divine identity of called out saints. And also a divine gifting of spiritual riches. We'll see that in verses 3 through 6. A divine gifting of spiritual riches. And then we'll see that there is a divine destiny of blamelessness. A divine destiny of blamelessness. These are all very foundational things that Paul wants this church to learn. And what we're going to do as we go through this is I'm going to continue. to give you a lot of background over what's going on at the Church of Corinth and the society and the influences and all that as we work through this text. So we'll begin by Paul asserting the divine identity of this Church of Corinth as called-out saints. It says here, Paul called to be an apostle of Jesus Christ for the will of God, and Sosthenes our brother, to the church of God, which is at Corinth, to those who are sanctified in Christ Jesus. Called to be saints with all who in every place call on the name of the of Jesus Christ our Lord, both theirs and ours. So Paul begins by declaring his own apostleship. This is something that the Apostle Paul is going to do in various letters. Very frequently, Paul will do this. And he's doing this to signal to the to the people that he's writing to, to the churches that he's writing to, that this is not any ordinary letter. This has apostolic authority associated with it, and that's why one of the reasons we find it in our in the canon of Scripture as well. Paul is also going to express to the Church of Corinth in verses in 1 Corinthians chapter 9 that his apostleship is one that is It has been compelled by Christ for him. In 1 Corinthians chapter 9, verse 1, it says, Am I not an apostle? Am I not free? Have I not seen Jesus Christ our Lord? Are you not my work in the Lord? In verse 2, if I am not an apostle apostle to others, yet doubtless I am to you. And he says, say this, and we'll learn what this means in a minute. He says, For you are the seal of my apostleship in the Lord. What does he mean that the Church of Corinth is the seal of his apostleship? And then he says in 1 Corinthians 9 verses 15 through 18, But I have used none of these things, nor have written these things that should be done so to me, for it would be better for me to die than than that anyone should make my boasting void. For if I preach the gospel, I have n nothing to boast of Now Paul said, I am an apostle called by God to lead churches, to establish churches. I have apostolic authority, but then he says, I have nothing to boast of. For necessity is laid upon me. Yes, woe is me for if I do not preach the gospel. For if I do this willingly, I have a reward. But it but if against my will I have been entrusted with stewardship. What is my reward then? That when I preach the gospel, I may present the gospel of Christ without charge, that I may not abuse my authority in the gospel. He's going to say in Galatians chapter 1 about his apostleship verse 15 that it pleased God who separated me from my mother's womb called me through his grace And in 2 Corinthians 12, verse 12, he says, truly the signs of an apostle were accomplished among you with all perseverance and signs and wonders and mighty deeds. He did all these things in front of the Church of Corinth to demonstrate that he really did have the authority that he is explaining. Now he's not boasting by authority. He he sees it as something entirely of God, as a grace from God. And he sees it far more as a responsibility. uh and he wants to express h he uh that in the beginning stages of this because some of the things that he is going to say to this church of Corinth are going to be fairly fairly um direct. I guess I'll put it that way. And he says Sosthenes is with, our brother is with him. He makes it clear that Sosthenes is not an apostle, but Sosthenes is with Paul, and that's significant because Sosthenes was in Corinth and came to Christ very likely when when Paul was in Corinth. In fact, I'd like you to see this. Would you take your Bibles now and turn to Acts chapter 18? Acts chapter 18, and we're going to actually see Where this church of Corinth began in Paul's journey. Acts chapter 18. And we're going to see some very important things about um about the the church at Corinth as it is beginning to be established. By Paul here. Picking up in verse one of chapter Acts 18, it says this after these things Paul departed from Athens and went to Corinth, and he found a certain Jew named Aquila, born in Pontius. who had recently come from Italy with his wife Priscilla because Claudius had commanded all the Jews to depart from Rome, and he came to them. There was a movement of the Jews to go from Rome into Corinth. uh via that land bridge. So because he was of the same trade, he stayed with them and worked for by occupation, they were tent makers. And he reasoned in the synagogues. He always went to the Jews first when he went to a city. He reasoned in the synagogues, Paul did, and persuaded both Jews and Greeks. When Silas and Timothy had come from Macedonia, Paul was compelled by the Spirit and testified to the Jews that Jesus is the Christ. But, verse 6, when they opposed him and blasphemed, he shook his garments and said to them, Your blood be upon your own heads, I am clean, for now I will go to the Gentiles. Now Paul is shifting his gear, so to speak. He's shifting his attention from the Jews in this city, and now he is going to the Gentiles. That tells us something about the church at Corinth. Is it predominantly a Jewish uh context or a gentile context? And the answer is Gentiles. We're talking about Gentile Christians. So the book is actually going to look quite a bit different than the book of Matthew, for example, that's written to to Jewish Christians. Or the book of Hebrews that is written primarily to Jewish Christians. So that's going to be helpful for us to understand that this is written to Gentile Christians, this book of 1 Corinthians. In verse 7 it says, And he departed from there and entered the house of a certain man named Justice, one who worshipped God, whose house was next door to the synagogue. Then Christmas, the ruler of the synagogue, believed in the Lord with all his household, and many of the Corinthians hearing believed and were baptized. Now you've got they're baptized, and they become a church. That's the beginning of the church of Corinth, when they are all baptized together, identifying as truly children of God. Verse nine Now the Lord spoke to Paul in the night of uh by a vision, do not be afraid by s uh but speak and do not be Keep silent, for I am with you, and no one will attack you to hurt you, for I have many people in the city. The Jewish people, of course, at that point are now upset at what Paul is doing because he is now, there are both Jews, but primarily Gentiles, that they are coming to Christ and this church is being formed. And it's right next door to the synagogue. Verse 11, and he continued there a year and six months teaching the word of God among them. Then uh Galio was pro-counsel to Avakea. The Jews With one accord rose up against Paul and brought him to the judgment seat, saying, This fellow persuades men to worship God contrary to the law. And when Paul was about to open his mouth, Galio said to the Jews, If it were a matter of wrongdoing or wicked crimes, O Jews, there would be a reason why I should bear with you But if it is a question of words and names and your own law, look to it yourselves, for I do not want to be a judge of such matters. And he drove them from the judgment seat. Then all the Greeks took Sosthenes and the rulers of the synagogue and beat them before the judgment seat But Gallio took no notice of these things. So the Roman Empire did not want to get involved, the proconsul of Achaea did not want to get involved in all of this, so he says this is This is a Jewish matter, and the Jews persecute these Christians. And verse 18, but so Paul still remained a good while. Then he took leave of the brethren and sailed for Syria and Priscilla and Aquila with him, and uh he had his hair cut off and all that and other things Another thing we'll not get into. Verse 19, and he came to Ephesus and left them there, but he himself entered the synagogue and reasoned with the Jews. So he now moves to Ephesus. He takes Presumably Sosthenes with him because now he's in Ephesus. He's writing to the Church of Corinth, and he says, Sosthenes, Sosthenes, whom you know, is with me. It's also a wonderful tribute to the to the work of the gospel in the life of Sosthenes who uh was a ruler in a synagogue in the midst of all of what is going on here with the Jewish people persecuting the the Christians, there was a man named Sosthenes who said, You know what? The Christians are right here. And Paul's teaching is right, and he comes to Christ in m in the midst of all of this. Now, with that in mind, if you take your Bibles and turn back to the to 1 Corinthians, and we're going to pick up here, and we're going to see how Paul addresses this church. Now there's some more that you need to understand about what this church is going through. Remember, I said, he's going to say, to the church of God, which is at Corinth, verse 2, chapter 1. Now remember I said that there was lots of temple worship and feasts and those kinds of things in the first century, and there certainly was, but there was more than that There was also illicit behavior, prostitution, that kind of a thing associated with this temple worship. In fact, it was rampant. In fact, it was so common and so prolific and so familiar and so bad that an ancient historian said It coined this term Corinthianize, basically. It coined the term Corinthianize, which essentially means to involve oneself in illicit behavior. He said this, the old city has been most licentious city in Greece, and perhaps the most licentious city in the Empire. So you have now a city that is riddled with all kinds of licentious and illicit behavior under the guise of religious worship Can you imagine that's a bit of a challenge for these chur the these Corinthian this Corinthian church? And I'll just make this parallel. Do we have those kinds of challenges today? Perhaps not to the extent yet of a church at Corinth. But certainly it seems to be that the challenges of this kind of behavior are on the rise in our country as well. And in our in our area, in this particular area that we live in. So how does Paul deal with these people? Frankly, these people are involved in this kind of sinful behavior. And we're gonna see that. They're struggling with it, they're involved with it. There are some that are actually suggesting that it's perfect that it's fine, that it's not really a big deal They're making excuses for their behavior, like it's really not part of me. It's just something that I do. we really weird things like that that they're coming up with as excuses for their behavior. So how does Paul deal with it? Does he say to them, you dirty, rotten, filthy, stinking sinners, what's wrong with you? How could you do something like that? He almost says that in Galate in Galatians. Do you remember when we went through the book of Galatians? And he says, who has bewitched you? He has nothing good to say to the Church of Galatia, who is self-righteous, that's their problem, and legalistic, and have fallen into self-righteous legalism. And in that situation, when Paul writes them, he has no commendation whatsoever for them, and he goes right for the jugular. But he doesn't do that here. How is he going to deal with them? You know what he's going to do? He's going to remind them of who they are. He's going to remind them of their identity. Notice what it says. It says, to those who are sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints. You know what he's going to do here? He is going to remind these Corinthian Christians who are struggling with all kinds of sinful behavior. You are You are called to be sanctified. You are called to be saints in Christ. He's going to remind them who they are. And he's going to begin to say, as you work through the book of 1 Corinthians, what you are doing does not match who you are. So he reminds them of who they are. He says sanctified. That word is in the perfect tense, it means uh it's actually talking about a call to be called out, to be set apart. You are set apart. You are called out from the Corinthian city. You are not to be like them. You are not to have the values they value. You are not to do the things that you do. You're called out from this. You are separated from this. You are sanctified. Set apart, consecrated, to make holy, sanctified. That's what the word means. Now he's going to say exactly this in 1 Corinthians 6, verses 9 through 11. In that passage he says, Do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor homosexuals, nor sodomites, nor Thieves, nor covetous, uh, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners, will inherit the kingdom of God. And such were some of you. You were that But you are washed, you are sanctified, you are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the Spirit of our God. He appeals them based upon who they are. Don't be involved in the things that you used to be involved in Because you have a different identity now. You serve a different master. You've got a different, you, you, your, your, your, your, you know, your identity, your position is different. In fact, he says, your saints Now, when we hear the word saint, we have this sort of patron saint of such and such idea in our minds. And there are people that are nominated for sainthood in a certain religion. But the way that Paul uses this term saints, it really applies, and we're going to see that very clear in the passage, it really applies to every believer. Every Christian who is truly a Christian is a saint biblically. And the word saint means holy one. That's what the word saint means. The root word is holy. Hagyazo. It's the word holy. And he says, you and the and the association for a Jewish mind for the Jewish mind would be like the priesthood in the Old Testament. that was separated from the rest of Israel for certain tasks, for certain roles that they were to play. You are saints. And then he says this with all who in every place call in the name of Jesus Christ, our Lord, both theirs and and ours. With everyone who calls on the name of the Lord your saints. In other words, there are not different classes of saints. You don't have, okay, you've got your real saints over here, and they got to be really holy, and you know, the the lesser saints over here and the and and no no no. And sometimes we think that a that you know maybe a uh a church leader or deacon or a pastor or elder should be more holy than everybody else. No, no, no. It's not what the he says, you are all saints. You are all, that's every Christian, every true believer who calls upon the Lord Jesus Christ is a saint, and you are to be separated. From Corinth, from that city. Now, he did not mean by that that you are to be isolated from them. He didn't mean that okay, you all need to huddle in an area by yourself. And you know, not have any association with anybody there. Uh not have any not do any business dealings with anybody there, that you've got to sort of have this sort of monastic approach, all get in a monastery somewhere and just No, it's not talking about physical separation. It is talking about uh attitude separation, mental separation, where I realize in my mind I am not one of them I am called out from them. So he's reminding them of who they are. Called out. This is a this this idea of calling out goes all the way back to the Old Testament. In Genesis chapter 4, verse 26 it says, and as for Seth To him also a son was born and named Enoch. And the men then men began to call on the name of the Lord. And you see it throughout even the Old Testament. Those who call on the name of the Lord are those who are truly gods and separated for his purposes and for his service. The name of the Lord is the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. We're depending upon who Jesus is, that He is truly God. That is who they are. One of the most em so what is the application? I think the application is very clear. You see, when we're going through when we're struggling with sin or we're struggling with a wrong kind of thinking in the world, we've got to remember who we are. Second Timothy 2 verse 21 says this. Therefore, if anyone cleanses himself from the latter, he will be a vessel of honor, sanctified and useful for the master. prepared for every good work. So there is a positional sanctification. God has called us out and God also though wants us to be involved in this matter of sanctification. where we are, where he says, for example, be holy as I am holy So that our practice, our behavior, our thinking matches our identity. Some Christians get caught up in the idea that our behavior and our thinking create our identity. It does not. Our thinking and our behavior doesn't create our identity, Christ creates our identity, doesn't he? It's the grace of God that creates our identity, doesn't it? But it is our responsibility for our thinking and our behavior to flow from our true identity, to be consistent with our identity. Now, something else that we find in this city, as uh Caesar wanted it to be, it did become a wealthy city. Many inhabitants were extremely affluent. It was said of that city that wealth and ostentation display become the hallmark of Corinth. It became a city that was uh full of social barriers and class distinctions and various statuses. It became a city with that was competitive Competitive individualism um hindered the the community uh of of Christ here. It was a doggy dog world in that city, if you will. It was a city where every man is every man is for himself. He is promoting himself. He is Stepping on everybody else to get to the top. It was a extremely competitive kind of city And that's why Paul is going to address that, because that is creeping into the church where there is competition in the church. There is a valuing of certain gifts over other gifts and those kinds of things. In fact, in 2 Corinthians, he's going to say this, chapter 10, verse 12, for we dare not class ourselves or compare ourselves with those who commend themselves, but they measuring themselves by themselves and comparing themselves among themselves are not wise. We, however, will be will not boast beyond measure, but within the limits of the sphere which God appointed us A sphere which especially includes you. They were comparing themselves by themselves and commending themselves among themselves, and Paul says, that is not wise, it's foolishness. So how does how does on the foundation how does Jesus how does Paul deal with this? Notice what it says in verse 3. He says, Grace. Catch that. He says, Grace to you and peace from where? From God, our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ. I thank my God always concerning you for the what? For the grace. Again, the grace Of God, which was given to you by Christ Jesus, that you were enriched in everything. By him, remember where this all comes from. By him, in all utterance and all knowledge, even as the testimony of Christ was confirmed in you. He says, Grace. I pray for grace from God. I pray for peace from God. And I'm thankful for the grace of God in your life. See, the truth of the matter is when we realize as Christians that it is all of God's grace, that if there's anything of any value, any ability, any talent, any giftedness, if any of it is of any value, it is because and only by the grace of God alone that we are absolutely in no way better than anybody else Or worse than anybody else, because it's all of the grace of God. That's what they needed to remember. They needed to remember that all that was given to them, all the talents, all the abilities that was given to them, were given to that, was given to them by the grace of God. And so he says, grace to you and peace. Grace also in the in the sense that they had to be reconciled to God as Christians. And peace That they needed the peace of God in their lives and also expressed throughout the church because there was a lack of peace for these people. The grace of God, we see from the very beginning, actually, in the book of Exodus. In Exodus 34, verses 5 through 7, actually in verse 6 it says this, and the Lord passed before him and proclaimed, the Lord, the Lord God, merciful and gracious. Long-suffering, abounding in goodness and truth, keeping mercy for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin, by no means clearing the guilty. visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children and the children's children to the third and fourth generation. Grace God is gracious. The word grace stems from an Old Testament idea of two things. One of steadfast love. and also of faithful love. It came from kindness, steadfast love and kindness. It was the word Hesed in the Old Testament. And also this word peace, which conveyed that there was a former rebelling and hostility. And of course, we are all born in rebellion and hostility against God. Isaiah 52, verse 7 says, How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him who brings good news, who proclaims peace, who brings good tidings of good news. of good things, who proclaims salvation, who says to Zion, Your God reigns. Romans 5. 1 says, Therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Now, I am not even halfway through my message. So I am going to I did not time this well. Uh so I am going to stop very soon here. Uh because I'm I'm I'm actually for the last five minutes while I'm preaching I'm trying to figure out where I'm gonna end here and I'm I I really I really have like I'm on page seven and there's twelve pages. So um I'm not going to finish. Uh don't worry. Um some of you have barbecues and family things that you want to get to by five o'clock today. So I'll I'll uh I'll go ahead and and finish at a at a decent time here. But I'll so I'll just pause here and say this that the grace of God that Paul is going to continue throughout this entire letter. He's going to say that the grace comes from Christ. The death of Christ and the work of Christ on the cross. For example, we see here in 1 Corinthians 1, verse 18, for the message of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing. But to those who are being saved, it is the power of God. He says in 1 Corinthians 2, verse 2, For I determine not to know anything among you except Jesus Christ and Him crucified. In 1 Corinthians chapter 5, verse 7 it says, Therefore, purge out the the old leaven, that you may be a new lump, since you truly are unleavened. For indeed Christ, our Passover, was sacrificed. for us. And that segues us fairly well into what we're going to be doing in a few moments and that is our and that is communion. The focus of this message is simply that we need the grace of God, don't we? And maybe you're here, you're listening this morning and you've had a kind of a Some of the problems that are in the Church of Corinth are some of the problems that you're dealing with. Maybe it's the problem of spiritual pride. You think of yourself as better than other people because of all that you're doing or all that your giftedness that you have, and you need to remember that it is all because of the grace of God Or maybe you have forgotten who you really are. Your identity in Christ, called to be saints, called to be holy. And maybe there there you've allowed things in your life, we've allowed things in our lives that are sinful and you need to re you you need to understand and confess before the Lord the the sins that are inconsistent with your identity in Christ I encourage you to do that. And as we think in a few moments, look ahead to the Lord's Supper and participating and celebrating what Christ has done for us. We want to reflect on why this communion time is that we ha what why we have this communion time, which actually is laid out in 1 Corinthians chapter 11, because they were having problems. with communion. Because because uh communion is intended to symbolize unity in the body of Christ around the finished work of Christ. They were being uh allowing all kinds of things to divide them. And Paul says, no, when you come around the Lord's table, it should be a time of display of unity. Chapter ten of First Corinthians. In chapter 11, then he explains that there are two other reasons for the Lord's Supper, and that is to remember what Christ has done for us. and also to proclaim the Lord's death until he comes, to preach to others the death, burial, and resurrection. of Christ. So in a few moments we're going to have our have an opportunity to partake of the Lord's Supper together. But first let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you this morning and we praise you for this wonderful book of of uh of the of First Corinthians. We thank you for the Apostle Paul and his uh work in writing this. And we thank you that we can learn so much from this wonderful book. And Lord, I pray this morning that you would remind us of our identity in Christ. We are called to serve you. We are called to be saints. Lord, help us to know how to do that. Not to isolate ourselves from the world, but Lord, may we realize we are not citizens of this world. We are citizens of another kingdom Father, we pray also that as we come to you, we ask, Lord, that as we look to the Lord's Supper, that we would do what we do in remembrance of you. And if there is any sin in our lives, I pray that you would help us to confess that before you, not as some sort of confessional, but simply because we want to partake of the Lord's Supper together in a manner that is uh that is uh worthy of you, Lord. And so as we do this this morning, we pray, Lord, that we would do so in remembrance of Christ. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. To have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273 or email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.