Let's go to the Lord together in prayer. Heavenly Father, we come with grateful and thankful hearts this morning. You are gracious and kind to us, Father. You have shown us much mercy. You are all-powerful, almighty, all-wise, all-knowing, creator and sustainer of all life. And Father, we praise you this morning because you are our God and you have reached down to save our souls from the wrath to come. And we are thankful for Jesus Christ. Christ and what he has done at the cross on our behalf and what you are doing each day in our lives. And Father, we ask that you would prepare our hearts this morning That Father, we would seek to hear your word, to listen, Lord, and not only listen and hear it, but apply it and learn it and grow in it. We ask for your Holy Spirit to be doing a work in our hearts this morning. Help us to set aside all the distractions and cares that we brought in this morning That we may be encouraged and strengthened by your word this morning. And we ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. We're going to be reading this morning from Romans chapter 6, verses 15 through 23. Romans 6, 15 through 23. What then? Shall we sin because we are not under the law but under grace? Certainly not. Do you not know that to whom you present yourselves as slaves to obey You are that one's slaves whom you obey, whether of sinning leading to death, or of obedience leading to righteousness. But God be thanked that though you were slaves of sin, yet you obeyed from the heart that form of doctrine to which you were delivered. And having been set free from sin, you became slaves of righteousness. I speak in human terms because of the weakness of your flesh. For just as you presented your members as slaves of uncleanness and of lawlessness, leading to more lawlessness So now, present your members as slaves of righteousness for holiness. For when you were slaves of sin, you were free in regard to righteousness. What fruit did you have then in the things of which you are now ashamed? For the end of those things is death. But having been set free from sin and having become slaves of God, you have your fruit to holiness and the end, everlasting life. For the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. So I'm sure everyone realizes, whether they like it or not, that we are in an election year And uh I am not going to talk about the election, but I will mention that in every election year I've ever recalled, both candidates Dangle the carrot of freedom. They they say that if you elect me, you'll have more freedom. Both candidates in every election I've ever seen during debates. And and they are convinced that if you elect the other person, that you'll have less freedom. Freedom's an interesting thing. Even defining it, even understanding what it is, it's very attractive It's something that everybody wants. It's something that everybody feels as though they don't have enough of. And yet that carrot of freedom can be extremely deceptive. Consider a parent who or a child rather who is under the rule of his parents and decides that he wants to break free from the rule of his parents so he joins the military. Hmm. Not sure that's gonna work out so well for him. He goes from the rule of his parents to the rule of the merit military. But there are people that do that. There are young men that will say, Man, I just gotta get away from my my family, I gotta get out from under the the the the thumb of my parents, so I'm gonna join the military and solve all my problems. Well that would be quite deceiving for somebody to think that What's worse is a situation where you have somebody that resorts to drugs or alcohol, maybe to gain some freedom from reality or the pain that they're going through only to find themselves enslaved to those addictions. Alcohol doesn't make you free, drugs don't make you free, and yet they offer this freedom for a moment from the reality of the pain of life. Get a high, have an ecstasy for the moment, and have your freedom. Back during the during the nineteen sixties and seventies, you'll remember certain drugs were used frequently to get high in the cause for freedom. The truth is Satan deceives us to want to be free. He did this with Adam and Eve. I think I think really what one of one of the ones he was saying is that when he said You will be like God, knowing good and evil. Part of what he's saying is you'll be free from God. Satan himself tried to become free from God. There is There is a great deception in this carrot of freedom. And the truth is, Satan wants us to believe that he can make us free. Christ has said, the Son therefore will make you free, you'll be free indeed. But some but the truth is People just want to do what they want to do. There's songs about doing what you want to do when you want to do it. And there's people that just Want to do what they want to do, and if they do what they want to do, they think it's going to bring them freedom. I mean, isn't that what freedom is? God says no. Doing what you want to do is actually not freedom, according to the Bible. It's actually enslavement. In fact, the way the Bible is going to describe reality. Is that the only logical, the only life that makes sense, that's logical as you look at the final outcome, is a life that's presented to God to be used for him. It's the only one that makes sense. And we're going to see this. Why is that the case? We're going to see this, first of all, that there are actually only two options, verses 15 and 16 of this passage. And then there we're going to see that there is actually only two ways of life. And finally, we will see that there are only two ultimate outcomes. Two options, two ways of life, two ultimate outcomes, two ultimate results. Let's first then look at the two options in verses 15 and 16. He says, What then? Shall we sin because we are not under the law, but under grace? Now he's asked this before, almost the same question before. What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? It's a little bit different, but Basically, he's saying, should we uh sin because we are not under the obligation of the law But we are under grace. And with the same expression as before, in the very beginning of chapter 6 of Romans, he says, certainly not. That is the wrong application to receiving the gift of grace. In fact What he's really saying as we go through this passage is that the purpose of grace is not to free you to sin, the purpose of grace is to free you from sin. We see this all the way through this, and we're going to see this really clearly in this passage this morning. God's desire in giving us the gift of grace is to free us From sin. Christ came and lived a perfect life, fulfilling the demands and obligations of the law. He didn't come to destroy the law, but he fulfilled the obligations of the law, Matthew 5, 18. For surely I say unto you, till heaven and earth pass away, one jot or one title will by no means pass away till all is fulfilled So that we as Christians, we're not, we don't have to serve, serve sin by being under the obligation of the law. No. We are freed from the obligations of the fulfillment of the law. We are under grace. This gift of grace lends itself to a particular application that is right and a particular application that is wrong Suppose you find somebody that's in great need. They can't pay their bills. They can't put clothes on their back. They could can't put food on their bellies. And so you're gonna help them, and maybe you give them a large sum of money. Let's say you give them a couple thousand dollars. And you say, I really want to help you. I know you can't pay your bills. Maybe they come to you and they ask for it and you give it to them and you say, I really want to help you to be able to pay your bills, get out from underneath the your your load, and and you I want your family to be able to be fed and I want you to be clothed and here's some money for that. I'm gonna give it to you. And they maybe they s they say, oh no, don't you don't have to do that. And you just said, no, I really want to. I want to give you that. So they get a plane ticket and they go to Vegas. And they gamble all their m all the money away And you hear about this and you call them and you say, What gives? What are you doing? I gave you this money So that you could provide for your family. I gave you this money so that you could have food on the table. I gave you this money for these reasons. And you went to Vegas and you gambled it all away. I am angry at you. Would you have a right to be angry? It was not the intention. And he says, well, but you said it was a gift. I could do what I want to. I mean well, I didn't know there were strings attached. But it was a gift with a particular intention. And although he may not have been legally obligated to do something, do the follow your exact intention, there was an implied intention to your gift. That you would use it to provide for your family, and yet he did not. And it's the same way with the grace of God God gives us his grace. He frees us from the obligations of the law. Not that we are lawless. Actually, Scripture says that we are under Christ's law, the law of love. But God wants us to take this gift of grace and use it not to be freed to sin, but to be freed from sin. And that's what we see in the passage. So certainly not. And there's a particular problem if you choose to sin because you have grace. And he he deals with this problem now by giving what is called an axiom. It's a self-evident saying. Look at the passage. Pick it up here. And it says, Do you not know that to whom you present yourselves slaves to obey, you are that one's slaves whom you obey? Did you pick up on that? He says, if you present yourself as a slave to obey, then you are yourself a slave to obey. It's kind of like saying if you go and get a job, then you're going to have to work that job. It is a self-evident statement, but it's there for a purpose. He wants them to understand that if you give yourself over to sin, it will, by its nature and its deaf, by its nature of sin, it will enslave you. Sin, by its very nature, is enslaving. He says, if you present yourselves this way, you will become enslaved to sin. See, Christ taught in Matthew 6, verse 24 that no one can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other. Or else he will be loyal to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammon. There are certain things in life that if you participate them, they become enslaving. Drugs are that way. So you have to be very careful with drugs. And alcohol can be that way. And sin is that way. It's very definition, it's very composition of sin. Is that it is enslaving by its very nature. It is a slave master. And if you present yourself As a slave, I mean if you present yourself to sin, it will enslave you. John 8. 34 says it this way, most assuredly I say to you, whoever commits sin is a slave of sin. This is a very important statement to understand. That sin, by its very definition, will enslave you. And what we see presented here are two options. He says then When you present yourself to something, either sin or obedience, you have a second option. See You actually didn't have a second option before you came to Christ, but now that you're in Christ, you have a second option. Before you came to Christ, you had no choice but to be enslaved to sin. Did you realize that? But now, because you are a Christian, you have the option, you are actually positionally freed from the power of sin. We've learned this before, so that we never have to sin And we are able then to present ourselves, our members, Scripture says, as instruments of righteousness. Notice what it says in the passage. Whether sin leading to death, you can present yourself to sin, which leads to death, or you can present yourself To obedience, which leads to righteousness. So there we have two options. We either present ourselves to sin or we present ourselves to obedience. And the results are either death for sin Or it's interesting it says righteousness, because what would you think if death is the result of sin, what would you assume is the result of obedience? You with me? Life, you would think it'd be life. But Paul's very careful here, because in Romans chapter 4, we learn that it isn't actually self-effort. That brings life. It's faith in Christ and the obedience of Christ on the cross that brings life. So he doesn't say life here, he says righteousness. And it is true that if we will present ourselves to obedience to God, then the result will be life of righteousness before him. You see, in Ephesians chapter 2, we learn this, verse 10. For we are his workmanship. created in Christ Jesus for good works which God prepared before that we should walk in them. See, God saved you. When he saves you, he frees you from the power of sin, but he also frees you to obey him. He frees you to obey him which leads to righteousness. Ephesians says it this way, where his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand that we should walk. in them. Colossians 1 says it this way, and you who were alienated and enemies in your mind by wicked works, yet now He is reconciled in the body of his flesh through death to present you holy, blameless, and above reproach in his sight Now these two options that are given: sin and obedience, two enslaving options. You have no other options, you just have these two options: sin or obedience. are going to lead to one of two ways of life. And what God is going to do or Paul is going to do through the inspiration of Scripture, uh is going to do is going to show us that the that the very basis of our practice should be who we are in Christ. 1 Peter says it this way, since you have purified your souls in obedience, the truth through the Spirit and sincere love of the brethren, love one another. fervently with a pure heart. Why? Why should we do this? Having been born again not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible, through the word of God which lives and abides forever. In other words, we are born again by the Spirit of God, and so therefore we should, it's just normal. It's just natural for us to then purify ourselves and to live out obedience. So we move then to this, these two options leads us to two ways of life. Verse 17 says, but God be thanked that though you were slaves of sin, you were categorically before you were saved, your slaves of sin. Yet you obeyed from the heart the form of doctrine which you were delivered, and having been set free from sin You become slaves of righteousness. So he starts off by saying, but God be thanked It is the intervening work of God in the life of a person that causes them to even want to be saved There is none that seeks after God, Scripture says. There is none that that uh that that does that in in Romans chapter 3. And so it is God's work, and it and because of the work of Christ We he is to be thanked. John 6. 44 says, no one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. And John 6. 65 says it this way, therefore I have said to you that no one can come to me unless it has been granted to him by my Father. First Corinthians fifteen says, but thanks be to God who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. We have here then it says that through you, though you were slaves, there's this purpose, though you were slaves Yet, and then it says this, you obeyed from the heart that form of doctrine that has been given, that you have been delivered to. So what is he saying there? Why is it saying it this way? You obeyed from the heart that form of doctrine? Well what he's actually talking about is that you have accepted the gospel. That's what he's saying. But he's saying it in a way that That we see that the whole person is involved in this. When someone truly comes to Christ, it is not just a decision of the mind. It is not just a decision of the emotions. It is not just a decision of the will. It's all three that have to work together. for the decision to be one where fit where where they truly come to Christ. They receive that that doctrine, that gospel doctrine. We see the involvement of the will. It says, have obeyed it. Now he is not saying here by this word obedience that he he's not saying that there's self-effort involved in salvation, but it there is an act of the will. There is a human agency involved in salvation where where the act of the will is. He obeyed from the heart. And it says from the heart, there's emotions involved. And then the doctrine, that form of doctrine, indicates that the mind is involved. The word doctrine means teaching. It's the understanding of truth. And the word form is an interesting word. It means a mold into which metals are easily poured. So God, in his sovereignty and his work, has formed us. formed our thinking into the mold of his gospel so that we we we think we're our minds are conformed to the truth of the gospel John 8. 37 says it this way: I know that you are Abraham's seed, but you seek to kill me because my word has no place in you. The word of God has taken root in the life of a Christian. The mind has been formed around the Word of God so that it receives it, the whole person. To illustrate this, I think we need to think even in terms of like our worship. When we worship God, how do we worship God? Do we do it with our minds? Do we do it with our emotions or do we do it with our wills? And I'm sure you know that the answer is yes. All three. If you a good hymn, a good song, good Christian song, a good worship song, worship in the right sense of the word. is a song that is going to appeal to the mind. There is going to be truth from that song. It's a song that's going to it is going to appeal to the emotions. It is going to affect us. When we sing the hymns, I hope, I gotta tell you, I appreciate the songs, even this morning, they warned my heart Did they do that to you for you? As you s as you sa as you as you sang of the truths of who God is, of his grace in your life. Did it do that in your heart, or were we just kind of going through the motions? True worship involves the entire person. And frankly, salvation involves the entire person. And it actually says that this passage that God delivered us over or handed us over to this gospel. 1 Timothy 2 11 says it this way, according to this glorious gospel of the blessed God, which committed, which was committed to my trust. Now, verse 18 is a really key verse that helps us understand the whole all of this. And what it says here in this verse is that having been set free from sin. You became, now listen to what it says, became slaves of righteousness. Now, see, Satan wants us to think that we actually have three options. Satan wants us to think that we can, on one hand, avoid sin, but you know what? We could probably not give our whole lives to serving God as well. We can kind of stay in the middle where, yeah, I dip in every once in a while and serve God and do a few things for him. And I'd stay away from, especially those sins that have a lot of consequences. And I kind of stay in the middle here, and maybe we don't say it this way, but we sort of want to we want to live our lives for our own happiness, for our own enjoyment, for our own self. And Satan deceives us into thinking that there's kind of three options. There's only two You either are a slave to sin or you are a slave to righteousness. In other words, we're actually born to be enslaved. Did you realize that? Sometimes when we think of enslavement, we think of um you know our nation's history and that kind of enslavement. It's not it's not that quite that kind of enslavement that the scripture is talking about. But there is a dependency and an ownership involved in this word slave. The word servant is really not the most adequate term. We're talking more than just uh the idea of voluntarily presenting yourself. No, it it is it owns you and there is a dependency upon it And you have two choices. And if you say to yourself, well, no, I'm going to just live my life and be happy and not sin, you're already in it. You you're you're it's it's a deception. You are enslaved to sin and you don't even know it. You're presenting your bodies to s it's it's like um uh Ken Collier said. There's only two two options on the shelf, serving God or serving self. You've got two options. You are either enslaved to sin. Or you are enslaved to God. You are either enslaved slave to sin or you are enslaved to righteousness. And as a Christian, you have been positionally freed from the power of sin, but you still have the ability to present your members, scripture says. You present your bodies, your time, your devotion, your talents. You you you you can either present them to sin or you present them to God. There are only two options. So which one are you? Who are you presenting your body to? Who are you presenting your time to? Who are you presenting your talents to 1 Corinthians 6 19 says, Or who do you do not know, uh or do you not know that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit who is in you, whom you have of God, and you are not your own? Now he's then going to give us some amazing, an amazing application to help us to understand how it is that we present our lives, our bodies, our our um our time, our members to him, to righteousness. Look at verse 19. First of all, he says, I speak to it in human terms because of the weakness of your flesh. What is he saying there? What why is he Well, what he's saying here is that there is a there is a tendency, Lensky said it this way, there is a foolish tendency under a false show of logic to draw wrong conclusions from great spiritual facts. That's really true. We we take some great spiritual fact like we are freed by the grace of God and we draw a wrong conclusion to it. We are We we are just we have this human tendency to do that. And the two tendencies for us is either license. Or what some would call antinomianism, the freedom from the law, where I'm licensed, I have license to do what I want, or legalism, Judaism back in the first century. Where I am under I am under obligation. I am under the law. I am obligated to do certain things. See, we we we take this, all the truth of Scripture. We take the truth of the fact that we're free from the grace of b by the grace of God. And go one of two directions. And the fact is, it is neither one of those. It is that we present ourselves to God. to righteousness for his pleasure. But how do you do that practically? I I think this is one of the most practical verses uh in maybe in in scripture. It is it is just great. Look at what it says here. Verse 19, he says, I speak in human terms because the weakness of your flesh. For just as you presented your members, listen to what it says. Just as you presented your members as slaves of uncleanness and of lawlessness leading to more lawlessness, So now present your members as slaves of righteousness for holiness. I have had the uh the the opportunity on s several occasions to work in secular environments. I really think for me it was necessary to do that. My dad had advised me to do that. And one of the things that I've noticed is that how how how much a non-Christian Pursues hard after what they want. Pursues hard after sin And uh, you know, I was working doing uh tree removal and printing and you know the night you know usually there they would talk about what they did the the night before. different things. They'd go out partying and drinking and being loose and all kinds of things and and they would talk about their plans, especially on Friday. They're gonna get their paycheck and they're gonna go out and they're gonna do this and that and this and that. And I'm thinking to myself, man, you You are, you know, from my perspective, I'm looking at it and going, man, you are you are enslaved to this. Their lives are miserable because they got to get up the next morning and they got a hangover and they've got all these sort of problems, but man, they are pursuing harder after those things than many times Christians pursue righteousness and obedience. And and it it's like more leads to more which leads to more. I used to watch young men just sort of from a distance pursue a certain kind of sin Which led them to more sin and led them to more sin and more and more. It was never enough. They wanted more and more and more and more. And that's the way sin is. Sin causes you to want more and more and more Paul is going to say in the next chapter that he realized that he was violating the law by his covetousness. He wanted more and more and more. And that's the nature of the slavery of sin. It causes you to just want more. You know, it's like chocolate cake. You never can have an there's never enough. You know, it's it's like uh just don't start like Pringles, don't ever pop that top. Right? There's never enough. And sin is that way And it's enslaving that way. And there's there's like this sin momentum that happens. Have you seen this before? Maybe you've experienced this before. See, some of you You were saved as adults, and you have a life BC. You have a life before salvation. And you remember when you were pursuing sin. Hard and you were after it to want to be able to please self and gratify self. I used to listen to Unshackled, I mentioned this a couple of weeks ago in Sunday school. I didn't have, you know, I was saved at a very early age. I couldn't say that I had this huge, massive life of I do remember, I do remember a change in my life, even uh even at a very young age But but this sort of life of sin where I'm pursuing hard after sin, I don't really remember that. But I listen I I very wisely my parents would allow me to listen to Unshackled and I would see people pursuing hard at they you can still listen to it by the way online. Google unshackled and you can go online and listen to it. Actually, parents, I would encourage you to let your teenagers particularly listen to Unshackled. They need to see the difference between before Christ and after Christ and pursuing hard after sin and the joy of pursuing hard after obedience. Because that's what he's saying here. He's saying that you need to, just as you previously pursued after sin, which led to uncleanness, which led to more uncleanness, and you had this sort of Sin momentum going on. The same thing happens in the life as a Christian. As we pursue obedience and righteousness, there is this momentum that goes on that we want more and more and more of that This is this I think is such an important verse for learning to live consistently obedient lives. That more is going to lead to more. You gotta get started, but just learn, give your lives over to Christ to do what he wants to do with it. and obey and find ways to be w to live righteously, find ways to be obedient, and one leads to the other, to the other, and you have more and more of this. He says, so now present your members as slaves of righteousness for holiness. Martin Lloyd Jones said it this way: As you go on living this righteous life and practicing it with all your might and energy and all your time. You will find that the process that went on before, in which you went on from bad to worse and becoming viler and viler, is entirely reversed. You will become cleaner and cleaner and pure and pure and holier and holier and the more and more and more conformed into the image of the Son of God. Which direction are you going? It's one or the other. It's not both. And I have to tell you that there have been many times that I've counseled people and times in my life as a Christian where I was not following after the things of the Lord. And and and sin was leading to more sin than more sin, and you feel like you're caught and you say, man, I just want the victory. I want the victory. No, actually, you don't need the victory. You already have the victory in Christ. Romans chapter 6 and chapter 5 and chapter 6 told us you are freed from the bondage of sin. You don't need victory, you need consistent obedience. And consistent obedience starts with the first step and the next step and the next step. You give your lives over to Christ. We need to be careful about this YOLO mentality. You ever you know what a YOLO mentality is? You only live once. Actually, it could be a good thing or a bad thing, depending on what you mean by it. Unfortunately, most people that have a YOLO mentality, they're like Grab all the gusto, do whatever you can now because you might not be able to do it later. So let's just have all the fun we can possibly have now. So you don't have any fun later. Or so that cause you don't know if you're gonna have to be able to have fun later. You just never know. And you have one life to live, so you might as well have fun doing it and all that We have one life to live. You only live once. The only life that's going to make sense is a life that's lived for Christ. And we're actually going to see that in the next few verses here. Because there are only two ultimate outcomes in verses 20 through 23. Picking up at verse 20 of Romans 6, it says, For when you were slaves of sin, you were freed in regard to righteousness. That fruit, what fruit did you have then in the things of which you are now ashamed? For the end of these things is death, those things is death. But now having been set free from sin and having been slaves of God, you have your fruit to holiness. And the end of everlasting life for the what wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ the Lord You've got two options, you've got two ways of living, and they're going to lead toward two outcomes, one of two outcomes. And we see that the first outcome, you have a status, a res uh I'm sorry, the first uh enslavement, which is to sin, you have a status, a result, and an outcome. Verses 20 and 21. And then you're gonna have you're gonna follow that up with the same thing with as a slave to God, you have a sat status, a result, and an outcome. In verse 20, the status, it says, when you were a slave, you were free. Notice what it says, regarding righteousness. That's interesting, isn't it? It says you're free from right when you were a slave to sin. Before you came to Christ, you are freed from righteousness. Does that mean a non-Christian can never do anything good? We're made in the image of God, and so there's a sense in which we can, a non-Christian can do good things, but there's also a sense in which he can't do righteous things. See, righteousness has to do with a it's a relational terms term that we have to be right with God in order to please him. And there is literally nothing that a non-Christian can do to please God because his entire life does not please God. And so there is a sense in which he is he is, interesting the way it says it, freed from righteousness. Isaiah 64, 6, all of our righteousnesses are as filthy, are like filthy rags to God. They fade as a leaf and are uh In iniquities like the wind have taken us away. We cannot do righteousness when we are not a Christian. And he and he asked them, how do you like those results? Look back to when you were a crit were not a Christian. Look back to when you were serving self and serving sin. How did how did those how what were the fruits of that? And the fruits, he says, those fruits lead to death. The fact is, if you think of all of the different um all of the different Um people that are super super popular that's and super super successful. What happens? They've got fame and fortune and prosperity and all the money they they can have and all the popularity they can have. How many of them die of drug overdoses or suicide? They they die early in life. We see this practically working itself out in our society. When someone entirely lives for themselves and is able to you know unhindered do whatever they want to do, it leads to ultimate destruction But even somebody who hasn't died, who just has lived a life of sin, if you talk to them, and I've talked to many, who lived a life of sin, lived a life of self. And there's there's many even consequences sometimes that bleed into their time as a as a Christian that they look back and they go, that was a fruitless time in my life. Or The results, the consequences were horrible. See what's interesting is that you've got two possibilities of enslavement. Only two. Sin is one kind of enslavement. God is the other, but there's only one that's benevolent in their enslavement. See, God is a benevolent slave master. He's benevolent. He gives joy and love and purpose and peace and fulfillment when we follow after him. Ultimately, when we follow after sin, it brings death. and destruction and pain and sorrow. Which fruit kind of fruit do you want Matthew seven, verse sixteen says it this way, you will know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes from thorn bushes, or figs from thistles? Even so every good tree bears good fruit. But a bad tree bears bad fruit. A good tree cannot bear bad fruit, nor can a bad tree bear good fruit. Every tree that bears not bare that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into a fire, and therefore by your fruits you will know them. What kind of fruit do you want to produce? It's interesting in the book of Ecclesiastes, uh you've got Solomon there, and he is lamenting a lot, uh he is lamenting the emptiness and vanity of life. He has likely come to close to the end of his life, and he's looking back on his life, and he is seeing that life is vanity. It's really kind of a depressing book if you read through it. He says, I pursued every pleasure imaginable. And it's vanity. I worked hard and accumulated lots of wealth, all eventually to die and give it to somebody else who didn't earn it. It's vanity. Ecclesiastes 1. 18 says, For in much wisdom is much grief, and he who increases knowledge increases sorrow. Even increasing knowledge, learning more, knowing more, even that, you're you ultimately are going to increase your sorrow. So pursuing pleasure, pursuing labor, pursuing uh knowledge, pursu all those pursuits are vanity and vexation of spirit, their emptiness. The fruit, that's the fruit of all of it. And Solomon comes to the end of his life and looks back, and we can learn from his wisdom and say, what kind of outcome do you want? Living for self, living for work, living for pleasure, living for those kinds of things will ultimately produce an empty life But Ecclesiastes chapter 2 is quite interesting, verses 10 through 11. In that passage, Solomon says this: Whatever my eyes desired, I did not keep from them. I did not withhold my heart from any pleasure, for my heart rejoiced in all my labor, and this was my reward from all my labor. Then I looked on all the works of my hands had done, and on the labor in which I had toiled, and indeed all was vanity, and grasping for the wind, this is there is no profit under the sun Then we move to verse 22, and we see that the other option is to be a slave of God. But now having been set free from sin and having been become slaves of God, that is how he describes becoming a Christian. You have your fruit to holiness. The end is everlasting life. So there is the possibility of having a fruitful life Of hanging about having a life where the outcome, the results, are ones that are favorable, ones that are desirable, not empty and vain. Ecclesiastes 2, 24 through 26 says it this way. He is coming, he says, all these things are vanity, but in the middle of this book of wisdom. Solomon says this: nothing is better for a man than that he should eat and drink, and that his soul should enjoy good in his labor. By the way, notice what it says here. It's not saying, okay, well, as a Christian, you need to pursue obedience, which means you will never have any enjoyment of it whatsoever in life. Throw out any fun, it's all gone. Now you just got to serve God without fun. It's actually not his conclusion. He says, you can enjoy what you eat and drink. You can enjoy the good in your labor. When you could say this, this I saw was from the hand of God. See the difference? Before, you're pursuing it to a to to accumulate it for your own name, for your own self, as one who has earned great things. You've worked all your life to gain lots of money and lots of ability to only to give it to somebody who'd never earned it before. And it's vanity and vexation of spirit. And you're there's this it's horrible But actually, there is a way to eat and drink and enjoy good of our labor when you realize that it's from the hand of God. For who can eat or who can have enjoyment more than I? For God gives wisdom. and knowledge and joy to a man who is good in his sight, who is obedient. Let's put it that way. But to the sinner, he gives the work of gathering and collecting, that he may give to him who is good before God. See, what ultimate outcome do you want in life? Living for self, accruing great wealth or fame for your own namesake ends in vanity and destruction. It is enslavement to sin that we will surrender ourselves as slaves to God. If we will yield or present our lives, our time, our energy, our ability to God to be used in whatever way He chooses, Then we live by His provision, by His grace, so that we can come to the end of our life and it is fruitful We become conduits of his grace to others. We become able to enjoy the provisions of God. Our whole perspective of life changes. And it is a life that is fruitful. And he summarizes it this way, verse 23. For remember this, the wages Of sin is death. Why shouldn't you be enslaved to sin? Because understand the wages of sin Leads to death. That is eternal separation from God. But the gift of God Is what? It's grace. The gift of God is what? Eternal life in Christ Jesus, our Lord. Acts 4. 12, neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none other name given among men whereby we must be saved. The choice is simple. Serve sin Live a life of sin, serve sin, and be go go live separated from God from all of eternity. Or live a life In trusting God, trusting in the finished work of Christ, who gives us his gift of grace. So that we can have an abundant eternal eternal life in him. Those are the choices. So what are the takeaways? Number one, will you present yourself to sin or to God? Those are the only two choices. You've got two choices. Now, you may never have presented yourself to God before. You don't know him. You don't, you haven't understood your own sin, your need of a savior to pay the punishment for your sin. And so it really is true that the ultimate wages of your sin are is going to end in eternal separation from God. The Bible says the gift of God is eternal life. We've already learned from Romans chapter 4 and other places. That if we will place our dependency, our faith in the work of Jesus Christ to pay the punishment for our sin on the cross, to give us eternal life, then we can present ourselves to God. Have you ever presented yourself to God before? And been saved by the grace of God. But as a Christian, Christians, we we have, we, we do this every day. This is a daily practice of presenting ourselves to sin or presenting ourselves to God. And can I say this in a very practical way? If you don't know which one you're doing, You're presenting yourself to sin. That seems to be the default. To live for self and just to live for your own what you want is ultimately living for sin. Our time, our energy, our efforts, our plans need to be submitted to God. Number two. Do you covet more and more happiness or more and more holiness? I really should say do we? Because all of these I need to apply to myself. Do we covet more and more happiness or more and more holiness? Now remember that God, it it really is true that God wants us to be happy. But we actually don't get happiness from coveting but from wanting it and pursuing it. It's not something that we can pursue. It's something that as we pursue God, He gives us as a gift joy and happiness. What God wants us to do is want more and more obedience and holiness. Number three, what kind of fruit do you want? We've got two options, two lives, two outcomes. What kind of fruit do you want? Do you want to come to the end of your life? And it it's empty. At best, it's just empty. Or it's full of bad results and consequences. Or do you want to come to your end of the end of your life and like the Apostle Paul say, I've fought a good fight, I've finished my course, I've kept the faith, henceforth there is for me laid up for me a crown of righteousness which the Lord the righteous judges will give me at that day, and not for me only, but all unto all them also who love his appearing. What kind of fruit do you want in your life? May we understand God's God's paradigm here Two options, two lifestyles, and two outcomes. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and thank you. for your truth. And it is really quite clear in this passage. We confess to you that we are often deceived to think that we can live for ourselves and avoid living in in sin at the same time And yet, your word teaches us here that we must pursue obedience. We must present ourselves, our members, our lives. As obedient to you, knowing that it will be a life that pleases you, that has good results And you do by your own benevolent hand give us joy, and you are benevolent to us as we submit ourselves to be enslaved to you I pray, Lord, that you'd help us to daily make these purposes in our lives. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Gunam, senior pastor. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet. or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, Or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon