Let's go ahead and go to the Lord in prayers. Father, we come to you this morning and we thank you that you are a merciful God. We look at the Um at the book of Jonah, we see a people that were totally estranged from you. They were By Israel standards, completely outcast. They, by Israel standards, had no hope at all. In fact, there seems to be even a And yet you called him to come to a people completely undesirable. And in your providence you cause them to realize their need of a Savior, to understand their own sin. And you showed mercy on these people. Father, we are so grateful for your mercy because we know that we are born sinners as well We are born estranged from you. We are born in enmity against you. Yet because of the work of Christ, because of your great mercy We can be restored to you, we can be redeemed, we can be bought back. And so we are extremely um grateful for your mercy. We confess before you that often we do not We don't really have a good grasp of your mercy like we ought to. We think of you as perhaps a God who is just. And transcendent, but not merciful and close. And so we thank you that you are both. And we pray, Lord, this morning, as we hear from your word, that you would help our minds and our hearts to be receptive to it. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Jonah chapter 3, beginning in verse 1. Now the word of the Lord came to Jonah the second time, saying, Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and preach to it the message that I tell you. So Jonah arose and went to Nineveh, according to the word of the Lord. Now Nineveh was exceedingly great city, a three-day journey in extent And Juna be and Jonah began to enter the city on the first day's walk. Then he cried out and said, Yet forty days Anineveh shall be overthrown. So the people of Nineveh believed God, proclaimed a fast, and put on sackcloth from the greatest to the least of them. Then the word came to the king of Nineveh, and he arose from his throne and laid aside his robe, covered himself with sackcloths, and sat in ashes. They caused it to be proclaimed and published throughout Nineveh by the decree of the king and his nobles, saying, Neither let neither man nor beast, herd, or flock taste any faith. Do not let them eat or drink water, but let man and beast be covered with sackcloth and cry mightily to God Yes, let every one turn from his evil way and from the violence that he is in it that is in his hands, who can tell if God will turn and relent. And turn away from his fierce anger, so that he that we may not perish. Then God saw their works, that they turned from their evil way, and God relented from the disaster that he had said would bring upon them, and he did not do it. But it displeased Jonah exceedingly And he became angry. So he prayed to the Lord and said, Ah Lord, was not this what I uh what I said when I was still in my country. Therefore I fled previously to Tarshish, for I know that you are a gracious and merciful God, slow to anger, abundant in loving kindness One who relents from doing harm. Therefore now, O Lord, please take my life from me, for it is better for me to die than to live. A few months ago we looked at Jonah chapter 1 and 2 and focused on the prophet Jonah and the mercy that God showed to him. Today, we continue on. Jonah chapter 3, and we focus on Focus on a great city. Now when you think of a great city, what comes to mind? N now for me the first thing that comes to mind is uh well it's it's kind of this this city here, I don't know why. Uh I don't know if you recognize this skyline. Anybody want to guess which one this is? Yeah, I'll go in there on Thursday, yes. The amazing skyline, one of the most beautiful skylines I've ever seen. Of course, it's a great city, it's big, it's huge, seven million people, but actually if it went over the mountain behind my house and come to another city That's 13 million people. That's an even greater city. Know what city this is? This is the city of Shenzhen in in in China. But um that really actually is a I mean You know, the thirteen million. If you go over, you know, Japan, know what city this is? Thirty-five million people. That that's the that's supposed to be the greatest city. The the hugest city nowadays. Now when I say great city, when you want to think of a great city, what city comes immediately to your mind New York, of course. That's like the great city here in America. Any movie you watch, if the if the uh if the uh if they're trying to save the world, really they're trying to save New York. It's oh I don't know why, but it always is It's always New York. Unless of course the movie is made in England, and then in that case they're trying to save London. But uh yeah, those are those are great cities. When you think of other cities. Know what this one is That's Mexico City. I've never been there. But I'm told there's an awful lot of people there. Huge amounts of people. Then of course India has many cities. This is uh Mumbai. Many, many, many this is a great city. It's huge But when we go back a couple thousand years, when they said great city, especially in Jonah, We're talking about Nineveh. And this this the Bible, Jonah especially makes a point. This is a this is a huge city. Look at Jonah chapter one Verse 1, actually verse 2, God says to Jonah, Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and cry out against it, for their wickedness has come up before me. It's a great city. Chapter 3, verse 2. Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and preach to it the message that I will tell you. So Jonah arose and went to Nineveh according to the word of the Lord. Now Nineveh was an exceeding great city, a three-day journey in extent. So it takes three days to walk across the city of Nineveh. It's a huge city. Baltimore. Baltimore's not a not a huge city. City. How long would it take to walk across Baltimore? You know you can find out these kind of things. Google Maps. They let you tell you how long it's going to take to walk places. So I pulled out my phone here and I thought, you know, if I go from Catonsville in the west to Essex in the east. How long does it take to walk? According to Google, six hours. It's gonna take three days to walk across Nineveh. That's a huge city. Gigantic city. Jonah chapter 4, verse 10, the very last book of the verse of the book, also emphasizes how big this city is. But the Lord said, You had pity on the plant for which you have not labored nor made it grow, which came up in the night and perished in the night. Oh, actually, verse eleven is the one we want. And should I not pity Nineveh, that great city In which there are more than 120,000 persons who cannot discern between their right hand and their left hand and much livestock. It's a huge city. Okay, we got the point. In that ancient day, this was where it's at. It was a beautiful city Of course nowadays you go there and you see it's just a pile of rocks. It's in ruins. But back then it wasn't like that. It was huge and beautiful with with statues and and uh gardens and actually I saw a little bit in in London uh last month This is a real place. Here are some of the things that the British have stolen from Assyria and brought to their museum, and it's real. I touched it. Genuine. This was a real place with real people You can see there they they had a giant uh library. Astra Bonapal made this library. Here we see a couple of examples. This actually was from the the the is the uh history museum in uh in Hong Kong, but they were just borrowing it from from the British Museum who stole it from the Middle East. And uh so here's here's a record here. Their books of course were made of rock, tablets, and um I see a reference there to Hezekiah, king of Judah, which the Bible talks about quite a bit in the Old Testament. And then of course there's the Epic of Gilgamesh, which references the flood. The Genesis talks about real place, real people And these people were wicked. I mean the place was beautiful. You can see there uh that an artist here tried to take the the the uh the the carving there and try to see what that would look like back in that day. Now they it just doesn't look like that. Uh they if if this is in uh The city of Nineveh was in northern Iraq, not far from Mosul. And uh it it had it had uh uh In fact, from uh the Bible Knowledge commentary they talk about this. The city was surrounded by an inner wall and an outer wall. The huge inner wall was fifty feet wide and a hundred feet high, was about eight miles in circumference, while the outer wall unc uh encompassed fields and smaller towns. Took three days to walk through it. It was huge. They tried to uh they tried to rebuild some of it. This ISIS uh rebuilt ADAD Gate of Nineveh, but when ISIS was active back in the early what 2010 to 2015 there, uh they kind of uh blew it up. They didn't like archaeology too much And so yeah, here it is before and after. It went back to rubble again. Uh Jonas Tomb was a was a tourist site there in northern Iraq. I don't know if this was the real Jonas Tomb, but But people would go there and look at it. Isa decided to destroy it in 2014 also. I'm not sure if they rebuilt that or not. But this is a real place with real people. And God told Jonah Go to that real peep place with those real people. And these people are very wicked. We saw that in verse 1. Their wickedness has come up before me. Now Jonah knew about their wickedness. this. Jonah knew that this empire was very, very strong and very, very evil. The things that they had done were terrible. They had destroyed many, many nations, and they threatened Israel. And maybe Jonah even knew that one day God would use the Assyrians to punish Israel because Israel had fallen away from God and rebelled for generations. And so you know the story, Jonas 1 and 2. He ran. He didn't go towards Nineveh. Nineveh was towards the desert. No, he went towards the sea, got on a boat, tried to go to Tarshish, which we believe was in Spain. I mean that that's a that's a long way, the wrong way. Hence what did God do? He stopped him with the storm storm. He ended up in the belly of a great fish. We talked about that last time. You think, wow, that's a terrible judgment. No, no, no, the great fish was was was God's mercy to Jonah. Here was God's man going the wrong way, and God stopped him. And the fish swallowed him. He didn't die. He didn't drown in the in the in the in the Mediterranean Sea. The fish Spit him back out. And that's where we pick up the story. Because of that great fish, the word of the Lord could come to Jonah for the second time. And it's the same Same command. Go to Nineveh, that great city. But he didn't want to go. The Ninevehites, they were kind of like the ancient terrorists You think of ISIS, that's the top picture of the guy with the orange jumpsuits, the terrible things that they did. The other pictures are ancient pictures. But it's pretty much the same kind of thing. This is kind of nasty. Now I'm going to read something here that you probably don't want to hear, but to describe what they what they did. Get the idea of their wickedness. Why would God set show mercy to this kind of a civilization? Here is Ashur Nazir Paul II. He was king in the eight eight the eight hundreds before Christ. He said this. I stormed the mountain peaks and I took them in the midst of the mighty mountain, I slaughtered them. With their blood I dyed the m mountain red like wool The heads of the warriors I cut off and formed them into a pillar over against their city. The young men and their maidens I burned in the fire. Not nice He continued, talking about the the king of the uh the nation that he had conquered. I flayed him, his skin I spread on the wall of the city. I mean this is gross, this is nasty. Do you wonder why Jonah decided, you know, I'm not going to Nineveh, I'm going to Tarshish. I'm not going there. First of all, sounds a little dangerous. And secondly, they don't deserve God's mercy. That's what Jonah thought. These are terrible people. It's kind of like being sent as a prophet of God to Nazi Germany and say, hey, preach the gospel, preach them God's mercy to Hitler and the SS Like, nope, not going there. Do we wonder why Jonah decided to use running? But God had to make Message. And so God sent Jonah with that message. Now with Jonah, Jonah's God's person He's the prophet of God. He has had many, many years of faithful ministry. He's been obeying God. God told him go. And what did he do? He rebelled. He ran. He got out of there. What did God do? God showed him mercy anyway. And God gave him a second chance to obey. God wanted to continue using Jonah despite his rebellion. And so now Jonah was Jonah's going. And we look at what God does with the people of Nineveh, it's actually quite similar. Here we have God's command that came to man. This time the man, this is not Jonah, this time the command in Jonah chapter 3 is We have a command here to uh to the people of Nineveh. And God warns them. Look at the end of verse uh verse three. Verse 4. Jonah comes into the city and he cries, Yet 40 days and Nineveh shall be overthrown. It's a warning because of their wickedness. So God gives them a command. What do they do? It's actually pretty amazing. We see a contrast here. God's guy, what does he do when he gives him a command? He rebels, he runs the other way. You come to these terrible, wicked people, and God warns them: you need to turn from your sin. And they, against all odds, repent. So we have the person of God, rebelling against God, and these terrible, awful people now, what are they doing? They're repenting And in both cases, God shows mercy. God's mercy truly is great And his mercy, once again, really mercy? God sends the prophet to tell them, you all are gonna die. That's mercy? Yes, that's mercy. Because they need to be warned. God is giving them a chance or a second chance To realize that their sin is against God, that their sin is bringing them into judgment. They have a chance right now. This is God's mercy to turn from that sin and to God. And amazingly They do. Look at verse 5. So the people of Nineveh believed God. Really? I just described these guys. The old thing about flaying and mountainsides turning red? But they believed, and not just one or two people. So the people of Nineveh believe God, proclaim the fast, put on sacklots, and the greatest of them To the least of them. Everybody, even the king. Verse 6. Then the word of the king of Nineveh, then the word came to the king of Nineveh. And he arose from his throne and laid aside his robe, covered himself with sackcloth, and sat in ashes. Kings don't normally do this, especially not emperors over vast empire. They were the world power during this time. And he puts on sack cloth. Now normally these days we don't wear sackcloth. That's for like burlap bags. Um people don't wear that. That's that's rough, it's scratchy, it's that that but that's kind of the point. Back in ancient times when they wanted to really show that they were mourning or they were upset about something, uh that the people would put on clothes made of sackcloth and put ashes on their head and everybody would see, hey, this person is going through a really hard time. Here they're doing it to show that they that they had done wrong The king doesn't stop there. He caused it to be proclaimed and published throughout Nineveh by the decree of the king and his nobles. And we get a whole whole whole couple verses there that are the actual words of the emperor of Assyria. He believed. Now we don't know to what extent he believed. At the very least, the king and the people of Nineveh believed that judgment was coming They believe that. I don't know if they really put their faith and trust in the one true God. It's possible. The message that God gives to Jonah, we only get a very uh brief summary. I'm sure he said more than just, yet forty days in Nineveh shall be overthrown, and just kept repeating that like like you know. I there was probably more to his message than that. We get a summary here But at the very least, they believe that God exists and that God judges sin. And so they believe judgment is coming. Some people look at this and they say, wait a minute, how would a whole city do this? I mean Just one prophet of God walks in from the desert. Some have theorized that Jonah may have looked strange after spending three days in the belly of a fish, that maybe his uh I don't know, the stomach juice that turned his hair white or something like that. I don't know if that's the case That might be just someone's overactive imagination. But in any case, he walked in there, started preaching this message. He walked for a day, started preaching this message. And people paid attention. Why would they do this? God had been arranging circumstances, preparing them for this message. Let's look at a timeline. You like timelines? Hope so. So we have a little bit of a timeline here of uh Assyrian history. So in eight forty one we have this guy named Shalanesh III, and he is very powerful. This is one of the first peaks of the Assyrian dominance over that region. He conquered many countries. In fact, he brought Israel into tribute. I had a chance to see this when I was in the British Museum because they got this too. The obelisk of Shalmaneser III. You can see the picture there of this one dude there kissing the floor in front of the king. The guy kissing the floor, that is Jehu. The Bible talks about him, king of Israel. He's bringing tribute to show that he is uh he is not going to Fight against Assyria. Assyria lets them keep their kingdom and they pay him lots of money to not attack. And so that that's that's what he did. And then after that period Assyria had some weak kings and they started being attacked by a northern kingdom that I've never heard of before. They're called the Uratru. But people were scared of them, and things were getting weaker, and uh so uh then a plague came And uh in ancient times when there was a plague, people thought, oh, we're being judged for something. And then there was an eclipse, and that was another sign. A sign in the heavens that they didn't understand that this was just, you know, the sun and the moon getting No, suddenly in the daytime it's dark. That's judgment from some kind of deity. And so they're all upset about that. Then another plague comes and people die in the city. And then this guy Jonah shows up And he says, yet forty days a Nineveh shall be overthrown. The whole place is really worried about enemies on the outside, pestilence coming in, the eclipse, and now the judgment's coming. God had prepared them for this message. And when they heard it, they believed They believed and they also repented. In Scripture, we see these two ideas together all the time. We see it in the mountain in the in the ministry of Jesus Christ. In fact, one of the first verses in chapter Mark that talk about Jesus preaching, he preached belief and repentance. Repentance and belief. These are two sides of the same coin. And we see them both in this passage. Verse 5 says, So the people of Nineveh believed God, there's the belief. But then we see in their actions That they had repented. They had turned from their sin to God. Look at the uh the decree from uh the king in uh verse 7. Let neither man nor beast herd nor flock taste anything. Do not let them eat or drink water. But let man and beast be covered with sackcloth and cry mightily to God. Yes, let everyone turn from his evil way, and from the violence that is in his hands. So here we see him. He says, we need to turn. We have violence in our hands. We are guilty. When God says that you are wicked, they say, yes, we are wicked. This is true. God is right. We are wrong. Let's decide right now to turn from the evil way and to show that they were turning. They put on the sackloth and the ashes And they prayed to God, hoping, verse 9, who can tell if God will turn and relent and turn away from his fierce anger, so that we may not perish? They decided we're gonna we're gonna change our mind. We're gonna turn from sin. We don't want to keep going that way. That's the way of destruction. We've heard God's warning. We believe that He judges sin. Until they repented and believed. Repentance is a change of mind that results in a change The word mind is actually in the uh built into the root word of the word for repentance, and that's where it starts. It starts in our mind. We realize, first of all, that I have sinned. We see it right here. He says, let everyone turn from his evil way. The king is admitting, I am a sinner. In uh uh in uh Psalm fifty-one, we see a great example of repentance after David uh David sins with Bathsheba Lives a year in sin, and Nathan, Nathan confronts him, and he realizes, whoa, I have sinned And he says, Against thee, against thee only have I signed and done this evil in your sight. I have sinned. The road I'm walking on now is wrong. But it didn't just stop in your mind. That's where it starts. Repentance starts in your mind. It's a change of mind that results in a change of action. But if you truly repent and you truly have changed your mind, it's not just going to affect your mind, it's going to affect your emotions. I don't only say I'm guilty, but I say I wish I hadn't done that. Now different people are more emotional than other people And so some some people they'll they'll weep over their sin. Others, that's just not the way you're wired. But at the very least, we have a most response saying, I wish I hadn't done that. That was wrong. This is not good David has this idea in Psalm chapter 51, where he talks about the sacrifices of God are a broken spirit, a broken and a contrite heart. These, O God, you will not despise. Repentance, true repentance also will affect the will. We not only say, I'm guilty, I wish I hadn't done that sin. And we also say, I want to never ever do that again. I want to change. David said, create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a steadfast spirit within me. This is true repentance. It's a change of mind that results in a change of behavior, a change of life afterwards If we truly have repented, after that repentance, we will turn. We will not continue walking the road we have been walking before. And that's what was happening here in Jonah chapter three. They believed God. Judgment was coming They repented. And to show that repentance, they put on sackcloth and ashes. They prayed to God. They asked for his mercy from the king down to the down to the servant. And so what did God do? They hoped that God would relent. They hoped that his fierce anger would turn from them. And so what did What did God do? He showed them mercy. They didn't deserve this mercy. But look at verse 10. Then God saw their works, that they turned from their evil way. He saw the fruits of their repentance. And God relented from the disaster that He had said He would bring upon them, and He did not do it. That's mercy. They deserved judgment. They deserved lightning to come down from heaven and just zap them right there. They deserve the fierceness of God's anger that the king of Assyria talked about. But God in his mercy did not do it. We look at this passage and we think, well, wait a minute. God changed? It says God relented. At first he said, Hey, judgment is coming. Now God changed his mind. Now judgment's not coming. Seems a little bit fickle, huh? But no, God had not changed. The people had changed. They believed. They repented. They're turning from their wicked ways. And God saw this. When it talks about God relenting here, it's not that God is saying, Oh, I was going to do the wrong thing. Good thing you stopped me. Nope, God doesn't do that. When the Bible talks, sometimes use the word God repenting. It's not like us repenting. It's not like God saying, Oh man, I did the wrong thing. I gotta change. No, God never does the wrong thing. God never needs to change. He never needs to rethink what he was doing. God is perfect. God is holy. God never does anything wrong. God is also a judge, a just judge. He must punish sin. He will punish sin. But God is also a merciful God. And so we see here God's mercy. He didn't change. God is always merciful. He's always holy. He's always a judge. But the people of Nineveh changed. I think this this illustration will help us uh help us get it here. The sun. The sun, it shines. It shines on everybody. It shines on everything. But if the sun shines on butter, what happens to the butter? The butter melts, because butter's butter But if the sun, the same sun, the same rays shine on clay, what happens there? Does the clay get soft? No, the clay gets hard. Same sun. Sun hasn't changed. But the substance it's shining on is different. This morning, our hearts, we all individually have our own hearts, and God's truth shines on us. God's righteousness shines on us. And you know, if we are hard against God, that that that we see what kind of God God is If our heart is hard, it will get harder. I don't want to hear any more truth. I don't want to hear this about repentance. I don't want to hear that I'm a sinner. No, and we get more hard as the light of God's truth shines on us But to others. That same light, that same truth, that same message from God's Word, it shines on them. And they soften. And they say, oh God, you are right. Kind of like the king of Nineveh. We are wicked. We have broken your law. We need to turn from our evil ways into God. This morning, how is your heart? As you hear truth from God's Word, how do you respond? You start justifying what you've been doing, even though you realize they It's not quite matching up to what God says I should be doing, but uh uh I'm okay. You know, uh I'm not as bad as the Ninevites, those guys are bad. They need to repent. But I don't need to, I'm pretty good We start justifying our sin. When we're doing that, we're getting harder, not softer. How do you respond to God's word? There's warnings, there's encouragements. When we see in God's word that we're headed down the wrong direction, are we willing to turn? Are we willing to say, God, you're right. I'm wrong. The way I'm going now, those habits, that's not good. I need to change. Or do we even care? Just gotta get this hour on Sunday morning done and then we can think about something else. How should we Against all odds, the people of Nineveh, they believe, they repent And God saw their belief and their repentance, and God did not destroy them as he had warned them. The Ninevehites received God's mercy and Jonah saw it. Jonah saw God's mercy coming on them and he thought, this is exactly what I thought was going to happen. And he wasn't happy about it. He's the strangest preacher of all time. He preaches God's word. People turn to God and he's upset about it. But he knew. He knew what kind of God God is. Look at what he says in verse four, chapter four, verse one and two. But it displeased Jonah exceedingly And he became angry, so he prayed to the Lord and said, Ah Lord, was not this what I said when I was still in my country? Therefore I fled previously to Tarshish. And look what he says about God. Here in the middle of this passage, as often happens in the Old Testament, as we read through the Old Testament, we get a glimpse of the character of God. For I know you are a gracious and merciful God. Slow to anger and abundant in loving-kindness, one who relents from doing harm. I know you're a gracious and merciful God Our God is gracious. He's merciful. Mercy, what's mercy? Mercy is God in love, withholding judgment for a time, in patience, giving opportunity to Escape. This story is an illustration of God's mercy. God says, I'm going to judge you. You're going to be destroyed in 40 days. But they heed the warning. And so what does God say at the end of verse 10? He did not do it. That's God's mercy. The lightning could have struck at any time. And yet God said, no, we'll wait and see if you repent. And they did. God is also gracious. What is God's grace? That's God in love giving unearned and undeserved favor and blessings. Mercy is maybe a little oversimplicity, mercy is us God not giving us what we deserve. Grace is God giving us what we don't deserve. They're kind of once again two sides of the same coin. God loves us. Yes, he must punish sin, but he also shows us grace and mercy. This morning, how do you respond to God's grace and God's mercy Are you willing to open your hand and receive his grace? Are you ready to acknowledge his mercy? You know, every one of us are sinners. The Bible says there's not a just man on the earth that does good and sins not. For all have sinned, come short of the glory of God. We've all broken God's law. We've all gone our own way instead of following him. Isaiah says, All we like sheep have gone astray. We've turned everyone to his own way. We are all sinners. We all deserve punishment. The Bible says the wages of sin is death, and every one of us has sinned, and so every one of us is headed for death, not just physical death. But eternal death, separation from God forever in hell. And yet God is merciful. In his mercy, he doesn't immediately zap us. Oh, you sinned, you're gone. And there wouldn't be any peace. People left if we if we did that. But he doesn't do that. He shows mercy to us. How do we receive his mercy? How do we accept his grace? The Bible is clear, we must humble ourselves. Humble ourselves. James 4 6 says, But he gives more grace. Therefore he says, God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble. For God resists the proud but gives grace to the humble. Isaiah 66, 2 says this, for all those things my hand is made. And all those things exist, says the Lord, but on this one will I look, on him who is poor and of a contrite spirit, and who trembles at my word. You've got to be humble to admit your sin. You've got to be humble to admit that you deserve God's punishment. You've got to be humble to receive his free gift of salvation. God is gracious And merciful. He's also slow to anger. In this passage, we see an example of that. God said, 40 days. I'll give you 40 days. He delayed his anger, delayed the fierceness of his wrath. To give them a chance to repent. And throughout the Bible we see that God is slow to anger. Maybe you think, well, wait a minute. No. No, no, no. The God of the Old Testament. There's an awful lot of wrath going on there. Slow, really? How about the flood? I mean, all those people. All those people drowning. And yet God was slow to anger there. How long did it take to build that ark? People lived a little longer back then. Six hundred years. And what did Jonah do during those 600 years? He not only built the ark, but he preached. God was slow to anger, giving them chance after chance to repent and turn to him How about the Canaanites? Maybe you think, well, wait a minute, that's not slow to anger. God sent Israel up there. Israel was an instrument of God's judgment. They destroyed the Canaanites. How was that slow to anger? Well actually, God said he was going to give that land to Abraham over 400 years before that. God called him from Ur of the Chaldees, and Abraham came there to the land of Canaan. And God said, I'm going to give you this land. Well give it to your descendants. But Abraham himself never really owned much of anything besides the burial plot. He only ever lived in tents, wandering around from place to place. Why didn't God immediately judge the Canaanites at that point and just give the land to Abraham then? Genesis 15, 16 says this, in the fourth generation they, that's talking about Israel, shall come hither again, for the iniquity of the Ammonites is not yet full. The Amorites were going to get another 400 years of opportunity to turn from their sin. God is slow to anger and gives chances. To repent. I think of Sodom and Gomorrah. Maybe you think, well, wait a minute, that's not slow to anger. That judgment came fast from heaven. We're talking fire and brimstone. And yet remember when God sent the messengers to Abraham. And Abraham heard that God was going to destroy Sodom and Gomorrah, and Abraham said, whoa, wait a minute. What if there are 50 people in there that are righteous? And God said, okay, if there's fifty righteous people there, I won't destroy it. Then Abraham got to thinking a little bit more. There might not be fifty. How ba how about forty five? You wouldn't kill them j you wouldn't destroy them all just you know for lack of five people, would you? And so God said, Okay, forty-five Then Abraham thinks about it a little more. It's a pretty bad city. There might not be forty-five. So he goes, oh how about forty, Lord? Forty. If there's forty people, please don't do it. God said, okay, if there's forty. And then he thought about it again, like, how about thirty? God says, okay. How about twenty? He gets all the way down to ten. And there's not even ten righteous people in Sodom and Gomorrah. God sent his messenger, rescued the few re uh righteous people that were there, Abraham's nephew and family, and then judgment. God is slow to anger. We see it in Israel's history. Jonah, I think he knew that the Assyrians one day would be used by God to judge Israel for their disobedience, their covenant with God. And that did happen. Uh about a hundred years later, the Assyrians came. They destroyed the northern kingdom of Israel. They took all the men and and uh of Israel and and And uh forced them to move elsewhere. They brought in Gentiles to marry with the women that remained in the land there, and they totally changed the culture there. And yet that was still decades to come. God was still giving Israel a chance to come back to him. Maybe you think a revelation. Hey, there you see the revelation. Wrath of God. And it happens fast. It comes down fast. And yet, as you look throughout the book of uh book of Revelation, when God talks about His judgments, it happens over a period of seven years. And during that time, what happens? God gives them a chance to repent. Over and over again, God says, hey, this happened. This sign happened. This judgment came. And yet those who survived, they were not willing to repent God was slow to anger. It didn't happen all at once immediately. He was giving people a chance to believe and turn to Him Look at Jonah's words. He was right. He may have been having a bad attitude, but he was right about God's character. He says, I know you are a gracious and merciful God, slow to anger, and abundant in loving kindness. Abundant. Abundant. What does he mean by that? Abundant means that it there's more than we could ever need. No matter uh as Paul says in uh in uh in the book of uh Romans No matter how much we sin, his grace is so much more than that. He's abundant in loving kindness. It's kind of like when you go to the buffet and you look at the food and you say, I'd like to try everything, but I can't. There's too much Maybe that's what a potluck's gonna look like downstairs. I don't know. Abundance. God, you're loving Loving kindness is abundant. Yes, he's a God that judges sin. But he's gracious and merciful, slow to anger, abundant in loving kindness, and he relents from doing harm. He gives opportunities to repent. He gives second chances. Jonah, of all people, should know this. Second Peter three nine talks about God's patience, his long suffering. People that ask, hey, where is where is where's the coming of Christ? God promised, you know, he promised he'd return Where is him coming to judge the wicked and set up his kingdom? We don't see him. Where is he? In 2 Peter 3:9, God reminds us why. There's this period of waiting. The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some count slackness, but is long-suffering toward us, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. God is long-suffering. That passage says the long-suffering of the Lord is salvation. He's giving us time to consider our ways, to repent of our sin, and to believe. on him. He's not willing that any should perish. He does not want to punish you. He does not want to judge you. He wants you to come to repentance. So this morning as we look at God's mercy towards Nineveh, we should take warning. We should take advantage of God's mercy and repent while there's still time to repent. One day there will be no time to repent. One day the second chances will end. One day you'll regret resisting God. Have you trusted Christ as your Savior? If you have, don't be hardened against God. We see Jonah here in this passage. He's angry that God should Showing mercy. His heart is not right. God is using him in spite of him. Is that where you are today? your heart. As you see the truths of God's word and you hear and you look at your life and you realize, hey, there's some things that need to change. Are you willing to change? Is your heart more like the butter in the illustration or the clay? Is your first response as you read God's word and realize that something is wrong in your thinking or in your in your desires or in your behavior as you do that, what is your first response? Is it to say, oh, I need to change Or is it to make excuses or to put it out of your head? Like, yeah, I know I ought to do that, but uh it's not convenient right now. Uh you know, there probably is a better time later on. Repent of that sin. Get back right with God. God is merciful to his own. We see that in the life of Jonah. He'll bring things into our life to remind us. Hopefully it's not quite as traumatic as a giant fish, but he'll bring things into our life to get our attention. Respond to him Before the chaste thing gets too strong. Be open to do whatever God wants you to do. Follow Him If you've never trusted Christ as your Savior, this passage actually really is more to you. God today has given you a chance to hear His Word. Do you see this example from Scripture? Jesus says this in John 5. 24. Most assuredly I say to you, he who hears my word We did that today. And believes in him who sent me, has everlasting life, and shall not come into judgment, but is passed from death unto life Every one of us are sinners. We've broken God's law. We deserve punishment. And that punishment is scary. But God doesn't want you to come into judgment. Yes, God's anger is fierce. But he also says this: you can pass from death to life, and there's only one way to do that: it's by admitting you can't save yourself. You cannot make yourself right with God. You can't erase the sin you've done in your life. You can't do a whole lot of good things to outweigh all the bad things you did in the past. That doesn't work that way. We've broken God's law. We've deserved punishment. God's a just judge. He must punish us. Yet Jesus came. To solve this problem, Jesus is God's Son. He's perfect. He never sinned. But he came to take your punishment for your We are not righteous. He is righteous. The Bible says he came the just for the unjust that he might bring us to God. We can't bring ourselves to God. We can't make ourselves right with God. Only Jesus Can do that. And so he came. He died on the cross. Not because he did something wrong, but because you and I did something wrong. He died and took your punishment on himself. And if you believe that he died for you, the moment you believe on him, God's Says you have everlasting life. You have a relationship with the God who made the world. And when God looks at you, He doesn't see the sin that you've done. No, that is put on Jesus the moment you believe. What he sees instead is Jesus' righteousness in In its place. And that righteousness is a gift from God, received only by faith. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father but by me. This morning, if you've never trusted Christ as your Savior, don't harden yourself. This passage today is a warning to us. Judgment will come. But we can be Ready. If you believe on Jesus Christ, trust Him alone to save you from your sin. You'll not come into judgment, but instead you'll pass from death unto life. How do you do that? Repent. Admit that you're a sinner. But you can't save yourself. The road you're going now on now, that admit that that's not right. Instead, believe on Jesus. Believe that He died for your sin and rose again. And God says if you don't do that. We have we have his promise. He who hears my word and believes on him that sent me has everlasting life. The moment you believe you have everlasting life, you're saved from the punishment of your sin. You re have a relationship with God that will never Never end. That's God's grace and His mercy. You don't receive the punishment for your sin. You do receive God's grace in eternal life Have you accepted that gift? If you haven't, I'd love to talk to you. Pastor Jim would love to talk to you after the service. with uh and we'll we have plenty of time will we all be downstairs with the pot like too just come and tell uh if you have questions about this come and talk to us we'd love to take take you to God's word and help you to understand How you can pass from death to life, how you can repent and believe on Jesus. Let's pray. Dear Lord, thank you so much for your word. These warnings from thousands of years ago are still true today. God, your character does not change. You're merciful, you're gracious, you're slow to anger. Your abundant and loving kindness. You relent from doing harm. Lord, thank you that you are who you are. Lord, thank you for the chances you give us. We don't know when those chances will run out, but thank you for your mercy to us. Lord, today if there's someone here who's running from you, Lord, I pray that you would use your word to stop them and turn them to yourself. Help them not to make excuses, whether they be already saved or not yet saved. Lord, I pray that you would help us to have Have hearts that are willing to turn at your word and come back to you. In Jesus' name, amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for single Singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God. God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. Is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this help. Resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon. Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. The experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you The exchange is an easy to use four week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful. Resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word. In a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family we can help your kids find their fun interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe fun and well equipped nursery then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the Main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for You. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help The exchange is an easy to use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this help. Helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon. Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word. of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly Have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our Church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you The exchange is an easy to use four week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this help. Helpful resource. If you're interested in going. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.