That is where we're going to spend most of our time this morning. And then of course there's the things flying around, not just leaves. He can never be outnumbered. This is like worst-case scenario he's describing here. And then God provided him miraculously through a widowed woman who really didn't have anything. And so he ran for his life. He passes the border. He's a prophet of God, so God would speak directly to him, and then normally he would speak directly to the people of Israel. And a great and strong wind tore into the mountains and broke the rocks in pieces before the Lord. And Jehoshaphat feared, which is natural, and set himself to seek the Lord, which is not often done. They threw themselves upon God, trusting him, not knowing what the answer was. Fear not, for I am with you. That's the political leader at the time, says the Lord. Therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. And of course King Ahab blames them for all the economic and you know problems in agricultural society with no rain for three years. We got his whole family tree there, the son of Zechariah, the son of Benaiah, the son of Jael, the son of Matanaih, a Levite of the sons of Asaph in the midst of the assembly, and listen to what he says in verse fifteen a message from God to them And yet there's enemies on every side. Or maybe they try out a different god because you know, those Phoenicians seem to do pretty well and their fish god. that we do not have to uh understand who you are through the circumstances of life that we don't understand. I pray, Lord, that our hearts would again be reminded of how to be still and know that you are God. Help us, Lord, to set aside all the cares and concerns this week and the burdens that we carry. The glass would bow as as this wind assaulted it. It was in twenty eighteen, September seventeenth to be specific. And it's very confusing when you get your mail. But i the the the uh you know the the roof is about this uh the the wall around the is about this high and well the typhoon came and I had no intention of going outside until I had a waterfall down my stairwell to just be whipped away and then the problem would be much worse. Uh so and as soon as I got out there, the wind just blowing on me. Which once again that's not something you want to say about your roof. Uh I I don't think I'm gonna blow off, but you never quite sure when wind's blowing like that. This name, the Lord of hosts, emphasizes God's omnipotence. Yeah, that wouldn't be good. The world is crazy. Says you've shamed the counsel of the poor. In the time of Israel, this was the place of worship of God. you know, really bad king and the vr the worst queen ever, and tell them that it's not gonna rain until you say so. And 400 prophets, 450 prophets of the false god Baal. The world is chaos. Mount Carmel is like up northern Israel, like up near modern day Lebanon. The holy place of the tabernacle of the Most High. That God used to free them from Israel, uh from Egypt. They see the peace of God's millennial rule in Jerusalem in verses 7 to 10, as Christ rules on the throne of David from Jerusalem. At the name of Jesus every knee shall bow, of those in heaven and those on earth, and of those under the earth, and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. That the people of Moab with the people of Ammon and others with them besides the Ammonites came to battle against Jehoshaphat. Who drove out the inhabitants of this land before your people Israel and gave it to the descendants of Abraham, your friend forever? Who did they have lead the army? You got what we got here before the army? The God of Jacob is our refuge. Have not I commanded you, be strong and of a good courage. I will strengthen you. But there's an important thing that God has put from creation, this principle of rest. Created the world in six days. Even though he was God, he would come apart to a quiet place, away from the busyness and the stress of his daily responsibilities, and he'd spend time with God. And then the second command: be still and know that I am God. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. I rejoice at your word as one who finds great treasure. and you are all wise and all-knowing, you are transcended above your creation, and yet you revealed yourself clearly And Father, we do lift up to you Pastor Jim and his family. And bless them, Father, richly, as you have already been doing. The Lord of hosts is with us. you know, a d a straight enough hit that uh uh that it'll cancel all your classes or cancel your work and you have a day off. It was called Super Typhoon Mancut and it hit Hong Kong and wow I've never heard wind like that. My flat I live in a village house in Hong Kong. And we don't have to worry about snow at all, so why not use the space up there? And I had to find out what the problem was. Made my way carefully. solid concrete wall that was about this high. going under the door that of course is not at all sealed and uh it was going down the stairs in a nice little waterfall. I know some of you are work busy, crazy long hours. A very present help in trouble. Verse one is the one that I just described. The God of Jacob is our refuge. Uh basically the you you're you're out of reach from your enemies. Psalm 182 uses this word. He talks about a river and the city of God. No rain and so now Elijah was most wanted man number one. The people realized, oh, they said the God, he is God, but instead of there being this huge revival afterwards, nothing really happened. And then Elijah gets this note from the worst queen ever that says, I'm gonna kill you like tomorrow Be still and know that I am God. on Jehoshaphat and Judah. O Lord God of our fathers, are you not God in heaven? If disaster comes upon us, sword, judgment, pestilence, or famine, we will stand before this temple and in your presence, for your name is in this temple, and cry out to you in our affliction, and you will hear and save Hmm, seems like a good promise to remember at this point point in history. Whom you would not let Israel invade when they came out of the land of Egypt, but they turned from them and did not destroy them. Then the Spirit of the Lord came upon Jehaziel, the son of Zechariah. Position yourselves, stand still, and see the salvation of the Lord who is with you. God has thrown discord among the armies. Romans 8 says, if God be for us, who can be against us? Genesis twenty-eight, verse fifteen, God says to Jacob, Behold, I am with you, and will keep you wherever you go, and will bring you back to this land, for I will not leave you until I've done what I've spoken to you. Think of the Great Commission. Even if you don't have all the answers quite yet, knowing that God has those answers and that He knows what's best. And I get myself in that why question. If you're going to grab onto something and hold on tight, make it God. Why is this happening? And trust God to work. And that punishment is eternal separation from God in hell, a real place. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Great peace have those who love your law, and nothing causes them to stumble. My soul keeps your testimonies, and I love them exceedingly. That it is our firm foundation. in the distractions in our minds, and that we would lift our voices to you and worship to you for what you have done for us and who you are. Through your Son Jesus Christ, on our behalf, that we can have this privilege this morning to be coming before your throne by your mercy and by your grace Better. You are Almighty, all-powerful, all-wise and all-knowing. And Father, as we come to this time that we come to your word, we ask that you would reveal your truth to each one of us. Therefore, we will not fear, even though the earth be moved, even though the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea. We ask God that you would put your hand a blessing on these folks, protect them from harm or accidents and from the evil one, and I pray that your word would go to them this morning and bless them, Lord, and draw them closer to you. Though its waters roar and be troubled, though the mountains shake with its swelling. He makes war cease to the end of earth. The nations raged, the kingdoms were moved. It's a shared stairwell with me and the other people in the in the flat and uh since the roof belonged to me, this was my responsibility. There was a lot of leaves. Normally you shouldn't do that. And uh yeah, that's not a good place to be. Sometimes we feel attacked, we feel un we feel misunderstood. On verse 10 and 11, which say, Be still and know that I am God. He is omnipotent. And though the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea, have you seen that? We can't even predict it. Be still and know that God is God. For you have been a shelter for me, a strong tower from the enemy. Trust in him at all times, you people. God is in the midst of her. The Lord of hosts is with us. God is there. Verse 5 talks about stability because God's there shall not be moved. What's the background here? Queen Jezebel, she probably would win the the award if there was an award for most wicked queen in Israel. He did that. No rain. And Elijah said, no, it's not me, you are, and your wickedness, leading the people away from the one true God to serve a false God. But the Lord was not in the fire. God is all powerful. So that its waves are still. He can do that in our hearts. He will be exalted. They see in verses eight to eleven, the eternal state and the end of all wars I'm not sure all those details are there, but one thing I do know is that God will be exalted. He will be exalted. He is sovereign over all. And just after Ahab passes away in battle, or sometime after that, there is a crisis now in the South. Three kings, three kingdoms got together and decided to attack Jehoshaphat in Jerusalem. And proclaimed a fast throughout all Judah. Amazing. But he remembered what? Listen, all you of Judah, and you inhabitants of Jerusalem, and you, King Jehoshaphat, thus says the Lord to you For the battle is not yours, but God's. Stand still. God was exalted in Israel. The three armies had defeated each other. God is God over all. That goes for the good times, and that goes for the time of care of chaos and bereavement and difficulty and when you can't answer that pesky why question Finding something. For I am with you. You go. at the chaos and the injustice and the difficulties of this life. And that's kind of a weird way to say it, because God is going to be God no matter you let him or not. That is wonderful. This peace I'm describing is peace the peace of God. No matter how good of a person you are, and I hope you're a very nice moral person here on Sunday morning at church, but no matter how good you are, nobody measures up to God's standard of goodness. We all fall short, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. That's why God sent his son, Jesus. If you're not 100% sure, you can know. Not we'll see what happens. It starts with humbly admitting that you're not at peace with God, that you are a sinner, you deserve punishment. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. Have you believed on him? But rather we have the privilege of being able to know you and understand who you are and your character through the clear truth from Scripture that we know and learn and from the gospel of Jesus Christ. uh typhoons that come through. And in fact, he already is, because one of his names is this, the most high. The people of Israel, as we looked at these stories today, they often turned to other sources of help. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. or email us at info at bbcofmd. We love you. to your creation through your word. Give them great memories of their dad and grandfather. The Lord of hosts is with us. It started in the distance, way off. attached like it should be. We saw that life is fleeting. We may feel like we're a minority, that those who want to do right, those who are godly, that they are not having the influence they should have in this world, but know this. There's a whole lot reason a lot of reasons to fear. The omnipotent God, the one whose name is the Lord of hosts, he is our strength. As we look at this passage this morning, some scholars have looked at it and say they see kind of an eschatological theme here in Psalm 46. A theme in which God is present in every era. Be still and know that God will win. That is the future. God is sovereign over all. O our God, will you not judge them? But our eyes are upon you. Do not be afraid, nor dismayed. O Judah and Jerusalem. Help in trouble. After the death of Uzziah the king. In the book of Acts, we see Paul serving God and also in a completely different context. Even to the end of the age. Other things need to go. Should be God. God says that we should go one way and we decided nope we're going our own way. The Bible says, For by grace are you saved through faith, and not of yourself. We would love to take the Bible and help you understand what God says about knowing for sure you're right with Him and on your way to heaven. But we really would love to meet you in person. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. Dear Lord, thank you for your peace. Such an important truth for us to know. You have reached down and considered us that you know our rising up and our lying down. I thought this was going to be a day off. God is never outnumbered or overwhelmed. The poor. Not only that, he's not just some kind of force way out there somewhere, but notice what he says. And Elijah's job was pretty much to stand up to them and represent God. King Ahab sent people to find him. The world is chaotic, out of control. In him. The Lord of hosts is with us. God is with us and he keeps his promises. Means you let go. I've got three suggestions this morning. Therefore, being justified by faith. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. You are very close, and we are grateful and thankful for what you have done through your Son Jesus Christ that we have this joy and this privilege to come this morning. And Father, I lift up those who are unable to be out this morning. God is in the midst of her. Be still. That's the picture we see here in Psalm 46. How do we find peace and rest in such a chaotic world? God commands us, be still and know. First, we see here he says, be still and know that I am God. This theme of God being a refuge repeats over and over through the Psalms. But you are my strong refuge. He is our high tower, our high place. In trouble. God says that darkness will not last forever. Birds. Calming us in the chaos. But not only that, he says, Be still and know that I am God. In the earth. Maybe he's thinking of the victory over the Philistines under David. That God is with you. It means you surrender to His will and to His plan, even if you don't know why. Be still and know that I am God. They had to trust that it would be there the next day as God promised. There's no one greater than God. And in your life, he can also calm your soul. Sin is sin is those things that we do that break God's law. His blood was shed for us. The fast pace of life in the Baltimore-Washington area. 91. Is peace. Father, we praise you and thank you that our hope is in your salvation. There is a river whose streams shall make glad the city of God, the holy place of the tabernacle of the Most High. If you look in 1 Kings chapter 19, there he is in the wilderness in the mountains. Turn back to Psalm 46. Turn back in your Bible to 2 Chronicles chapter 20. Partially, or maybe mostly due to his own poor choices. Haggai chapter 2 verse 4. Sometimes God lets us know why and sometimes we don't. And yet he was a godly king. And then listen to the prayer of the leader, the political leader of Judah. Here is a king leading his people and saying, I don't know what to do. And what did he do? This theme is repeated over and over and over throughout Scripture. And work. That God is with you. We have co-workers, we have family members, we have other support to come and help us in times of chaos and times of difficulty, and that is a blessing of God. That take God's rightful place. And he died in our place. We will be reading this morning from Psalm forty six, and we are going to read the whole psalm. It's a lot of it's a chaotic world, isn't it? Have you felt that way over the last couple of years at all? We've got the normal chaos, you know. Well think my nice dry flat in Hong Kong. God. He is sovereign over all, over nature, over nations. We're on the side of darkness instead of on the side of light. But God this morning offers you a way to escape the punishment of your sin. With nothing to give, but to accept what he's given to us. Good morning. We're sitting there kind of enjoying the show. He's talking about the presence of God, and that brings what? We need that too. All right, let's uh Psalm 119, we're going to read verses 161, and we're going to go through 168. In a chaotic world, God is our refuge. When the night is the most dark, when the help is needed the most We got a bad king, a bad queen. Be still and know that God is with you. Yes, I will help you. Be still. Help us to find our peace in you. And so God had Elijah have a contest between him, one prophet. Come. The Lord is with you. But this word be still means it literally means to like to sink in, like you're in the couch, a leaf, really you know, fluffy couch, and you kind of sink in and you relax. Trust God. Look to him. You've got TV antennas flying around, you've got pieces of wood and debris flying around. First Kings chapter nineteen. Come behold the works of the Lord who has made desolations on the earth. It's a little bit of an obscure story. He's available. He asked God three times. Be still and let God be God. Isaiah, he's I mean Isaiah. It turns out Elijah is the world's best weather forecaster. And not only that, I'll talk about an extended forecast. I will bring your descendants from the east and gather you from the west. Though th though its waters roar and be troubled, though the mountains shake with its swelling. He goes all the way down into the Sinai Peninsula, down near Mount Horeb. Among the nations. Isaiah 41, verse 10, entirely different time period, much later. You don't grab on really, really tight until your your fingers are stiff. The seventh day he rested. This passage, Psalm 46, has two commands. 9. This is a very healthy thing to do in your own personal life. That gift only comes by faith I kinda ducked because every once in a while there'd be a real gust of wind and I was worried I might get swept right off the I I figure, you know I'm you know I I filled out. He forgot who he represented. He is God over all, sovereign over all, over nations, over powers. 1 Timothy 6. We got a whole choir going out first. God is a God who is able to be found. Inflation and political instability, you know, just true that we have a you know, election Not something far away. No, no. Be still and know that God is God. Come behold the works of the Lord. God sent us, believers, into all the world to make disciples, and yet he says, Lo, I'm with you always. We now have a chance to worship you in spirit and in truth. Heavenly Father, we come this morning with grateful and thankful hearts. God is our refuge and our strength, a very present help in trouble. God says He is our refuge in a chaotic, unpredictable, out-of-control world. Remember his character. She shall not be moved. He remembered God's character. Their city is broken down still. Even in times of chaos, even in times of loss, even in times of confusion. I ducked down, made my way to all the places, grabbed those giant things of leaves, chucked them off the roof. There was kudzu vine, the big old leaves. Have you looked at your weather app recently? The God of Jacob is our refuge. This passage, this section here reminds me of the testimony of Elijah. See what he's done in the past. You know, we haven't defined that word yet. Good morning. They never are sure which floor you're on and which which it should go to. You have made the Lord, who is my refuge, even the most high, your dwelling place. Look at verses four through six. God is the most high. His son Jacob, he found himself also in difficulty. Um but there's nobody out there. And so things are flying around. The story is really amazing how God protected his man, provided for him. So I went on the roof. They're weak. Then some came and told Jehoshaphat, saying, A great multitude is coming against you from beyond the sea, from Syria, and they are in Hazazon Timar, which is in Gedi, not terribly far away. The Lord is with you. And be strong, Joshua. Why can they work? It's it's a shelter from danger, like my flat there during the typhoon. It says the Lord is my rock and my fortress and my deliverer, my God, my strength, in whom I will trust, my shield and the horn of my salvation, my stronghold. These three armies who came together unified to destroy Judah, they ended up fighting each other. God is God. We can today know and be at peace with God. I will uphold you with my righteous right hand. That rest before God. If you're not sure, if you're not sure you're right with God, today after the service, talk with me, talk with Pastor Jim, talk with Enric. That's talking about the rich that oppressed them. Do not fear or be dismayed. In times of chaos and instability, we can have peace He will have the victory. 15 says this, speaking of God, which he will manifest in his own time. Oh, what does he mean by very present? Most of the time a typhoon day is kinda like a snow day here in America. Therefore we will not fear. He says, God, it's better if I just die. He's not busy. We're talking a couple hundred years later again. Like why does this happen? Can we stop this? In the garden, what did he do? Be still and know that I am God. Pour out your heart before him. Uh Elijah, he's a prophet of God in a very dark time. He controls nature, and yet he's also the one who speaks in the still small voice. As we stand before him and be still and know that God is God. It says in verse 21, and when he consulted with the people, he appointed those who should sing to the Lord, and who should praise the beauty of holiness as they went out before the army Be still and know God is God. And yet God often encouraged Isaiah: Fear not, for I am with you. There's no one more faithful and more reliable. Thank you that you are the God of all peace. They're helpless against those with more power and more social status than them. Be still and know that God is God, but also be still and know that God will win So Judah gathered together to ask help from the Lord, and from all the cities of Judah they came to seek the Lord. They did exactly what he said. Princes persecute me without cause, but my heart stands in awe of your word. And Lord, today, as we come to you this morning, we praise you that we have the opportunity as a body of believers to worship you. So I I I went out there carefully and and shut it behind me. The actual presence of God would be there in the Holy of Holies. We even show that see the power of God and people are still not turning to him and so he runs God is the Most High God. The present is chaos. Do not be afraid, nor be dismayed, for the Lord your God is with you wherever. I think in the wilderness when God provided the manna, every day the manna was on the ground and they just picked it up. We can be declared righteousness not by what we've done, but because of what Jesus did for us. You could hear this dull roar, and it would get louder and louder and louder until suddenly there would be wind pounding against the uh the uh the glass of our balcony door Yeah, I know there's a God, but he's somewhere way away. Revelation 1916 speaks of Christ's second coming, coming as king, and it says he has on his robe and on his thigh a name written, King of Kings and Lord of Lords. About the same time, well actually he was a contemporary of King Ahab and Queen Jezebel, he was in the southern kingdom of Judah. This final point seems a bit redundant because we've kind of already said this a lot of time in this passage. In Jesus' name. The God of Jacob is our refuge. We're busy people. This word, it's a related word, yet this word has the idea of a high tower, a stronghold. You're you're you're way up there, nothing bad can get you is kind of the idea And after the fire, a still small voice. He took the punishment that you and I deserve. His body was broken for us so that we could be at peace with God. Um it's a little out of the city center. There's pieces of, you know, they some of the roofs have illegal building works on them, and not everything is particularly God shall help her. He's the one who looked at the stormy seas and said, Peace be still. She shall not be moved. The God of Jacob is our refuge. Waiting on your roof. I will be exalted. And they were there just to pick up the pieces and take the spoils. And this morning, no matter what you're going through, if you are God's child, He is there with you. I tried to go between the the roaring wind so it was a little little bit calmer, but things everything was just flying all around. The sun will rise. And yet, it wasn't looking very good for Israel. There's another guy we've not a famous prophet. No, it was, you know, you get out there within one second every every layer of clothes you have on is completely soaked through. But he says, therefore we will not fear. Who's God's city? For we have no power against this great multitude that is coming against us, nor do we know what to do. He turned to God. Be still before God. So I just chucked those off the roof and like ah this is so much better. He remembered God's promises in the time of chaos, in the time when everybody around him is fearing, and so is he, because three armies are coming. Tomorrow go down against them, and they will surely come up by the ascent of his is, and you will find them at the end of the brook before the wilderness of Jer Jeruel. Be still and spend time with God. And we thank you that we can rest squarely and completely on your word through no matter what we're going through. There you go. I have not. The world is chaotic, but God is our refuge. Verse 10. I see the the the uh TV antennas on the roofs whi s waving like this and I imagine that they make excellent javelins if they come loose On top of that, we see death of loved ones. What should we know? Be still and know that God is God. God will fight for you. Verse 10: Be still and know that I am God. But you know but but but you know sometimes in our life we do things that really we should be yielding to God. There is no one else like him. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. There is no higher God, no higher king, no higher empire. But he's alone. Not the same Joshua, this is a different one. And God says, my grace is sufficient for you. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. I've lived with for the last eleven years in Hong Kong, China, and we periodically get He is the Lord of hosts. He forgot who had been providing for him and he's just like, Oh, I I just give up. Be still and know that God is God. Got a king named Jehoshaphat, not a real popular king. Joshua 1:9, Joshua had a big job. God is light. We can't save ourselves. The Bible says, as Pastor Jim mentioned on Friday, these are written, the Word of God is written, that we may know that we have eternal life. God is never overwhelmed, even if the world is chaotic. We're hoping the window stays intact, but you know, we're enjoying the show. But but uh uh for the next three years. Maybe the writer of this psalm is reflecting on God's acts on the behalf of the people of Israel in Israel's past. Remember what He's done in the past in your life. Or he could say, be still. Tomorrow go out against them, for the Lord is with you. The walls are broken down. Maybe maybe it would have been good to do that at the very beginning of the sermon. And I pray you'll comfort them and give them strength. But God hid him for three years. And do you not rule over all the kingdoms of the nations? It's not all up to me. It's a gift of God. So often it's it's easy to feel like we're out of control, and we are out of control. Then of course there's de economic issues. He is the Lord of hosts. The most unpredictable of unpredictable situations. God is our refuge. And what's he doing? And then he continues in verse 11, verse 10. I think Paul maybe did that. In the quiet, he walked with Adam and Eve. Be still and spend time with God. And so I pray, Lord, that you'd be reminded of that, that we would be reminded of that today, that we would put aside So it's flat and it's got a wall all the way around it, which which is good since I have small children and I like to keep them on top of the roof if they're on the roof I've heard some working 50, 60, 70 hours a week. And I pray, Lord, that you would also give them strength and peace and joy. There was a wompe trees and there everybody's leaves was on our roof. We've got lots of stress. But that that would be drastic. Be still and know that God is God. Be still and spend time with God. Amen. Oh, there's the helping again. He is sovereign over all. And one of the favorite, my favorite stories to tell to children in junior church. And what I think is absolutely hilarious, they trusted God so much that when their armies went out, as God said, to that very specific place that a spy couldn't have given them a better location, they It means that God is at hand. For I am with you, says the Lord of hosts. Lots of descriptions of what God is doing and who God is, but there's two commands. And we trust them instead of Him. They see the chaos of the tribulation described in Revelation and often described in the Old Testament. In the Old Testament, over and over, uh God exhorts us, seek the Lord while He may be found. No matter where you've been scattered, God says, I am with you and I will bring you back. Be still and rest in God, not in other supports. When we look at the works of God, we're remembering what He has done. In him is no darkness at all. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. Dangerous, scary, chaotic, definitely out of control Lord of hosts could be translated to Lord of the armies. Why won't we fear? He describes here a scene. I'm going to abbreviate the story and get to the point where he sees God, but They met at Mount Carmel. Maybe he's thinking of the Exodus as as the water of the Red Sea opened and they walked through in dry lands. And now here are the people of Ammon, number one army, Moab, number two army, and Mount Seir, number three army I keep your precepts and your testimonies, for all my ways are before you. He uttered his voice, the earth melted I will be exalted in the earth Be still and know that God will win. And so they could rest. Very good. But I did. What will help us to have peace in these times of chaos? God's. I think I I struggle with some chronic health issues that are highly annoying at times. org. He breaks the bow and cuts the spear in two. Psalm 91:2. He remembered who God is. Hebrews 13 says to believers, Jesus says, I will never leave you or forsake you. You are sovereign over all of your creation. Then there's health issues. They shame the counsel of the poor, but the Lord is his refuge. God is a refuge for us. Actually, in Psalm 46, we actually see two words that are translated refuge here. Well, verse 4 talks about gladness. The present is unstable. Find your inner peace from Him. I hate and abhor lying, but I love your law. And then it would pass. He's not interested in me. I give up on this world. God is not only our strength, but he's also our hope. In Genesis 26, 24, the Lord appeared to him, that's to Isaac, the same night, and he said, I am the God of your father, Abraham, do not fear. Now it's the post-exilic period. No, it's you let go because you're trusting him, not relying on yourself. All we like sheep, we've gone astray. And maybe it's for age or for health or whatever reason, maybe traveling. The word shelter is that word refuge. They are weak. Let's put him in Jerusalem. There is a river whose stream shall make glad the city of God, the holy place of the tabernacle of the Most High. I don't think they had post offices back then, but his picture would have been there framed God is your refuge and strength. I believe he's in Corinth here, and yet God says to him, to Paul, For I am with you, and no one will attack you to hurt you, for I have many people in this city. But uh I had the third floor or the second floor by the British system, and on top was a flat roof I waited out on my roof. Let go. I'll never forget the first time I heard wind that sounded like a freight train. It's uh three stories high. And so I kinda ducked down and I I really like that As you face difficulty and you don't have answers, and you ask that why question that it's not always answered There's nothing we can do to reach God's standard. May the Lord richly bless you. He goes all the way through the northern kingdom. He's an ever-present help in trouble. There is no other source of strength like he is. And yet there may be some here today who don't have peace with God. He talks about the tabernacle. Talks about help. Psalm 107 verse 29 speaks of God saying, He calms the storm. Now there's a model prayer we don't often read Isn't it good to be in the house of the Lord this morning together, praising him and worshiping him? Be still and know that God is truly God. There's no mountains around here to watch for that to happen, but I kinda get the picture of like a a combination like volcano with the lava going into the sea and the steam coming up and a tsunami then it comes after I mean But here God is just speaking directly to the prophet, and he says, Go out and stand on the mountain before the Lord, and behold the Lord passed by We praise you because you are God who is above all. And Father, I pray that as we look ahead even to the morning message that Pastor Matt will be preaching. Let me read a couple of examples. Verse 13. Let me give you just a taste. And they were saying, Praise the Lord, for his mercy endures forever. And yet God says to them, Be strong, Zerubbable. He talks about a storm in the flesh in um 2 Corinthians chapter 12. And because of that, we're at enmity with God And that's where we find him in 1 Kings chapter 19. He says, I will be exalted This is a priest, the son of Jehosedak, the high priest. Be still and let God be God. It's not all up to you. Not of works, lest any man should boast. There's a whole lot of good reasons to fear, aren't there? No, no, no. He's in your midst, he said. Look at the 2nd Chronicles chapter 20, verse 1. I will be exalted among the nations. We ask that you will continue to be with them, Lord, in the weeks to come. That's a stressful life. And then finally, after three years, God sends Elijah back to King Ahab. There was a great showdown. Here they are, rewarding us by coming to throw us out of your possession, which you have given us to inherit Nobody names their kid Jehaziel. Two chapters later in Isaiah 43. And yet we are on the side of darkness. It's not just on my side of the world with typhoons. But the Lord was not in the wind. He is a very present Lord, I hope for your salvation, and I do your commandments No, on top of that, there's conflict. We go to the gas pump and you're never quite sure what numbers are going to be there when you start pumping Just at the break of dawn, the nations raged, the kingdoms were moved, he uttered his voice, the earth melted. No. And so in times of chaos, when your world is swirling, God shall help her just at the break of dawn. My feet my feet disappeared into the water there. In verse 7 and verse 11, we see this refrain repeated: the Lord of hosts is with us, the God of Jacob is our refuge. In what circumstances? Find your strength in Him and find your hope of victory. He's not far away. Each one of us, as we're born into this world, does not have peace with God. Everybody's just waiting and hoping you get enough accumulation or you get enough I will be exalted among the nations. He's emphasizing that God is a very present health Ravens came, fed him, then the brook that he was beside dried up, because you know, no rain. He doesn't just do that in nature. He's outnumbered. Be still and know that I am God. My wife was waiting there and just locked it behind me so that I You've got water coming, you've got wind like a freight train, and yet inside The king, King Ahab, is one of the worst kings Israel ever has had. Bring the people of Israel into the promised land. The wind was blowing like crazy. I knew there was nobody downstairs, so I just chucked them off the roof. I know some of you, I don't know all of you, I I know some of you are are in school. Not only that, he's our strength I saw the water going down. I will say of the Lord, He is my refuge and my fortress, my God, in Him I will trust. God is our refuge and our strength, a very present help. Because God told him this is what's gonna happen. And God tells him He says, Be still and know that I am God, I will be exalted among the nations. I've got them. And yet God says the Lord is his refuge. A scene which is emphasizing that God is there. He shall help her just at the break of dawn. Maybe he's thinking of all of these. He prays to God in verse 6, and he says. Now all Judah with their little ones, their wives, and their children, stood before the Lord. Just for this time and listen to you speak to us through your word. So that had to be resolved. Sometimes we need to be still and let go so that we can grab something that's more important and more valuable Offers you the way to be right with God. And that we can be at peace with you as your children. I will be exalted among the nations, and I will be exalted in the earth Come, behold the works of the Lord, who has made desolation in the earth. And finally, as we return to Psalm 46, be still and know. Trust me. And I never felt wind like that. He is exalted. And they dwell in it, and they have built you a sanctuary in it for your name, saying Also a chaotic time period. A chaotic, out-of-control world. God is our strength. The second word for refuge we see in verse seven and verse eleven in that repeated refrain You know, he's on the lamb for three years. Stand still Be still and rest in God. This morning, are you at peace with God? You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. What was the tabernacle? So God sends them out. I don't have an answer to this question. Sounds a lot like Psalm 46, doesn't it? This morning, are you at peace with God? And in your hand is there not power and might so that no one is able to withstand you? Thank you, Harry. Look at verse 1. That you're troubling Israel Elijah literally called down fire from heaven. The present causes us to fear, and yet God says to us, A place I don't want you to go, and a place God doesn't want you to go. It's holiness. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. God's in the midst of her. We saw it already in verse 4. We got three at least three different armies going on, converging The people of Israel, many of them have returned to the promised land. Be quiet before Him. If you're too busy to carve out time with God each day, you're too busy. We hope to see you soon. They do it in British systems, so the first floor is the ground floor actually, the second floor is the first floor, and the third floor is actually the second floor Outside Psalm 62, 7-8. God is our help. He's all powerful. He makes war cease to the ends of the earth. Verse 7. And actually, the comments I made about Isaac actually apply much better to Jacob. I'm sure people here have them. If you have your Bibles, turn back to 1 Kings chapter 19, and there we see a story of a very discouraged prophet. But Remember His provision. Nobody names their kid Jehoshaphat. Do not be afraid, nor dismayed, because of this great multitude. I will be exalted in the earth. Father, we are grateful for what you have done. Psalm 71, 7 says this. When Israel got there, the battle was already over and they weren't part of it. Sometimes this word for very present is translated in other contexts. God gives us other supports. Conflict sometimes at home, conflict at work. She was a bad influence on an already bad guy. God We're not looking for fish gods, but we're looking for other things. We've turned everyone to his own way. Psalm forty six. This is an amazing show of power, and we're safe. And we ask in Jesus' name. Even though the earth be removed, that seems drastic. Psalm 14, 6 Philippians two, verse ten to eleven says this. A very present help in trouble. In a moment we'll be remembering that as we celebrate the Lord's table. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. You know our thoughts before we speak. I've only heard it once. But this was a different kind of storm. And he gets there. But here he is. 5, God repeats it. The Bible promises that whoever believes on him should not perish but have everlasting life. The water was coming so fast and so furiously that it was That's busy. This morning we're going to look at Psalm 46, especially we're going to focus Maybe it's obvious what it means as we've gone through this passage. Think of Jesus in his will and in his in his ministry. Maybe an alliance with another country. You are the creator and sustainer of all life. And that was was blocking the drainage. He can never be overcome or overpowered because he is the Lord of hosts. And after the wind, an earthquake. Be not dismayed, for I am your God You think of the Sabbath day for the people of Israel. And it's coming to him This this will be good. I will be exalted in the earth. Are you not our God? God spoke to Isaac as he was alone. The first one we see in verse 8: come behold the works of the Lord. This is a blessed truth for those who have trusted Christ as their Savior. We're sinners. We can't be holy. That's our text for today. I'd never seen that before either. God will be there He goes to the southern kingdom. Be still and know that God is with you Be still and know that God is God. And yet God says this therefore we will not fear. Well He's omnipotent. Every knee will bow, every tongue will confess He's the Lord of all time. It happened after this. And be strong, all you people of the land, says the Lord. It means you stop fighting, you stop struggling. Be still. God is our help in trouble. She shall not be moved. The very first time we see Elijah in the book of 1 Kings, God says, go to that And He will be exalted. As he says, Come, behold the works of the Lord. And what did God say to him before they entered? Be still. Even if you don't know why. There's nothing you can do to earn salvation. It says, God is our refuge and strength. When we be still and know that God is God, we remember His character. And I had no intention of feeling the wind. There's a lot of stress. In fact when I went out I had to hold on to a metal door there because I didn't want it We didn't even mention the pandemic when we talked about all the chaos. Something completely out of our control. He makes glad the city of God. And uh God is speaking to him. I will be exalted. I I Or really, this is what's not gonna happen. In the world there is chaos. He lived a perfect life. We are not the ones in control. Many enemies caused Israel to be very unstable Be still and know that God will win. Do you know? Let's pray. Seven times a day I praise you, because of your righteous judgments. That adds another layer of stress this week. In God is my salvation and my glory, the rock of my strength, and my refuge is in God. In English, they both say refuge. Everybody's looking for him. God is God. I don't know how to protect this people. I will be exalted. There's a principle throughout Scripture. He burns the chariot in fire. And he says, I will be exalted. The Lord of hosts is with us. If you're already open to Psalm 46, It means that you don't stay frustrated. But then on the Sabbath day, no manna. But ultimately, as believers in Christ, our support And because of that, we deserve punishment. Not an enemy, but a child of God. Thank you for your unchanging character. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. A caring, loving, interested. That ship is already sailed. I have become as a wonder too many. He's not hiding. Romans chapter 5, verse 1 says this. I'm I'm pretty heavy now, you know Psalm 67, 61, 3 says this Remember His comfort. So I was hearing things, the freight train wind, I was seeing things I did not like to see. He is the Lord of hosts. He breaks the bow and cuts the spear in two. 2 Chronicles chapter 20. Wow. Then there's decisions. The Lord of hosts is with us. He who is the blessed and only potentate, the King of kings and Lord of Lords. And uh modern day may there may have been some talk about a hamster wheel of why. Are you unsure? There are certain things that only God can do. For the rest of the day, every twenty minutes, that's what I was doing. We lived on the back side of the village and uh Be still and know that I am God. They get to the place where the armies were, and what do they find out? It means you stop your mind from going in that hamster wheel of why. We're enemies of God, and that's because of sin. Let's pray together. And we pray these things in Christ's name. I was nice inside my safe, cozy house I mean school stress is very, very stressful And God kind of puts on a nature show for him. But the Lord was not in the earthquake. One day out of the week, they were to rest. And big old leaves, just blocking it right there. Maybe he's thinking of God's provision as they wandered in the wilderness for forty years. We don't have time to go into today. Draw them close to you and to each other. He's in the desert, and who's he relying on to feed him? He was the righteous one that we are not. We see that in verses 2 and 3. It's not gonna rain. We're not holy. And we can experience your peace in our heart. When does dawn break? That flat is our refuge They see that in verses 2 and 3. Not hope, not guess. The weather. He's not denying it's a big problem. Be still and know. Let's bow our heads together and go to the Lord in prayer. Encourage them, Lord Not just at work, at home Look at verse 8. This problem is beyond me There's nothing you can do to earn the right to be right with God. Remember in this time of chaos, remember what God has done in the past. In times of chaos, look at what God has done. The God of Jacob is our refuge. And then for the next three years And yet this morning there may be some who have not yet done that. He burns the chariot in the fire. Why can they be strong? He's discouraged. You will not need to fight in this battle. David is saying this because of the things he's he's endured. I will be exalted. What's a refuge? Thinking maybe of the ten plagues. Jehoshaphat understood How do we be still I will be exalted in that day. It is called the Exchange. And we thank you for that this morning. And in your greatness, Father. We can't control the weather. Means you're quiet. Come, behold the works of the Lord. So I I I waded out onto my roof. And after the earthquake a fire. Amen. But with God It's a great multitude. So be still and Verse three Have you done that?