Psalm one nineteen one forty five. I cry out with my whole heart Hear me, O Lord, I will keep your statutes. I cry out to you, save me, and I will keep your testimonies. I rise before the dawning of the morning and cry for help. I hope in your word. My eyes are awake from the night watches, that I may meditate on your word. Hear my voice according to your loving kindness, O Lord. Revive me according to your justice. They draw near who follow after wickedness. They are far from your law. You are near, O Lord, and all your commandments are truth. Concerning your testimonies, I have known of old that you have founded them forever. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you this morning and we praise you. Because you have given us your word that is so sure that our hearts can completely um Love your word and know your word and rest in your word, depend on your word, trust in your word. Father, we thank you for that. We pray, Lord, that you would help us as we worship you this morning, that we would put away the distractions that are in our minds and Maybe the difficulties that we experience throughout the week. And just focus our minds in on two things, who Christ is. And what he has done for us. As we sing of the hymns, the uh the the rich words that we will sing, of the truths of who Christ is and what he has done, the Your sovereign plan for us and bring forth the gospel to redeem our souls. And as we anticipate the preaching of your word, I pray this morning that we would worship you in a way that is pleasing in your sight And that we would be blessed and edified for it as well. And we play we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. We're going to be reading from the book of Matthew, chapter 12, verses 14. through twenty-one. Then the Pharisees went out and held a council how they might destroy him. But when Jesus knew it, he withdrew himself from thence, and great multitudes followed him, and he healed them all. And charged them that they should not make him known, that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by Isaiah, the prophet, saying Behold, my servant, whom I have chosen, my beloved, in whom my soul is well pleased. I will put my spirit upon him, and he shall show judgment to the Gentiles. He shall not strive nor cry, neither shall any man hear his voice in the streets. A bruised reed shall he not break and smoking flax shall he not quench, till he send forth judgment unto victory, and in his name shall the Gentiles Father, we come to you this morning and we praise you because you are a great God. And when we look at your plan. The plan of salvation. We realize your justice. We recognize the fact that you could have just ripped out the page. That it would have been just to do so. And yet, because of your great love, your mercy, your grace, that sacrif sacrificial love that sent Christ to the cross. And the manner in which he came, gently and lowly, and in humility, we stand in awe at your wisdom And as we look this morning at your truth, we pray, Lord, that it would help us to uh really uh uh be not only in awe of Christ's work, but also respond in a way that is pleasing to you the work of Christ, and to follow his example as well. So we pray that you would work in our service this morning and in the message this morning for your purposes and we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. So the world cries for justice. It is something that if you look around in the world all over the place you find That there is injustice from the very beginning of Adam Eve's sin until now. There is injustice everywhere And most people recognize there's something in their heart, even unbelievers, even non-Christians, and people of different faiths, different religions, they realize something in their heart uh they understand that that justice needs to happen But m many people, when they look at the idea of justice and they want justice to happen, they look at themselves and they go, well, maybe not with me I don't want I don't want to get everything I deserve. I just want everybody else to get what they deserve. Or maybe so when so realizing all of us have sin, all of us deserve God's justice and God's punishment. There's really only two paths, two ways you can go with that. Really, it boils down to two. One is you can choose to self-justify. You can choose self-righteousness. And many, I guess I would probably say all religions that are not true faith in Christ, on some level attempt to self-justify. Or the other way is to come to a place of understanding that I am in need of the mercy of God. If a person chooses to self-justify, to feel better about themselves through their own self-effort, through their own works If they can think of a way to make their good, outweigh their bad, if they can think of themselves as an overall good person, what they're doing is they are self-justifying. But the fact is, you know, we think of uncr non-Christians doing that. Do Christians do that as well? Isn't it true, folks, when you really think about it, that Christians are just as guilty of self-justifying As non-Christians are, oftentimes. Jesus, we are in the midst of Matthew 12, and Jesus has been dealing With those who have chosen to live their lives to self-justify, they're called, and they've taught others to do the same, and they're called the Pharisees. And I I think it's very important for us to note that in we have read uh Matthew twelve here, starting in verse fourteen, but I want you actually to pick up in verse nine, we're gonna recap here a very important uh uh section that will really help us understand verses 14 through 21. And this particular section, Jesus is healing on the Sabbath day. Just pick up there and notice what it says in verse 9 there. Now when he had departed from there, he went into the t into their synagogue. And behold, there was a man who had withered a withered hand, and they asked him, saying, Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath? And they that they might accuse him. Remember the Pharisees thought they had him, they thought they had him nailed Here he is in between a rock and a hard place. The public, the people there would have wanted him to heal this man, and yet it was clearly, at least in their mind, it was clearly unlawful, although it actually wasn't, but it they they According to the Ribinetical writings, they saw it to be unlawful, so they thought they had him exactly where they wanted him. Of course, the wisdom of Jesus comes out when he says in verse eleven and He said to them, What man is there among you who has one sheep, and if it falls into a pit on the Sabbath, will not lay hold of it and lift it out? Which would definitely have appealed to the people that were in the synagogue that were there Of how much more value than is a man than a sheep. Therefore, it is lawful to do good on the Sabbath, Jesus said. Then he said to the man, stretch out your hand. And he stretched out his uh stretched it out, and it was restored as whole as the other hand He did a wonderful miracle in the synagogue on the Sabbath day. And the Pharisees said, you know what? It really doesn't matter that's the Sabbath. It's just wonderful that this man was healed. Is that what he did? Some of you are asleep like, oh wow, is that what he did? No, okay. No, that's not at all what they did. The very next verse in verse 14 says, And the Pharisees went out and plotted again against him how they might destroy him. No regard for the fact that this man was gloriously healed. Instead, they are going, they get angry Now, they get caught because the public is is not only convinced it's now good to heal on the Sabbath, it's good to do good on the Sabbath, it's lawful to do good on the Sabbath, Jesus says. And so, and there very likely, though it doesn't say in the passage, but I'm sure are overjoyed by this miracle that was done in the synagogue by this man that was, and in awe by this man that was healed So the Pharisees really show their colors, don't they? By now coming to the place where they now have to plot against him. What we're going to find in this passage, it's really interesting what we're going to see in this passage. We're going to see the work of Jesus summarized. This is a very, very pivotal passage. The book of Matthew. Maybe, maybe the most pivotal. And what we're going to see is that Jesus' work, His the divine plan of God mentioned here in Isaiah. is really going to be summarized and it's going to be Matthew is now going to bring our attention to what is going on in the big picture. And I want you to notice a couple of things in this passage. We're going to dip down here a couple of verses, and then we're going to be able to understand what's going on here and then go through the passage. I want you to notice Two uh a very important word that's mentioned twice. One is in verse 18. It says this, Behold, my servant whom I have chosen, my beloved and whom my soul is well pleased, I will put my spirit upon him, and he will declare what's the next word there? He'll declare justice. And then you'll see it again in verse 20. Again, he says it says, till he sends forth justice to victory. Now it's interesting, and we'll see more about this, that Jesus, that to describe and summarize Jesus' ministry, this is the longest passage that is quoted in the book of Matthew from the Old Testament. But the one passage that Matthew chooses to summarize the ministry of Jesus is justice. Justice. And yet, if you also notice in the passage, both before and in this passage, you see a real sense of gentleness from our Savior. So what we're going to see in the past passage is that actually Christ brings forth justice through gentleness. Gentleness produces justice. Now, the next passage, he is going to not be as gentle with the Pharisees. But first, before that's explained, Matthew wants us to understand that with the people that were needy, there was justice through gentleness. Well how did that come? We're going to see three things. First of all, we're going to see by responding right through right to self-righteousness. by responding wisely to self-righteousness, then we're going to see it by choosing to minister to needy rather than oppose self-sufficient. Jesus is going to minister to the needy rather than opposing the self-sufficient and fighting the self-sufficient. And finally, by carrying out God's mission in the world. First, we're going to see that gentleness causes justice to win by wisely responding to self-righteousness. Wisely responding to self-righteousness And so we pick up here and we see that what the Pharisees have done, they're plotting, they want to plot against Jesus They leave the public eye. There is a sense in which you see all the way through this, we've seen it before, we're seeing it again here that there's a there's really kind of a fear of man implied here, a fear of the public and what they think. Frankly, what we see clearly from this passage as well is that the Pharisees are not concerned about the truth, really, what is the truth. Jesus has declared the truth of them There's something else that they're far more concerned about than what is actually true and right and lawful. This becomes really obvious now that they are plotting to destroy him. And they've had no joy over the guy who just got healed. Instead, their priorities are on this infraction, or the supposed infraction of Jesus by the law. And yet they know good and well that although the law under certain circumstances allows them to uh allows them to put to death someone that has uh has violated the Sabbath, this doesn't really qualify. On top of that As if that's not enough. They don't have the ability to put people to death according to the Roman uh the Roman Empire, Roman, uh Romans that they are under. In Exodus 31, verse 14, it says, You shall keep the Sabbath, therefore it is holy. Everyone who profanes it shall surely be put to death. Forever does not work on it, that person shall be cut off from among the from his people. Same thing we see similarly in Exodus 35, 2. Work shall be done for six days, but the seventh day shall be holy forever uh for you the Sabbath of rest it to the Lord whoever does it as any work shall be put to death. So there is a uh there is a requ there is a an allowance for that in the scriptures and yet They knew that this healing, this actual healing on the Sabbath probably uh probably wouldn't qualify for the death penalty, and particularly, particularly in the ro under Roman Roman Empire. So they're they are they are what do you sort of say, what do we do here? And they begin to plot against Jesus. It's interesting, isn't it, these Pharisees? We've seen them over and over and over again. And the the root problem of these Pharisees is self-right righteousness, and the root problem of self-righteousness Is clearly pride and self-promotion. What is the real problem with these guys? What's really going on? What's really going on is that these men, they are afraid of losing their power, of losing their authority, of losing their influence, of losing their status and their position. They are self-righteous, and they believe, I think they believe in their own self-righteousness And yet, what does that stem from? It stems from pride and self-promotion. Self-righteousness is also easily threatened by opposition. I have four things here. The second one is that self-righteousness is easily threatened by opposition and feels the need to protect status and position It's threatened by opposition. They feel threatened by Jesus. Instead of rejoicing in what Jesus is doing, they're threatened by him. Interestingly, self-righteousness also results in misplaced priorities. You notice the priority? They're worried about this infraction rather than the great miracle that's just been done in the synagogue. Jesus has declared it to be lawful. He's demonstrated why it is lawful. He's made comparisons to other things that they have deemed lawful. And yet their priorities are completely wrong. They're making large things small things. They're making small things large things. And that is what you will find with a self-righteous person. One who is self-righteous does not have a clear perspective on life, certainly doesn't have God's perspective on life, and doesn't, and misplaces priorities and makes m small things large things, and large things small things. And the fact is, all of us, if we're not careful, can easily, frankly, fall into this dangerous place of self-righteousness. And that's what the Pharisees have done. We clearly see that from this passage, and we're going to continue to see how the Pharisees, over and over again, until they are finally able to convince Rome to arrest Jesus. We we see clearly that they are now plotting against Christ to destroy him. Well, we clearly see that the self-righteousness uh led the Pharisees, but how did Jesus deal with it? With this? How did he deal with it? Well, secondly, gentleness causes justice to win by choosing to minister to the needy rather than the self-sufficient. What happens? What does Jesus do? Verse 15, but when Jesus knew it, he knew it by probably divine omniscience. Okay. When Jesus knew it, he withdrew from there, and great multitudes followed him, and he healed them all. For he warned them not to make him known, that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by Isaiah the prophet, saying. So what happened? Jesus knew it. He withdrew from there. The great crowds followed him, and he healed them all. Jesus did this a lot, actually. He would go into a place, he would do what he got called him to do in that place, and then he would withdraw. We saw this in Matthew 4. 12. Now when Jesus heard that John had been in prison, he departed to Galilee, and Matthew 14, 13, he uh he uh he hears of something and he he departs and Same thing in Matthew 15, 21. We see this over and over again. Jesus does a particular work in a particular area, and when he's done, he's done and he moves on And we see this clearly in this passage as well. The great multitudes followed him. Why do you think the multitudes followed him? Well, they just saw him do a miracle in the synagogue. This had now become a very public thing They had seen him do these miracles, and they know that Jesus, they that they're they're believ they're starting to believe that Jesus is something pretty incredible, and they follow him. And it says he heals all of them. He healed them all. He's done a lot of healing. We've seen that in Matthew as well. But in Mark chapter 3, we See a parallel passage, and I'll read it for you because it gives us a little bit more insight into what's going on here. In Mark chapter 3 it says, But Jesus withdrew with his disciples to see, and the great multitude with Gat from Galilee followed him And from Judea and Jerusalem and Eumiah and beyond the Jordan, and those from Tyre and Sidon, a great multitude, when they heard how many things he was done, came to him. So he told his disciples that a small boat should be kept ready for him because of the multitude, lest they should crush him. For he healed many, so that as many as had afflictions afflictions pressed about him to touch him And the unclean spirits, whenever they saw him, fell down before him and cried out, saying, You are the Son of God. But he sternly warned them that they should not make him known. That details out what Jesus was doing a lot of healing here. And Jesus, though, does something else pretty interesting here. He heals people, and then as he does it, he warns them and he says, please don't broadcast this, essentially. He warns them sternly that they should not make Jesus known. Well, why does Jesus, there's Jesus do this? There's different reasons that people have suggested why he does this, but I think that the most obvious thing is that he knows the Pharisees are plotting against him, and Jesus wants to take every opportunity to be able to minister to the people who really need it. Before finally the Pharisees catch up with him. And obviously the Pharisees do, and the Sanhedrin, they do finally catch up with him. So by avoiding the Pharisees and avoiding these religious leaders, he it affords him more kingdom opportunities. Sometimes that is a wise course of action. Matthew 8:4 says this, and Jesus said to them, See that you tell no one, but go your way, show yourself to the priest. He he meant he does this quite a bit. It also sh tells us, and we're gonna see this in the passage why he does this also, because he doesn't he's not wanting any kind of acclamation, he's not really wanting uh fame, he doesn't need affirmation, he doesn't need those kinds of public kinds of things that other people need. Jesus doesn't need any of that. He doesn't want any of it. He would rather work quietly. The problem, of course, is he's doing a lot of miracles. And certainly his fame does spread around. What are some things we can learn from this as we As we look at this. First of all, Jesus chose to minister to those who realize their need rather than waste time arguing with self-sufficient people. They realized their need. They were needy people. And folks, I think, I think that's a probably a pretty good, I don't think, I know that that's a a good, we can follow that example as well. Don't waste your time arguing with people and fighting with people that are self-sufficient, but don't realize their own need. Take the time, the opportunities rather, that people, when they realize their own need, you have that which will give them what they truly need, and that is the gospel. With the exception of self of the self-righteous, Jesus also, we see from this passage related the people with gentleness, with compassion. He was He had to get in a boat and and uh just so he wouldn't be crushed, but he still wanted to meet as many needs as he possibly could, take the opportunities that he had to do as much as he could for the kingdom of God. There's this compassion and there's this gentleness that we see over and over again. Something else that we notice here as well is that Jesus answered these foolish Pharisees for the sake of the people in the synagogue. Not for their sakes. Do you notice that? Do you remember that? Pharisees go to Jesus And they say to Jesus, is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath day? And what does Jesus do? He appeals to the people that are there and uses an illustration to appeal to the people, not to these Pharisees. And then when they are appealed to and he heals them, he leaves He's not going to argue with these guys. Now he's going to pronounce judgment on them later. But at this point, he's not going to debate or argue with these guys. I think that we can glean some real wisdom from this. I think of Proverbs 26, verses 4 through 5, it says this: Do not answer a fool according to his folly. Now it's interesting in that passage, it says, don't answer a fool according to his folly, and then it says, answer a fool according to his folly in the very next verse Don't answer a fool according to his folly, and also answer a fool according to his folly. Well, what what which is it? Well, remember, Proverbs is a book of wisdom. It's not a command that you can't answer a fool according to his folly or sh or It's not a a command one way or the other, it's telling you wisdom and there is this wisdom on both in both ways. There's wisdom in answering a full according to this value, and there's wisdom in not answering a full according And what does it say? Of course I'm leaving some out, as some of you already picked up already. Proverbs 26, 4 says this, do not answer a fool according to his folly, lest you also be like him. Lest you be like him. Answer a fool according to his folly, lest he what? Be wise in his own eye. Leave a fool alone and he'll be wise in his own eyes, just like the Pharisees But if you now Jesus didn't there wasn't risk of Jesus doing this, but if G if if we try to answer a fool or a self-righteous person according to their f folly, there is a real risk. What's the risk? we end up being like some. In fact, if you really think about it, that is probably, it is very easy to slip into self-righteousness. It's very easy to get on our high horse and to and to watch somebody else doing something that maybe we even say to them that we they're being self-righteous. Boy, that person's being legalistic. They're being self-righteous. And before we know it, we've just been self-righteous ourselves by saying that they're self-righteous. It is very, very it is a very dangerous sort of slippery slope to get into to to identify this and to try to and and it without actually without actually doing uh uh having ourselves become self-righteous. One of the things we have to be very careful about, and this is why Jesus says in the Sermon on the Mount, he says, make sure that you take the beam out of your own eye. Before you try to take the speck out of somebody else's. One of the one of the ways that we keep from self-righteousness ourselves is that we're s we're far more concerned about our own sin than somebody else's Now, it doesn't mean that we don't, as in the body of Christ, have love and concern for other people's sins, but we've got to examine ourselves first. Our primary concern needs to be about us. It is so easy for us to see other people's sins and to excuse ourselves. That's the flesh. The flesh will do that. The flesh sees what's wrong with everybody else and excuses self. But when the Spirit of God through the Word of God works in our lives, it's the exact opposite When the Spirit of God is working, we make excuses for others in a sense, and we see our own sin first. How do we keep from this sliding into self-righteousness? Be more concerned about your own sin. Make sure that you take the beam out of your own eye. before we attempt to take the speck out of somebody else's. Well, we then move to this next and very, very important passage of scripture that is quoted from Isaiah. And what we're going to see from this, picking up in verse 18, is that gentleness causes justice to win by carrying out God's mission. This is now going to summarize and comprise the mission of God. If you wanted a one, you know, if you wanted one Old Testament passage to say, well, what was Christ's mission here on earth? This might be this might be the best passage you could go to if you want just one passage. There's lots of others you'd go to for sure. Especially in Isaiah. But Matthew says, picking up at verse eighteen, Behold my and this is a quote, although he does make some adjustment He he borrows from a couple other places in Isaiah when he does it. Matthew 12, 18 says, Behold, my servant whom I have chosen, my beloved in whom my soul is well pleased. I will put my spirit upon him, and he will declare justice to the Gentiles. He will not quarrel nor cry, nor will any one hear his voice in the streets. A bruised reed he will not break, and smoking flax he will not quench till he sends forth justice to victory. And in his name, Gentiles will trust. We see first of all the father's role in this. It says, behold, my servant, he is now described as a servant. And by the way, I'll just say this. That was not what the disciples were expecting. It's not what Israel was expecting in a Messiah. They weren't expecting a servant. They were expecting someone to overturn the Roman Empire. The Father, we it's this this passage starts off by identifying the fact that the Father, we have, by the way, the role of the Father, the Holy Spirit, and Christ in this passage. And the Father's role is one of full and complete sanctioning. He has chosen, he has elected Jesus to do exactly what he is doing. And by inference, he has chosen the way in which Jesus is going to do it. Jesus came and said, I come to do the will of the Father who sent me And to finish his work. In Isaiah 42, verse 1, it says, Behold my servant who I uphold, my elect one in whom my soul delights. I have put my spirit on him, and he will bring forth justice to the Gentiles. In Isaiah 43. 10 it says, You are my witnesses, says the Lord, my servant. whom I have chosen, that you may know and believe me. In Isaiah 44, 1 it says, Yet hear me now, O Jacob, my servant, and Israel whom I have chosen. Now, then we see also that it's God is greatly pleased by Jesus. He's not only predetermined what Jesus is to do, but now he is also looking at the actions and the functions of Jesus and he is greatly pleased. We've already seen this in the back baptism of Jesus, Matthew 3. 17, and suddenly a voice came from heaven, this is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. We're going to see it also later on in the transfiguration in Matthew 17, 5, where it says, This is my beloved Son in whom I am well pleased. These are verifications of the of the of the fulfillment of this passage in Isaiah that prophesy that this person would come who is the Son of God, who is chosen by the Father in order to fulfill the work, the mission of, and the will of God. And it says in the passage that he will place his spirit on Christ. The work of the Spirit is involved in what is happening as well. And by the way, you see this in Scripture clearly in two places. You see this in creation. You have all three persons of the Trinity in creation working, and you see this certainly as well in redemption, all three per persons of the Trinity clearly working. He says, I will put my spirit upon him And it's interesting, we'll get to this later, but the next passage that we're coming to, which is going to be quite a passage and a bit controversial, it's it's talking about the blasphemy of the Holy Spirit. There's actually a connection there. God puts his spirit on Christ, and the religious leaders of the day, they blaspheme the Spirit whom has been placed And then he says he will declare justice. We have our word, justice to the Gentiles. Now the word Gentiles is a general word Meaning nations. I don't think Gentiles is a bad translation because obviously it's intended to not only mention and talk about the Jews, but it's expanding the kingdom of God to all people, to all ethnic groups. to see that clearly, for example, in Matthew 28, where it says, go into all the world and preach the gospel to every nation. That's a mark mark and then Matthew says make disciples of all all creatures. But in Isaiah 51, 4 it says, This, listen to me, my people, and give ear to me, O my nation, for law will proceed from me, and I will make my justice rest as the light of the peoples. Again, this idea of justice. Matthew 4, 14, 15 through 16, in the land of Zebulun, the land of Naphtali, by the way of the sea, beyond Jordan. Galilee of the Gentiles, the people who sat in darkness have seen a great light, and upon those who sat in the region and shadow of the death, light has dawned. Jesus has come, and he has come to spread light and justice. to the nations, to all ethnic groups. Why is justice emphasized here though? If you're if you're going to pick one word to describe the working of Christ, the working of God, or one concept, why would you choose this word repeated twice in this passage? I mean, why wouldn't you choose the word love? Why wouldn't you choose the word mercy? A lot of people, they love to talk about the love of God, and I do too. And the mercy of God. And certainly we all should love to talk about the love and the mercy of God. But folks, you can't really understand the love of God and the mercy of God if you do not understand the justice of God. How can you understand the mercy of God if you do not first understand that God's justice must be appeased? God can't look the other way at sin and at the fallenness of the world. He can't He can't just ignore it, that is against the very justice of God. And frankly, we wouldn't want another kind of God. When someone says, I can't believe that A loving, merciful God would do such a thing or allow such a thing, they are forgetting about the justice of God It says he will bring forth in Isaiah 42. The Isaiah passage says this: it'll bring forth justice for truth. Or according to the truth. And in Isaiah 42, 4 it says, he has established justice in the earth. Well, if you think about it, let's just think through a few facts that will help us understand why justice really does summarize well the working of God in the world. What happened in the fall When the fall, when when when the world fell, the world became what? Unjust. Right? Clearly unjust. And then the world is ultimately restored one day, the justice of God. Christ will come again in the second coming of Christ, and he will restore God's justice as king. But also God justifies those who come to Christ, right? Those will accept his work by faith. How does Christ do this? He justifies us by taking our punishment on himself So that we he could pay he paid the price for us and he could then make us just before God. He can justify us. He can declare us righteous. And those who will accept that by faith, rather than make themselves righteous by faith, Are truly just with God. The just shall live by faith. And then Jesus is conforming those who are justified into the likeness of Christ. So that they are citizens of the kingdom of God, the just kingdom of God, where we will rule and reign with Christ one day in justice. Yes, actually, justice. does summarize pretty well the work of God in the world. And so when Jesus came, he declares justice to the nations, and justice. It says, will win. So how does Jesus accomplish this? How does justice win in the world through how does this happen? Well, it says in verse 19, it's then the manner is amazing. Nobody thinks that of this way. I mean, when we think of somebody getting justice or somebody executing justice. We don't think this way. Notice what it says. He will not quarrel nor cry out, nor will anyone hear his voice in the streets. He's not going to make a big ruckus. He's not going to cause some sort of revolution to occur. He's not going to cry out and get everybody on his side No, that's not the way Jesus is going to justify. Now, there is going to be a day in the second coming of Christ when He will come and He will rule. But what Jesus does in his own, what Jesus does because of his gentleness and his mercy, that is consistent with his justice. We see here in verse 20 that according to Isaiah, the bruised reed he will not break. And the smoking flax he will not quench. Well, what is it talking there? The word bruised could be translated battered or crushed or smashed or broken. It's used several times in scripture. Um Revelation 27, 227 says this, they shall be dashed to pieces like a potter's vessel. broken in many, many pieces. That's what uh the idea that's what the word bruised or battered or crushed or smashed or broken mean. It carries the idea of something that cannot easily be put back together. Well what's a reed? Well a reed might be used to make a musical instrument like a flute or a measure a measuring rod, a pen, or many other things. But the reed was something that was extremely Extremely there they were everywhere. They were very plentiful and very cheap. And so the idea of what you know when a breed a reed broke, you did not try to repair it. Even if you were poor, you just threw it away and found another one But it says here that a reed, a broken reed, a bruised reed, he does not break. He doesn't discard it. What is it talking about here? It doesn't break it break it up and throw it away. What is Jesus, what is it saying here? And then look at this as well. Might as well look at the other one. It says this The smoking flax he will not quench. He's talking about flax that create that they make they made a wick that would light And if the the wick that came that was made from flax didn't light properly and it just smoked, what did they do? They would melt it down and throw out the wick and get another one. It didn't make any sense. to try to continue to use something that wasn't creating well wasn't producing light, it was just smoking instead. What is he talking about here What is Isaiah talking about? What is Matthew reiterating? Well, these two illustrations, they illustrate the idea that both of these things are, both of these things are useless. They are essentially worthless. And yet it says in Isaiah Uh it says uh well and here th both Isaiah and here it says that Jesus will not break them and will not throw them out. You know what it's talking about? The things, the people, talking about people here, the people that the people that the world sees as useless. Or the people that maybe view themselves as useless. Jesus doesn't throw out. And there is a sense in which, isn't it true, there's a sense in which because of sin and because of fall, we are yes, we're made in the image of God, but there is a sense in which without regeneration we are born. Useless for the eternal kingdom of God And there is a sense in which, folks, it would have made total sense as it said as in the hymn that we sung to rip out the page. To throw out the wick, to throw out the read to start over But we see the love and the mercy and the meekness and the gentleness of our Lord by choosing to not throw these out, but to restore us to usefulness by his own work of grace on the cross as he paid the punishment for our sin. So that the Gentiles, the nations, all of the different ethnic groups would trust in the name of Jesus. Well, there's a lot of things that we can learn from this passage. And I don't think I'll be exhausting them, but I just want to mention a few. Number one A balanced view of God will always include a healthy view of the justice of God. It is very easy for us to make God in our image, when God has really made us in his image. But if we will keep in mind the justice of God and really consider the justice of God and factor that in. When we think of the love of God, when you think of the justice of God, when we think of the holiness of God, when you think of the justice of God, when we think of the Mercy of God, we've got to realize it comes from mer It it's a result of the justice of God. We've really it will help us to have a truly balanced view of who God is. God is just Secondly, Christ's ministry of one Gentile is one of gentle, patient justification. And restoration. What would have happened? Let me ask you this question. What would have happened had Jesus not come in gentleness? What do you suppose would have happened? If Jesus the first time would have not come to heal and show compassion and to be gentle to those who saw their need, what would have happened? Well, what happens w what is a person that is needy? We we we we don't know the answer to this question, it's a hypothetical a little bit, but I would suspect that perhaps Of course it didn't happen, but perhaps that those person would never have would not have trusted. That's why the passage says they trusted in the name of Jesus. Because of the way that Jesus came, they trusted him. And there's a sense in which when there is a gentleness, when there is a compassion, when that engenders trust. We we've experienced that, isn't it true? I think probably the most trustworthy person on the planet is a mom. He's all she's also the most gentle person on the planet oftentimes. My kids do not come to me for gentleness. They sh I wish they you know, I mean that's uh that's to my uh to my um Uh it's I something I need to work on for sure. They go they go to my wife and then my wife sends them to me Anyway, she's listening right now. Thank you, hun. But you know what? There's there's just about no one more no one more trustworthy than a mom either. And so Jesus comes in such a way that he engenders trust from needy people And there is just it's just a wonderful thing that we understand about Christ. Number three, when the world says you're useless, Christ Christ says you're useful. Christ makes us useful. Number four Christ's work will either break us so that he can use us or harden us to a place where he executes his justice through punishment We need to view ourselves, even as Christians, we need to view ourselves as broken reeds. Richard Sibbs in uh uh wrote a book called the The Bruised Reed. And in this book he says this about the subject. He says that the bruising is required before conversion. That the Spirit may make way for himself into the heart by leveling all proud, high thoughts, that we may understand ourselves to be what indeed we are by nature. Then in page four of that book, he says, after conversion, we need bruising so that reeds may know themselves to be reeds and not oaks. Even reeds need bruising by reason of the remainder of pride in our nature, and to let us see that we live by mercy. So we are all broken reeds, and Christ, by his humble, loving gentleness, and in conjunction with his justice, because of what he did on the cross for us. Restores us to himself, makes us useful again, and yet we need to see ourselves continually as broken reeds. Why? Because do we not want to continue to see the just The gentleness of Christ in our lives? Number five, we should follow Christ's example of gentleness. Now there Christ Christ did uh he he was rather rather at least from our perspective, non not very gentle to one group of people, to the self-righteous. And so there there is a place for that But folks, Jesus in his initial approach to this world and his ministry to people. was gentle with them. I mean arguably even with the Pharisees, at first, you know, he he didn't come out and pronounce judgment on them right away. He's going to in the next passage. So our approach, our demeanor, our our initial approach in how we we serve people and work with people and minister to people and lead people should be gentleness. And I it does not come naturally to me. It is not in my flesh to be that way. But I, and I'm saying personally and for all of us, it is something that we must be aware of: that Jesus came and served this way, and we need to serve this way as well. With all that in mind, let's summarize this, and uh and then we'll be done. Number one, self-righteousness leads to misplaced priorities, disillusion, and self-righteousness. destruction. Misplaced priorities, disillusion, and ultimately self-destruction. More dangerous and more sneaky at the same time than self-righteousness We must be very careful about it. Number two, viewing ourselves as needy and broken will elicit the gentleness of Christ. Viewing ourselves as self-righteous will elicit the eventual judgment and discipline of Christ. We must continue to view ourselves as needy and broken. And the fact is, folks, the things that we go through in this life, the suffering that we face, the trials that we face Remind us of that. We are needy and broken people. We live by the grace of God. It is by His mercy that we live and move and have our being But we are our flesh is so that the the residual pride in our lives, the the root, our flesh is is so present That the sufferings and the difficulties and the trials God uses in our lives to again bring us to a place where we are broken before Him. So that he can be gentle with us, and we can know his love and his mercy and his grace. But if we view ourselves as righteous, if we see ourselves as self-sufficient, then we will elicit the the discipline, if we know Christ our Savior, the discipline. of Christ eventually. Number three, when ministering to others, we should target the needy and avoid fighting with the self-righteous. Target the needy and avoid fighting with the self-sufficient, the self-righteous. And maybe you're listening today, and it's possible that you have really had questions about The very nature of God. Maybe you've never really seen God as one who is just. And his justice Because he is a just God, he cannot overlook sin. He can't just look the other way. That is not what Jesus does when he saves somebody. Instead, what God looks to is the punishment that's been already paid by his son on the cross. And that righteousness is then applied to us when we will accept it by faith. So that we are justified not by what we do, but what Christ has already done. Can I ask you a question Is there a sense in which maybe you've prayed a prayer, maybe you've been to church many times, maybe you've been an overall good person relative to everybody else? But has there ever been a time in your life where you are actually, where you realize that Christ did for you what you could not do for yourself? Where Christ paid the punishment that you deserve, have you received Christ as your Lord and Savior? John says this, John 1. 12, but as many as received him, them gave you the power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. And if you have never truly received Christ as your Savior, let me encourage you to talk with someone who you see knows Christ. And we'll be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can yourself know that you have eternal life and that you are justified by Christ, by what he has done. on the cross for you. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you this morning and we praise you for who you are. We thank you for your truth. We thank Lord, we thank you for the gentleness of Christ. And we confess before you often, Lord, that we do not respond in gentleness. We don't minister to others and relate to others in the gentleness that you That Christ had when he was on earth. Lord, I pray that you'd help us to understand that one of the fruits of the Spirit is gentleness. And kindness and patience and love And then, Lord, if there is anyone here today that doesn't know you, truly know you, I pray today they would understand their sin. Their need of a savior, and the fact that Christ desires to justify them because he went to the cross to die in their place. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon