Let's start our worship service by uh looking at Psalm one nineteen, seventeen through twenty-four. Deal bountifully with your servant that I may live and keep your word. Open my eyes that I may see wondrous things from your law. I am a stranger in the earth. Do not hide your c commandments from me. My soul breaks with longing for your judgments at all times. You rebuke the proud, the cursed. who stray from your commandments, remove from me reproach and contempt, for I have kept your testimonies. Princes also sit and speak against me, but your servant meditates on your statutes. Your testimonies also are my delight and my counselors. Let's pray together. Father, we praise you and thank you for your word, your truth, your testimonies. We say with the psalmists that they are certainly our delight. We glean from your word who you are, your truth. And despite uh our world that is twisted and um and uh uh really unreliable when it comes to Helping us to understand who you are. Your word is entirely and completely reliable. And we pray, Lord, that you'd help us to trust in that. We confess before you that sometimes we are tempted. uh to uh to uh uh know you from uh from our circumstances or question you from the things that we're going through or from the from the world in which we live, when we look at the news, I pray, Lord, that we will be firmly rooted and planted deeply into your word and into Christ. And into the character of Christ and who he is. And Lord, as we worship you this morning, we pray that you'd help us to do so in a way that pleases you. And we pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen. You know, I don't think we realize how blessed, how really blessed we are this morning in this church. I am so grateful to see certain folks out And all the trials and stuff that we're going through. God is so faithful. And so if you would uh bow your heads with me this morning as we go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning with grateful and thankful hearts. And Father, it is our desire to praise you for Who you are and what you have done on our behalf. Father, you have been so gracious and so kind to us. And Father, the fact that Even though you are the creator and sustainer of all life and you are holy, holy, holy, all your ways and all your thoughts are so much higher than ours. Yet you reached down and you loved us. And Lord, I I just can't get it through my head sometimes, the great love that you have for us Especially when I go through troubles and strife. And I just want to thank you this morning for sending your only begotten Son to die on the cross to pay the penalty for our sin. And raising him up on the third day and seating him at your right hand, that we come this morning boldly before your throne with grateful and thankful hearts for your goodness and your kindness. Father, we have many things going on in this church, but we are grateful this morning that we can still come here freely and worship you. and praise you and call upon your name. And Lord, that we can hear your word proclaimed. Unstop our ears, Lord. Unstop our ears. Take the blinders off of our eyes this morning. Open our hearts to your word, Father. And I pray this morning for those who are not able to be here. I think in my dear friend and brother Enrique. and the situation he's going through at this moment and father others too who are not able to be here and those who are here and going through struggles. Father, you are so good to us and so faithful. And I would pray this morning that as we come together in your word I pray that Father you would help us to set aside all these cares and all these concerns for this one hour, to hear your word proclaimed. And may we find encouragement, may we find strength and comfort And Father, you are the only one who can give us that peace that passes all understanding. And so, Father, I am grateful and thankful this morning. morning for your word. And may all that we do and all that we say this morning bring honor and glory to your great name. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. We're going to be in Luke chapter twenty-four, looking at verses forty-four through forty-nine. Luke 24, verses 44 to 49. Then he said to them, These are the words which I spoke to you while I was still with you. That all things must be fulfilled, which were written in the law of Moses and the prophets and the Psalms concerning me And he opened their understanding that they might comprehend the scriptures. Then he said to them, Thus it is written, and thus it was necessary for the Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead the third day. And that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name to all nations, beginning at Jerusalem And you are witnesses of these things. Behold, I send the promise of my Father upon you. But tarry in the city of Jerusalem until you are endued with the power from on high. I was sitting and having a conversation with a friend and he back where where I work in the Middle East and he had He was a leader there in the local church. And as we were talking, he explained to me how he came to the main point of a passage. He as he would prepare to preach. He said he would pray. I thought, well this is sounding good. It's a good place to start. And unfortunately it it diverged from there. He prayed for an idea. He called it a key. Praying for a key. Once he would get that key, he would then open his Bible and look for the key that had been given to him in some way. Thinking many times we may think, well that sounds a little bit foreign to how we would do it. But there are many ways that people come to finding the key. To understand Scripture. I would suggest today that we are going to find the key to understanding Scripture. Jesus gives it to us here in Luke. But let's do follow his advice in one way. Let's pray for the Spirit to show us His truth. Dear Heavenly Father, we praise you for who you are. We praise you that you are not a god of riddles and confusion. You are a God of clarity and a God of truth. And so we come to you recognizing that so often our minds are clouded. And so often our attempts to understand your word is blocked. And so we ask that you would clear away. Clear away the distractions in our minds. And I ask that you would use my mouth and my mind even now. To communicate the truth of your word. Bless this time, bless the preaching of your word. Cause us to know you more. Grow us in your likeness. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. The main idea for today is this. Because Jesus fulfills the promises, he has commissioned his people to be witnesses of himself through his word by the Spirit. to all nations. And we'll be taking this apart into two sections. So the first section, Jesus fulfills the promises through his birth, life, death, resurrection. And Ascension As we Consider this. We're going to first walk through the passage in general. We're going to see the flow of the passage, and then we'll dig into the specific verses of 44 to 49. As we come to Luke 24, we realize that what happened in Luke 23 is very important to what happens in Luke 24. In Luke 23, this is the narrative of the death of Jesus Christ. At the end of 23 we see that The body of Jesus is taken from the cross because Jesus had died. He was buried in a tomb, and Joseph Arimathea takes him to a tomb where no one else had been laid. And there the women are preparing the ointment and the spices for the burial. Now because it was the Sabbath, the preparation for the Sabbath, they couldn't do that immediately like was the normal custom. So they waited for the Sabbath to be finished. And then they come there on the first day of the week, there in Luke 24, it begins So they come, they bring the spices, but what they came to see was very different from their expectation. And verse 2, but they found the stone rolled away from the tomb. Then they went in and did not find the body of the Lord Jesus. And it happened, as they were greatly perplexed about this, and behold, two men stood by them in shining garments Then as they were afraid and bowed their faces to the earth, they said to them, Why do you seek the living among the dead? He is not here, but he is risen Remember how he spoke to you when he was still in Galilee, saying, The Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men and be crucified, and the third day rise again. I would wager this is not exactly how they expected their Sunday morning to commence. They expected to see a tomb that was closed They expected to see the body of Jesus. What they found was an open tomb and no body. I'm sure they did not expect to see two men in shining garments, reminding them of what Jesus had told them. At least three times throughout his ministry, that he was gonna die and rise again on the third day. So what was their response to such a m such a message? Verse eight. And they remembered his words. Then they returned from the tomb and told all these things to the eleven and to all the rest. They remembered. They had faith. They believed the word of the message of the angel because that message brought them to the words of Jesus. Then they became witnesses, immediate witnesses of the message they had received, and they went to the rest the eleven and the rest of the disciples. But verse eleven tells us that the message from the women did not have the same effect as they had hoped. And their words seemed to them like idle tales, and they did not believe them. But Peter arose and ran to the tomb, and stooping down, he saw the women cloths lying by themselves. And he departed, marveling himself at what had happened. The disciples did not believe their poor other women. At least Peter goes to investigate. He finds it exactly as they said, and he ends confused, wondering, what is this? How can this be? And as this is happening, we see there in verse 13. Now behold, two of them were traveling that same day to a village called Emmaus, which was seven miles from Jerusalem. And they talked together of all these things which had happened. So it was while they conversed and reasoned that Jesus himself drew near and went with them. But their eyes were estrained, so that they did not know him. And he said to them, What kind of conversation is this that you have with one another as you walk and are sad? Then the one whose name was Cleopathus answered and said to him, Are you the only stranger in Jerusalem? And have you not known the things which happened there in these days? And he said to them, What things? So they said to him, The things concerning Jesus of Nazareth, who was a prophet mighty indeed and word before God and all the people. Now the chief priests and our rulers delivered him to be condemned to death and crucified him. But we were hoping that he that it was he who was going to redeem Israel. Indeed, besides all this, today is the third day since these things happened Yes, and certain women of our company, who arrived at the tomb early, astonished us. When they did not find his body, they came saying that they had also seen a vision of angels who said he was alive. And certain of those who were with us went to the tomb and found it just as the women had said, but him they did not see. So these two on their way, leaving Jerusalem They recount the story of the crucifixion, the death of Christ, and the empty tomb. They are just as confused as the eleven disciples, wondering what on earth has just happened? How is the tomb empty? Notice how they phrase Jesus. They phrase Jesus as Jesus of Nazareth, as a prophet, mighty indeed and word. None of these things are wrong, but they just don't go far enough, do they? I work in a culture that is very happy to call Jesus a prophet, but that's as far as they're happy to go You see, Jesus is more than a prophet. The problem in the beginning with these men is that they don't have an accurate understanding of who Jesus is. They don't have an accurate understanding of who the Christ was to be. They had access to the Old Testament scriptures, but they did not have an understanding of the Old Testament scriptures. For if they did, they would have recognized immediately that the reason the tomb was empty was that as promised, he would rise from the dead. This is stated clearly in the Old Testament scriptures. And that is exactly what Jesus says, does he not in verse twenty-five? Then he said to them, O foolish ones, and slow of heart to believe, and all the prophets have spoken, ought not the Christ to have suffered these things and enter into his glory? And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. How does Jesus explain who he is? He goes back to the Old Testament. The entirety of the Old Testament says, this has been spoken of me long before. The Old Testament, all the scriptures, beginning and the end, is about Christ. The story continues after that explanation in verse 28. Then they drew near to the village where they were going, and he indicated that he would have gone farther. But they constrained him, saying, Abide with us, for it is toward evening, and the day is far spent. And he went in to stay with them. Now it came to pass, as he sat at the table with them, that he took bread, blessed, and broke it, and gave it to them Then their eyes were opened, and they knew him, and he vanished from their sight. And they said to one another, Did not our hearts burn within us while he talked with us on the road, and while he opened the scriptures to us. So they rose up that very hour and returned to Jerusalem And found the eleven and those who were with them gathered together, saying, The Lord is risen indeed as appeared to Simon. And they told about the things that had happened on the road and how he was known to them in the breaking of their bread. Now the eleven disciples have another witness. So they had the report of the women. They had the report of these two Jesus has been seen now on multiple occasions to have risen from the dead. But sadly, what do we see with the disciples? They still don't believe any of these reports. In verse thirty six, now as they said these things Jesus himself stood in the midst of them, and he said to them, Peace to you. But they were terrified and frightened, and supposed they had seen the spirit. And he said to them, Why are you troubled? And why do doubts arise in your hearts? Behold my hands and my feet, that it is I myself. Handle me and see, for a spirit does not have flesh and bones, as you see I have. When he had said this he showed them his hands and his feet, but they still did not believe for joy, and marveled. He said to them, Have you any food here? So they gave him a piece of broiled fish and some honeycomb, and he took and ate it in their presence Jesus is standing there in their presence and they're still struggling to believe. They're still doubting, even as he shows them the marks in his hands. Finally, he eats a broiled fish to show he has bodily come back from the dead. He can now consume food as a normal human being. And notice how Jesus does the exact same thing with these eleven as he did with the two on the road to Emmaus. To explain the event of his resurrection, he goes back to the Old Testament. Verse 44. Then he said to them, These are the words which I spoke to you, I was still with you. And all things must be fulfilled, which were written in the law of Moses, in the prophets, and the Psalms concerning me. And he opened their understanding that they might comprehend the script. Scriptures. And he said to them, Thus it is written, and thus it was necessary for the Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead the third day. And that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name To all nations, beginning at Jerusalem. And you are witnesses of these things. Behold, I send the promise of my Father upon you, but tarry in the city of Jerusalem until you are endued with power from on high Jesus makes it very clear throughout this narrative. He says it twice that he came to fulfill the promises. And so let's look at how did Jesus fulfill the promises. And the law of Moses, the prophets, and the Psalms. Well look at this in terms of his birth, life, death, resurrection, and ascension. This is the good news. This is the gospel of Jesus Christ. Who Jesus is? And what Jesus has done. We notice right away that Jesus identifies himself as the Christ. Right in verse 46? Thus it was written, and thus it was necessary for the Christ to suffer. Back in verse 25, ought not the Christ to have suffered? Jesus refers to himself as the Christ. Now why is that significant? It's significant because that is a concept that is rooted in the Old Testament. Testament. What does the word Christ mean? It means you all know the anointed one. This is a very common practice, right? In the Old Testament, you would anoint a prophet, priest, and a king. This idea of the Christ is the promised offspring of the woman who was appointed to defeat sin and death. This goes back to Genesis 3. 15. In Genesis 3. 15, I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your seed and her seed. He shall bruise your head and you shall bruise his heel. This is what they call the proto-evangelium. The first mention of the gospel is in Genesis 3. 15. Immediately after Adam and Eve sinned and plunge mankind under the tyranny of sin and death. Even as God is delivering the judgments for the sin against God, He delivers a promise. That there will be a coming anointed Redeemer who will come from the woman to defeat sin and death. There's another another title that helps us understand who Jesus is. The title Son of Man. This is mentioned by the angels in verse 7. The Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men and be crucified. And the third day rise again. The Son of Man also goes back to the Old Testament and goes back to the Psalms. There in Psalm 8 and verses 4 to 6, we see What is man that you are mindful of him, and the son of man that you visit him? For you have made him a little lower than the angels, and you have crowned him with glory and honor, you have made him to have dominion over the works of your hands, you have put all things under his feet The Son of Man figure, who's crowned, that's kingly, right? You crown a king with glory and honor. He's been given dominion over the works of his hands. All things are under his feet This son of man is a little lower than the angels. In ver in Psalm eight it seems like he's human. There's a humanity to him in Psalm 8. It reminds us, right, of the creational identification of mankind, right? They're called to have dominion over this earth. There's a hearkening to this human ruler. The Son of Man, though is not merely a human. We know this from Daniel 7. In Daniel 7, we're given a vision of the Son of Man. I was watching in the night visions, and behold, one like the Son of Man, coming with the clouds of heaven. He came to the ancient days, and they brought him near before him. Continues on in verse 14. Then to him who has given dominion and glory and a kingdom, that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him His dominion is an everlasting dominion which shall not pass away, and his kingdom of the one which shall not be destroyed. Again, just like Psalm 8, we have dominion language going on here But here it's in connection with this figure of the Ancient of Days. This is the father of the Ancient of Days and this Like a son of man is the son. Here we have this interaction between the father and the son, where the father is giving the kingdom to his son. This is the divine aspect of Son of Man. So in this concept of Son of Man, we have a human figure, we have a divine figure. These two themes come together in 2 Samuel 7. In 2 Samuel 7, 12-14, we're told of this king. When your days are fulfilled and you rest with your fathers, I will set up your seed after you, who will come from your body, and I will establish his kingdom. He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. I will be his father, he shall be my name This is God talking to David, delivering the Davidic covenant, promising David that there will be a king that will come from him who will rule eternally. Notice also here we have a human and a divine aspect. This king will be human, will he not? He will come from your body. This is he will be from the lineage of Judah. He will come from the house of David. This is a human, right? But is it only a human? No, not only a human I will be his father, he shall be my son. This is God talking. God says, I will be his father, and he will be my son. So this Thedic king will both be human and he will both be the son of God. How is this possible? Well, if you look in Luke 1, 31 to 33, when the angel comes to Mary to foretell of who this son will be, how does the angel describe this? Son that will come from Mary. And behold, you will conceive in your room and bring forth a son and shall call his name Jesus. He will be great and will be called the Son of the Highest. And the Lord God will give him the throne of his father David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there will be no end. Do you see this son of man language is again this ruling king figure? Who again is human, right? He comes from Mary, the seed of the woman, through Mary. And yet he's also the son of the highest. He's also the son of God. And then we see in John 1. 14 we have the classic definition of who Christ is, and the word became Christ. flesh and dwelt among us and we beheld his glory, the glories of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth You see, when Jesus says he's the Son of Man, he has a rich theological body of content to draw from in the Old Testament. For what he is saying by saying he is the Son of Man, that He is the greater King, who would rescue sinners from the wrath of God and represent them to God. He is saying I am that redeemer promised all the way back to Adam and Eve, foretold to be from Mary. Promise throughout the prophets and the Psalms, I am the Son of God. Who has become flesh? This is the message that Jesus was giving. And his birth identifies him as the Christ. Who has been foretold and promised. Not just in his birth, though, in his life. The narrative continues. Throughout his life, Jesus is here for a purpose. And you ask, what is the purpose for Jesus' life? Why does he come? Become flesh. Why does the Son of God become flesh? Well, it's very clear here in Luke 24. Twice he says it, right? It's necessary for the Christ to suffer. He came to die. The Christ would suffer the wrath of God to pay the sin debt by bearing the sins of all nations on himself. This again has a rich history in the Old Testament, does it not? Going back to Genesis 3. 21. After having already given the promise of a coming Redeemer who would defeat sin and death in Genesis 3. 21, we find how will this happen? This is the first indication of the how this would occur. Also, for Adam and his wife, the Lord God may change their skin and clothed them. Now, on the surface, there's some things that need to be noted. Adam and Eve had already tried to clothe themselves, had they not? They had tried to put fig leaves on themselves. So the question is, were the fig leaves just not hardy enough? Did God need to give them a new clothing because in a harsh world that sin has come with thorns and thistles, they need just better clothes. I would suggest I don't think that was the main reason. Now it's true. Animal skins are probably much more protective than pig leaves. I've never tried this for the record. So can't say with ultimate certainty. But what was the meaning? Remember how in Genesis 2, Adam and Eve were naked, but were not ashamed. Right? So why now after sin do they need clothing? They need clothing because now they experience shame. You see, they need something to cover their shame. Why do they have shame? Because they were guilty. They disobeyed the law of God So, what is this illustrating? This is illustrating their sins need to be covered. And how are their sins covered? Well, first, God kills an animal. This is the first sacrifice in the Bible. God kills an animal and spills the blood. Because without the shedding of blood there's no remission for sins. This started all the way back in Genesis 3. And he illustrates that we must have a clothing. Well, what is the clothing? Well, here it's skins, but it's pointing to a different type of clothing. We need to be clothed in the righteousness of Christ. Now obviously in Genesis 3. 21, not all of that is being stated. It's being suggested. As we walk through Scripture, we're going to see these truths are going to become clearer and clearer and clearer. For instance, we come to Genesis twenty-two, right? There in Genesis twenty-two, God has told Abraham to sacrifice Isaac. Well, Abraham believes God and goes to do what God has called him to do. If you remember in Genesis 22 Isaac is confused and Isaac is asking Abraham, so we we got all the stuff. We got the sticks and we got the fire and uh but where's the lamb for the offering? Abraham told told his son, God will provide a land. And then they continue on. Abraham takes Isaac, binds him, places Isaac on the altar. And Abraham is going to go through with it. We know from Hebrews that Abraham believed that God was going to rise Isaac from the dead. But the angel stops him and says, You have shown yourself to be true. And then Genesis twenty-two, thirteen to fourteen. Then Abraham lifted his eyes and looked, and there behind him was a ram caught in a thicket by his thorn. Horns. So Abraham went and took the ram and offered it up for a burnt offering instead of his son, and Abraham called the name of the place, the Lord will provide. Notice that as far as Abraham is concerned, the ram caught in a thicket is already The sacrifice instead of his son. And yet Abraham still talks about a future provision. He's already had the immediate provision, the ram instead of his son. And yet Abraham understands that this idea of sacrifice is pointing to a greater event. There will be a greater provision beyond merely the animals and the skins. And the blood being shed. There's something greater that's being pointed to here. And we see this most clearly in Isaiah 52, do we not? One of the most quoted passages to explain the death of Christ is Isaiah 52. In Isaiah 52 to Isaiah 53, we have the prophecy of the servant, the suffering servant. There we see specific language that Christ would suffer the wrath of God. We see the concept of justification clearly spelled out here in Isaiah 53. Some say Paul made it up. Well, if you say Paul made it up, you guys say Isaiah made it up too. Because Paul got it from Isaiah. Isaiah 53, 10 to 11. Yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him. Where have we seen bruising before? Do we not see that in Genesis 3:15? He has put into grief when you make his soul an offering for sin. He shall see his seed, he shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. He shall see the labor of his soul and be satisfied. By his knowledge, my righteous servant shall justify many, for he shall bear their iniquities. You see, in Luke 24, we saw a narrative of a lot of people confused about why Jesus died and how the tomb was empty. Isaiah 53 was a passage they had at their disposal that explains both things that had happened. You see, Christ not only needed to pay the sin debt by bearing our sins on himself, but he also needed to be without sin in order to earn an acceptable human righteousness that could be credited to humans. There are two parts to Jesus' death that are very important for our salvation. The first is he has to remove sin, right? We see that he shall bear their iniquities He has to remove the sin that brings us and causes us to be unjust and sinners before a righteous God. But to have a relationship with God requires not only the removal of sin, but it requires us to actually, in some way, be righteous. That was the whole point of the sacrificial system, was it not? You think of all the temple imagery, the whole reason for all the sacrifices and all the calmness rituals is because The holy God cannot have a relationship with an unholy people. So throughout The entirety of the Bible, the only way a sinful human being can have a relationship with God is through the sacrifice. Hence there were sacrifices ever since Genesis 4. Right away, immediately after. Adam and Eve are expelled from the garden. We have a the Cain and Abel sacrifice. Immediately it was determined one sacrifice is good and one is bad. The bad one was one that did not include the spilling of blood. And so throughout Genesis you find people offering Noah, for example, right? Noah offers a sacrifice. Abraham in Genesis 12, he's walking through the promised land. What is he doing? He's building altars and making sacrifices Exodus 12, the Passover sacrifice, the redemption of Israel from Egypt. There's got to be a sacrifice for that redemption to occur. Leviticus 16, the whole temple and the priesthood and the sacrifices. So throughout the Old Testament, you see this building theme that there must, always must be a sacrifice. In order for a sinful man to have a relationship with the Holy God. We also find that there must be an accounting of righteousness as well. Remember what Jesus Said about Abraham and in Genesis fifteen fifteen and six And Abraham believed. And it was accounted to him as righteousness. But where does that righteousness come from? Where is Abraham receiving this righteousness? It's not Abraham's righteousness, right? Because we know Abraham was called from a house of idol worshippers This righteousness can only be the righteousness of somebody else that's been transferred to Abraham. Abraham is looking forward to Jesus. We're looking back to Jesus, but the righteousness is the exact same no matter which direction you're looking at it. See, that's why Jesus came and lived for 33 years. He didn't just come as a 33-year-old and die. He needed to earn a human righteousness. We couldn't earn it. None of us can earn it. The righteousness that God demands is not a righteousness on a scale. That's what we would like, right? We would we would like a scale and okay if we just do a little bit more than bad we're good Where I work, that's exactly how they understand the justice system with God. They understand it to be a scale. And as long as we do more good than we did bad Maybe God will look past all our bad things and accept us for the good that we did. It doesn't work that way. Remember what Jesus said in Matthew 5, 17 to 18? Remember how he said that he came, do you not think I came to destroy the law of the prophets? I did not come to destroy, but to fulfill. For assuredly I say it to you, till heaven and earth pass away. One John of one said it will by no means pass from the law, till all is fulfilled. Jesus came to fulfil the prophecy. He said that twice in Luke twenty four, he also said it in Matthew five But why? Why does Jesus come to fulfill the law? Well, he's the Son of God. He's already perfect. He already has righteousness. Why does he need a second righteousness? Because he needs a human righteousness. Before he lived here 33 years, he did not have a human righteousness. He always had a divine righteousness because he's always been the Son of God. But until he became flesh Right? That was a new thing. That hadn't happened before. God had never become flesh before Jesus. And so Jesus earns this human righteousness that we can never earn. Notice the human righteousness, therefore you shall be perfect, just as Father in heaven is perfect. It must be a perfect righteousness like God. Jesus as the Son of God is the only one capable of earning such a righteousness. And so he did. Isaiah 53. 9 talks about Christ as a slaughtered servant without any deceit. He is the perfect slaughtered lamb. This is all very important to salvation. As we noted in Luke twenty-four. In verse 47, repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name. Well, how do we have remission of sins? How do we have forgiveness of sins? Forgiveness necessitates the payment of the sin debt through sacrifice and the imputation of righteousness. The only way we can be forgiven for our sins, our sins to be removed, is through the death of Christ. Christ, that removal of our guilt, because he bore our sins, and the application of Christ's righteousness that he earned on this earth. Through repentance and belief in Jesus the sacrifice, we can be forgiven. This is exactly what Paul says. When Paul explains the gospel in Romans 3, 24 to 25, he's basically explaining Isaiah 53. Paul talks of being justified through redemption. Well, we just read the word justified in Isaiah 53, did we not? Justified, declared righteous. How we are declared righteous through redemption. We have to have this sacrifice, this blood sacrifice that that bears our sin. That's exactly what's talked about in Isaiah 53. So we're we're declared righteous through this redemption, this redemptive sacrifice that takes our guilt away. And this redemptive sacrifice is a propitiation, right? What does that mean? Well satisfaction of the wrath of God against sinners. Remember Isaiah 53. God crushes his son. The wrath of God is poured out on his son. Why? Because his son is taking and bearing the force of the of God's anger against sinners. So when Paul describes the gospel, he does exactly what Jesus does. He goes back to the Old Testament and said and explains the Old Testament. And this is exactly what we should do. Not only did Jesus was Jesus born as the Christ Live the perfect life, die the death that we deserve. But as we see in Luke 24, he rises again on the third day. He rose again to conquer death. What's interesting here in Luke 24 is that it specifically mentions That it is written, speaking of the Old Testament, for the Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead the third day. The third day. You might ask where in or where in the Old Testament does it say that that Christ would rise again on the third day? You're hard pressed to find that Any clearly stated. But there are patterns of third day redemption all throughout the Old Testament. There's a pattern of deliverance on the third day, and we'll just look at a couple. In Genesis 22, 4, we find, then on the third day Abraham lifted his eyes and saw the place afar off. Like that's a bit cryptic. But remember this is as Abraham is going to offer Isaac on that altar. What place is Abraham looking at, right? What's the mountains of Moriah is the place? What would happen Much later on the mountains of Moriah. Well, that's the general area that Jesus was crucified. The place where, remember, on this mount it will be, it shall be provided. Abraham said later in that same chapter. Abraham is saying that on the third day, well, Moses is saying, on the third day Abraham saw the place afar off. He saw the place of provision where the greater sacrifice will occur. This is the place of deliverance. And then we see in Hosea six two, another uh deliverance stated on a third day. Day. After two days, he will revive us. On the third day, he will raise us up that we may live in his sight. This is a very clear resurrection on the third day. Now again, it's talking about believers being resurrected. But the only reason why we can be resurrected is that Christ rose again on the third day, right? Romans 6. We are united to his resurrection. So the only way we can be raised up is if we're united to Jesus who rose again on the third day. This is a third-day resurrection as prophesied in the Old Testament. And after Jesus rose again, he ascended into heaven and sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. Hebrews 1 3 Who being the brightness of His glory and the express image of His person, and upholding all things by the word of His power, when He had by Himself cursed our sins, sat down at the right hand of the Majesty On high. Here we have the victorious risen Christ who sits down at the throne of God. This is all in fulfillment of scriptures. Think of Psalm 2, right? Psalm 2, this father and son dialogue is going on. In Psalm two, we have this image of the of the risen Christ. I will declare the decree. The Lord has said to me, You are my son, say I have begotten you. Ask of me, and I will give you the nations for your inheritance, and the ends of the earth for your possession. This is the Lord speaking. The birth, life, death, resurrection, and ascension of Jesus Christ is prophesied throughout the Old Testament, and it is the texts of the Old Testament that Jesus proves Who he is as the Christ, the Son of Man. And because Jesus fulfills the promises, he has commissioned his people to be witnesses of himself through his word by the Spirit to all nations. So now we'll look at the second part, which is a bit shorter. Jesus commissioned his people to be witnesses of himself through his word by the Spirit to all nations. So we see after explaining his death and his resurrection in the entirety of the gospel that is rooted in the law of Moses and the prophets and the Psalms Christ then continues, and what does he say? You are witnesses of these things. We are witnesses of Christ's gospel that has been clearly expounded in the Old Testament. That Jesus, fully God and fully man, died in our place to pay our sin debt, credited us with his human righteousness, and rose again as the exalted Son of Man to represent us to the Father. We are witnesses of the birth, life, death, resurrection, and ascension of Jesus Christ. There is no other message that we have, right? Paul summarizes as, I preach Christ crucified. That's our message. There's no other message that we can have that can be accurate and true to the Word of God that's not rooted in that central message of the cross. That colors everything that we know and we teach. Notice that we are witnesses to Christ's gospel through His Word. Jesus gives us the example, right? Jesus gives us the example. When he preaches the gospel, Jesus preaches the gospel from the Word of God. Jesus is the Word of God. Jesus could have just said it, right? He has all authority. Jesus' own words himself would have established authority for anything he said. And yet what does Jesus do? Jesus points to what was written. He points to what had been written down. Why? Because the whole of the Bible is the words of Jesus. We're accustomed to seeing the words of Jesus in red, and we're only looking at what Matthew through John The entirety of the Old Testament and the New Testament are the words of Jesus. Every single word in here is the word of Jesus to us, written down by the Holy, written by human writers, inspired by the Holy Spirit, but they're all the words of Jesus. They all point to who Jesus is and what Jesus has done. Think of Romans ten, fourteen to seventeen. How then shall they call on him in whom they have not believed? And how shall they believe in him in whom they have not heard? And how shall they hear without a preacher? And how shall they preach unless they are sent? As it is written, how beautiful are the feet of those who preach the gospel of peace who bring glad tidings of good things. So then faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. God. My friends, if we're not preaching the message of Jesus Christ through the whole entire Bible, Old and New Testament, if that's not our message, then we have the wrong message. I say this with great sadness because in the field of work that I am engaged in, there are many people who think that they have a new strategy. They have a better strategy I think that if we if we alter the wording of the gospel to a way that will be better understood by the culture we're speaking to, that will bring about a greater response to Christ That is deadly wrong. The only way we can bring about any response to Christ is by preaching the word of Christ. Preaching his message as he delivered it to us. We are witnesses. Witnesses don't make up the story. And if they do, they're false witnesses The only thing a witness does is a witness communicates what he has seen and heard. That's our job We've been passed by the King of Kings and Lord of Lords to deliver the glorious message of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And were cast to do this through his word by the power of the Spirit. That's why he told them to wait, to wait in Jerusalem for the power on high. What's the power? From on high? Well, in Acts 2, it's the pouring out of the Holy Spirit. See, friends, we can't do this on our own. We have no power within ourselves to go out and be witnesses of Christ. We not only need the message, and that's the Word of God, the gospel, from His Word, but we also need the power of the Holy Spirit. Because so often are we not like the many examples we just saw? People who had the Word of God All the disciples, they had heard the word of God before, and yet they're slow of heart to believe. The two on the road to Emmaus, they had heard the Old Testament before It's not that they didn't hadn't heard the word of God. They had all heard the word of God. But they needed the enlightening of the Holy Spirit to understand the Word of God, did they not? And so what does Jesus do? He opens their eyes, the two on the road to Emmaus. They don't understand until it's revealed to them by Christ. And verse 45, and he opened their understanding that they might comprehend the scriptures. See, too often we come to the Word of God, and we're not asking the Holy Spirit to show us, but it's saying We can't imagine that we're somehow just smarter than the disciples, smarter than the two on the road to a man. They needed the Spirit of God to give them understanding. How much more do we? We need the Holy Spirit to guide us into truth, right? Isn't that what Jesus said the Holy Spirit would do in John fourteen through three 16. He said the Spirit would guide us into all truth. The Spirit is our guide, and the Word is our content. We want to be powerful witnesses, then we need to be praying for the Spirit to give us understanding, to empower us, to strengthen our hands For we have been called to be witnesses to all nations. All nations So wherever you are, whether you travel to a distant country or whether you travel to your next door neighbor, we're all witnesses of the risen Christ. We all have the same task, we all have the same message, and we all go to lost people. Who are dying under the wrath of God because they're sinners. And my friend, if you were sitting here today and you've never You've never deeply thought about Christ. You never thought about your sin. You're coasting through life. Maybe. Maybe you're struggling through life. But if you have never sincerely sat down and thought about who you are as a sinner, who God is as the righteous king. If you're thinking that somehow you're just going to make it by and somehow God's just going to understand your situation and is going to accept you for who you are. You'll be gravely mistaken in the judgment seat of Christ. There's only one way to be accepted by God, and that is to be clothed in the righteousness of Jesus Christ. The only way Is by repentance and belief in Jesus Christ as the Son of God, and belief in his death and resurrection. In your place. We are witnesses to all nations. How are we doing? What kind of witnesses are we? What kind of witnesses are you? Here in Luke twenty-four we have several examples of witnesses, do we not? We have we we first come across the women. They remember and they believe and they they are witnesses of the resurrection immediately as they go to tell the disciples The disciples are slow of heart to believe. Well the two on the road to Emmaus anyway, right? That's what Jesus tells them. You're slow of heart to believe. They have some understanding, but not an accurate understanding of who Christ is and what Christ is going to do. But when they see Jesus, right? When they see Jesus. And he's revealed to them in the breaking of the bread. And they've heard the explanation from Jesus' own mouth. They believe. And they become witnesses, right? And they go back to the eleven disciples. How about the eleven disciples? They've met her two witnesses and they're still struggling to believe. What does Jesus do? Jesus comes to them, stands in their midst. And what happens? They eventually believe. And what do they become? They become his witnesses. So you see the pattern here? The pattern is Jesus communicating the Word of God and sending those who believe to be His witnesses. Let's be faithful witnesses. Let's be like the women who believed their port and went. Let's be like the two in the road to Emmaus. They got some things wrong. Don't we sometimes get some things wrong? And yet, when they understood, they obeyed. Let's be like the eleven disciples. They were confused. They were afraid. Are we sometimes confused and afraid of things? Do we sometimes lose perspective in our fear of what's going on around us? They were afraid of the Jewish religious leaders. They were afraid of being thrown into prison. They were probably afraid of dying. These are fears that we're all well aware of. They're very human fears. Let's be like the disciples. That though we have fears when we see Jesus, we believe. And we become his witnesses. There's one thing we can understand from today. Jesus is the beginning and end of Scripture. Let's seek Him more deeply in all the pages of Scripture. And let's be faithful witnesses of him, taking the word of Christ to all nations, that all might hear and live. Dear Heavenly Father, we praise you for who you are. We praise you, Father, that you don't work with perfect people. You work with people who are afraid. You work with people who are struggling. You work with sinners. We ask, Father, strengthen us. Show us more of yourself in your word. Drive us to read and to seek and to study Drive us to the Sun. Holy Spirit, open our eyes to understand. Grow us. And take us to the nations. Give us boldness to be witnesses to our neighbor next door, to the random person we meet in the marketplace. Cause us to be bold witnesses of you everywhere you take us. For it's all about you, Christ. May your fame and your name be spread across this globe, and may your glory fill this earth as waters cover the sea. For the praise and glory of your great name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for Streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.