I'll see if I can sync this. If not, I can just work from there probably. I'm sorry, I'll just work from here. I want to begin by uh defining what textual criticism is. Okay, it's kind of a strange word. You don't may not know what this exactly means, strange strange phrase. The prack it is the pra is it blinking up in It is the practice of comparing various copies of works of work in order to determine as best as possible the exact wording of an original text. that is either undiscovered or no longer exists. Alright, so we know that the original autographs of Scripture, they no longer exist, right? We don't have the what Paul penned down. We don't have what Peter penned down or John or or these or apostles or even the prophets of the Old Testament. We don't have what they pen down. And so some people get a little uh concerned about this whole concept of textual criticism. There is something called higher textual criticism we won't even discuss tonight, but that's not a good idea. That's wrong. Higher textual criticism actually questions the authority of the text itself, of scripture itself. And that's not what we're doing. What we're doing is we're realizing that there's all kinds of, there's over 5,000 plus manuscripts out there And within those 5,000 manuscripts you have differences. Of course you have differences. You have different human beings writing these things down. Not many of them were not scribes. They were not professional in doing it. They just wanted a copy of their of God's word. And so the job of the textual of person who is trying to compile a a uh a translation, a compile and then translate, is to the best they can determine what was the original what was the best reading for what was the original text. And as Joel explained very well on Wednesday night The writers of the King James Version, the the original, not the writers, but the the original translators of the King James Version, the fifty-two men that can't translate The King James Version, they realized and they put down in the preface to the King James Version that they understood that there are variant readings, that there are various manuscripts. And that to point out when there's ambiguity is not is not questioning the authority of the text, but it's really just being honest about the text. And um if you have any questions, uh he the in other words, the the the the King James translators were not King James only people. That's really the summary of what Joel was saying on on Wednesday. He said a lot more than that, but but really the summary of what he was saying was they they also understood that there would very well necessarily be revisions and and um and uh need for understandable translations in the future. In fact the very reason that they, at least in their desire um to translate the the King James was to put it in the language of the common man. In fact, you have gods doing this throughout history. You have in the first century with Koine Greek, which was just common Greek It was not the classical Greek, the more highly technical Greek, of the previous time period. You have very common Greek that is the trade language of the day that God chooses to have the New Testament written in. Why? Because it could be very common. It was the language of the common man. And so the King James was the same thing. Back then in 1611, it was the language of the common man The question that is sort of on the table now is is it still the language of the common man? And most of us would say, I'm not sure that it really is Most of us would at least find a lot of help in going to a like the New King James or something. And so what we also discussed was the fact that What Joel was saying, and I agree with him on this, that it is not a matter of the King James being inaccurate or accurate, and the New King James, for example, being inaccurate or accurate, or some of these other good translations, the New America Standard, for example. being good, inaccurate, or accurate. They are all accurate, but they have strengths and weaknesses. And so that's what we're going to look at tonight. We're going to look at just in basic form the strengths and weaknesses. And so So we're going to do it with two categories essentially. We're going to look at what this whole idea of textual criticism very briefly, and then we're also going to look at the right method of translation There are essentially three families of Greek texts in the New Testament, the manuscript. You've got the Alexandrian text. The Alexandrian text was the early it was the earliest, but it was discovered later. We have some that go all the way back to the second century, at least fragments that go all the way back to the second century They are in the Alexandrian family of texts. They're considered to be very accurate and very literal in their understanding in their approach. And their readings are usually shorter. So you have so just kind of keep those things in mind. The next is the Western texts The Western texts are contemporary with the Alexandrian texts. They're much looser translated and some paraphrasing And there are many additional footnotes and comments. Now, these texts aren't useless for translation, but they are inferior to the other two, which we're going to look at Byzantine in just a minute, but they're inferior to the other two options However, because they have interpretive content, anybody that translates anything knows you're interpreting while you're translating. You're trying to do your best to be as wooden as you can, at least in some methods of translation But you you you do need you do have to interpret when you're translating. There is you can't separate it completely. And to help with that, these these Western texts were helpful The final one is the Byzantine text, the family of texts. And that is the texts that were later manuscripts. Most of them were after 900. No, I'm sorry, that should be AD. 900 AD. Uh but they were discovered earlier. Sorry, later texting. Yeah, I wish we had yeah, that would be amazing to have a New Testament Text that that would not work. Anyway, um discovered it was but they were discovered earlier than the other texts. They were they were developed during the Byzantine Empire. And they were made available during that time and all the way up through. But normally they're later manuscripts, but they were discovered before the Alexandrian texts were discovered. And they became the accepted source by the Catholic Church, the Anglican Church, the Greek and Eastern Orthodox Church And they were used to compile what is known as the Texas Receptus. And the Texas Receptus was compiled by a man by the name of Erasmus. And this TR, this Texas Receptus, is where we get our King James Bible from, as well as the New King James in the New Testament. Okay, so that's the Byzantine text. Eighty percent of the available manuscripts are Byzantine. They are not all TR, but they are Byzantine. Eighty percent of them are Byzantine. So you have a far more a majority of texts. are certainly the Byzantine texts, but the earliest texts are the Alexandrian texts. So there you have three families of texts. The Byzantine text type is what the King James and the New King James uses, specifically the Texus Receptus. That was by Erasmus. Okay. So just understand you got three different basic text types. But you do not need to understand this. This is important. That the Texas Receptus is only a fraction of all of the Byzantine texts Because Erasmus only had some of the text available manuscripts available when he when he compiled the TR. I'll give you the most prominent example. The most prominent example of what he didn't have. It was efficient. is the book of Revelation. Did you know that when Erasmus came up with the TR, when he compiled the TR, he had no, to my knowledge, had no Greek translations Or I'm sorry, no Greek manuscripts. They were all Latin. So what you have is, of course, the original text is in Greek. Then you have the Latin text that was um Uh that was he then had to translate it back into Greek before it was then translated into English. Okay, so that's the TR. Now, if anybody is thinking real strong here, um you you're gonna have to move if you're really thinking through this, you're gonna have to move at least if some people say I'm a I'm a strong TR man, I'm a strong Dexterman. this guy. Well wait a minute. Knowing that fact would have to at least move you into a Byzantine text position. Or some people would call it the majority text position. Because there are Byzantine or majority texts that are Greek in the book of Revelation, but you're not going to find it in the TR because he didn't have it available when Erasmus did that. Alright, so those are I'm st I'm trying not to get too technical, but believe me I'm not getting too technical. This is the basics. Okay. So we've got uh Alexandrian text, Western text, Biblical Byzantine text. We can just take out the Western text for a minute. You're really dealing with two families now, the Alexandrian text and the Byzantine text. I just want to point out before we go into go into this, more than ninety-nine percent of the original Greek New Testament can be reconstructed constructed beyond any reasonable doubt according to Blomberg. So we're not talking about a lot of of problems. Now, here's what I want to do at this point. You've got some people. Okay, you've got two texts. Let's just reverse this. Two basic texts, Alexandrian text and Byzantine text. Alexandrian text is earlier or later. Earlier. Shorter or longer? Shorter. So Alex Alexandrian text is earlier and shorter. And the Byzantine text is Later and longer. Okay? In other words, so you've got the Byzantine text that's going to have some additional readings that the Alexandrian text wouldn't have Marks and the Mark 16 is an example of that, and there are other examples that I'm going to show you. Now, keep that in mind. Now, I want to just present to you a very, I think will be a helpful scenario Suppose you live in the second century and you have your copy of the New Testament. As you are fellowshipping with a fellow believer, you find that they have an additional reading that you don't have. Do you add to your text or do you suggest that he remove his additional reading? And by the way, you know, uh Cheryl says this, but there is a point I'll just make here. This is a bit of a di digression. But One of the things we ought not do with this is judge motives. On either side of this, one of the biggest problems I've seen with the King James only folks is they will judge motives on this stuff And they'll say it was it was a corrupt text. They're trying to corrupt the Bible. There's this m judging of motives. The Bible doesn't allow for that. What we have to assume is everybody's got good motives Okay, because we don't we don't have the ability to judge motives. Alright, so let's level the playing field and say everybody's got good motives. Doesn't mean we don't judge the content, but let's just level the playing field here. Alright, now with that in mind, what do we do with this? What do you do? The Bible says at the end of the book of Revelation, be very careful about doing two things. Don't add to it and don't subtract from it. So somebody tell me. What do you do? Well see, I'd go look and see if there's somebody else what versions they have and see how I need to compare with the other. Okay, but let's okay, but we're not talking about where you go on Facebook and find a friend. I mean really it's uh this is the second century. What what happens if you don't have another person? Yeah. Ah. Okay. I like both of your answers by the way. Just wan wanna let you know. I've kind of made fun of the fifth But but I wasn't making fun of you. Yeah, yeah, right. Okay. But but really. Um you're saying, well, let's check another one, or check another two, or three, or four. You're just practicing sexual criticism. That's what you're Right? I mean that's really what you're doing. Okay. And Kim says, which is excellent by the way, Kim says, check the scriptures and see what makes sense. Okay, folks, you you're making my point. I'm glad you're making my point for me. I don't have to make points if you make them, okay? The answer to this is it depends. We don't want to subtract from Scripture. We don't want to add to Scripture. We want to be real careful about this. So the answer to this is that it's going to depend on some things. And so you have three approaches. Number one, the longer reading is always preferred over the shorter reading. That's called rigorous The shorter reading is always preferred over the longer reading. Okay? Wait a minute, I have that switched wrong. Those parentheses should be switched. Anyway. Um I think it's a terrible thing here, but it is. I know. It is a a c and second, third, it's a case by case basis. And I'm just gonna I'm just gonna argue for option three. It is a case by case basis. That's the conclusion I've come to. I came from a school that said it's all the law longer reading is always better than the shorter reading. And there are other schools out there that say the shorter reading is always better than the longer reading And in my own study, I said, you know what, it really depends. And if you go back and just think about two guys trying to figure this out in the second century, which is what happened, that's what you come to. Yes. Sure. You said that when Erasmus was translating the text to reception. When he was compiling the text to receptions. He had to um Take the Latin version from Revelation and translate it into Greek and then translate it again into English. Well the King James would translate it into English. Yeah. So Revelation only, by the way. Yeah. Oh, only revelation. Only revelation, yeah. Okay, that was my one question. Like were all the texts, were they all Only the Book of Revelation, yeah, yeah, that was a key point. Now not the whole not all of it, but the book of Revelation they had no he had no Greek manuscripts available. Okay. Um they taught us that the practice of the scribes was that when you had an older manuscript and it had become so worn from reading and rereading and rereading, they would destroy Yeah, that's a theory. That is true of the Old Testament scribes. who scru who who who who um who protected the the the Old Testament Hebrew texts But it isn't true of the New Testament for one simple reason. You didn't have primarily scribes doing this work. You had Christians. You really had Christians all over that wanted their own bi their own New Testaments and their translating and stuff. So you did not have a control for the New Testament, you did not have this controlled setting. That's why I'm a couple weeks back I talked about the Masoretic scribes. We have the probably the most accurate text that we have is a later text in the old and for the for the old testament because they did discard Um, you know, unused manuscripts and and not unused, but bad uh they were all used or they were discarded immediately. But but ones that were worn out or those those kinds of things. But um that's that's only when it was in controlled environment with the Old Testament, with the Hebrews, with the scribes. When you get in the New Testament, you have a whole nother environment. So it really doesn't apply very well. And it in the New Testament. The other thing to keep in mind is that essentially if any manuscript was deemed bad, it was destroyed immediately. It wasn't as though we they hid away. They would I mean, it was just destroyed. It was it wasn't like they they kept it around. So it's it's it's an unlikely scenario. And I um it is it and and all they had to go on that is theory It's just a pres it really in this is my opinion now, but I think it's really presumption to do to to come up with that. Um so anyway. Uh yes, Lisa. Um I guess I was wondering how I don't know a lot about it, but um Catholics have different books in their Bible. Okay, the Apocrypha. Determine that those who are um reviewing the I think the best thing I'm gonna do is refer you to Joel's um two lectures on canonicity. He covers that really well. Because we already covered that. So no, that's okay. So if you just go on go on the sermon audio, you can listen to two of his lectures on on uh canonicity and it's covered in this first lecture on canonicity, Old Testament. And it doesn't. Who looked at these checks case by case? Who were the men or the people you know who will analyze it down and we're talking about the Texas Receptus we're talking about a man by the name of Erasmus. When you get into later and they y and he used the texts that were available. Now understand that the king that the Catholic Church was not really big on um You know, once they established something, that was their tradition. So it wasn't as though they ever wanted to change anything if they got extra manuscripts. That's not you if they discovered other manuscripts, they didn't really want to change anything. They just sort of kept things the way they were. uh because they sort of put their venerated stamp of approval on it so why why change it? So that's kind of the way they were. You have much later in the eighteen hundreds you have two you have councils of people That they drew from the Alexandrian text, but you have councils of people that came up with a text called the UBS IV and another one called the Nestle Atland. Which is which is, for instance, the U the the Nestal Atland which I think is a really good text is the the New American Standard is is translated from that The UBS 4 is translated from um the the NIV uses that. I think it's in my opinion it's it's inferior. So um those are two examples of councils that got together to take what they had available at their times. So it really is a matter of what's available. Erasmus had far less available than these other guys had that were available as far as they're available. Does that answer your question to some degree? Okay. Uh any other questions? Yes. Are you gonna talk about the um argument for the tech Yeah, yeah, we're gonna kinda get there a little bit. I'm trying to be basic, but but no no, it's okay. We'll we'll we'll get there. there. Um if you guys ask the questions I will go in deeper. I'll try to go in somewhat deeper unless we've covered it already. All right. Here's what I want to do at this point. I want to present to you a simple guide that I think will be very helpful for you in thinking through these kinds of things. Let me just affirm this. I think the King James Version is an accurate translation. I'm not qu in any way questioning the King James Version there. I think it's an accurate translation. I will tell you this, I think there's some people that are antagonists of the King James Version and they ought not be Now, for this re for a couple of reasons, let me give you a couple of two of the best arguments for making sure that we we hold on to the King James Version Okay, you guys ready for this? Number one, a good argument is is is this that the the English During that period had things like the second person plural. Ye, for example. Okay, for those of you grammarians out there, you don't what is this second person plural today? Us, youans, y'all. Okay, but in but in proper writing it's just you. There's no distinction. Okay? There's no distinction between the second person plural and the and the first person plural. Second person plural and the uh and the second person singular. In the King James you have a distinction. Ye is second person sing plural, and you is second person singular. So that's a good reason to consult your King James version. I'll give you another good reason. You they tend to be a little more consistent. The only other version I know of that's as consistent as the King James is the is the new American standard on this. But they tend to be consistent. When they use a conjunction, they have a particular way of doing it. When you see, for instance, a phrase saying, let the redeemed of the Lord say so, you know that's a command. That word let in the King James kind of means command. And it's sort it's it's kind of wooden in those ways. So I am going to argue that the King James we're not I have no desire to further King James Version I think it's a good, accurate translation. I want to make those arguments basically, essentially, to make sure that you understand that I'm in no way suggesting that we we throw this version out or that it's an inferior translation. Okay. Um that's not at all what I'm saying. Now, but with that, let's I want to move here and just um point out a couple of things here. Oh, oh I get that was the one argument. Second argument People that say, let's hold on to the King James, what they often say is that um that the English, they admit that English has changed over time, and nobody can disagree with that. Okay. English has definitely changed. But they say that English has dumbed down. And that's kind of true too. Sort of. Depends on how you look at it. But it but it it's certainly changed. And what they argue is that the highest literary form of the king of of uh of English, the highest literary So if you want to match up the highest literary time period with the specificity of the Greek, you you really need to hold on to the King James Version. Those would be two I'll give you another reason, um, although this is changing dramatically now, but uh Strong's used to be Strong's accords was only in the King James And some of these other materials were only key to the King James. So I I just gave you three reasons why I have no desire to don't teach your kids the King James Version is a bad version Okay? I'm not sure anybody's doing that here. Teach it them it's a very valuable version for the purpose of study. Um the argument that I'm going to make is simply this, and this is what Joel was essentially saying on Wednesday night that I would agree with him. It's not a matter of one being accurate. Let's take the New King James and the King James for a minute It's not a matter of the one being accurate and the other is not. It's a matter of them both being accurate, but one has strengths That the other one doesn't have, and the other one has strengths and weaknesses. Alright. Yes. Um I don't know if there is a lot of difference. Uh my translation was quite to either the TR or the mathematics or the whatever thing and translated from the original language into what we have in James. A version being somebody's idea, they took an English version of it I'm not sure. I mean the King James is the King James version. Yeah. The NIV is an N I American Standard is a I think they're all versions. Yeah. Yeah, I'm not sure. I mean you when you have like the new King James version it's it's it's basically based on the same method of translation as the King James Version. in the same text. So I don't know if that not sure. Anyway. Alright, simple guide. Let's just suggest first of all we need to ask the question which reading is the most consistent with ord orthodox doctrinal truth? If you have a text that is not as consistent with that, you would have a problem. And you'll see where this comes in. There is no doctrinal contradictions in these different variances. But you have sometimes one that seems to be more more that direction, like more consistent with doctrinal truth. Which reading flows best with the context? This is kind of what Kim was saying. Let's to look at scripture. Both the both Kim and Dave kind of were saying that. Does the longer reading contradict other another passage of scripture? Would be a a good question to ask. And does the longer reading bear adequate manuscript support? So that's that's sort of some questions that I would recommend uh that we're asking. And the reason I'm saying, for instance, in the last one, why am I not saying the s the the shorter reading? Well the shorter reading has total manuscript support I mean all both all of it has the shorter reading, but there's additional readings that we have to consider. I'm going to give you two exam three examples very quickly, if I can get this to advance. Okay. Example one. Matthew chapter 4, verse 22. This is the King James. It says 44. 44. What is this up there? For I say unto you, love your enemies, bless them that curse you. Do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you and persecute you. The New American Standard says this: But I say unto you, love your enemies And pray for those who persecute you. Okay, so we've got a shorter reading and a longer reading. Let me ask you a question. Now you all wouldn't be able to know how much manuscript support is behind that unless you really get into this. But most of you wouldn't probably want to do that. So so outside of that question Which is there any problem that you could see with the longer reading? I don't see any problem with the long reading. And in fact, I would recommend it. Is it possible that it was a marginal note that was inserted? That's possible. But the reality is whether it is or isn't it's true. Right? I mean it it it it's exactly accurate. We ought to be doing doing good to those who hate us and pray for those who don't despite the use. So in this instance, it's doctrinally accurate, it's consistent with other passages of scripture, it flows with the context. I mean we're talking about English here. There's no real reason to I mean I would take the longer read I would ek uh completely accept the longer reading Let's look at example number two. Now here's what I'm gonna s argue. I'm not gonna tell you this is shouldn't or should be here. I don't want to do that. I don't like that idea But here's what I'm just going to suggest, that when you see something that is in that is a little questionable, what I'm going to argue is that you don't base your entire doctrinal belief system on it. So let's look at this one. Romans chapter 8, verse 1. The King James says, There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus, who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit. The New American Standard, I'm just picking the New American Standard as as one option, but the New American Standard says this. There is therefore now no condemnation to those that are in Christ Jesus, and it's done All right, let me just ask you on this one. Do you see a potential issue with the longer reading of King of the King James? Folks, let me ask you this question. Does your condemnation or your justification in Christ, is your position in Christ affected by whether or not you walk after the flesh or after the Spirit? Absolutely not. You can look at all the book of Romans and you're going to see clearly that your position in Christ has nothing to do with your works, your own self-effort, or the fact that you are walking after the flesh or not. Alright. So the new American Standard stops. Now here's what I would just say. You say, you know, I'm really struggling pulling that out. That's okay, but just don't base your base your theology on that second phrase. Right? You've got all kinds of other passages in Scripture that are very clear about this: that your position in Christ is not based based upon your self-effort or your behavior or whether you're in the Spirit or not. Okay? Okay, there's lots of passages on this. So what you just need to sort of understand is that If you're in the second century and you're reading that second phrase and you're going, I'm not sure I want to add that to my version, to my manuscript, can you understand why somebody would not want to add that Right? Because what we often do because we're so used to the King James, I grew up with the King James, we're so used to it, we sort of that's sort of the accepted thing. But there's a lot more before the King James was ever translated. And so you sort of have to look at all this. I'll give you one final example. 1 John 5, verse 7 says. For there are three that bear record in heaven, the Father, the Word, and the Holy Ghost, and these three are one. Any doctrinal problem there No doctrinal problem whatsoever. Okay? The problem actually with this one, and you won't find this in any of the other translations except the New King. The New King James just does exactly the same thing. But the problem the problem um the problem with the with this is that you have very very questionable manuscript support on this. Now, it's doctrinally accurate. It ain't gonna hurt anybody to just keep it there. It's even potentially in the context seems to work okay. But the problem with it is that more than more than likely what happened was Constantine during a time where the where the Trinity was in was in really in debate. Constantine probably added this to to squelch the debate. That was his that's the way he dealt with things politically. If you know anything about Constantine and the Edict of Juan and all that, you know that can be the case. And more than likely he sort of added this When Erasmus in his first, he Erasmus actually compiled four different Greek texts. The final one was the Textus Receptus. The first two, he did not add this verse And the reason he didn't include this verse is he couldn't find enough manuscript support to include it. The problem was the Catholic Church came in and said, You've got to include this. Okay. Now Why should this not matter a whole lot? Do we need this verse to establish the doctrine of the Trinity in the New Testament? We don't need this verse. We're just, I'm just being honest enough with you to say that there's not a lot of manuscript support for this verse. What's the point? The point is that you we don't ever have to. I give you three examples In every single example, what we want to do is we want to be careful that if there is if there is questionable manuscript support on it, or it doesn't, you know, it's kind of hard to You sort of say, well, I'm not going to base my entire interpretation of that passage or my doctrinal position on that. But I also don't need this verse In and of itself, to comprise my understanding of the doctrine of the Trinity. And if this was the only verse that explain the doctrine of the Trinity, we certainly that would but not be enough to comprise our doctrine on that. Yes? Right. That's that's essential. You have to compare w scripture with scripture, and you have to get the whole mind of God on a matter when it comes to anything You want to look at all of what Scripture says, not just pick apart specific things. The basis of our belief is on the whole mind of God in the matter of things And and if you do that, you're not going to run into problems one way or the other on these kinds of things. Yes, he shame. uh mixed verse uh in this one this way the same it's the meaning though. So verse eight is also doesn't have good manuscript support, but go ahead. says uh NASD says well there are three that is the five that's it that's the same yeah this A defined looking experience And the warfare and the blood. Right. But this verse is saying that in having the Father, the Word and the Holy Spirit, we will now talk about the difference between No, I I no I don't think it has to. You could simply say that this is an explanation of that meaning. Okay, so if you want to understand what verse eight means or that part of verse eight. then you could you could understand it as being the Trinity. Probably is. That's probably a good inter interpretation. It's just a matter of whether that's the that's actually part of the manuscript. That's the by the way, this is the only example in the whole New Testament like this. I that's the one example in the Holy Testament that that is that is Now Mark sixteen doesn't have any doctrine this is a this is a core doctrinal verse. And you have a whole section there, but you really don't have a lot of orthodox doctrinal truth that's even explained in that passage. Building the doctrine off of that. Yeah, you have snakes, snake handling and things like that Okay. Let me switch though I'm over time. Let me switch and I'm just going to talk about something else here. I want to ask the question very quickly, which translations or versions have merit? Okay, which have merit. There are three approaches. One approach is called formal equivalency. The next approach is called dynamic equivalency. And the next approach is a paraphrase. And what I'm going to argue here, folks, is that formal equivalency is the translations that are the ones you want to study from. They're the ones you want to do your in-depth study from. Formal equivalency essentially says that I'm going to do my very best to s to to preserve as many of the words as I can and have them translate You can't do that all trans it's not possible to translate to do that in all translation in translation in general. But you're gonna stick as closely as you can. You're gonna do as little interpret interpreting as possible. You're gonna be as close as you can to be an equivalent. It's not word for word, but you're trying to get as close as you can. Dynamic equivalency set is really more about let me just take this thought and translate that over. Um why is formal equivalent equivalent equivalency better than dynamic equivalency? Yes. Well for one thing Christ talked about Johnson Tills. Right. What we're really talking about is the Bible says all scripture is inspi inspired. We're talking here about plenary inspiration. Plenary inspiration means that the words were inspired. So this honors the words Formal equivalency honors that more than the dynamic equivalency. And so that's why I would highly recommend that you stay with formal equivalency texts for for studying. Yes? I've seen it both ways. Oh okay. Same thing. Yeah, same thing. I as far as I know, it's the same thing. So yes, you're gone. So when I thought about the Bible and I look at it and have absolutely no idea what it says. And my better role to go to a Matthew Henry commentary or to switch down to a different um Neither one. I if you're if you're reading from the King James, try looking at the new King James Or look at the New America Standard or the ESV. The New America Standard is is if you're doing tech New American Standard is very technical. So it's 11th grade reading reading. I I numeric standard is my favorite English version of train to to study from. Okay. Um the new the New King James though and the ESV, they're both formal equivalency translations, but they're easier reading. And so no, I would actually say that if you're having trouble in the King James, go to the New King James and try to read it out of that, or the ESV. And or the New America Standard. The nice thing about the New America Standard is it's it I I like it being technical so I I I could see it all the parts, you know, but um no I I would I I would my my encouragement would be to stay away from the NIV. I think you're better off I use it sometimes, honestly, but Uh sometimes the narratives in the Old Testament I'll read from there from those and things, but when you're talking about in-depth study, I think you'd be better off not not I would just advise probably staying away from that. a as much as the others because of its dynamic equiv equivalency. So so that the King James we are so what I'm saying here is this. We want to honor The accuracy, the fifty-two men that went to great lengths to make sure that King the King James was accurately translated. They really did. It was incredible the kind of the kind of uh carefulness. The New King James though folks was I would say equally as as careful. There was a hundred and there was over a hundred translate people that that were involved in the translation of the New King James. It was very, very carefully translated as well. And so here's gonna here's essentially what I would sort of come up with. If you have two versions Two translations that are the same in accuracy, and one is easier to understand than the other. They're the same in accuracy, and one's easier to understand than the other, then why would we not want to use the one or at least include the one that's going to help us understand scripture. And I I just and and every church, every generation in every church has to sort of think to themselves, okay, is is this is this sort of out of the reach of the language of the common man? Do we need to really consider something that is? Every church has a responsibility to do that. uh every generation really has responsibility to ask that question. That is why we have historically different translations throughout the ages, is because that happened I mean very frankly, do you know for a thousand years the Latin Vulgate was the translation? That was the established translation for a thousand years until somebody says we don't understand Latin In fact, the most of the world doesn't understand Latin. And William Tyndale, these guys decide, you know what, we need a translation that we can understand that can go in the common in the language of the common man And so that's the question that you sort of have to ask yourself. In my opinion, we're there. We need this. We need the New King James in order to be able to really understand things. And it is a very accurate translation. in my opinion. Any other questions before I I uh close on on this? All right, we're almost done this trans the whole translation. Um uh series. I'm probably gonna do a maybe one or two more lessons, but I what I'd like to do a lesson just on the history of the English Bible, which is really I it's a very it's really a neat neat and it I don't think it'll be boring I mean, some people don't like history, but if you like history w it it it will be good. Um where we just talk about Tyndale and Wycliffe and all these guys that I mean some of them John Huss these guys were burned at the stake to bring us the the l uh the Bible that we could understand. And uh it's incredible what they the length they went to to do this. And it it will help us just be encouraged to value our Bibles. So I want to bring a lesson there. But um let me just encourage you, think through these things. If you have any questions at all about this, please come and talk to me And um I want to ha help you any way I can to answer these questions. Um I I I I I want to be honest about things. That's really my desire is to just say, hey, here here's here's Here's the way but best I can, here's what we've got going basically. Here's here's how things are. Um So, all right, let's go ahead and uh close in a word of prayer and um we'll be dismissed. Lord, thank you so much for the fact that we can trust your word. We thank you that you have through your providential hand over many years. Seen fit to bring your people your word. And we are we are advantaged greatly to have such immense manuscript support And we are so grateful that we we have absolutely no excuse for why we would not understand your word except for just not putting forth the effort. We have every tool available, we have multiple translations available, we have good commentaries available. I pray, Lord, that you would help us to really understand your word. I pray that our trust and faith would be on the fact that you preserved your word, not on a specific uh specific form, but on the fact that you have ch chosen to do so. And we thank you, Lord, for for uh for your work and we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.