Let's bow our heads and pray together this morning before we get into the reading. Heavenly Father, we come with grateful and thankful hearts this morning. We are thankful that we are gathered here together corporately, that you are in our presence. And Father, we desire to please you and to worship you and praise you And we pray, Father, that you would be pleased and honored and glorified and lifted up. And we pray as we come to this time, Father, when we are going to be sitting under the teaching of your word. We ask that, Father, you would remove those distractions and those thoughts and all the preconceived ideas that we may have when we walked in here this morning I pray that Father you would help us to focus. We ask for your Holy Spirit to enable us to gain knowledge and understanding from your word and give us that desire to apply it in our lives for your great namesake and for your glory and praise. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. We're in Romans chapter 6 this morning, going to be looking at verses 1 through 10. And before we go into verse 1, I'm going to back up to help us know where we're at here. In verse 21. B4 and 5. It says, So that sin reigned in death, even so grace might reign through righteousness to eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. And if you back up just a little further, it says, moreover, the law entered for the offense to abound, but where sin abounds Grace abounds much more. Now Paul tells us here in chapter 6, verse 1. What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? Certainly not. How shall we who died to sin live any longer in it? Or do you not know that as many as of us who were baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death. And therefore, we were buried with him through the baptism into death. That just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should walk in newness of life. For if we have been united together in Christ in the likeness of his death, certainly we also shall be in the likeness of his resurrection Knowing this, that our old man was crucified with him, that the body of sin might be done away with, that we should no longer be slaves of sin. For he who has died has been freed from sin. Now, if we die with Christ, we believe that we shall also live with him. Knowing that the Christ, having been raised from the dead, dies no more. Death no longer has dominion over him For the death that he died, he died to sin once for all. But the life he lives, he lives to God follows a passage that expresses to us that we have a free gift of grace. And it deals with responding in a wrong way to that race. We're kind of interesting that way as human beings. We tend to take gifts And we respond to them in the wrong way. We handle them in the wrong way. Perhaps one of the best illustrations you can have of this is people who win the lottery. Have you ever noticed that up to 70% of lottery winners end up in bankruptcy or other personal tragedy? Up to 70%. We're really not good with free gifts, are we? Uh this man and which was up on the screen, Andrew Jackson Whitaker Jr. was a man who in two uh two thousand two, I believe, yeah, he he got the lottery lottery jackpot, which was worth 314. 9 million dollars. Three hundred and fourteen point nine million dollars. Uh he took uh a lump sum of of a mere I think it was just over a hundred million dollars. And after that point in his life, he had nothing but tragedy. One problem after another after another. Thieves broke into his car while he was in a club. That might have been his first problem. But anyway, uh thieves broke in And they stole cash out of his car at five five hundred and forty-five thousand dollars of cash from a suitcase that he carried cash in his car. When he was asked why would you carry that much cash in your car, he said, because I can. In another incident, two employees at a at this particular club were arrested in charge of the plot to drug his drinks and then rob him. Later on, again, thieves broke into his car and stole another two hundred thousand dollars in cash. So he reduced it from five forty five to two hundred thousand, you know Sky's not that bright. Anyway. And then uh and then later on he was sued by Caesar's Atlantic. Why would you gamble if you have that much money? Like to get more money? I Anyway, he did. He obviously liked gambling and he was he had $1. 5 million worth of bounced checks that he was sued for. Or Caesar he li ended up di uh his uh one of the greatest tragedies is that his granddaughter ended up dying at age seventeen after being reported missing. I mean tragedy after tragedy after tragedy after receiving over a hundred million dollars. We don't do real well with free gifts. And the truth is the free gift that we find in Romans chapter 5 is this gift of grace. And we find it in Romans chapter 5, verse 14 through 16, where it says, Nevertheless, death reigned from Adam to Moses. Even though those who had not sinned according to the likeness of the tra transgression of Adam, who is a type of him who was to come, but the free gift is not like the offense For if by one man's offense many died, much more the grace of God and the gift by the grace of the one man, Jesus Christ, abounded to many. And the gift is not like that which came through the one sinned. The judgment which came from one offense resulted in condemnation, but the free gift. which came from many offenses resulted in justification. Do you get the idea from Romans chapter 5 that God wants to assure us that he that he applies the gift of grace to those who trust in him, and it is truly a free gift. Chapter 5 is a message of assurance for those of you who are struggling with whether or not you Is there something that you have done that is not able to be reached by the grace of God, or some of you who may be struggling with whether you are a Christian because of something that you have done The Bible tells us where sin abounds, grace much more abounds. But what will we do with that grace? Apparently there were some that would take the free gift of grace and they would cause it to They would make it a license to sin. A wonderful example of someone who received the grace of God and used it correctly. is a man by the name of John Newton. He we sung, we just sung his his uh hymn, Amazing Grace. On his tombstone, and there's an epitaph that reads this way: John Newton, clerk, once an infidel, and libertine. a servant of slaves in Africa, was by the rich mercy of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, preserved, restored. Pardoned and appointed to preach the faith he had long labored to destroy. That is how you respond to the rich grace of God. John Newton realized the amazing grace that he had received after being one who was involved in selling, buying and selling slaves and uh a slave trader He was saved by the grace of God and gloriously changed to serve his Savior. Truly, it could be said in his life, the law entered that offense might abound, but where sin abounded, grace abounded much more But Paul now is going to deal with people who are not they're not handling the grace of God well. They're not responding to it as a steward. They're responding to it with license. And what Paul is going to say is that the Christian cannot live in the realm of sin. and in the realm of God's grace at the same time. The Christian, it's not just must not or should not, but he cannot. And I'll qualify that to say that doesn't mean that a Christian cannot sin. But he cannot live in the realm of sin and the realm of God's grace At the same time. Why? We're going to see three reasons in this passage. Number one, God's grace results in our union with Christ, verses one through five. The grace of God applied results in our union with Christ. God's grace received results in our dying with Christ. And God's grace received results in our being raised with Christ. If you have truly received the grace of God, if the grace of God has been applied to you. then you are in union with Christ, you have died with Christ, and you are being raised with Christ And therefore, a Christian cannot live in the realm of sin and in the realm of God's grace at the same time. We'll first then look at God's grace received that results in our union with Christ. And we find in the passage here, verses 1 through 5, it says, What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? He asks the question. What shall we say then? What should our response be by the wonderful, abundant grace of God? He says, shall we, he asked the rhetorical question here, shall we continue in sin that grace I mean he just said where sin abounds, grace much more abounds. So should we continue in sin that grace may abound? This word continue is a very interesting word. It's one that we need to understand what it's saying. It's used in John chapter 8, verse 7. It says, so when they continued asking him, this is the religious leaders asking him, he raised himself up and said to him, He is without sin among you, let him cast the first stone. They continued, they persisted It's the idea of persisting, habitual, permanent, taking up permanent residence in Romans 5. 21, so that as sin, as sin reigned in death, even so grace might reign through righteousness to eternal life. through Jesus Christ our Lord. Paul is saying you cannot continue in sin. That is, sin cannot reign And the grace of God reign at the same time. They both can't rule your life at the same time. Only one can rule your life at a time. You are either ruled by sin or you are ruled by the grace of God. This was a problem, for example, in Jude 4, where people, actually it says in that passage, Jude 4, they turn the grace of our God into lewdness. And deny the only Lord God and our Lord Jesus Christ. He turned the grace of our Lord into lewdness and denied the very Lord that offers them salvation. And this is a problem. Paul is pointing out that this is an issue. This is essentially chapter 6's, in a sense, is a parenthetical Because you're going to see chapter 5, and then in chapter 7, the argument will continue. Chapter 8, rather, but chapter 6 and 7, he's going to deal with some things to make sure that we completely understand. The problem became known as antinomianism. It is the idea that you do not have to obey the moral law. There's no obligation to obey the moral law of God. Once you have received the grace of God, antinomian teaches that because God's grace is great, greater than all our sin, We are no longer under any obligation to obey God's moral law. It denies that someone can displease God by disobedience. Folks, that is something that we ought to be very, very careful of. We ought never see the abundant grace of God as something that we can just simply live in by living in sin. They do not go together. And so Paul says, with a great emphatic No. He says, certainly not. Maybe in our vernacular we'd say, no way, verse 2. Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? No way. Certainly not. May it never be so. The old King James, God forbid. It should never be that way, where we would ever say, okay, now I can just live in sin because I am in the grace of God. He uses this term from time to time in the book of Romans. For example, in Romans chapter 7, verse 7, he says, What shall we say? Is the law sin? Certainly not. When he wants to get his point across, he'll ask a question and then he'll come back with an emphatic statement. No way. Certainly not. Romans 9. 14 says, What shall we say then? Is there an unrighteous God? Is there unrighteousness with God? Certainly not. And in Romans 11:1, I say then, has God cast away his people? Certainly not For I also am an Israelite of the seed of Abraham, of the tribe of Benjamin. Paul wants to get across here that this idea that we would just live in the realm of sin. Because we have received the grace of God is something that we should never have in our thinking. And then he asked the question, how shall we who died to sin live any longer therein? Colossians 3. 3 says it this way, for you died and your life is hidden with Christ in God 2 Corinthians 5, verse 17 says it this way. Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things have passed away. Behold, all things have become new. Later on in the passage, he is literally going to say that the old man has died. See, when we come to Christ, when we truly uh understand our sin and we understand our need for a savior and we accept what Jesus did in dying on the cross for us, taking our sin on himself and paying the punishment for our sin then we by faith depend on that and he gives us his righteousness. When that happens, actually there is a spiritual part of us that there is a non-material part of us that dies. I think a very helpful illustration is this. And we die, by the way, we die to sin. Or maybe we say it this way, we die to the realm of sin. Now, you may be saying at this point, well, why would we could how can we continue to sin? I mean, we do, if if you know Christ your Savior, Martin Lloyd Jones Jones gives an excellent illustration and it's interesting. He gives the illustration and then like Three or four of the other commentaries I read cited Lord James with this illustration. So this is like the epic illustration for Romans chapter 6, just so you're aware. I'm giving you the epic illustration. I mean it was amazing. Every time I read them, oh yeah, you're referring to Lloyd Jones, and you're referring to Lloyd Jones, and you're referring to Lloyd Jones. This is quite an illustration by Lloyd Jones. Um So he says, imagine that there are two fields. And Adam owns one field. Satan is residing on the field. It was it's Adam's field. And on the other hand, do you have a road in between and you have Christ on the other hand, and Christ has a field And you are either a slave of Adam and a or a servant of Adam and you are directed by Satan. Or you are a servant of Christ and directed by Christ. And when we come we are born, we're all born servants of Ad servants of of uh sin and of Satan, and we're in Adam's field. But when we come to Christ we come into his field, into Christ's field. But while we're working for Christ, while we're serving in his field, we can still hear Satan's temptations. We could still hear from him on the other side of the field. We're still in the realm of Christ. but we can hear on the other side of the field. What you cannot do is be in both fields at the same time. It's not possible. But you can certainly be tempted, can't you? And we'll see how this plays out. In fact, we're going to see We're going to see in a vivid description of how this plays out as we go along here. We then pick up in verse 3 and we see the nature of our union. He says it says, Or do you not know that as many of us as were baptized into Jesus, Christ Jesus, were baptized into his death? So we come across this word baptism. It is the word baptizo. It's used very frequently in the New Testament. And there are different views as to what this is. Some believe that this is actually water baptism here. That he's saying that if you come to Christ as Savior and then you come to Christ and then you have been baptized, that is when you change from one realm to the other. Folks, that can't be what it's talking about. That's not really what it's talking about here, water baptism. The reason we know that is that you've seen by the context that Baptism, uh we haven't seen water baptism mentioned before, and actually we have not there's nothing to do with water here at this point. But if you look at the previous passage in chapter 5 in the context, you're talking about two spiritual realms. So it's very unlikely that he's talking about baptism, water baptism, because if it if he were, if he was specifically talking about water baptism, it would lead you to conclude that actually we are regenerated through water baptism. And there are people that believe that and believe in baptismal regeneration. The problem, of course, with that is if you go back to chapter 4, then you're going to find very clearly that there is no human effort whatsoever. that gives us faith in Christ, or that there is no human effort whatsoever that we will receive the grace of God. The example there is Abraham. He believed God. That was it, just faith alone, and it was accounted to us for righteousness. So this is not talking about water baptism precisely. It's not directly talking about that Now, others believe that there is absolutely no relationship whatsoever to water baptism, but it is the same word as baptizzo in other places. And other places it's clearly talking about baptism. For example, in 1 Corinthians chapter uh like water baptism, for example, in 1 Corinthians chapter 1, verses thirty thirteen through 17, the Apostle Paul, we won't take the time to turn there, but it the Apostle Paul talks about how He didn't baptize the people at Corinth, only a couple of them. And in that case it is baptism. And probably in Ephesians chapter 4, verse 5, where it says, one Lord, one faith, one baptism, it there is probably also talking about the the m the mu the talk about water baptism, the ordinance of baptism. What I am willing to say is that it bec you know we do have a the same word used And I do think that it is picturing baptism. So it's not, so water, in other words, water baptism pictures what's going on here The death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. Because that is exactly what happens spiritually when we come to Christ. We are united with Christ in his death, burial, and resurrection, and water baptism. pictures that very well. But what is this directly referring to? In 1 Corinthians chapter 10 verses 1 through 5, we pick up here And it says this. This is going to help us a lot with what he's talking about. Moreover, brethren, I do not want you to be unaware that all our fathers were under the cloud as passed through the sea And then see, then he says this, all were baptized into Moses, in the cloud and in the sea, all ate the same spiritual fruit, all drank the same spiritual drink For they drank of the spiritual rock that flowed from them, flowed them, or followed them rather, and that rock was Christ. But with most of them God was not well pleased, for their bodies were scattered in the wilderness. When it says all were baptized into Moses in the cloud and the sea. It's not referring to the Egyptian soldiers who were actually water baptized, so to speak, into the into the Red Sea No, it's talking about the people that were united with Moses as the people of God in Israel. They were identified with the people of God in Moses. And that's really what this word is talking about. It is talking about identification. That is, when we come to Christ, we are our identity changes. We become identified as Christians. Kenneth Weist this defined this concept this way. He says, it is the introduction or placing of a person or a thing into a new environment or into union with something else. so as to alter its condition or its relationship to its previous environment or condition So we've been placed in a different realm, a different field, if you will, we have a different identity that changes our very condition and our very relationship Galatians 2. 20 says it this way, I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live But Christ lives in me, and the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. 1 Corinthians 6. 17 says, but he who is joined in the Lord is one spirit with him. We are joined with Christ. Therefore we are buried, he says in Romans in verse 4, Romans 6, therefore we are buried with him through baptism into death. were buried with him by baptism into death. Colossians 1. 13 says this, he has delivered us from the power of darkness and conveyed us in the kingdom of the Son of His love, in whom we have redemption through his blood, even the forgiveness of sins. And then in verse 4, we we then see the purpose of this union. Why were we united with Christ? We have that, that word that, that so often in the New Testament, when you see the word that, it's talking about purpose. And verse 4 says, that just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, what is God's purpose for us? Even so we also should what? Should walk in newness of life. Man, I love that month that uh song of the month Like I I just love that new song of the month. Good job, Joy. I don't know where you got that from, but it's great. Um I did you did you guys notice the last phrase that's I'm not trying to live I'm not trying to point Yeah, sorry, Joe. Anyway. But did you notice the last point of that part of that song? That he's making, he's made us new. We are new in Christ. That's God's point. That's his purpose. newness of life. God says this all over the place in Scripture, actually. He describes Christians as new. In Ezekiel chapter twenty-six verse twenty chapter thirty-six verse twenty-six says, I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit within you. I will take the heart of stone out of your flesh. and give you a heart of flesh. We have a new song, Psalm 40, verse 3. He has put a new song in my mouth. Praise to our God. Many will see it and fear and will trust in the Lord. We have a new name, Revelation 2, verse 17. And I will give him a white stone, and on the stone a new name written, which no one knows except him who receives it. A new creation. 2 Corinthians 5, verse 17. Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. Maybe a good illustration is a it's a perfect illustration because it's in Scripture, is that we're given a new citizenship Maybe we could identify with that a little bit more. It's like you've gone to another country, you've applied for new citizenship, and now you are a citizen of a new country. Now, in our world, you can be a dual citizen, but not in God's eyes. You can't be a dual citizen. You can't be a citizen of Adam's country and Christ's country at the same time. But we have a new citizenship in Philippians 3 verse 20. For our citizenship is in heaven, from which we also eagerly wait for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. who will transform our lowly body that we might be conformed to his glorious body, according to working by which he is able to even to subdue all things to himself. Our citizenship is in heaven. And we have a future union with Christ. Scripture says, verse 5 here, if you look at verse 5, for if we have been united together in the likeness of his death, Certainly we shall be in the likeness of his resurrection. There will be some day, folks, that we will, as Christ rose from the grave, those who know Christ as their Savior, we too will rise from the grave as well. All of this is found in our union with Christ. And Paul's point is It is though we are united or married, we're joined up with Christ, and you can't be married to two people at the same time. That is still true in our country legally. I don't know how long it's going to be that way, but it is most places in our country legally. But certainly in God's mind, you can only be married to one person at one time. And that's what he's saying here. In fact, one of the valid legal reasons for annulment is if someone married somebody else and didn't tell the other person that he was already married to the other person. to another person. That is then by definition you can annul the marriage as though it never happened. And so that is what he's saying here. When you're joined up with Christ, there is a sense in which that past life is annulled. Now why is it that people people do. People will take they'll they'll they'll have the there's really A couple different struggles in this realm. There are some Christians that they really, really struggle with assurance of their salvation. Most folks that really struggle with this, Christians that struggle with this, they're very introspective. And they know that they don't, their lives, their hearts, they don't match up to God. And they struggle with that. Many of them have even come to Christ, but they they wrestle with it. Boy, you need to live in Romans 5, where grace abounds. Where sin abounds, grace much more abounds. You need to live there. But there are other people that they're good with that. They're like, okay, we're sin and bounds with grace, but I got sin and I got grace and I'm good. And so now I can sin all I want, and I'll have grace to cover my sin. You need to live in Romans 6. Because Paul says those two ideas do not go together. Being in both realms don't go together. So the biblical response is what we're going to see as we as we continue in this passage But I want to point something out to you. Why is it there are some people that they really on this end of things, it's though they have received the grace of God Or they think they have received the grace of God, and yet they just are fine with living by themselves. I think it's because of why they came to the grace of God in the first place, oftentimes. Why do people come to faith in Christ? Why do people profess faith in Christ? Do they profess faith in Christ for selfish reasons? If you've professed faith in Christ for selfish reasons, it's very likely that you're going to have a tendency this direction. If you profess faith in Christ for selfish reasons, just fire insurance. Or, sure, I'll do that because then I'll get to go to heaven If that's your, if that's why you're professing faith in Christ, it it really you're you're not gonna You're probably going to end up in this situation where now you're just continuing to live in selfishness. See, Christ actually told us why he saves people. He saves people. John chapter 17, it says this. Jesus spoke these words. He's praying to his father. He says, Father, the hours come. Glorify your son, that your son also may glorify you. As you have given him authority over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as you have given him And this is eternal life, that they may know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom you have sent. You see, when you come to faith in Christ because you want to know God, when you come to faith in Christ because you want to live out the purpose for which you are created, to glorify God. Now, you may be miserable and you come to Christ out of your misery. You may be fearful and all of those kinds of things. But the reality is You've got to come to a place where you understand that Christ has saved people because they are to glory he wants them to glorify him And you will never live the life that God wants you to live and has created you to live without coming to Christ and being in the realm of Christ. And once you are in the realm of Christ, then you are then able to glorify God. In other words, The abounding of grace in our lives when we come to Christ frees us to live for Christ. It frees us to serve Him So what does our union result in? We pick up in verses six and seven and we see what our union results in Knowing this, notice this word knowing. That's an important word. Knowing this, that our old man is crucified with him, that the body of sin might be done away with that we should no longer serve or be slaves of sin. For he who has died has been freed from sin. Now, this is a verse that also we need to be very careful about how we understand this verse. The old King James says the body of sin has been destroyed. That is really an the word destroyed, that's an unfortunate word that's used there. The New King James to be done away with is a little bit better. And the reason I say that is because what this body is talking about, it's talking about our flesh, that part, that source within us that desires to sin. Now question, Christian, do you still have a source within you that desires you to sin? Okay, well if that's the case, then it hasn't been destroyed or annihilated in that sense. This is, by the way, something that this is uh uh an example, if I could just say it gently, this is an example of what's some would call a false friend, where you're reading through a passage, like if you're reading the King James Version, which is a good, excellent translation, it's it's outstanding translation. But the word destroyed, you wouldn't know that you need to actually look that up, because we all understand what the word destroyed means. But in fact, the Greek word behind it doesn't mean destroyed. And so it's one that you would just kind of glaze over and not realize and actually come up with a bad doctrine, a bad teaching. And the bad teaching that you could come up with is what is called sinless perfection The idea that we are, once you you you you can as a Christian come to a place where your flesh is destroyed, where it's No longer there and where you can be in a perfect state before God. And there are some people based on this verse that believe that. That's not what the word means. The word does not mean destroyed, it doesn't mean annihilated. It means to be rendered inoperative. It means to be rendered, to be nullified, to be released from power. For example, in Romans chapter 3, verse 3, it says, For what if some did not believe, will their unbelief make the faithfulness of God without effect? It's the same word. And in Romans chapter 3, verse 31, do we then make void the law through faith? To make without effect, to make void. Romans 4. 14, to make void. Here's a great one. Romans 7. 2 says this, same word, but if the husband dies, she is released from So here's what the passage is saying. The passage is saying, look at it again, look at verse 7, or verse 6, rather, knowing that our old man was crucified with him, that the body of sin might be released from. In other words, the old man, what is the old man talking about? The old man is talking about that unregenerate regenerate person. That before Christ, we have an old man and a new man. The old man is done away with. So you have two two words here, and it's very important to understand the difference. The old man is different than the body of flesh here. Okay? So you have the old man that was crucified. Okay? It was put to death. That for the purpose. So the old man, the unregenerate person, is put to death. And by the way, also we have a new person in us. We are a new person in Christ. Ephesians 2. 15 says it this way, having abolished in his flesh the enmity that the law of commandments contain in ordinances, so as to create in himself one new man from the two. Colossians 3, 1011 says this, and have put on the new man who is renewed in knowledge according to the image of God who created him. So when you come to Christ, you could put on the new man, and the old man is crucified. It is destroyed. But why is that? So that the flesh, the body of sin, or the flesh, is rendered, it's rendered, we are released from it. It's rendered It's nullified. In other words, here's the bottom line. As a Christian, you never have to sin ever again. Did you know that? Now, it doesn't mean you won't, but you don't have to. You are no longer under the power of sin. You're in the realm of Christ. You're not in the realm of Adam. So therefore you never have to sin ever again. And that's exactly what verse 7 says. For he who has died has been what? Freed from sin. Our union with Christ frees us from the reign, the rule, the power of sin. We must reckon this to be so. And you say to yourself, well, I don't feel like I'm, I don't really feel that way. Think of a dog who is on a leash for a long time, or maybe in a cage for a long time. uh like a fence in area. You take away the fenced area or you take away the leash after a long time of them being on the leash or behind the cage. And it's not long and they may not even know that they're free. They may feel like they're still tethered to that leash. It could be the same way with us as Christians. We may feel that we are under the power of sin. Have you ever felt you're under the power of sin? I will raise my hand with yours. I have felt that I am under the power of sin. It is, it, you can often, but it is a feeling. It's not reality. And that's why the text tells us that we need to know and reckon, to know what's true. and to reckon it to be true in our lives. We need to know that we are freed from sin and we need to reckon it to be true in our life. So that when we feel that we are under the power of sin, we are able to tell ourselves we are not under the power of sin any longer. That's why this passage, it really focuses not on feelings, it focuses on our thinking. We've got to think right. Romans 5:17 For if by one man's offense death reign through the one, much more those who receive abundance of grace and the gift of righteousness will reign in life. Through the one Jesus Christ. So why do I still sin? Because I'm tempted and I have a full capacity to sin. That's why I still sin. Finally, we see here God received the res uh grace received results in our being raised with Christ. And we see this fleshed out here, what he said in verse 7, that we're freed from sin. It says, Now, if we died with Christ, we believe that we will also live with him. Knowing that Christ, having been raised from the dead, dies no more, death no longer has dominion over him Death does not not only does sin no longer have dominion over us, but death doesn't have any dominion over us anymore. In other words, the reason that you aren't you don't have e that you have eternal life And that you don't have to be spiritually dead anymore is because it no longer has dominion over you Because you are now in the union in the realm of Christ. And just as Christ has been raised from the dead, we can look forward one day being raised up as well. And then finally he says this, verse 10. For death, for the death that he died, he died to sin once for all. We see the finality in verse 10. Now, this is an interesting phrase as well. It says, he died to sin. Now, it's understandable that we need to die, we have died to sin. That makes sense because we're sinful. But how does Jesus, how does it say that Jesus died to sin? How is that? Well, I think we see it in two ways in Scripture. One, he died to the penalty of sin. And secondly, he died to the power of sin. 2 Corinthians 5 verse 21, for he made him who knew no sin to be sin for us. Jesus took our sin on himself. He made him who knew no sin to be sin for us, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. Hebrews 2, verse 11 says, For both he who sanctifies and those who are being sanctified are all one, for which reason he is not ashamed to call them brethren. And we find this really gets fleshed out in Hebrews chapter 2, verses 14 through 17. Notice what it says here Inasmuch then as the children have partaken of flesh and blood, he himself likewise shared in the same. In other words, Jesus came and partake in flesh and blood as well. He was flesh and blood as well. That through death he might destroy him who had the power of death, that is, the devil. Now the devil is still alive and well, but his end is destruction. God ultimately will destroy the devil. Verse 15, and release those who through fear of death were all their uh were all their lifetime subject to bondage. He released those who fear of death. For indeed, he does not give aid to angels, but he does give aid to the seed of Abraham. Therefore, in all things he had to be made like his brethren, that he might be the a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God, to make propitiation for the sins of the people. In other words, Rock of Age has got it right. Be of sin the double cure. He frees us from the penalty of sin, and he frees us from the power of sin. This is what Jesus has done for us. So we have three things, three takeaways here. Number one. Understand this: that according to this passage, if you know Christ is your Savior, you cannot live in the realm of sin and the realm of Christ at the same time. We cannot live in the realm of sin and the realm of Christ at the same time. Number two Our death to sin nullifies the power of our flesh. Our death to sin, we have died to sin as a Christian It nullifies the power of our flesh so that we still have the desire to sin, but we are not required to sin. We are not under the power of sin. Did you realize that before somebody comes to Christ, they're literally under the power of sin? They can't help but sin. But once somebody comes to Christ, they are freed from the power of sin. And number three, Jesus' death frees us from sin's enslavement. A Christian, if you haven't I'm sure you have gotten this by now. A Christian never has to sin. There was a There was a um story of a illustration of a girl who had a boy an a boyfriend. The boyfriend would take her out to to eat, bring her flowers, take her out to eat, treat her really well, and at the end of the day, he would beat her. And He did this one time and again and again and again. He'd treat her really nice, bring her flowers, take her on a nice date, treat her really well, and at the end would beat her. Finally, this girl realized that this is a really bad guy, and and uh after months of doing this, decided that he would she would break up with him and she immediately broke up with him and found another really good guy. Really good boy. This guy treated her right, gave her flowers, took her out to eat, and didn't beat her at the end. That was an improvement. And so they fell in love and eventually got married. They were in the house. one day and the gu of course the husband went to work and the wife was left behind. And one day and there was a s and they had a screen door and it was nice nice weather outside so they used to like the Like to keep the screen door open and and um uh you know get some fresh air. And the old boyfriend came up to the door. And started speaking to the to the girl. And started wooing her and telling her all kinds of sweet things and had a big bouquet of flowers with her. And he was able to convince her to come with him. And just like every other time, he took her out for a nice time, nice time, treated her right, and at the end he beat her This happened once, and then it happened again. She felt compelled. She felt that she was under the power of this guy. The husband found out that this happened on a couple of occasions. And as he talked with her, he said, Look, here's what you you do I want you to understand something. You do not have to you're not under the power of this guy anymore. I am your husband. The next time he comes, I want you to say with clarity, I do not have to go with you and slam the door. And that's exactly what she did. The illustration is this is what happens to us with sin. Sin treats us well. Brings us flowers, gives us a nice time, and in the end it beats us. And it does it again and again and again Some of you know this. Those of us who have lived any length of time, we realize this. When we succumb to sin, it gives us a nice time, but it always at the end beats us. But we're married, we're you united with someone entirely differently. Different. We're united with Christ. What do we need to do? We need to slam the door And we need next time sin comes at the door and treats us well and tempts us to go with sin, we need to realize it will ultimately beat us and that we are no longer under its power. Now I do have a question for you. Are you under the power of sin today? We are actually all born in the realm of sin. We've learned that from the book of Romans. We're born under the power of sin in the realm of sin, and we're headed toward the penalty of sin Are you under the power of sin? Are you under the penalty of sin? Are you in the realm of sin? Or have you, by faith, trusted in Christ to save you from your sin? Have you paid, have you, have you come to a place where you understood your sin, that your sin separates you from God? That Jesus Christ took your sin on himself, died in your place, and gives you his righteousness, so that when the Father sees you, he sees His righteousness rather than your sin. And have you depended upon what Jesus has done for you by faith? He has made him to be sin for us who knew no sin. Why? So that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. Has that occurred in your life? Are you sure of your relationship with God? Scripture tells us we can be. The Bible tells us these things are written that you may know that you have life eternal, abundant life eternal, that life with Christ. You can know that to be the case. By placing your trust in Christ. And if you don't know, if you're not sure, let me encourage you to come and talk with myself after the service or somebody else that you're comfortable with that you know has a relationship with God And we will take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you will spend eternity with the Lord, that you can live that life that I was talking about before, a life that that is intended, that you are created to live a life that glorifies God, so that you can have a relationship with God. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and we thank you for the truth of your word. We thank you that we are truly free from the power of sin. We confess before you that we do often feel as though we're not. We struggle with our emotions, our feelings. We feel like we just can't help but sin. And yet you have taught us that if we are truly born again, we are freed from the power of sin. Lord, would you help us to know that? And to reckon it to be so in our lives. And Father, if there is somebody here this morning that doesn't know you, They're not assured of where they will spend eternity with you, or uh where they will spend eternity, and they're not assured of their relationship with you. I pray, Lord, that you would work on their hearts and help them to understand your love for them and the fact that Jesus died for them and help them to depend upon you today. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Gannam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, We can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, Or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon