Verses one through five, Psalm one hundred Make a joyful shout to the Lord, all you lands. Serve the Lord with gladness. Come before his presence with singing. Know that the Lord He is God. It is He who has made us and not we ourselves. We are His people and the sheep of His pasture Enter into his gates with thanksgiving, and into his courts with praise. Be thankful to him, and bless his name. The Lord is good, his mercy is everlasting, and his truth endures to all generations. Let's pray together. Father, we do come to you and praise you because your truth does endure. That every you say in Matthew 5, which we'll be looking at today, that every Every part of the law and the prophets, the entire Old Testament and really the New Testament as well, will endure And Lord, we praise you for that. We praise you that you even say that you put your word above your very name, that it is your revelation to us to reveal who you are. And to reveal who we are, and to I and to show your plan of redemption for us. And I pray, Lord, today we would really understand this more and appreciate it more because of the things that we're going to learn today. Lord, I also want to take a few moments and thank you that the comrades are now here safely in uh this area they arrive safely. Thank you for how you allowed for all for that to occur with uh a ne uh uh and uh negative test results and all of that, Lord. Um there were several hurdles that we were praying about and and you've you uh superintended over all those things, Lord, and we thank you for that Lord, we do pray for the Kellers as well who are now in Hungary, having escaped the Ukraine. We pray for the country of Ukraine as well and for those who are fighting for their freedom. And for those Christians who perhaps are still there that need protection and we pray, Lord, that you would uh bring an end to this conflict soon. Uh that uh that Ukraine would continue to be free to be able to uh uh in the in recent days it's all it's been free to be able to pr to for the gospel to go forward. And um If uh if Russia is successful, that will unlike that will be less significantly less likely. So we pray for that country that you would uh be with them and strengthen them, be with the president I specifically want to pray for Anna's family as well that you keep them safe. And We just pray, Lord, for the whole situation over there that you would in your in your sovereignty work in a way and in your great wisdom work in a way that this would actually come out uh for the furtherance of the gospel. I think of uh missionaries that we know that are over there uh that in in in a sense at some point are going to have probably if they haven't already more opportunities to give the gospel because of this and And there is a possibility that people are more, see their need more and and and that you will use this in their lives. So we pray, Lord, that you would help our missionaries that we know to be ready for that and to be equipped for that as well. Lord, we pray as well that you'd just be with us to this morning. Help us to worship you and in spirit and in truth this morning. We thank you for Christ. We anticipate at the end of our service, Lord, that we will be able to partake of communion together. We are reminded of the fact that you say that when we gather together and particularly when we partake of communion, that your presence is with us. And we anticipate your presence with us today. We thank you for it. And we pray, Lord, that as we partake together later on that it would be a a time where we really are able to say with unity that we believe in the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. And we have personalized that for our own lives. We pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen. Let us pray together. Father, we thank you again for the ability to come together and Be with one another to practice the many one another commands that we see in the New Testament. Thank you, Lord, that we can have fellowship with one another and that that fellowship stems from the gospel. That we are one in Christ. And that gospel, along with all of the truth and the precepts and the commands, is found in your word. And so, Lord, we thank you for your word. The truth is that we are not left to ourselves, confused, and Doubtful about the future, wondering what we should do, we have been given every single thing that we need as it pertains to life and godliness. And your scripture is sufficient. And we thank you, Lord, that we have your word to rely on, that it has been providentially preserved by you over the thousands of years to to the point where we have copy a copy with us today And often many of us have multiple copies. We thank you, Lord, for the wisdom that it gives to us for daily life. We thank you for the comfort that it can give when we go through struggles. We thank you for the power it can give. When we share the gospel with someone else, to someone else. Lord, we often, though, we recognize that we do neglect your word at times. And truly, it is to our detriment and to our shame when we do it. Lord, I pray that we would be a people of the Word. I pray, Lord, that you would cause in us a desire for your word. Pray, Lord, that that desire would be as the deer pants for the water. That we would hunger and thirst for your truth. That we would want to be in your word each and every day. We thank you, Lord, that you use your truth from your word to mold us into your Son's image. And we know that you are doing that today, and we pray that you would do that today. We ask, Lord, that you would use your word today from this passage to impact our hearts. To challenge us where we need to be challenged, to correct us where we need to be corrected, and to encourage us where we need to be encouraged. Truly your word can do that like no one else. We thank you, Lord. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Today's passage we'll be reading from is Matthew five, seventeen through twenty. Please read along with me if you will. Do not think that I came to destroy the law or the prophets. I did not come to destroy, but to fulfill For assuredly I say to you, till heaven and earth pass away, one jot or one till will be by no means pass from the law till all is fulfilled Whoever therefore breaks one of the least of these commandments and teaches men so shall be called the least in the kingdom of heaven. But whoever does and teaches them, he shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven. For I say to you that unless your righteous need righteousness exceeds the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees meaning the first five books of the Old Testament and then the rest of it meaning the prophets. The law and the prophets essentially make up the Old Testament, and Jesus is actually telling us what he thinks about that The truth is, unfortunately, there are some Christians that really downplay the Old Testament. There are some Christians that the way that they they describe the Old Testament, it's like you you take this much out of your Bible Just kind of cut that out because it's really not all that important. Or there are some that would just they sort of they'll say, ah, that's Old Testament. You ever heard that somebody said, ah, that's Old Testament Well, what does that mean? When somebody says, oh, that's Old Testament. That's not for us. Are you sure? Is that Jesus' treatment of the Old Testament? How is it that we are supposed to understand the Old Testament? Are we aware that the majority of the Bible is Old Testament? So when we're thinking about this, I think it's going to help us to really a lot here. But let me let me um let me begin by it with an illustration I think it's going to really help us. It's one that we can all relate to. When you're sick, okay when you're sick and you you're sick to the point where you can't you can't help yourself get better, right? It's not just a common cold, it's something more severe than that. You have to go to the doctor. And when you go to the doctor, you're going to, he's very likely going to write you a so a prescription. Maybe it's bronchitis or something like that and he writes you a prescription for antibiotics, something of that nature. So he writes you a prescription He may give you instructions on what how you know what to do with the medication. Take it a couple once a day for five days or two times a day for five, whatever it is. He gave may give you it, don't make sure you drink enough water with it. Don't make sure you don't take it on empty stomach. Those kinds of things. He's going to give you instruction on what to do with that. And then you take it to a pharmacy, probably, and you get that prescription filled. And then after you get the prescription filled, you begin to apply, you begin to take or apply the medication to yourself. Now, everybody has done this before, just about, I would think, at some time or another, and so it's a very relatable illustration to help us to understand some key components of the Old Testament. So let's I actually have them listed for you. When you think of the Old Testament, I think it's going to be helpful for us to think to realize that the Old Testament has four basic elements. This is all going to play into our message and what Christ is going to explain in this text. There are essentially four basic elements. One Is the spiritual sickness of sin. Alright, so you have sin. Man's creation and his fall in the first three chapters in Genesis starts up You know, the world's created, man's created, and then man falls because of sin. And so the sin is the problem. It's the sickness, if you will, the spiritual sickness. You see that throughout Scripture, but it starts, it really starts off the Bible. And the problem with sin is that it separates us from God Very, very simple. That's why sin is such a problem. Now we are born disconnected from God. So that's number one. Number two is the divine prescription. Alright, so we just talked about sickness needing a prescription. The divine prescription of the law. The law, what are all these 613 commandments? They're all prescription. Okay? They're all prescription, the divine prescription of the law. God says, in order for you to be rightly aligned with me In order for me to have things right between us, there has to be this is the prescription. The prescription is the law, and there are 613 commandments in the law. You know probably, uh I really know is about the Ten Commandments, but there are there are more than just that. There are 603 more Okay. So that's the prescription. Our need, that's the sickness, then we have the prescription. The next is the stories in the Old Testament of failures. These are the failures to be able to fill the prescription. Okay? This is going to be really, really helpful for us as we go through this. You've got one failure after another failure after another failure in the Old Testament, the nation of Israel. You've got like judges, everybody does right in their own eyes, and you've got the you know, Israel, uh you've got kings and you've got all kinds of people throughout the entire Old Testament. And it's really one story after another after another. You've got some successes. You've got some bright spots like Joshua and Daniel and Joseph. But overall, you've got stories of failing to be able to fill the prescription. You've got a lot of God's grace, a lot of God's patience, but in the end, every single one of these groups and Mainly the nation of Israel, they failed to fulfill the prescription, to fill the prescription. And then you have also the other thing that you have in the Old Testament are the prophecies of promise. All of these are going to play into here, the prophecies of promise. And these are promises of two things primarily. Promises of sin that will be judged And and and that there is going to be a day where the prescription is going to be fulfilled, even though there's all these failures. There will be one day where the prescription of the law will be fulfilled. Somebody's going to be able to fill it. And it'll describe a person. And they'll d have descriptions of it'll say uh the the mighty God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace really indicates in the Old Testament. It's veiled. They don't know. But there's going to be this person who actually is God who's actually going to fulfill the prescription for mankind because man, throughout the Old Testament, can't fill the prescription. Alright, is everybody with me? Does that make sense? Alright, now this is if if we just understand these four things, it's going to really, really help us as we go through this text. Then we come to the New Testament. All right. Come to Matthew, Matthew, Mark, look, and John. And the setting of the New Testament Is is the setting is Israel and the leaders of Israel, after one failure after another failure after another failure in the Old Testament, then 400 years of silence Then you've got these leaders, the Pharisees and the Scribes, and since they couldn't, they kept failing, the Pharisees and Scribes, they changed the prescription. Okay, think about this. They change the prescription. But you can't change the prescription. That's God's prescription. But what the Pharisees and the scribes do, they change the prescription. They add to the prescription certain things, and they make certain things that are in the prescription like they're not really that important. Okay, and they they put it they they they they mix up the prescription. It's all mech messed up because the Pharisees and scribes have messed up. And they've said if you follow our you that this is something you can follow And the scribes and the Pharisees are able to get you to get people to think that they can fulfill the prescription. It's called self-righteousness. Now, if you want to define the word if you want to use one word to describe the prescription besides law, it would be righteousness. Keep that in mind as well. Righteousness is the prescription. Well, what does the law do? The law describes Christ's righteousness. God's righteousness. That's what the law describes. 613 commands, describe the righteousness of God. The Bible's very clear that the law is not bad. The law is good. Don't say it's bad. Don't ever say it's bad. The law is good because it describes the righteousness of God Alright, now with all of that in mind, then we come up a couple of two more things, okay? This section of Matthew, Matthew 5, 17. You see, it says, do not think that I come to destroy the law of the prophets. That term law of the prophets. We're also going to see it again in Matthew 7. 12. It says, therefore whatever you want men to do to you, do also them, for this is the law and the prophets. That tells us, that marks off this section. that the entire section, Jesus is dealing with what's up there on the screen now. Jesus is dealing with the issue of the divine prescription, the law. He's interpreting it the right way. He's helping us apply it the right way. He's understanding we're going to understand how he fulfills it, all of that during this section. And the first part of this important section is what we're going to be looking at today in verses 17 through 12. So What Jesus says in 17 through 20, rather, not through 12, that doesn't make sense, 17 through 12. 17 through 20, what Jesus says in 17 through 20 is that he fills the prescription. He fulfills the law. That's the main thing he's saying here. I'm the one who fulfills the law. All of it. The question is, okay, how does he do that? How does he fulfill the law? And we're going to see this through three ways, through clear intentions. Through right application, there is a right application, and through divine righteousness. Clear intentions Right application and divine righteousness. Those are how he is going to fulfill the law. So let's first then look at his clear intentions. He says Do not think that I came to destroy the law or the prophets. I did not come to destroy, but to fulfill. For assuredly I say to you, till heaven and earth pass away, one jot or one tittle will by no means pass from the law till all is fulfilled. At the very outset says, I did not come to destroy or abolish the law. He wants to be very, very clear about that. By the way, when he says, do not think, he's going to say that several times. He's going to say that later in Matthew chapter, he's already said it in chapter 3, verse 9. He's going to say it later in Matthew 10. Verse 34, this do not think. It means he's clarifying something. There is a wrong kind of thinking. Maybe people thought at this point that he was actually, because he had actually, if you remember, he had actually gone after him, John the Baptist particularly had gone after the the scribes and the Pharisees, and they were so closely associated with the law that perhaps at this point his disciples were saying, uh, are you actually just going to do away with the law? Jesus says very clearly No, I am not doing I am not abolishing the law. That's not why I came. I did not come to abolish the law. I did not come to destroy the law The word destroy is used in Matthew later on in Matthew to talk about the temple, where Jesus says, destroy the temple Dismantle the temple and in three days I'll raise it up. So this is a destroy or abolish. He said, I did not come to abolish the law. I did not come to destroy the law. Now this is very consistent with the New Testament. The New Testament is going to say this, Romans chapter 7 verse 12. Therefore the law is holy. The commandment holy and just. That's that word righteous, actually, and just and good. What is the nature of the law? The nature of the law is not bad. The law is holy, the commandment holy, and just and good. And then he says, I have not come to abolish it, but I have come to fulfill it. Well then, what does he mean when he says fulfill the law? It's interesting that it's going to use the word fulfill in the text again, but it's a totally different word This time, the first time the word fulfill is used, it means to establish, to validate, or to confirm. To establish, to validate, or to confirm. He says, I've not come to abolish the law. I've come to validate the law. I've come to establish the law. I've come to confirm the law. Now, in the Bible, in Matthew so far, we've actually seen many times from chapter 122 all the way through chapter 4. We have actually seen this term fulfill used. And Matthew keeps using this term fulfill in his book. He keeps using it to show how Jesus is the fulfillment of Old Testament prophecy. Over and over again he's done this already. For example, Matthew chapter 1, verse 22, verse 2 and 23, it says, So that all this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the Lord and the prophet, saying, Behold, a virgin shall be with child. and bear a son and shall be called his name Emmanuel, which is translated God with us. That was that was prophesied in Isaiah chapter seven and fulfilled. Here in Matthew 22. You have prophecy in the Old Testament that's fulfilled in the New Testament, and Jesus is the fulfillment of the Old Testament prophecy that there was going to be a virgin that was going to come. Matthew 2. 15, you have the same thing. You have the same thing in Matthew 2. 17. You have again Matthew 2. I mean we've already been through this, but the over and over again we see these fulfillment of these Old Testament prophets. Matthew is really trying to get us to understand. That what was failure after failure after failure in the Old Testament is now going to be fulfilled in the New Testament through Jesus. Jesus is the fulfillment. Now, there is something else that's really interesting that I want to point out. Matthew chapter, you might want to write this down, Matthew chapter 11, verse 13. Just a couple of chapters ahead of this, a few chapters ahead of this, he is going to say this, for the the prophets and the law prophesied until John. John the Baptist being the last prophet. I'm going to read it again. For all the prophets and the law. Prophesied until John. Now, when we think of prophecies, we usually think of prophets, you know, the minor prophets, the major prophets, all these different prophets in the New Test in the Old Testament, prophesying something, foretelling of something But the Bible actually says there that the law also prophesies. In other words, there is this future fulfillment necessary even of the law. Now that is actually going to become important as well. We don't think of it that way that the law, there's actually a fulfillment needed of the law. We think you follow the law. But actually, the Bible says that there is a prophetic nature to the law in the sense that it needs to be fulfilled. So that's important for us to understand. And you're going to see then also, you say, well, wait a minute, does that mean we we does Christ do everything and then we don't have to pay attention to the law at all? Actually the answer is no Because what he's going to then do in Matthew 5, 21, all the way through 48, he is going to interpret and apply the law correctly for his followers, for his disciples. So, and we're going to see that in a minute why that's uh how that how that all comes together and why that's important. So, no, it's not as though, okay, he fulfills the law and we have nothing to do with it. It's not that at all. Okay. So then he says this, most assuredly, I say to you, till heaven and earth pass away One jot or one tittle will by no means pass from a law till all is fulfilled. There is two untills or tills here. If you're in New King James or King James is tills. The same word, until or till. Okay. There are two untills here. The one until, the first one Most surely I say unto you, till all, till or until heaven and earth passed away, one jot or one tidal will by no means pass away from the law. That's your first until That until is talking about authority. Until the heavens and earth pass away. The authority of the word of God stands. It stands. And it stands in every jot or tittle. What is jot and tittle? Those are smallest Old Testament characters. I won't get into the details of that, but basically talking about the Hebrew Bible. It says the Hebrew Bible is preserved until and and the and the law, the law, the prophets, is preserved the authority of it. It still carries authority. Folks, you cannot say, you are in, you are, you cannot say that the Old Testament does not carry any authority anymore. Now we have to understand how to interpret it right and apply it right and all that, but we you cannot say, okay, well this this part carries authority and this part doesn't. No, because has the earth and has the heaven and earth passed away yet It hasn't. So that means that the that the Bible teaches, Jesus taught, he's the central figure in all of history, and he taught as the word, the revelation of God. in the flesh that the Bible, the Old Testament, is absolutely authoritative. It has, it carries authority. We find that Paul is going to say the same kind of thing referring to the Old Testament. In 2 Timothy 3, verse 15, it says, And from the child from childhood you have known the holy scriptures Paul told Timothy this, you've known all these scriptures, what's he talking about? He's not talking about the New Testament, it hasn't been written yet. He's talking about the Old Testament. Now, the the principles include the New Testament. He's talking about the Old Testament, he says, which are able to make you wise for salvation. It's to why they're to wise you up for salvation. Make you uh aware of your need for salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus. All scriptures given by inspiration of God is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction and righteousness. This The Word of God is breathed by God for us. Now, the other full the other uh Until here is talking about it's the word the word fulfilled there, the second time it's used, is the word accomplishment. It's a totally different word than the first time it's used. It's the word accomplishment. He says, till all is accomplished. Now let's just think of it this way in the Old Testament. The Old Testament has all kinds of prophecies. There are certain events that are supposed to happen. A virgin shall conceive and bear a son and shall call his name Jesus. Okay, that's an event that's going to happen. Has that been fulfilled? Answer, yes, that's been fulfilled. It's in other words, it's been accomplished. It's been done. Okay? There's all kinds of other events, but has every event in the Old Testament been accomplished? Not every event has been accomplished yet. Some of them have, some of them have not been accomplished yet. They will all be accomplished is what this is guaranteeing. The authority of it is remaining, and they're all going to be accomplished. And Jesus says, I've come to accomplish them all. I'm going to accomplish all of them. So, he says he's going to accomplish them. Now, remember I said before That the law has a prof is prophetic in that there needs to be fulfillment in in the law. Okay And there are examples of this. One of the best examples is the Old Testament sacrificial system. Remember in the Old Testament you had a temple, you had a tabernacle first, and then you had a temple? You had sacrifices, blood sacrifices that were offered, lambs that were slain. You have those things going on. They were commanded by God to Israel to do. But now the Bible is going to tell us in Hebrews 9. 11 that that has been fulfilled, that those commands have been fulfilled. by Jesus dying on the cross and shedding his blood. And there is actually a heavenly temple. What is the temple? The temple is the presence of God. That's what the temple is And the physical temple on earth is actually a representation of the presence of God in heaven. So he says this, Hebrews 9. 11, but Christ came as a high priest of good things to come. With the greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands that is that is not of this creation, not with the blood of goats and calves, but with his own blood, he entered the most holy place once for all, having obtained eternal redemption. For if the blood of bulls and goats and ashes of heifer, sprinkling the unclean, sanctifies the purifying of the flesh, how much more shall the blood of Christ who through the eternal spirit offered himself with spot without spot to God, cleanse your conscience from dead works to serve the living God. He's saying this really simply He's saying that Jesus, when he died on the cross, it fulfills the demands, the commands and the demands of what happened in the commands in the Old Testament when he said all the sacrifices of that whole sacrificial system. That's just one example of this. So, okay, let's summarize all of what he's saying in the first part of this. He is saying That he did not come to invalidate, nullify, abolish the law. He had not Jesus did not come for that. He came rather And here's what he's saying. He's saying, Christ, not man, will fulfill the law. Number two, Christ, not man, can interpret the law. And number three, Christ, not man, can apply the law. Okay, so it's all the center of understanding the law, how it all works, all that, is in Christ. Now remember what the law is The law, if we're going to describe the law in one word, we're going to describe it as righteousness, right? And righteousness is the prescription for getting right with God. That makes sense, doesn't it? Just trying to make sure we're we're we're all on the same page. The prescription for getting right with God is righteousness, and righteousness is needed in order to be right with God And the law tells us what righteousness is. And Jesus says, I am going to fulfill The law. Now, you may say to yourself, okay, well that means Christ has done it all. I don't have to worry about it. I don't have to do anything. Well, he is telling his disciples, his followers, look at the next part of this, verse 19. No, you're wrong. You do have, there is an application. Look at what he says. Whoever therefore breaks one of the least of these commandments. and teaches men so, shall be called the least in the kingdom of heaven. But whoever does and teaches them, he shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven He says, those who who s who and this is an interesting word, the word breaks is the word loose. It's to loose from, to loosen. In fact, it's the very first word most first-year Greek students learn. So word luo, how many there's a few of you look remember luo? And that's how you conjugate all the verbs. You use luo, luam, lu-luamen, la you know, those are all the diff you use luo, lu, luo. That's the first verb you usually use. It's a very common verb. It means to loose. To loosen. Saying here, folks, that anybody Who loosens himself from the law is going to be least. Even the least of the law is going to be least in the kingdom of heaven But those, it says, who do the law will be greatest in the kingdom of heaven. So the question then becomes, what commandments is he talking about? Says the commandments here. So what commandments are is he talking about? Well, he says in Matthew 23, verse 23, and we're going to look at this later, he says, woe to you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites. For you pay tithe of mint and anise and cumin and have neglected the weightier matters of the law, justice and mercy and faith. These ought to have you have done done without leaving the others undone. He says, you focused on the small things and you've left the other things undone, the more weightier things undone. He said you should have done them all They all need to be done. They all need to be fulfilled. Don't loose yourselves from any of them. And then he says this, the greatest of the command he says, those who do the commandments are great in the kingdom of heaven. Now, what is he talking about there? Well, there's there's two applications for this. that I want to mention what the application is for the true follower of Christ. It says this in Romans, and we'll get the iron out in a minute. But Romans 8. 4 says this. The righteous requirements of the law might be fulfilled in us who do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the spirit. Did you catch that? That God intends for the righteous requirements of the law to be fulfilled where? In us. That's what it says. Romans chapter 8, verse 4. Who don't walk in the flesh, but walk in the spirit. All right. And teaches others to do so. This word teach is going to be used later on in Matthew 28, where it says in Matthew 28. It says, teaching them to observe all things, whatsoever I commanded you. And lo, I am with you always. even unto the end of the age. Now therein we have a little bit of a hint. It's the commands of Christ. It's how he's interpreted them. It's how he is applying them that matters. It's not how the Pharisees have. It's how he has. But let me just quickly say this. Number one The demand of Christ, the demand of God, is that we live in complete compliance with the commands of Scripture. And number two, we must teach others to do the same. Now, let me let's let's make this practical. How does this happen? How do we not do this? How do we keep How does this occur? I'll tell you how, this is just some examples. Number one, uh I have here, uh one example is we say the Old Testament doesn't matter. Uh it's not really that's not important. I mean there are times I have made reference to the Old Testament about something and somebody says, Yeah, but that's Old Testament. Immediately, yeah, that's why I don't I don't listen to that. But yeah, it's Old Testament. We just say the Old Testament doesn't matter. Another way is we say, just do the best you can. Yes, we've got to follow the law, but just do the best you can. Is that what God says there? Does God say just do the best you can? He doesn't say just do the best you can He says, if you don't follow the least of the commandments, he says, don't do, it's not do the best you can. And when he says, uh and when when we say, oh God, God will just overlook your sin. You ever heard somebody say that before? You know, yeah, he's got all these commandments, and yeah, he's holy, but If you just do the best you can and God will look overlook your sin. No. That's not what the Bible says. And if you have that kind of thinking about God and what he expects of you, then you are missing it. It's actually a false gospel you're believing. The Bible says something very, very different than that. That moves us then to our next point, which is it is through divine righteousness that this is going to be fulfilled. Look at verse 20. For I say to you that unless your righteousness exceeds the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, you will by no means enter the kingdom of heaven. If your righteousness is not better than the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, you won't enter the kingdom of heaven. It won't happen. Alright, well then we better figure out what in the world the righteousness of the scribes and the heresies are. Uh heresies, that works. The scribes and the Pharisees are. It either works, actually. What what it what what is what is that? Well first of all I want to read this verse and then we're gonna go ahead and take your Bibles actually turn to Matthew Turn to Matthew 23. Matthew 23. There are a few that I want, I want to read one verse to you here. Romans 30 through 21 is going to say this. Therefore, by the deeds of the law No flesh will be justified in his sight, for by the law is the knowledge of sin. But now the righteousness of God, apart from the law, is revealed, being witnessed, by the law and the prophets. And we're going to learn what that means in the Okay. So what is the righteousness of the Pharisees and what is the righteousness of Christ? That's really the contrast that we have here. The righteousness of Christ versus the righteousness of the Pharisees. And I have four points mainly taken from Matthew 23. In Matthew 23, it says this, verse 23, Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites. For you pay tithe of mint and anise and cumin have neglected. The weight of your matter is the law, justice and mercy and faith. You've missed justice. Actually, that's the word righteousness. You've missed the word justice, righteousness, mercy, and faith. These you ought to have done without live leaving the others undone. Blind guides you strain out a gnat and swallow a camel That's a really vivid picture, actually, if you think about it. I want to give you four four contrasts. Number one. Perfect righteousness versus imperfect righteousness. Clearly in this passage, Jesus is saying, you, he said, he's saying to the Pharisees, you don't have perfect righteousness. You have imperfect righteousness by pri and you have prioritized things that matter less, and you have loosed yourself from the things that matter the most. Now he didn't say in that passage by the way, okay, it should be the reverse. He didn't say that actually. He didn't say, well, the little stuff doesn't matter and it's the big stuff that matters. He doesn't say that. He says, while you're keeping the little stuff You've got to get the big stuff too. That's what he says in the passage. What's he saying there? It all matters. It all has to be fulfilled. What he's requiring is perfect righteousness. Perfect righteousness. Matthew 5, 48, same passage, is going to say this. Therefore, you shall be perfect. Just as your Father in heaven is perfect. What is God's standard? In order to be rightly related to Him, what do you have to do? You have to have perfect righteousness. And he says the Pharisees and the scribes did not have perfect righteousness. Number two. Correctly prioritize righteousness versus incorrectly prioritized righteousness. That's the second one. Correctly prioritized versus incorrectly prioritized. They had totally Wrong priorities. And you know what Jesus is going to do after this text? He's going to set things right as far as the priorities. He's going to say later on in the text in Matthew 5, he's going to say, hey, you've got these I'm going to tell you, even your heart's hatred is murder. He's going to set the priorities the way that they ought to be set. Why is Christ going to do that? Because he wrote them. He's the author of the of the of the commands. And now he's going to interpret them for them and explain how to apply them. Number three, internal source versus external source. Matthew 5, or I'm sorry, Matthew 23, verse 25 says this, woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites. For you cleanse the outside of the cup and dish, but inside you are full of extortion and self-indulgence. Blind Pharisee, first cleanse the inside of the cup and dish, and the outside of them will be clean also. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites For you are like whitewashed tombs, which indeed appear beautiful outwardly, but inside are full of dead men's bones and are and all uncleanness. Even so you are outwardly appear righteous to men, but inside you are full of hypocrisy and lawlessness. The Pharisees' righteousness was external righteousness that I guess they hoped worked its way in. Jesus' righteousness is it starts inward and works its way out. It's a very, very clear difference. between Christ's righteousness, God's divine righteousness, and man's attempt at God's righteousness which is self-righteousness. And that actually leads me to the fourth point, divine righteousness versus self-righteousness. What really is going on here, folks, is that the Pharisees are self-righteous. And listen, every false religion has the same thing in common. They all want you to feel better about yourself. And there are different ways they get at it. But at the end of the day, what they are suggesting is that you can have self-righteousness You can be righteous in yourself. If you'll do these certain sacraments, if you'll these do these certain things, if you'll follow the certain method, if you'll do these certain steps, if you'll do this, then you'll be good with God. If you'll go to confession, if you'll it's it's whole systems set up so that you can have self-righteousness and feel good about your righteousness. It's the exact same thing that the Pharisees and the scribes did when they had self-righteousness. But look, I'm not going to let us Protestants off the hook. You know what? We do the same thing. And I've said this before, but we do the same thing when we sort of when we say, you know, I uh I just want to feel righteous, so I'm gonna pray a prayer. Or if I can just write something in my Bible that says I'm saved, then I'll feel righteous about myself. I'll feel good. Or Someone genuinely comes to Christ, and now they're going to live out their own sense of righteousness by doing things in and of themselves. And they say, listen, they say I am who I am because of what I do. Instead of saying, I do what I do because of who I am. And it's a very subtle difference. The Christian who has divine righteousness says, I do what I do because of who I am, not because of what I do. Now, with all of that in mind, and he says, the person that has this kind of righteousness, you won't enter the kingdom of heaven The kind of righteousness that says, I'm pretty good, God overlooks me, I've got this system, I've got this way of feeling good about myself. That is false. That is false religion. And Jesus says, you will by no means enter the kingdom of heaven. It won't happen. You won't get there that way. Now, he leaves it there, but I'm not going to leave it there. And the reason he leaves it there is because you've got a whole New Testament to explain the rest of it. But in a sh very in a few moments, what I a few I'm going to go through some things that are is going to really hopefully help help you understand all of this in these concluding applications. So number one, I know there's got a lot of number ones and twos and all this stuff. Hopefully we can keep it all straight. Number one, understand this, that Jesus completely validates Thoroughly fulfills, accurately interprets, and perfectly applies the Old Testament. It's only Jesus that can do this. Nobody else can do it. You have story after story in the Old Testament that tried. You've got the Pharisees trying and failing. Nobody can do this. Jesus is the only one who can do it, who can validate it, fulfill it, interpret it, and apply it. He's the only one that could do this perfectly and rightly. So the baseline for everything is that. Number two, gee, listen, this is this is so key. This is the key to the whole thing. Jesus' righteousness can only be applied. Folks, isn't that what we need? I mean, if you read through all this, you're sort of like, oh, uh, I can't do this. That's exactly what you should be thinking If you say to yourself, I can't keep the law this way, I can't perfectly I can't do it, exactly. You need somebody else's righteousness. You need the prescription to be filled by someone else. You can't feel it fill it. And that's exactly the way God wants you to bring you to a place where you can't fill your own prescription. There is no way you can. Man can't fill God's prescription. Only God can fill God's prescription. And so when Jesus came as God to the earth and took on human flesh, he stood as our representative with his own righteousness, went to the cross, died in our place, took our sin on our s on himself, and then he is then able to give us his righteousness, to place it on us. And that happens only as we realize my righteousness won't work. And we come to Christ by faith alone. 2 Corinthians 5, 21 says this, for he made him, Jesus, the Father, made the Son. He made him to be sin for us who knew no sin. Why? That we might become the righteousness of man? No. The righteousness of God in him He made him to be sin for us, who knew no sin, that we might become the righteousness of God. in him. Jesus places his righteousness on those who say, I got nothing. I am Totally spiritually destitute. Poor spirit. I am mourning over my sin because it grieves God. When we, it goes back to those beatitudes, when we come to God and approach our sin the same way we got and that God does, and we realize Where our sin brings us, and the fact that we are helpless, utterly helpless, apart from Christ's righteousness. Then we are on our way, and then we say, Lord Christ, I am depending on your righteousness to save me, not my own. Remember, he is the one that fulfills righteousness. For he made him to be sinned for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. And then you say, so the Christian says, Well, psh, man, I'm glad I'm off the hook now. You're not off the hook. Because the Bible says, number three, Jesus includes his disciples in some of the fulfilling of the law. He includes the disciples in some of the fulfilling of some of the law. I put some twice there. We know this from Romans chapter 8, verses 2 through 4. For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ has made me free from the law of sin and death. For that the law could not do, and it's in that it is was weak through the flesh, God did by sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh on account of a sin, he condemned sin in the flesh, that the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us who do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit. Number four, and this is going to make sense to us now, number four. Once Jesus declares us righteous, and that's the word justification, that's what it means. Number four, can we go to number four? Once Jesus Number four is not on there? Okay. I will read it very carefully then. Once Jesus declares us righteous, then righteousness begins to work in us. from the inside out, making us more and more like Jesus. I'm going to read this again. So if you're trying to get it, then you can get it. Once Jesus declares us righteous Then his righteousness begins to work in us from the inside out, making us more and more like Jesus. I'm going to read this one more time. Once Jesus declares us righteous, then his righteousness begins to work in us from the inside out, making us more and more like Jesus Do you see how this works? Folks, it's not as though the law is abolished. Jesus fulfills the law. Some of the law, he fulfills like a prophecy where it's the event, it's like it's done. But there is there are other aspects of the law where he says I want to place my righteousness inside of you And you, as a follower of Christ, are going to fulfill that righteousness. So that what happens is he is making us more and more like himself. So the question becomes, where are you in all of this? Now this was more like a lecture. than a sermon. But sometimes I think folks it's necessary to really spell everything out. Sometimes we we work so quickly through the gospel that I think it's just healthy for us to really think through the very foundation of all this. Remember, Jesus, this is the very first time he's talking about his righteousness. In the New Testament. And to really lay the foundation well for all of us, the question then becomes, where are you on this? Number one, it's possible. that you say, you know what, I have depend but been depending on my self-righteousness. You may have grown up in a good church. You may have been a lovely person, really nice person, really You may have been you've been good to people and done the best you can, but you have said, I certainly haven't ful done this perfectly And you have been depending on your self-righteousness. And for the first time in your life, you actually realize that what you've actually been depending on is your own self-righteousness. Look, you've got to come to the place where you understand that all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Romans 3. 23. And the righteousness of Christ is available for you if you will accept it by faith. Or you may be a Christian. Who keeps reverting back to self-righteousness? Who keeps going back and saying, okay, well it's I'm going to I'm going to do what I do in order to become. You don't do because uh uh uh based on who you bec in order to become, you are and then you do as a result. And and and we're not off the hook. There are others who are what the Bible calls what or what what are n uh are are lawless. Christians who are saying, no, the law just isn't important. That is also a wrong extreme. Don't ever say that. The law is important. It's important that we interpret it and apply it exactly as Christ intended. And that's why we have next week. And the week after, probably, and the week after that. Because we're going to need to understand now how does Jesus want us to apply the law as his follower followers. And we'll learn that in the days to come If you don't know Christ as your Savior, if you have been relying on your own self-righteousness instead of the righteousness of Christ, Let me encourage you to come and talk to me after the service. I would bul or somebody else you're comfortable with, I would be glad to show you how, in very clear terms, hopefully, very clear terms from the Bible, how you can know for sure that you have Christ's righteousness rather than your own righteousness. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and praise you for this text. And we thank you that Christ settled this really once and for all, that he is the fulfillment of all of the yearnings of the Old Testament. All of the law and the prophets and the prophecies, all of it is fulfilled in Christ. Father, I pray that if there is anybody here today, And very likely there is, who is relying on their own self-righteousness rather than the righteousness of Christ. I pray today that they would understand by faith how to apply the righteousness of Christ to their life. And Lord, I pray for those of us who genuinely have done that. I pray, Lord, that you would then help us to know how to apply the law, to apply righteousness in our lives in a way that pleases you. And as we go through this in the in the days to come, I pray that it would help us as we understand more about how to apply this the way Christ intended for us to apply it. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. Bethel Baptist Church is a family made up of people from very different backgrounds and from every age group. But we all have one thing in common. We have found a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. We also understand that looking for a church to attend can be unsettling. Before you even drive into our parking lot, we'd like to give you an idea of what to expect on your first visit to Bethel Baptist Church. After arriving at Bethel, feel free to park at one of our guest parking spaces, close to the front doors. It is our privilege to have you visit us, and we want you to feel at home while you're here. We are ready to assist you in understanding your needs and locating facilities such as the nursery, coffee area, and the specific ministries and classes available for you and your family. When a person discovers how to have a genuine relationship with God, they are given a sense of purpose and meaning in life. When that same person belongs to a loving community where God's word is taught, they will grow in their relationship with the Lord, and their life grows in purpose and meaning. Since I uh started coming to Bethel, I noticed that my walk with the Lord became more serious. more faithful. The church has impacted my walk with the Lord in terms that my faith became real. I I'd had some some spiritual struggles in my own life that have sort of turned around night and day, just just having come here here. The the church family here is just so uh great in terms of their unity and their activeness and involvement in the church. When I first came to Bethel I was a babe in Christ. I was Spiritually immature through hearing God's word, preached, studying God's word, and continuing You know, reading in the Bible is helping me to grow spiritually. Bethel is a place for someone If they want to grow spiritually, if they're ready to take the the next steps in their spiritual walk with God in their Christian life Uh this this is a place for them. We sincerely desire to help people grow in the relationship with the Lord, with their families, and with one another. Our focus is on making and building disciples for God's glory. We accomplish this through corporate worship on Sunday mornings, through adult Bible studies where we learn God's Word and how to effectively apply it to our lives, and through our discipleship home groups that meet in various locations throughout the region. Additionally, there are one-on-one and couple-to-couple counseling and discipleship opportunities. We genuinely desire to help you grow spiritually any way we possibly can. Our children's ministries are extremely important to us. We have a lot of young families with children, and we believe in the importance of teaching truth to the next generation. Teachers and nursery workers will be available to introduce themselves and assist you in signing your children in and out of their classrooms. My family is involved in the church. My children are growing in the church. And the ministry and the love of the people of the church is helping my children and my family to stay faithful to the Lord. As a young mom I have two small kids and so I am very much looking forward to seeing them grow up in this church where I know there are gonna be people who care about them and love them and want what is best for them. It's a body of believers that is striving together to serve the Lord. Uh genuinely we have a real unity in the faith because we believe in that objective truth in the scriptures and um it just draws us together as a family. So being new members here, I'm most looking forward to uh continuing to deepen my walk with Christ and and grow in my relationship with him. And even getting involved in the ministry, I'm looking forward to uh being able to help out and and to help build up others in the faith the way that they've helped build me up. Bethel Baptist Church is a growing loving family community We hope that we've been able to show you a small glimpse of what Bethel is like. But we'd love to meet you personally. Join us for a worship service, a small group for Bible study. Let us be a blessing to you and your family.