Psalm fifty seven. Be merciful to me, O God, be merciful to me. For my soul trusts in you, and in the shadow of your wings I will make my refuge. Until these calamities have passed by. I will cry out to God most high, to God who performs all things for me. He shall ascend from heaven and save me. He reproaches the one who would swallow me up. God shall send forth his mercy and his truth. My soul is among lions. I lie among the sons of men who are set on fire. Whose teeth are spears and arrows, and their tongue a sharp sword. Be exalted, O God, above the heavens. Let your glory be above all the earth They have prepared a net for my steps, my soul is bowed down, they have dug a pit before me, into the midst of it they themselves have fallen. My heart is steadfast, O God. My heart is steadfast. I will sing and give praise. Awake my glory. Awake, lute and harp. I will awaken the dawn. I will praise you, O Lord, among the peoples. I will sing to you among the nations. For your mercy reaches unto the heavens, and your truth unto the clouds. Be exalted, O God above the heavens. Let your glory be above all the earth. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you today and we pray that that would exactly take place in our midst. That you would be exalted, that you would be glorified That you would be lifted up. We confess before you, Father, that often we live in a way as though we don't even need you. We are so busy with our own tasks, with our own agendas, and yet if we are going to put first your kingdom. If we are going to live for your kingdom, we admit before you that we desperately need you. In fact, we would echo the words of Jesus who said, without him, we can do nothing. nothing. And Lord, today as we come to you, I pray that you would help us and anticipate as we anticipate a very important and helpful passage, I pray, Lord, that you would teach us the things that you want us to know help our hearts and minds to be receptive to it. And Lord, as we think through all of the various struggles and difficulties that that um that are uh in our midst there are th there are there are folks that aren't able to be here today because of sickness and um and And family members of members that are have severe situations. We pray, Lord, that in those cases that you would help and uh strengthen and make your will that your will would would become uh evident and be carried out. And Lord, today may we worship you in spirit and in truth, and we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. I hope you would join me this morning in bowing our hearts to the Lord and go before his throne and seek his face. Heavenly Father, we are so, so grateful this morning. You are a gracious and merciful God. You are patient and kind. You are Almighty, all powerful, all-wise and all noble. You are the Creator and Stainer of all life. And Father, we come this morning with glad hearts and joyful hearts. We pray that the worship this morning is a blessing to your ears, a sweet sound Oh, Father, thank you so much for your goodness and your kindness to this church. We thank you, Father, that we are able to come this morning. You have opened the doors and allow us to come together and worship you. And in one and in person, Lord. We are so grateful for these privileges and these joys. We thank you this morning, Father, for how you have watched over us this week And protected us and provided for us. And Father, as we get to this time now where we're going to be going to your word We ask that your Holy Spirit remove all of the thoughts and the cares and the anxieties of this week. Help us take that time this morning to concentrate solely upon you and your word. And as we were learning in our Sunday school class this morning, Father May we put you first in all things. And this morning we asked that you would have first place in our hearts. That your spirit would just remove everything else and permeate this place. Permeate our hearts. And Father, may we gain understanding of your word through the power of your Holy Spirit. And in doing so, may you enable us during the week to have wisdom to apply. what we know and learn today. I pray for Pastor Jim as he brings your word, Father, that you'll give him clarity of thought, clarity of speech. and that you would move him by your spirit. Help us, Lord, to have our ears open and our hearts and our minds stayed upon you. And Father, in all things, may you be praised, may you be glorified, may you be lifted up. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. We are going to be reading this morning from Exodus chapter 33, and we're going to be looking at verses 12 through the end of the chapter, verse 34. Or 23, I'm sorry. We begin in Exodus 33, twelve. Then Moses said to the Lord See, you say to me, bring up this people, but you have not let me know whom you will send with me. Yet you have said, I know you by name, and you have also found grace in my sight. Now therefore I pray If I have found grace in your sight, show me your way, that I may know you, and that I may find grace in your sight. And consider that this nation is your people. And he said, My presence will go with you, and I will give you rest. Then he said to him, If your presence does not go with us, do not bring us up from here. For how then will it be known that your people and I have found grace in your sight, except you go with us? So we shall be separate. Your people and I, from all the people who are upon the face of the earth. So the Lord said to Moses, I will also do this thing that you have spoken for you have found grace in my sight, and I know your name. And he said, please show me your glory. Then he said, I will make all my goodness pass before you, and I will proclaim the name of the Lord before you. I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious, and I will have compassion on whom I will have compassion. But he said, You cannot see my face, for no man shall see my face and live. And the Lord said, Here is a place by me, and you shall stand on the rock, and it shall be while my glory passes by, that I will put you in the cleft of the rock. And will cover you with my hand while I pass by. Then will I take my hand away, and you shall see my back and my face you and my face shall not be seen. So this passage is really the climax of this entire book. And uh I'm very much looking forward to to preaching it this morning as we go through it here. Uh it is just an incredible passage. I think that what we've got to do in looking at this passage is is understand Let me before we get into the passage, let me mention this. Can somebody go downstairs and they're gonna have to turn s turn the music down down there and uh uh cl make sure both doors are closed on either end of this and we're gonna have to find another place for junior church in the future. Anyway, um so back to our regularly scheduled scheduled uh Sermon. Okay, so so in this passage, you pick up here in verse 11 of Exodus 33. Notice what it says here. So the Lord spoke to Moses face to face, as a man speaks to his friend. And he would return to the camp, but his servant Joshua, the son of Nun, a young man, did not depart from the tabernacle. Let me ask you a question this morning. Have you ever been in a situation where you look ahead and you say, I do not know how I'm going to get through this? I don't know how I'm going to be able to do what I need to do And I would suspect that many of us on some level, at some time or another, have looked at our situation, looked at the prospect of what we had to do, and said, I don't know how it's going to happen Now let me ask you another question. Have you ever said to yourself before, Christian, I don't know how I'm going to glorify God through this? I don't know how I'm going to do that. I don't know how I'm going to really please God through this situation. And if you ever found yourself asking those two questions I don't know how I'm going to get through this. I don't know how I'm going to accomplish what needs to be accomplished. And I don't know how I'm going to glorify God through this. Then you can understand where Moses is right now. That's exactly where Moses is. That's his mindset. His mindset is, I'm looking ahead at what God wants me to do, and I don't know how I'm going to do it. And number two, I don't know how, under the current circumstances, I don't know how God is going to be glorified through this. Now, Moses, by this point, according to verse 11, has a very, very close relationship with the Lord. He's his friend. You don't see that very often in the Old Testament. Very rarely in the Old Testament do you see someone described as God's friend. David's described as a man after God's own heart. This may be the only place, it's the only place I can think of where it's actually where it actually says that they this was God's friend. They were friends So Moses is the friend of God. They are fellowshipping with each other as though they are friends. But God has asked him to do what he looks at and he says, this is an impossible task for one primary reason. God, you have said that your presence is not going in the midst of us. Do you remember from last week Last week, God had said, I will send my angel before you to conquer the land, but I am not going to be in the midst of you. But what you need to do is and then they had this whole setup where Moses pitched his tent outside the camp, outside the rest of the tribes of Israel, and Moses went out and he communed with God, and all the people worshiped as they focused on the cloud that was over Moses' tent. You remember all that from last week? And Moses is fellowshipping with God, but he is saying in the midst of this, I don't see how this is going to work. You ever been in a situation like that? I don't see how this is going to happen. I don't see how I can do this. And I can just tell you this, that if you this is exactly the place that God wanted Moses to be. And it's exactly the place that God wants you and I as Christians to be. He wants us to be in the place Where we say, I do not know how I'm going to be able to go through this, and I do not know how I'm going to glorify God through this. Sometimes we need to be in that place Now, with that in mind, I want to mention something to you that what we're going to do is we're going to see in this passage what Moses is going to do here and what he's going to ask for, what he's going to pray for to God But I want us to have in view some New Testament parallels here. And I want our minds to think of another New Testament leader, or the New Testament leader. In fact, he's the leader of all, and that's Jesus. You've got Moses here, but I want you to fast forward in your head to Jesus right before he goes to the cross. And right before he goes to the cross, he's in an upper room with the disciples. And he says to his disciples, anticipating what he plans for them, he says to them in John chapter 15, you need to abide in me, and I need to abide in you. He says, John 15, 7, if you abide in me and my words abide in you, you will ask what you desire, and it shall be done for you by this my Father is glorified. Keep that in your mind. My Father is glorified. that you bear much fruit, so you will be my disciples. God says Jesus understands what he has in mind for the disciples after after he dies, rises from the grave goes to his father and employs the disciples as apostles. He knows what he has for them. And he says, you've got to abide in me and I in you. It's got to happen that way. And in a very real sense, Moses is realizing the same thing here. He is going to ask for the presence of God. And in John chapter 15, verse 13 and through 15, in that same passage, it says this: greater love has no one, no one than this, that a man laid down one's life for his friends. You are my friend if you do whatever I command you. No longer he says Do I call your call you servants for a servant does not know what his master is doing, but I have called you friends for all things that I have heard from my father I have made unto you What is Jesus saying there? What's the difference between What is the difference between a friend and a servant? What does Jesus say? He says, the friend knows what his master, what the master is doing. The friend knows what the other friend is doing. Now, with that in mind, would you look at our passage and pick up here in verse 12? And I want you to notice then what it says It says, Then Moses said to the Lord, See you say to me, bring up this people, but you have not let me know whom you will send with me. Yet you have said, I know you by name, and you have also found grace in my sight. Now, therefore, I pray, if I have found grace in your sight, show me now your what? Your way. I'm going to put it in common terms. If I'm really your friend, God, would you show me your way? Because that's what friends do. I know your way. And would you show me your way? How is this going to take place? Lord, would you show me your way? That's the question. That is the, or I should say it this way, that's the request that Moses asks. The need, we're going to see later, is the presence of God. But what Moses asked for is for the way of God to be shown. Now it's really interesting in this passage, as we go through those passages, there are three things we're going to see. We're going to see first of all that God wants, that Moses wants to discover God's ways. Number one, discover God's ways. Number two, depend on God's divine presence. And number three, he's going to request God's tangible assurance. Again, discover God's divine way, depend on God's divine presence, and request God's tangible assurance. And folks, that's exactly what you and I need to do. When we find ourselves in situations, and frankly, we are always in this situation, where we are asking ourselves the question, how am I going to go get through this? And how am I going to do this and glorify God? We need to go through the same line of thinking that Moses does. Now, it's very rare that I just lift up a person as exactly the way to do this, but it becomes obvious that Moses is now in communion with God, and this becomes something that's going to be very helpful for us as we go through this. So first of all, discover God's divine ways. He says, Would you show me your way? He he notes first of all in verse twelve that there's a problem. He says, the problem is that you're calling me to go to bring your people out and to conquer Canaan. You're calling me to do that. But he says, you haven't let me know know who is actually going to be going with us. In other words, who's going to be leading this? Moses is almost saying, I know it's not me. But you said, and if you remember back in Exodus 33, 2, it says, And I will send my angel before you, and I will drive out the Canaanites, and the Amorites, and the Hittites and the Perizzites. He says, I'll send my angel, but that's all he says. It's just an angel. He doesn't know he doesn't. There's no other description there. And Moses says, I don't know what's going on here. Would you please show me your way? He says this then. He says This is the appeal that Moses makes. He makes the appeal, verse 12, second part of the verse, he says, I know you by name. He said, You have said, God to me, I know you by name. God knew the name of Moses. And he said, I found grace in your sight. He says, if you really know my name, we're friends, and I've really found grace in your sight, then would you show me your ways? Would you show me your ways? Now I just want to mention this at this point. Do you know that that is exactly what God says about his children? Both of those things are true about God's children. If you genuinely know Christ as your Savior, He knows you by name. My sheep hear my voice, and I know them. And number two, certainly the grace of God, the unmerited favor of God is on us. We have the same standing, folks. It says in in in in John fifteen, that we are his friend. We have the same standing as Moses does here. And Moses asks, would you show me your ways? Now why does he ask that? Why did he say, show me now your ways? Well, it's because what you find in Moses' life as he is relating to God, and what you find throughout the entire Bible, is that To know God, you must know his ways. There's some people that think that know God you need you need to have a fuzzy feeling. Lord, would you just give me that fuzzy feeling? Then I just if i I'll know you're there and I'll know you better because I've got this nice little fuzzy feeling. Or some vision. Or some great um you know epiphany, dream, something like that. Moses doesn't do that here. Moses says, Show me your ways. Because the relationship to God Both in the Old Testament, frankly, and the New Testament is when we know the ways of God, then we know the character of God. We know God by knowing his ways. And that's exactly what he's going to say, that I may know you That I may know you, and he says that I may find grace in your sight. I want to please you. He said, Would you show me your ways so that I may know you and so that I may know how to please you? What a great prayer. You're looking ahead and you're trying to figure out how in the world am I going to get through what I'm going to get through and you're looking ahead and you're trying to understand how in the world am I going to glorify God through this? And you need to be able to say to God, Lord, I wh I You uh uh you know my name. If you found gr I have gr I have your grace, if you genuinely know Christ is your Savior. Would you show me your ways? Because I want to know you and I want to please you. The second request then, Moses says, is would you please consider your nation? Would you cl please consider the nation that you have taken out of Egypt as your people? You remember back in the past, chat last chapter, God says to Moses, these are your people? You remember that? It's almost like uh when a husband and wife have kids and they do something a little bit off and one wife says one spouse says the other, that's your kid. No, it's almost like that. Not exactly, but almost like that. But Moses says what he's really asking is he's saying, would you please restore your people to yourself? He's interceding on their behalf here. And we find Jesus does the same thing for us. John 17, 9 says, I pray for them. I do not pray for the world, but for those who who you have given to me, for they are yours, and all are mine, are all mine are yours, and yours are mine, and I am glorified in them. So this is how God responds. God does not here's how this is interesting. How got God does not give a litany of of Of all kinds of ways here. Moses said, Would you show me your ways? And God says, I'm going to show you my presence. Look at what it says there in the passage, verse thirteen. It says, Now therefore I pray, if I have found grace in your sight, show me now your way that I may know that I may know you and that I may find grace in your sight and consider that this nation is your people. 14 and he said my presence will go with you and I will give you rest. God says his answer is my presence will go with you. Now what did he say before? Before what he said was, I'm not going to be able to be in the midst of you. But he did tell them, you need to do what I tell you to do so that I know what I'm going to be able to do in the future. Remember that? Well, they worshiped him. And now God is taking the request of Moses. He's taking all of this together, and he is saying, I am going to be, I'm going to give you my presence. And I'm going to, and you will you will be able to take hold of my rest. Now, we could go into a lot of detail about what the rest of God is, but suffice it to say here, this was freedom from their enemies. There's a lot actually in the book of Hebrews about this concept of rest, and it has both a present and a future idea. It's both. What this passage tells us, as well as other passages, is that the rest of God and the presence of God is inseparably linked. The closer you get to the presence of God, the closer you get to the rest of God. That's why in heaven we are the closest we're ever going to get to the rest of God. Why? Because we're the closest, the closest we're ever going to get to the presence of God. But on this earth, there there is a way to get close to the presence of God, even for the New Testament believer That also gives us the rest. This is why Jesus could say in Matthew chapter 11, verse 28: Come unto me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you what? Rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn of me, for my yoke is easy and my burden is light, and you'll find rest for your souls. It comes with the presence of God and abiding in Him. There are three implications I want us to remember from just this portion. First of all, like Moses, Christ appeals to our established relationship with God. If you know Christ is your Savior, you have an established relationship. He is your, we are his sheep, and he knows you by name. In Ephesians chapter 1, verse 6, it says, We found grace by, and it says to the praise and the glory of his grace by which he has accepted us in the beloved. Folks, that's where you start in your relationship with God if you genuinely know him as your Savior. Number two, like Moses, our prayer should be to know and follow the ways of God. Number three, like Moses, we are promised rest. Through the presence of God. Jesus says, I will give you rest. But Moses isn't going to stop there. See, now that God has said, I'm going to give you my presence, and you are going to then be able to enter into my rest. Moses is now going to he it's it's like as he gets closer to to the Lord, as he gets in more fellowship with him, he really understands how much He needs the presence of God. It's like God says, I'll give you my presence, and Moses says, that's what I need. I need your presence. So look at what it says here. Begin with verse 15, it says, Then he said to him, If my presence does not go with us, do not bring us up from here. He says, if you If you're not going to go with us, don't do this. We can't do it. Do not bring us up from here. He is depending, number two, on the divine presence of God. If your presence does not go with us, do not bring us up from here. And he says this, for this, for how then will it be known that your people have found grace in your sight? This is what Moses is saying. Moses is saying that, look, we can't glorify you without your presence. If we go and we try to fight the Canaanites and all the Perizzites and all the Zites, if we do that And we don't have your presence, we're not going to be like any other nation. I mean we're going to be like every other nation. We're not going to be distinct at all. There's going to be no difference. He says that if if you're truly God going to be glorified, we're going to have to be distinct from other nations. And for us to be distinct from other nations, we have to have your presence. It's not going to work any other way Moses realized that to really do kingdom work, you must have the presence of God. To really glorify God, you need God to glorify God. How can we magnify God on our own strength? How can we glorify Him in our own devices, in our own way, by our own methods? We can't Because the more we depend upon the Lord, the more we glorify God. And that's actually exactly what John chapter 15 says. Do you remember John chapter 15? We mentioned it before. What does he say, verse 5? Without me ye can do what? Nothing. Without me, you can do nothing. That is exactly where God wants us to be. He wants us to be in a place where we realize that we can do nothing. So how does God reassure him? God God does. Verse 17, he reassures him. He says, I will surely do this thing. I'm reassuring you I will do this thing, for you have found grace in my sight, and I do know you by name. I'm going to do this. I will be in your presence. This is a promise of the restoration of the covenant of Isra b of his covenant with Israel. Now there are three implications here. And I'm I've gotten through two thirds of my sermon and s and we'll be done. Number one, God's glory depends on God's presence. Do you know that that is the truth for you and I as well? The truth of the matter is, listen, this is so important. The truth of the matter is this. If you want to build your own kingdom, you don't need God's presence. The people, Israel. Israel, what were they doing? Well, they could survive with God outside the camp and and worshiping him from afar. And they could they could They could survive that way. But to really live for the furtherance of God's kingdom, they needed the presence of God with them. And the truth of the matter is, you and I, you and I, Christian, we can maybe survive without the presence of God. But what Jesus is saying in John 15, as he anticipates what's going to happen, we really can't survive without God. I'm talking about the special presence of God here, to be clear. But what Jesus is actually saying is that if looking ahead and what I want you to do, disciples, without me, you can't do any of it. And that is true for you and I as Christians as well. Without abiding in Christ, without depending upon Him, without His presence, you and I cannot live for the furtherance of His kingdom. Utter dependency on Christ is at the heart of Christian living If you want to live like the world, if you want to survive and maybe even thrive from the world standards, you don't need the presence of God. You don't need to abide in Him. But if you're going to do kingdom work It's going to require a full dependency on the Lord. And I'm going to tell you where this dependency begins. This dependency begins by actually understanding that we are born absolute sinners. We're born enemies of God. Now we are made in the image of God. The Bible is very clear about that. God we are we have value because we are all made in the image of God. But because of sin that happened from the very first man and woman and went down from there. You and I are born sinners. We are born separated from God and we show very clearly we're separated from God because we sin all the time. God is holy, and the Bible says that he cannot look on sin. He cannot have sin in his presence. It's not something he cannot he will by no means just clear the guilty, Scripture says But Jesus Christ took our sin on himself when he died on the cross for us. And the Bible tells us, it says, that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures, and that he was buried, and he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. When Jesus did this, died for us, took our sin on himself, took our punishment on himself, so that he could then give us his righteousness. And when he rose from the grave victorious over sin and death, That the place where we have to come to is actually dependency. We have to come to the place where we say, I'm a sinner, I can't get to God by my own works or by my own good. I am totally separated from God, and there's nothing I can do to save myself, but I have to completely rely and depend upon the finished work of Jesus Christ. to pay the punishment for our sin, for my sin, so that I could be a friend with God, so that I can be connected to God. And the Bible says in John 1. 12, But as many as received him, to them gave you the power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe. on his name. And that is what you need to do, friend. If you don't know the Lord, if you're not sure whether or not you have spent eternity Whether or not you will spend eternity with the Lord. If you don't know where you are with God, let me just encourage you to contact me. Come and talk with me. I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure. That you will spend eternity with the Lord, that you will, that you are truly, you truly have a relationship with God. It's something that you actually can know for sure. And frankly, folks, this is something that we are that is the very reason, Christian, that he knows us by name. And that his grace is on us. It is because of the finished work of Jesus Christ on the cross. And in just a few minutes, we're going to take just a few moments to celebrate that together as believers. As we partake of the Lord's Supper together. First, let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you and thank you for who you are. We praise you because you are a God who has set things up in such a way That we can depend on you. That we can rely on you. And Lord, I pray that you would this week help us to cry out to you and to realize that sometimes the situations we find ourselves in is really actually to bring us to our knees. So that we will say, I cannot, but you can. And if there's anybody here that doesn't know you as their Lord and Savior, I pray today that they would understand their sin and their need of a savior and they would be saved. I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called The Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone. or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call, so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us Or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273 or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.