We're going to look at Psalm 81 for our call to worship, and we're going to look at verses 8 through 16 of that chapter, or that Psalm. Psalm 81 Hear, O my people, and I will admonish you. O Israel, if you will listen to me, there shall be no foreign God among you. Nor shall you worship any foreign God. I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt. Open your mouth wide, and I will fill it But my people would not heed my voice, and Israel would have none of me. So I gave them over to their own stubborn heart to walk in their own councils. Oh, that my people would listen to me, that Israel would walk in my ways. I would soon subdue their enemies and turn my hand against their adversaries. The haters of the Lord would pretend submission to him, but their fate would endure forever. He would have fed them also with the finest wheat, and with honey from the rock, I would have satisfied you. Let's pray together. Father, you tell us in your word there in Psalm 81, you invite us to open wide our mouths so that you can fill them. The thing that kept the nation of Israel from opening wide its mouth to be satisfied with you was that they never seemed to learn to walk in your ways. And you desired for them to walk in your ways, not because you are a God who is uh militant and mean-spirited and we have to do everything the way you want, but because And when we walk in your ways, that is what opens our mouths so you can fill it. That is how we can truly be satisfied with you. Lord, as we anticipate this morning looking at your word again at 1 John and looking at communion with you and then having communion together, I pray, Lord, that you would open our mouths this morning. And Lord, I pray that you would, as um as Augustine uh or uh um Strong said, Augustine Strong said That today would be a window for us to have greater communion with you We thank you that you have provided this assembly of believers, you've provided the preaching of your word, you've provided the Lord's Supper all as windows. for us to be able to commune with you. And I pray today that you would help us in our hearts that our minds and our hearts would be focused on you. There are many things, many burdens, many things that we have been facing this past week. I do want to pray for Jan Puckett with her fall. I pray, Lord, that you would just help her and strengthen her with the things that she's going to be facing here physically. And There are many other things that I could mention this morning as far as just things that are happening, our church family, Christians I believe it's a grandmother that's struggling and and just so many things, Lord. I pray that you would be with each situation and meet each need. But Father, I pray for now, as we worship you, that you would help us to worship you in such a way that we are drawn closer to you in communion with you. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Father. As we've spent time already this morning, we've acknowledged the worthiness of our worship to you You have indeed proven that you are faithful, that you are kind, that you are good, that you are every attribute that your word speaks about. And all of those attributes are perfect. We acknowledge the worthiness that you have of our worship. And as we just sung as well, that each part of the Trinity, you, the Father, the Son, the Spirit, all have roles to play in our lives that we can see evident you Have orchestrated the plan of salvation. Christ executed the plan of salvation. And cry and the Spirit has applied it to our lives. And Lord, we're thankful that if we have genuinely today, we're in here today And we have trusted Christ as our Savior and depended on Him for our salvation. And we have been guaranteed The Spirit indwelling in us, which is also the guarantee of our future inheritance, with you in heaven. Such unspeakable gifts, Father. Such unspeakable riches that we do not deserve, nor have we done anything to deserve. And we think also, Lord, of all of this, and if that wasn't enough, that while we are still on earth, you desire communion and fellowship with us. Lord, I pray that you would work those truths into our hearts today, that we would be drawing nearer and nearer to you, and that our communion at the end of the service today Lord celebrating the Lord's Supper would be a sweet time of worshiping you. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Reading today from the text, again it will be 1 John 1 1 through 9. Please read along with me if you will. That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon, and our hands have handled, concerning the word of life. The life was manifested and we have seen, and bear witness, and declare to you that eternal life, which was with the Father. And was manifested to us. That which we have seen and heard, we declare to you, that you also may have fellowship with us, and truly our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. And these things we write to you that your joy may be full. This is the message which we have heard from him and declare to you: that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. If we say we have fellowship with him and walk in darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth. But if we walk in the light as he is in the light We have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus Christ his Son cleanses us from all sin. If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. So last week uh I endeavored to begin to preach a message on communion with God. And uh you know it's funny I was talking with somebody who's this morning earlier about the fact that uh I I the way I prepare messages and lessons is I put a ton of content into a message or a lesson and I start cutting things out Uh it's kind of like a academic paper. Well for me, I'll do that and I'll cut things out. And then I then the guys back there know uh that uh uh because they have uh they have my sermon back there that they advanced the PowerPoint. They know that I'm actually cutting things out as I'm preaching. Uh you guys don't know that until now you do neither. But anyway. Um and uh and so uh they'll be like I'll skip stuff. But anyway, so um so anyway, so so last week I didn't skip a thing. Which is why we're on part two today. So anyway, uh but uh as we um as we go through this uh I think that it will help us. I do want to get our bearings a little bit. Um just as we're picking up here, we read from Psalm 81, which I think is so necessary for us to get our minds and our hearts in the right frame of reference. That was how we opened up our morning worship this morning. And just the general idea in verse 10 of Psalm 81 where it says, I am the Lord your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt. Open your mouth wide. and I will fill it. And then later on in verse 16, he says, I would have fed them also with the finest of wheat, and with the honey from the rock, I would have satisfied you. God's desire for his people is that we would be satisfied by communion with him. And he wants us to be like to have all of the receptors open, to be all open and ready and our m our mouths wide open, to be filled. with his uh with his with himself. And we looked last week at fellowship we and and communion and the j what the joy that is supposed to accompany fellowship and we went through various things. God's primary goal for all of this is that our lives would be in communion with God, and that God, and God does, He wants us to know Him. And we're going to see three things, and we got through the middle of the of the second point. We're going to see the importance of it. We already saw that last week. the method of growing, the method the growing in it, growing in our communion with God, and then the hindrances to it. What are the hindrances or the major hindrance to fellowship, to communion with God? So we're right in the middle. I hope you grasp the importance of communion with God. There is essentially nothing more important for the Christian. Than communion with God. Nothing. Service is not more important. Obedience is not more important But the fact is, those things go with communion with God. They are together, all together with communion with the Lord. I think it's absolutely important for us to men to to realize that. And the other thing that we talked about last week as well toward the end of the message is that Augustus Strong explains A very, I think, very helpful concept that there is going to be one day when the Christian sees Jesus and he is face to face with Jesus. And the Bible actually says that we'll be changed We'll be like him, for we will see him as he is. And that is what he calls immediate communion. That is, we are face to face with him. We are with him. There is essentially no barriers between us and Jesus. And that is the day that every Christian genuine Christian looks forward to. We look forward today where there is immediate communion with God. But right now we have Immediate communion with God. It's not immediate. We're not face to face with Him. We have not been totally changed to be Christ-like in order to be uh to be have that immediate communion. God is working on that with us And we have now immediate communion. In other words, because of the fall and because of sin and because we're in a fallen state, we we We don't have that direct access in the same way. Now we have access to God. We have open access to God. Anytime we can pray to Him and talk with Him. But it's not it's not the same as being face to face with Him that we will be one day when we're with Him. Right now, then what we have is immediate communion, and what God has done for us is He has given us windows. Windows to be able to communion with Him. And the windows are the Word of God and prayer. And assembling together. One of the windows is what we're going to partake of later on, the Lord's Supper. These are windows into communion with God. There is a personal Relationship that we ought to have in our fellowship with the Lord, in our personal life with the Lord, and praying to Him personally, reading and studying His Word personally, meditating on His Word personally. But it is also absolutely necessary that we have these windows, that we open them wide in assembling together, listening uh to the preaching of God's word, even the preacher needs to be sitting under his own preaching in a sense. And that these windows need to be sta stay staying open wide. And I I just want to say on a very personal note A very um uh uh important thing is that you know when someone when someone that knows the Lord and maybe as a member of our church or Or whatever. When they sort of stray away from assembling or you see a d a decline in how often they're coming to church and how often they're assembling, you know, it's not about numbers. I don't actually ever take account of Who's in here? People tell me how many how how many people came or that kind of thing, that's fine. But I I don't really ever take account of who's here and who's not, those kind of things. I I I I I notice who's here and who's not, and I'll follow up with them, make sure they're okay, that kind of thing. But I don't I don't take an actual count because I'm not really that worried about that. Um but it grieves candidly it grieves my heart. When a Christian, whether it's in our assembly or another assembly, and this is happening all over the country, frankly, when a Christian closes the window of communion with God by not assembling together with other believers, and by not sitting under the preaching of the Word of God, and by not partaking of the Lord's Supper and those things. And I would just I'm you're you're you got the window open, you're here, right? So praise the Lord for that. But I just encourage you, there's always that pull to close the windows. And we want to have these windows wide open. I think one of the ways that we do that, that we that we We close the window. Maybe sometimes we're here, but we're not all here. Maybe sometimes we're sort of here, we're present, but our mind is somewhere else. We're focused on other things. We're preoccupied with other things. We're texting or We're doing other things like that. And when we do those kind of things, we're closing the window. When we're not, we're here, but we're not all here. David said this in Psalm 27. He says this. The Lord is my light and my salvation. Whom shall I fear? The Lord is the strength of my life. Of whom shall I be afraid? When the wicked came against me to eat me up, to eat up my flesh, My enemies and foes they stumble and fell. Though an army may encamp against me, my heart shall not fear. Though war may rise against me, in this I will be confident. What's he going to be confident in? Listen to this. One thing I have desired of the Lord. That will I seek after, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to behold the beauty of the Lord And to inquire in his temple. He says, David says, one thing, one thing have I desired. Why do I go to the house of the Lord? Why am I, why do I go to the temple of the Lord? Because I want to behold the beauty of the Lord. And when we are in when we are in fellowship with him in our own personal devotions, but also there's a sense in which when we experience the love of the assembly one with another, when we experience the joy that we have in in uh praising the Lord because of Christ and all He's done for us. There is a sense in which we get greater glimpses through the windows of the beauty of God. And this is something that we ought to always Keep in mind. So we're in the middle here then of the method to growing in our communion with the Lord. And we noted That there is the the scripture pretty much as we go through the text we've noted that there are three things there that we've seen. We must first of all realize that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. We also need to not live a lie and not think that we're in light when we're actually in darkness. Not think that we are In light when we're at when there is actually sin in our lives. And we'll talk more about how to deal with all that in a few moments. But then finally We must learn to walk in the light. And this is where we we left off last week. Walk in the light as he is in the light. And that's in verse 7. Verse 7 says this, but if we walk in the light as he is in the light We have fellowship one with another. And the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanses us. from all sin. So, what does it mean to walk in the light? Well you'll remember last week from Ephesians 4 That light is comprised in that passage of three things. And that is, do you remember what those are? Goodness And righteousness and truth. That's what the text says from Ephesians. Goodness and righteousness and truth. Goodness has to do with purity of motive Righteousness really has to do with purity of relationship. Am I in a right place with God? And then truth has to do with purity of perspective. or pur purity of information. Am I seeing things as they really are? Or am I tainting things to skew the way that I want to see them? And the only objective truth we have really uh there's a sense in which this is the case that we don't that the tr the objective truth that we have in a world that is so tainted is really the truth of the Word of God. That's objective truth. And it is actually the Spirit of God that we are indwelt with when we become a child of God that helps us to understand the significance of the truth that we are seeing that helps us to live in the truth. So how do you walk in the light? You have to walk in goodness and walk in righteousness and walk in truth. All three of those things And it really is, folks, the Spirit of God, the Holy Spirit in our lives, and really only by the Holy Spirit of God, that we are able to walk in those three things, in goodness and in righteousness and in truth, and by doing so we then adjust to God We're walking in the light, and the more we do that, the closer we are to God, the greater the communion. Now we noted before, last week, that there is union with God and there is communion with God. Union with God is something that is fixed by the work of Christ on the cross when we accept that work as applied to our own lives to pay the punishment for our sin. Then we are made alive in Christ. We are united with Christ. That is a position that we have in Christ for those of those of us who know Christ as our Savior. And that can't change Because we have been united with Christ. But communion can change. In fact, you can be in communion with God or you can be out of communion with God. And you can be in communion with God and grow closer in your communion with God and you and and or you can be out of communion with God. There's a closeness that you can get with the Lord as well. So understanding that that uh put it uh kind of put it in 21st century terms, union with God is static. And communion with God is dynamic. One is stable, doesn't go anywhere, but communion with God is it moves depending on Depending on this, whether we walk in the light as he in the he is in the light. And then the other thing I want to mention before we go on to the next part of this is this It's very important for us to understand that when we're talking about communion with God, it begins by walking in the light. Here's where it doesn't begin. It doesn't begin by looking at self. Communion with God does not begin by looking at myself, even looking at my own sin. You ever tried to have communion with the Lord and you're so preoccupied with yourself, it feels as though you can't Maybe you're consumed with your own sin. Maybe you've even confessed your own sin to the Lord. You've agreed that it's sin, but you're still feeling guilty about that sin, and and because you're feeling guilty about that sin, it's keeping you from really able to focus on who God is. He doesn't he's going to he tells us to deal with sin, but we we begin by walking in the light as he is in the light. And as we're walking in the light, here's what happens. As we're walking in the light, as he is in the light, he will reveal to us our sin. And as he reveals to us our sin, It is extremely important for us to recognize our sin, to acknowledge it To see it for what it is. If we will do that, we will continue walking in the light. If we at that point don't do that Here's what happens. If we confess our s uh if we're if we're walking in the light and God reveals sin to us, we immediately, and we don't accept it, we don't see it as sin, it's like we're turning our back And we're no longer walking in the light anymore. And we're, look, we're making, the Bible says here, we're making him a liar. He's revealed sin to us by his light, and we're making him a liar because we're not accepting what he has revealed as sin. Now the let me say this. The only way you can have the freedom to be able to realize and accept the fact that you sinned is if you know your union with Christ is secure. That's the only way that you're accepted by God unconditionally because of Christ. And when you realize that you're accepted by God unconditionally because of Christ, And you know you're a child of God, it frees you to be able to say, okay, I'm wrong. I'm sinful. I did that. I'm wrong And I don't lose my union with God, but I'm wrong about this, and I need to see it the way God sees it. Now, this is absolutely essentially important for us to understand because the next verse is going to tell us in verse 8. If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us, what did we say comprises light? Three things, remember? Goodness, righteousness, and what else? And truth And if we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. There's something else I want to mention about this whole issue before we move on to the next to this to explaining verses 8 and 9. I really think that Christians get hung up in in not understanding Um the the Christian's relationship to sin and and what he why he should not want to sin And why he or she should want to confess their sin. And I and I'll I'll use the the opposite you know sort of the wrong reason. I think that there are many Christians that when they sin, they absolutely, there's a couple ways they can go you can go with it. One is one, they absolutely refuse to admit they're wrong. It's like they can't It's like they just can't admit I'm wrong. They hardly can say the words Because they don't, they feel that they don't, they're not accepted by God if they say, I'm wrong. There is a link between being accepted by God and being wrong. And they say to themselves, if I'm wrong, I don't feel accepted anymore. We mentioned the word righteousness, you know, light being righteousness last time. And we we noted the illustration of a c of clothing. And you know, you go into somewhere and if you're totally, you're not clothed for the occasion, right? I mean you go to um uh it's a little bit harder to explain now because so many things kind of just It's it's kind of whatever anymore. But you know, it used to be, you know, probably twenty years ago, you g you go to a wedding and you don't go in shorts and a t-shirt to a wedding. It just you would feel weird about that. You would not feel you would not feel accepted. And that's kind of the feeling that some Christians feel when they contemplate the possibility of the fact that they're wrong. They can't admit it. Because they don't feel accepted. And what they must, the problem is that they are they're they're mixing their communion and their union. Okay. And under and and and not understanding that they are accepted by God by no merit of their own, no matter what, because of what Christ did on the cross for them. It's the blood of Christ that pays for their sin and causes them to be accepted, not their merit, one way, good or bad. Now once a Christian really has that established in his mind, there's another thing that happens. And it's somewhat connected. Sometimes we feel as though we don't want to sin because we're afraid that God's going to do something bad to us. Now you may not say it in such blunt terms, but somehow in your mind, in your subconscious, your resistance to sin or your desire to do right has to do with the fact that you're kind of afraid that God's going to really be mad at you and like bad things are going to happen to you. And that is also a tragedy. Because the truth of the matter is God is a loving Heavenly Father who wants to bless us. And I really think Psalm 81 really describes for us God's heart in wanting us to open our mouths. To follow his ways, why? So he can satisfy us. So with himself. Um In other words, the reason that you should want to stay as far away from sin as you possibly can is because It doesn't mean that you're going to have a horrible life. It means that you jeopardize your fellowship with God. In other words, you you You can't be in fellowship with God. You can't be in communion with God if you regard what God says is sin as you and you regard it as not sin. Or if you blatantly do sinful things. Or if you fail to live in a right, good way. All three of those things should not be connected to our acceptance. God, that's already done. We're accepted if we know Christ is our Savior. No, it should all be connected to our fellowship. We want to be close to Him. And the only way to be close to the light is to become more like the light. You can't be close to something that you're totally unlike them. We know this to be true even in even in relationships. The more you have in common with somebody, the more you're going to be close to them. The less you have in common with somebody, The less you're going to be close to them. The more you can relate to somebody, the more you're going to be able to be close to them. The less you're able to relate to them. The more you're able to the the less you're gonna be able to be close to them. Uh it's why in stories, for example, people my kids when my kids were young They used to love, whether it's stories in movies or TV shows or uh or books, they would love stor that they would love stories where there was a kid in a story They're kids and they love stories where they're kids in the stories. Why? Because they can relate to them. They they there's a connection there. And that's a very, very diminished illustration of the way it is with God. When we walk in the light, the thing that should draw us to the light is that it draws us into communion with God. If that becomes our way of thinking, it's not fear in the sense of he's going to do something bad to me if I don't. It's not legalism. It's not false guilt. It's not staying in guilt with it's none of that. No, I just I want to please him because and I want to be in a light because I want to be close to God. And the more the more I am in the light, the more, since he is light, the more the closer I am going to be to him. Here's what happens. It changes changes your motive. Your motive is really the key to the whole thing. So that's goodness. Goodness Righteousness and truth. You need all three of those things. And so your motive of loving God, does that sound familiar? And loving your neighbor is yourself. Does that sound familiar? That's exactly What God says are the two commandments that summarize everything. Love God and love one another. So All of this, then we move to this issue of sin. Okay. In other words, we want to the hindrance to our fellowship with God is our sin. So how do we deal with our sin? And that brings us to verse 8 and our third point, which is the hindrances to communion with God. And we pick up in verse 8, it says this: if we say that we have no sin, We deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us. So how is it that we get to this place where we actually are saying that we have no sin? What it's talking about here is talking about sin, not sins necessarily. Here's what I mean. When we're born, we're born, the Bible says we're born with a sin nature. We're born with a principle of sin within us. We're born with a source of a desire to sin. You're born with that. Nobody ever had to teach you how to sin, right? I mean nobody had to do that. Nobody ever had to teach you how to lie. Nobody ever had to teach you how to disobey your parents. You just were born with a want to do it. That, sorry to say, does not change after you're saved. When you come to Christ and you're a Christian, you still have the want to sin. You still have that sin nature within you. Saying that you don't, denying that, is actually what this passage is talking about. If you say that you have no sin, Then you are deceiving yourself. If you are saying that you no longer have the principle of sin within you, that you no longer have a desire to sin, you're deceiving yourself, and the truth is not in you. Now, what is it talking about? When let's talk about sin, uh sin not sins, and it's talking about the principle of sin here, the nature of sin here, what's it referring to? Let's not talk about the whole person In 2 Corinthians 5, verse 17, it says, Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creature, whole new creation. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. And then in Romans chapter 6 it says this, knowing this that her old man, that's the uh old man, is crucified with him, that the body of sin might be done away with. That we should no longer be slaves to sin. So something that you and I have to remember about Chr as being a good Christian There is a desire to sin. It's not all of us. That is, we are created new in Christ. We still have a desire to sin, but listen, you are no longer a slave to sin. You no longer have to sin. Before you're saved, did you realize before you're a Christian, you actually have to sin? You have no choice. You are under the enslavement of sin. But once you become a Christian, it might feel like you're under the enslavement of sin sometimes. Don't we all feel that way sometimes? But you're not You have to understand that. Biblically, you are never, you never have to sin. However, you have always, until we see Christ, you always will want to. Okay? There's always a desire, but you never have to. Now, how is it now this is when people deny it, deny that sin, deny the presence of sin. Uh when they go against this passage, what's what's the real problem here? What are they dealing with here? Well It's uh uh there are there are about five ways that we tend to suppress the problem of sin in our lives. Rarely does somebody sometimes they do, there is a whole doctrine called sinless perfection that some people really actually believe in, and they're denying uh the principle of sin within them when they do that. And it's very unscriptural. But there even if you don't do that, even if you don't say, okay, there's there's a principle of sin within me, and uh uh even you don't literally say okay there is not that anymore, sometimes We live as though and think as though it's not there anymore. So how do we do how does that happen? Number one, when we completely separate the secular from the sacred. When we completely separate the secular from the sacred. Sometimes we are so good at compartmentalizing our lives. That when we're in the sac where when we're in the secular, we're not thinking about the sacred. And when we're in the sacred, we're not thinking about the secular. And when we're in the secular realm of our thinking or the secular realm of our lives, it's basically like we're sinning, but not but not really admitting it Not really, you know, I I hear sometimes around here, well and I know it's a joke, so it's okay if you say it in front of me I'm not gonna be ups like judging you or something But but uh some of I've heard this, don't lie, you're lying in church. Okay? Now I know we're joking about that if you say something like that, hopefully. Because lying is lying no matter where you are. Okay But sometimes in our mind we sort of have it, we have that uh that kind of thinking uh in our lives. So we completely separate the secular for the sake of it. The Gnostics did this back in the first century, something we have to be very careful about. Number two. When we believe we are beyond the power of sin, when we say we would ne I would never do that, you are saying you're beyond the power of it. Now that's different than being saying I'm no longer enslaved to it, but when you say, when you look at sin, and you any sin, and you look at sin, you say, I would never do that. You've just said, you've just said that I'm I am I am no longer under I I can't do that. And you're denying the principle of sin. Number three. When we are surprised by our own sin and the sin of others. When we're surprised by it. When we're surprised by our own sin and or the sin of others. The fact is, we are living in a sinful world, and the truth is, there is no sin that a Christian does not have the capacity to commit. There's no sin that a that a Christian does not have that capacity to commit, which means we should not be surprised by any sin a Christian commits. And frankly, we shouldn't even be surprised by the sin that we commit. Now, I'm not suggesting that we I mean the truth is we should not we should want to stay away from all sin. But being surprised by it as though I could never do something like that. How did I do that and I could never do something like that? Or being surprised when Christian, when other Christians sin in a certain way We're really denying the principle of sin. Number uh uh then uh number next. Um When we blame evil on something outside of ourselves, when we blame evil on something outside of ourselves. And then number five so so we're blaming, oh I did that, that wasn't really me. I was somebody else. That was something else. And number five, the moral cat this is one in our culture that we're we're really bad about The moral categories are replaced by psychological categories. Now I might step on some toes here, but I'm going to mention some examples. And none of them are absolute. And there are psychological categories. There are tr genuine psychological problems and mental problems and all those kind of things and not I'm not denying the possibility of those things, but sometimes I think we are going too far with denying the reality of just plain sin in our lives. When we no longer see things as good and evil, instead we see things as normal and sick. Or when we it's not drunkenness, it's chemical dependence. It's not gluttony, it's an eating disorder. It's not self-centeredness, it's poor self-esteem or insecurity Those are the kinds of things. Now I'm not saying that there aren't those things, but in our lives as Christians, if we're careful, you know, you could slap a label on anything. And suddenly not call it sin. And if we do that, and we're walking in the light, and we slap a label on something that God calls sin. Then we're no longer walking in the light. We're walking in darkness, and the truth is not in us. D. Edmund Herbert said this: This view relegates sin to the limbo of mistakes. frailties, pardonable errors of human limitation, anything but sin. Glenn Barker said this Whatever the shape of the argument, and what and regardless of whether it is an affirmation from the ancient world or a modern restatement, it remains true that whenever the principle of sin is denied as an ongoing reality There follows a denial of the responsibility for individual action. We do not want to be in a place Where we are in darkness because we are unwilling to recognize our own sin. And again We get into the place where we can recognize it when we realize the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all sin. Which is exactly the point of the next verse, verse 9. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. He says, if we confess. And that word confession is a word that we need to make sure we understand. Confession is not talking about some sort of formula to make you feel better. It's not, okay, I better, I better sort of say what it, you know, Lord I'm sorry I sinned, okay, I got that out of the way and I can keep doing what I want. Or man, I'm glad it feels you know I or or worse, some sort of human form of confession like, you know, a rosary or those kinds of things. When we think of confession, unfortunately, if you uh uh if you Google confession, what are you gonna see on see if you Google that? I don't I haven't done it. But my guess is you're gonna You're gonna go there's gonna be some sort of picture or something with a booth, right? And there's some person you can't see behind it, and you're gonna come up and you're gonna confess. Most people they have that picture of confession In their minds, okay, when we think of a confession, has nothing to do with that at all. Like zero. Okay? Get it entirely out of your mind because the word confession comes from two Greek words, homo, and unfortunately we all know what that means, and legheto. Homo legeto Okay, homo means the same. It's a Greek prefix. The same. And legato means what? Say. Homo will get you put it together, it means to say the same thing. To say the same thing. Okay? So when we're walking in the light, God reveals us to our sin. Confessing it is saying the same thing God says about it. God says it's sin, and I'm not going to say it's not sin when God says it's sin. Because if I say something different than what God says, now I'm walking in darkness. It's not even about a verbal confession, Lord forgive me. I'm not saying that's wrong. I'm just saying that's actually not the point of that the word confess there. It is to say the same thing God says. And usually that is expressed in the prayer. Usually it is expressed in, oh Lord, I am because you're from fellowship with God, Lord, I am wrong for what I did. Lord, I'm for I uh I that was that was an offense against you. That was an unbelief of who you are, and there is a a genuine remorse, a genuine repentance, because You realize that that sin grieves God, and that sin goes against the light, and that sin causes you to no longer be in fellowship with God. Except that when you confess your sin, what does the Bible say? He is what? He is faithful and just to forgive your sin. And to cleanse you from all unrighteousness. Now, when you when you say that you're conf, when the word confess your sin, does say the same thing God does about it. It means it means that you I'm just gonna say it this way, it means that you feel the same way God does about it. That that it is an offense to you because it's an offense to God, that it grieves you because it grieves God. You're not saying the same thing about sin that God is saying about sin if you are cavalier or flippant about it. Oh yeah, it's sin. I get it. Okay. Lord, I I confess that and move on. That is you're not saying the same. You're saying something different about it than God's saying about it. So saying the same thing is putting the same weight on it that God does on it Where it grieves him, it put his son on the cross, it separates us from him, sin is to be hated in our lives. Why? Because God hates sin. And when we sin, confession is a rem has a r carries a remorse for sin and a grieving uh before God because of our sin. And when when we confess it, when we agree with God, then the next thing that comes is a realization that God has forgiven me. of my sin. When we confess our sin, he is what? He's faithful and just to forgive us our sin and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Now positionally, he's already cleansed you from all unrighteousness. You know that? If you know Christ your Savior, he's already done it. But now it becomes something that you're experiencing. You experiencing the cleansing work of God in your life so that you can continue to walk in the light. Cleansing means to it carries the idea of a purification of a stain, the clearing of the conscience. Now there's a sense of cleansing. There's a sense of a clean conscience before the Lord. You can say with the hymn, nothing between my soul and the Savior There is no sin barrier anymore because I have been cleansed. I feel cleansed. I know that I am cleansed. Again, not by anything that I have done, but by the saving work of the blood of Jesus Christ on my behalf. And when you experience that, I guarantee you, here's what's going to happen. You're going to experience gratefulness. You realize, see, you know, we don't we don't love God. Because we've not experienced God's love for us. And we don't experience God's love for us because we've not experienced, we haven't identified sin the way that God does. And and when we when we get all of that right, there is a genuine communion with God that happens. So that we have what? The joy of the Lord that we talked about last week. The joy of the Lord is our strength. Herein lies then the New Testament Christian motive for dealing with sin. I want to be close to my Savior. I want to be in communion with my Savior. Therefore, I will avoid sin. Therefore, I will go the other direction when sin comes my way. And therefore, when I sin, I say the same thing God says about my sin. I confess it before Him, and I can continue to walk in the light. Now, I'll just mention one other thing. Some people say, well, what if there's a sin that I've committed that I haven't realized yet? Can I suggest to you that that is probably all of us all the time? I want you to let that sink in for a minute. Sometimes I think people get really caught up over it, we're really, really occupied with this. They say, well, maybe there's a sin I haven't confessed. You have missed the point. If you say to yourself, maybe there's some sin that I don't know about, what's the answer? You walk in the light. You walk in the light as he is in the light. And as you walk in the light, God reveals the sin. You don't have to worry about sin that you don't know about. Walk in the light, and God will reveal the sin to you. In fact, you are ineffective in finding your own sin. Because you're walking, we walk in darkness. How can you find something in the dark? Walk in the light as he is in the light, and he's going to reveal to you. Frankly, he'll reveal more and more sin. In fact, that's why when you grow a lot as a Christian, sometimes you feel like you're sinning more. Okay? And you feel a little defeated because you feel like, oh man, I'm more it's not that you're sinning more. You're just a more aware of the sin in your life because you're walking in the light. And what do you do with that sin? You agree with God about it. You agree that He grieves Him. You recognize His forgiveness in your life, and you keep walking in the light. That is communion with God. And I will tell you, when you really understand the severity of sin, and you really understand the forgiveness of sin on a daily basis, It's going to bring gratefulness and it's going to bring in immeasurable joy. And when you have that kind of a joy, And that joy, we've said it before, it's not like you're not sad when circum bad circumstances come. It's not like you're not upset when things happen to you that that are hard and difficult. It's not like no calamity will occur. It's it's not like you're not going to feel you know, sadness or grief or you know, those kinds of things. It doesn't mean that. But what it does mean is that as you go through those things, there is there is there is this joy that strengthens you, that comes from your communion with God. And that is something that this text was written so that every single one of us as Christians can truly, truly enjoy. Now, with that in mind, I want to just summarize then these four points. Number one, we must immerse our lives in communion with God We've got to immerse our lives in this. This is one thing is needful, Jesus said, remember from last week. David says, One thing have I desired of the Lord, and that will I seek after. We must immerse our lives in communion with God. Number two, we must adjust our lives with To the character of God. Your closeness to God and your growth in Christ-likeness are proportionate to each other. They work together Your growth in Christ-likeness and your communion with God work together. The more Christ-like we are, the closer we are to God. the l the c in communion. The less Christ-like we are, the less c in communion we are with God. So grow in Christ's likeness. Why should we grow in Christ's likeness? Grow in Christ's likeness. Because the more you grow in Christ's likeness, the greater the communion with God you'll be in. Until one day we'll see Him. And we'll be like him, for we will see him as he is. And why will we have immediate communion with him then? Because we'll be completely like him in his moral character. And because we'll be like him, we will be able to have face-to-face, uh face-to-face fellowship and communion with him. So number three, we must open wide, though for now, we must open wide the windows of communion that God has provided for us. The assembling of the saints, prayer and Bible study and reading, more importantly, meditation on the Word of God. You can read the Bible a lot. But the Bible actually never says to read itself. It says a lot to meditate on it. It says to study it. It says to meditate on it. I'm not saying you don't read it. I mean obviously you have to read it in order to do the other two things. But really to have fellowship with God, there's got to be a meditation on the Word of God. So we open wide the windows that God has provided. And number four. We must walk in the light, identify sin for what it is, forsake it, and continue to walk in the light. Let's walk in the light, identify sin for what it is. Forsake it, and then continue to walk in the light. We are now going to do something that we have never done before. Everybody goes, oh, what was that? We are going to try to open the window a little more of this communion that we do on a monthly basis And what I want to do is I want to read from a man by who who uh you know many, many years ago, back in the 1600s, John Owen is his name. And John Owen, you can go ahead and take those off there for now. John Owen wrote a series of discourses and basically preached these discourses. They're just kind of small sermons. uh right before uh his com the communion time, the the the Lord's Supper time with the saints. And I I wanted to go ahead and and do this this time. I don't know if we'll do it every time or not. I'm still I'll leave that up till later to the side. But I actually take like you take your Bibles and turn to 2 Corinthians chapter 5 I heard some people zip their Bibles. So unzip them. 2 Corinthians chapter 5, verse 21. Now you know the verse, but I actually really would like you to ho open it up. Maybe have it in your lap. We're gonna read it. I'm gonna read it to you, and then I'm gonna read from this discourse from John Owen and I And this is to be in preparation for the Lord's Supper. That's our goal, is to really focus on. Remember that the Lord's Supper, these are just simple elements, but what they represent is the broken body of the Lord. and the shed blood of Christ. And I think it's really important for us to, when we come to these the Lord's table, it's important for us to to to see the character of God in the gospel in these ways, to know different truths and to remember and recall different truths about the gospel. And the entire Bible is written for this. So let's read from 2 Corinthians 5 verse 21, and then I'm going to read this discourse to you. 2 Corinthians 5 verse 21 says this, for he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin. That we might be made the righteousness of God in him. John Owen says this. I shall not enter into the opening of this scripture, but only propose some few things that may be suitable subject for your present meditation. There are three things concerning God the Father, three things concerning God the Son, and three things concerning ourselves, all in these words that I have mentioned, and all suitable for us to be acting faith upon. I would remember, if the Lord helped me, the sovereignty of God the Father, his justice, and his grace. His sovereignty made him. God the Father made him. His justice, he made him to be sin, and a sacrifice and an offering for sin. and his grace that we might be made the righteousness of God in Christ, the sovereignty of God. I could mention that this sovereignty of God extends itself to all persons chosen and show for whom Christ should be made sin. For he was not made sin for all, but for them who became the righteousness of God in him, also the sovereignty of God over over things, dispensing with the law for so far that he suffered for sin, who knew no sin, that we who had sinned were let go free. The sovereignty of God in appointing the Son to this work, he made him, for none else could He was the servant of the Father, so that the whole foundation of this great transaction lies in the sovereignty of God over persons and things in reference unto God Christ. Let us then remember to bow down to the sovereignty of God in this ordinance of the Lord's Supper. Number two, there is the justice of God. He made him to be sin, imputed sin unto him, reckoned unto him all the sins of the elect Cause all our sins to meet upon him, made him to a sin offering, a sacrifice for sin, laid all the punishment of our sins upon him. To this end, he sent him forth to be the propitiation for our sins, to declare his righteousness The Lord help us to remember that his righteousness is in a special manner exalted by the death of Christ. He would not save us any other way but by making him sin. There is the grace of God, which manifests itself in the aim and design of God in all this matter. What did God aim at? It was that we might become the righteousness of God in him, that we might be made righteous and freed. I think I'll stop there. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you this morning and we thank you for the communion that we have with you. We thank you for the Lord's Supper. We thank you that that is intended to be a window into communion with you. And we recall from previous messages and lessons that we've learned about the Lord's Supper that your presence is with us in a special way as we partake of the elements together. Father, we thank you for that. We thank you that in the in a very imperfect world, under the fall of sin, under under the curse of sin And and we too are sinful. You have made these windows for us to be able to be in communion with you. And Father, as we partake of the Lord's Supper today, I pray that you would help us to really remember the cross of Christ. What he did for us on the cross. He was literally made sin for us who knew no sin. So that we could have the righteousness of Christ applied to us. We could by faith accept the righteousness of Christ given to us because of Christ. And Father, we pray, Lord, that you would help us to remember and be grateful for these things. And we do, as a body of believers, proclaim the Lord's death until he comes this morning. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Gannam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon