Let's bow our heads together and go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we come this morning with grateful and thankful hearts. You are so gracious and so kind. And so merciful. Father, we're thankful for the good week that you've given us. And Lord, we are so grateful and thankful this morning that you brought us here together to worship you in spirit and in truth. And I pray as we come to the point in time where we are getting under your word, Father, I pray that you would give us ears to hear. Eyes to see. And Lord, as we receive your word, I pray that we would take it and meditate upon it. And Lord, help us to remember it. Remember it. Enable us, Lord, to walk in your spirit according to your word. And we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Verses 1 through 8 in Romans chapter 8. There is therefore now no condemnation to those who are in Christ, who do not walk according to the flesh. But according to the Spirit. For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus has made us free from the law of sin and death. For what the law could not do in that it was weak through the flesh, God did by sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh on account of sin. He condemned sin in the flesh, that the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us who do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit. For those who live according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh. But those who live according to the Spirit, the things of the Spirit For to be carnally minded is death, but to be spiritually minded is life and peace, because the carnal mind is imitated. Against God. For it is not subject to the law of God, nor indeed can it be. So then, those who are in the flesh cannot Please God. Can you imagine what it would be like to be imprisoned for a length of time, a substantial length of time, and then what it would feel like to be freed? Romans chapter 7, we have been, we've gone through, and what we have found is a man who essentially is imprisoned to his own sin. Imprisoned to his own flesh. I was looking, just thinking about the reality, the idea of just imagining what it would be like to be in prison and then to come out of prison and what that would feel like. Well, a man by the name of Lee Horton along with his brother Dennis uh experienced just a f such a thing. They were convicted of robbery and actually of murder, and they during that time they were in prison They um they really maintained that they were innocent the entire time and uh based upon, I guess, I don't know what the circumstances were, but basically they were granted clemency and release. This is a true story And here is what Lee Horton said about that, what happened to him. And I want to read for you this, just because it's in his own words. He says, I'm going to tell you honestly. The first thing that I was aware of when I was walked out of the doors and sat in the car and realized that I wasn't handcuffed. And for all the time I've been in prison, every time I was transported anywhere, I always had handcuffs on. And that moment right there was the most emotional moment that I had Even when they told me that the governor had signed the papers, it didn't set in until I was in the car and I didn't have to have those handcuffs on. I don't think many I don't think people understand that the punishment is in being in prison. When you take away everything, everything becomes beautiful to you. When we got out, we went to the DMV to get our licenses back. My brother and I stood in line for two and a half hours, and we heard all the bad things about the DMV. We had the most beautiful time and all the people were looking at us because we were smiling and we were laughing and they couldn't understand why we were so happy. And it just was that. Just being in that line was a beautiful thing. I was in awe of everything around me. It's like my mind was just heightened to every small nuance, just to be able to. just look out of the of a window, just to walk down a street and just inhale the the fair the fresh air just to see people interacting It woke something up in me, something that I didn't know it had died, or even when w uh it went to sleep. I've been uh I've I've been having epiphanies every single day since I've been released. One of my morning rituals every morning is I send a message to message of good morning and good morning, good morning, good morning. Have a nice day to every one of my 42 contacts. And they're like, how long can he keep doing this? But they don't understand that I was deprived and now it's like I've been released I have been reborn into a better day, into a new day, like the person I was no longer exists. I stepped through the looking glass onto the other side, and behold, everything is beautiful. Now that is what it means to be imprisoned and then to have your freedom physically. And I think it's a great illustration of what it's like to be imprisoned to our own sin. And our own flesh, and then to be set free. And this passage this morning is exactly that. It is what Scripture says about being free. Freedom, experiencing freedom in the spirit. You'll notice as the text, as Harry read, that the Spirit is there often in the text. says in verse 2, according to the Spirit. Uh and later on it talks about the Spirit. In the book of uh in in chapter seven we saw nothing about the Spirit of God. We saw one time in verse six of chapter seven. where it referen references the Spirit. But other than that, in Paul's recollection of what it was like to live as though he was without the Spirit of God, we saw this Imprisoned, he says, O wretched man that I am, who will deliver me for the body of this death But now, Romans 8 verse 1 says this: there is therefore what? Now no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. This phrase in Romans chapter 8 is such a pivotal watershed moment in the book of Romans. This word, this idea of there is therefore now no condemnation. See, our salvation gives us freedom in the Spirit. What does this freedom look like? We're going to see three things. Number one, freedom from all condemnation. Then we're going to see that it gives us freedom to fulfill God's will. And finally, we will see that the Spirit gives us freedom to experience life and peace. The Holy Spirit frees us from all condemnation, along with the Father and the Son. And then freedom to fulfill God's will. And then freedom to experience life and peace. We pick up in verse 1, there is therefore now no condemnation to those that are in Christ Jesus. The word, therefore, is an extremely important word. We see it throughout the book of Romans, and it always refers back to something that is extremely important that he's referring back to. And of course, in one sense, it is referring back to Romans chapter 7. He says there is there now no there is now, therefore, no condemnation. The word now Sort of as previous to Romans 7, there's this contrast between Romans 7 and Romans 8. But the word therefore really harkens back to Romans chapter 5. In a sense, Romans 6 and Romans 7 are a very, very important di-gressions. to the overall flow of thought. Romans chapter 6 deals with the problem of sin, and Romans chapter 7 deals with the insufficiency of the law. And we come to Romans 8, and now it picks up on this flow of thought from Romans chapter 5. So we would do well to go back to Romans chapter 5 for a moment. And let's just note a few things. It's been a while since we've been there. Romans 6 and Romans 7 took us a little while. But let's pick up in Romans chapter 5 and verse 16. It says this. Do you not know that to whom you present yourselves slaves? Oh, that's verse six. That's chapter six. Let me go to five. You're probably in in uh in five already. Verse sixteen of chapter five, not chapter six. And the gift is not like that which came through the one who sinned, for the judgment which came from one offense resulted in, there's our word, condemnation But the free gift which came from many offenses resulted in justification. The word condemnation is here in Romans 5. It's going to be again, we're going to see it again. And contrasted with the word. Condemnation is the word justification. That is, we move from being condemned to being declared righteous. Verse 17 tells us, for if by one man's offense death reigned, talking about Adam, through through the one, much more those who receive abundance of the grace and of the gift of righteousness will reign in life through the one Jesus Christ. Therefore, verse 18. As through one man's offense judgment came to all men, resulting in condemnation, even so through one man's righteous act, Jesus, his act. The free gift came to all men, resulting in justification of life. For as by one man's disobedience many were made sinners, so also one man's obedience many were made righteous Moreover, the law entered that the offense might abound. But where sin abounded, grace abounded much more. So that as sin reigned in death, even so grace might reign through righteousness to eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. Therefore, go back, go to Romans 8, because it really the flow of thought we see, there is therefore now no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. Now this concept is such an incredibly important concept to understand. The word condemnation is opposite of the word justification, which means declared righteous. And it means, I think one of the best illustrations we can under to help us understand this word condemnation is really the idea of indebtedness that we will never be able to pay back. This is what Christ mentions in Romans chapter Matthew chapter 18 in verses 23-27. You remember that passage where there was a servant of a master and the mat the servant owed the master an amount that was innumerable. He could not ever pay it back. And yet the master chose to forgive the servant. And actually in the story, the servant goes and tries to hold somebody uh accountable for the little debt that he was owed and there's a whole story there. But the I the idea of having a debt that you could never repay, the load and the burden of a debt that you would never be able to repay. Add on to that the idea perhaps of debtor's prison. Uh thankfully we don't have that anymore. It actually, you know, practically and economically, debtors' prison doesn't make any sense. How are they ever going to pay it back if you put them in prison? But uh so it really that doesn't make a whole lot of sense. But but if you think of the idea years ago where they did have debtors pris prison, particularly I think in uh in Great Britain that kind and uh England, that that that those areas. Uh the the imprisonment, the indebtedness, all of that would weigh you down. And of course, think perhaps of Pilgrim's Progress, how he was weighed down by this burden that was on his back, that when he came to the cross, it left him. He was finally. free. I wrote down four four burdens, if you will, that come from our condemnation. What does it mean to be free from condemnation? We first need to understand these four things. Number one, to be free from condemnation means no more guilt. No more guilt. You are justified and forgiven. What does it mean? There is therefore that now no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus, no more guilt. Number two. No more insecurity. You are God's creation and recreation in Christ. If you know Christ as your Lord and Savior, You have been declared righteous by God because not on the merits of what you have done on your own, but on the merits of what Jesus Christ did in dying on the cross for you, so that not only are you his creation, but now you have been bought back for Christ From you're brought back by Christ, and there is no reason whatsoever to have insecurity. I wrote down also, no more sense of rejection. You are accepted by God. Ephesians 1 says that you are accepted in the beloved. There is no condemnation to them who are in Christ Jesus. You are accepted in the beloved. And finally, no more defeat. He has already given you the victory in Christ. But thanks be to God, if our 1 Corinthians 15 says, which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. No more guilt, no more insecurity, no more rejection, and no more defeat. That is what we experience when we are truly in Christ. But Christian, let me ask you this question this morning. Is that what you are experiencing? See, this is positionally true. But this is something that needs to become part of our normal experience as Christians. What burdens us down? Well, it's guilt, and it's insecurity, and it's rejection, and it's defeat. Do you ever, even as a Christian, feel have a sense of rejection? You just feel rejected. Maybe it's by your peers, maybe it's by a parent, maybe it's by a sibling, maybe it's by an aunt or uncle. Maybe Maybe you just have this underlying sense of rejection for one reason or another. You don't match up, you don't compare, you don't you you're not you don't feel acceptable In Christ, you are accepted by God. And the truth of the matter is, if you're accepted by God, why do you need to be accepted by anybody else? I mean we we desire acceptance from others, but there's a sense in which we should not need it. We struggle between the difference between a want and a need, right? I mean I mean we think we need something but really we just want it. I mean at the end of the day we need food and clothing and I guess shelter that'd be okay too. But the rest of it, there's a lot of things we we want, but we don't really need. The truth is when you're in Christ There is a sense in which you do not need to be accepted by other people. You may want it, and that's okay to want it. I don't really want everybody to hate me But on the other hand, you are accepted by God. So there's a sense in which when you're accepted by God, the rejection of anybody else isn't going to destroy you. It's the same thing with insecurity. You feel like you don't match up. Everybody around you is better than you, or those kinds of things. No, you are created to be exactly what God wants you to be, to do exactly what God wants you to do. How about guilt? Now there is actually a thing called false guilt where you feel guilty for something that you shouldn't feel guilty about. And there is true guilt. that we that God put in us that as a result of sin, but when we accept the the the payment that Christ made for us There is no more guilt. God Christ has taken our sin on himself, and he takes the guilt for himself. There's no more guilt. There's no more guilt. There's no more insecurity. There's no more rejection, and there's no more defeat. You ever feel defeated by sin? Struggle with a particular habit that's that you're you're just struggling with defeat over that particular sin. Understand that there is therefore now no condemnation to those are in Christ Jesus. You, we've already seen this in Romans chapter 6, you already have the victory given by Christ. Now We're going to learn a lot of things in Romans chapter 8, but these things are absolutely foundational. There's a sense in which, Christian, you've got to have these settled. In order for you to be able to go on and to walk in the Spirit, to go on and be under the influence of the Spirit of God. And the truth of the matter is, I hate to say this, this is just the reality. We as Christians, we can have this settled in our minds, in our lives, in our hearts. And then some and then things happen in our lives and we gotta go back and go back to this Romans 8. 1 again. We can have this all settled where I I'm free from guilt. and I'm secure in Christ and I'm accepted by God and I I know that I'm not in defeat and then and then circumstances happen in our lives or things occur in our lives. where we are no longer experiencing what is true positionally. That there is no condemnation for those that are in Christ Jesus. And so what has to happen, we've got to go back, and we've got to preach to ourselves, so to speak. We've got to be able to say what Paul said in Galatians 5, verse 1. Stand therefore in the liberty by which Christ has made us free, and do not be entangled again with the yoke of bondage. See, the fact that Paul says this in Galatians 5 indicates that this is a distinct possibility. That it is possible, even though Christ has set you free, there's a sense in which When you choose to look to the law or look to these kinds of things to fulfill, if you put those back up there, the guilt, uh, insecurity, all that, again, go ahead and throw those back up there for a minute If you look to the law to absolve you from guilt, or you look to if I could just fulfill the law enough or do the enough good things or do the right thing or serve God enough, then I won't feel insecure. Oh man, I feel so rejected. So you know what? I just need to get more, I need to please more people. I need to make more people happy. I feel so rejected. Or defeat. Man, if I can just promise myself and vow to myself that I will never do that again. See, that's you're you're trying to get what God's already given you. You're trying to to to have Be free from guilt by your own actions, by your own efforts, and God's already freed you from guilt And insecurity and rejection and defeat. And so often, what it is, we're relying on ourselves, we're relying on our own efforts to do what God says He has already done for us. Now the reason I camped out on the first phrase of this first verse for so long is because until you have settled this in your heart You're going to have a hard time appropriating the rest of this, applying the rest of this in your life. Sometimes what we have to do is we actually got to take these and we've got to go back to Romans chapter 5 and Romans chapter uh Romans chapter 5 particularly and Romans 6. And remind ourselves of these truths. Romans, actually Romans chapter 4 as well. Remind ourselves of these truths that are all in that passage. That culminate in this, there is therefore now no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. But after we've settled that, it is time to move on. So what are we able to do? Well now we are free to fulfill God's will. Look at the passage, look at what it says with me. It says that the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus has made me free from the law of sin and death. For what the law could not do in that it was weak through the flesh, God did by sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh On account of sin, he condemned sin in the flesh, that the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us who do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit. So he brings up this concept of the law of the Spirit. What is this law of the Spirit? Well in Romans chapter 3 verse 27, back several chapters ago, he actually said he calls it the law of faith. And you actually find in Hebrews chapter 8 verse 10, it says, For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel for those days says the Lord, I will put my laws in their mind and write them on their heart. I will be their God and they shall be my people, which is actually a quote from Jeremiah chapter 31, verse 33 See, what we find in Romans is actually three different kinds of law. Three different kinds of law. We see Moses' law, sin's law, and the Spirit's law. And each of these has a problem, with the exception of the last one. So, first of all, Moses' law is right. You remember in we've already seen in Romans 7 that the law is good and holy and right. Moses' law is right But it has no might. I didn't come up with that rhyme, but it's really good, so I I went with it. Moses' law is right, but has no might. It doesn't have the power. It doesn't have the ability to set us free. It doesn't have the ability to give us to put us in right relationship with God. It shows us our sin, but doesn't have the ability to do anything with it. Moses' law is right, but no might. Sin's law has might, but it's not right. Sin's law has might, but it's not isn't that true? Does sin law, the sin's law, that's what we saw in Romans chapter 7, the law of sin, isn't it true that it is pretty powerful? You feel like you are enslaved. In fact, before you're a Christian, you are enslaved to it. Every Christian we are enslaved to the power of sin. And after we're Christians Apparently we can feel as though we're slave enslaved to it. That's why Paul says don't be enslaved to it. There's a possibility that we can, even though we are freed, we are extreme Experiencing enslavement. See, sin's law has no might, uh has lots of might, but it's not right. And that's why we are so tempted to follow it. Because it's extremely powerful. Even though it's not right, its power is incredible But it's not as powerful as the Spirit of God. Greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. And that brings us to the third one. The Spirit's law is both right and has might. The Spirit's law is right and has might. Okay, now we have the perfect the perfect situation. That if we will live in the Spirit's law, if we will live according to the Spirit, it will both be right and also It has power. We can live under the power of the Spirit of God. We can live under the under the filling and of the Spirit of God. We can live being under the influence of the Spirit of God. And much of what we're going to see here in Romans chapter 8 is how to now live. Under the Spirit's law, which is both right and has might. He says this, of life, the Spirit's law, of life in Christ. He points to the fact that this is our union in Christ. Do you remember in John chapter 17 where Christ says in his high-priestly prayer to his father, that they all may be one as you Father are in me and I in you, that they may be one in us, that the world may believe that you have sent me. And Galatians chapter 2, I am crucified with Christ. Therefore, it is not I who live, but Christ who lives in me. In the life that I live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. And in Hebrews it tells us that Jesus ever lives to make intercession for us. There is a union with Christ that occurs when we come to Christ. That allows us then to be able to follow the Spirit's law. And this word life, we're going to see both, we've seen it already, and we're going to see it again in this context. This life has to do with the newness of life. In Romans chapter 6, if we go back there to verses 3 through 5, it says, Do you not know that as many of us as were baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? Therefore, we are buried with him through baptism into death, that just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should walk in newness of life. For if we have been united together in the likeness of his death, certainly we also shall be in the likeness of his resurrection. And then in Romans chapter 7, verse 6, he says again, but now we have been delivered from the law, having died to what we were held by, so that we should serve in newness of the Spirit Not in the oldness of the letter. We have been freed to serve in the newness of life. The newness, the word life has the idea of energy, not deadness, but life. energy and motivation. He has made me, verse 2, free from the law of sin and death So the Spirit's law frees us from the obligation of the Mosaic law and frees us from the power of sin's law so that we can serve God and please him. I want us to take your, you can even take your Bibles, it's going to be up there on the screen as well. But in Romans chapter, or John chapter 8, I really want us to understand this concept of freedom. John chapter 8, verses 28 through 47. Jesus is having an interaction with the religious leaders in this passage And he goes over some things that I think are helpful for us. Of course, the religious leaders of the day, the Jewish religious leaders, they they really thought there was something. Well that's kind of putting it mildly. They they they got their position, at least to some degree, from their heritage and They came from Abraham and from Moses, and they saw themselves, particularly from Abraham, as having a high pedigree and a high level of worth. And um and being and actually that this status caused them to have a high level of freedom. So the Jewish leaders are going around everywhere and They want people to venerate them. They find themselves in a place of high status. And frankly, as we move along through the Gospels, we see that they're quite threatened by Jesus. But Jesus hits at the very core of their problem by addressing something here, and we'll pick up in verse 28. It says, Then Jesus said to them, When you lift up the Son of Man, then you will know that I am He, and that I do nothing of myself, but as my Father taught me, I speak these things. And he who sent me is with me. The Father has not left me alone, for I always do those things that please him. Notice what he says. I do those things that please him. That's going to become important in a minute. As he spoke these words, many believed in him. Then Jesus said to those Jews who believed in him. Let's talk about the Jewish leaders. If you abide in my word, you are my disciples indeed. Notice what he says. You have to abide in my word. Keep that in your memory. If you abide in my word, you are my disciples indeed. And you shall know the truth, and there's our phrase, and the truth shall make you free. Knowing the word, abiding in the word, and the truth of the word makes me free, he says. They answered, we are Abraham's descendants. This is the Jewish leaders. We are Abraham's descendants and have never been in bondage to anyone. How can you say you will be made free? Jesus answered them, Most assuredly I say to you, whoever commits Sin is a slave to sin. See, there's a key phrase. Even Jesus said to these religious leaders, if you have committed sin, you are enslaved So what is it freedom from? It's freedom from sin. And a slave does not abide in the house forever, but a son abides forever. Therefore, if the son makes you free, you Shall be free indeed. I know that you are Abraham's descendants, but you seek to kill because my word has no place in you. Notice how he keeps going back to the Word of God, his word having no place in them. I speak what I have seen of my with my father, and you do what you have seen with your father. They answered and said to him Abraham is our father. Jesus said to them, If you were Abraham's children, you would do the works of Abraham. But now you seek to kill me. A man who has told you the truth, which I heard from God. Abraham did not do this. You do the deeds of your father. Then they said to him, We were not born of fornication. We have one Father, God. Jesus said to them, I give, uh if God were your father, you would love me. For I proceeded forth and came from God, nor have I come of myself, but He said He sent me. Why do you understand my speech? Because you are not able to listen. He says you're not able to listen to my word. And then at the end of the passage, verse 47, he's going to say, He who is of God hears God's words. Therefore you do not hear because you are not of God. So what he's saying to these religious leaders is, there is a disconnect. You, the Son will make you free. I'll make you free, and you'll be free indeed, but you can't be free. Because you can't receive the word of God. You can't receive my words, or you would recognize who I am so that I could make you free. And folks, that is exactly the position that everyone who is born finds themselves in. That if they really knew who Jesus really was, then they would accept him for who he really is, and he would make them free. But in order to know who he really was, we have to receive his words, but we are unable to receive his words We are unable to receive the very Word of God and to know the Word of God apart from what? The Spirit of God. So that is why the Spirit of God brings freedom. As we know the Word of God, and the Spirit of God helps us to know His Word, then it brings freedom freedom to us. So that Romans 6. 18 reminds us, and having been set free from sin and become slaves of righteousness. And then verse 3 tells us of this passage that for what the law could not do in that it was weak through the flesh. It can't justify. In fact, Paul, this is a constant theme of Paul's. It will show us our sin, but it cannot declare us righteous. He said this in Acts chapter 13, verses 38 through 39. He says You could not be justified by the law of Moses. And the law requires perfection. And the problem with the law, of course, as we've learned before, is that it cannot change the heart But there's a provision made in this text. What changes everything? Well, it's what Jesus did. And Paul takes a moment and uses a couple of phrases here. That in a few short phrases helps us to understand the provision that is made through Christ's substitute work on the cross. He says this, in the likeness that his by sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh. So Jesus, God the Father, sends his own son, but he sends it him in a certain way. We know that Jesus died, but it says, in the likeness of sinful flesh. The fact is that is a very precise statement. Every word matters in that statement. You take a word out of that statement and you actually may have heresy. Alright, notice what it says. For example, it's not saying there. It's not saying that Jesus Jesus was in sinful flesh. If it were saying that, and it didn't have the word likeness there, it would then be implying that Jesus is sinful, and he was not. Of course we know that he was not, Second Corinthians chapter five, verse twenty-one. We cannot take that uh uh we can't take that view Hebrews chapter 4 also tells us that he was tempted in all points. He could sympathize with our weaknesses, he was tempted in all points, like as we are, yet without sin. Jesus was perfect. So it can't be sinful flesh without the word likeness. But it also can't be the word likeness of flesh without the word sinful. Now this is a little harder to understand Why would it be the likeness of flesh without the word sinful? Because if it were just the likeness of flesh, it would indicate that it was another kind of human flesh. It was not of the same kind. And believe it or not, there was an entire doctrine built on the idea, on the notion, that when Jesus came, he was clothed in human flesh, but it was a different kind of flesh entirely. It was called docetism. It was linked with Gnosticism. And it said essentially this as a definition, the doctrine Important Gnosticism that Christ's body was not human, but either a fantasy uh uh uh like a phantom or celestial substance, that therefore his sufferings were only apparent. So Dositus believed essentially that he was clothed in a kind of flesh that wasn't the same kind of flesh that we have. And that's not true at all. He was clothed in the likeness of sinful flesh. Now, he was without sin, so what does this mean? It means that when Jesus came, he was subject to the effects of sin. He was sinless. But he was subject to the effects of sin. He could experience sickness and fatigue and other results from the fall like that. Um this is important for us. You know, sometimes we see pictures of like at Christmas time of uh Jesus in a in a manger and he's got like a halo around him or w over top of him. And we sort of think that Jesus, when he was born, was something sort of different than a normal baby. No, he was a normal baby. He would have cried like a baby cries. He would have uh uh he would have been uncomfortable like a baby's uncomfortable. When he was hungry he would have cried he would have cried, you know, when he needed his diaper changed or his swaddling thing or whatever they did use back then. Uh uh he would have cried. I mean he was just a the He was in the likeness of sinful flesh. Did Christ get sick? There's no reason why he didn't get sick. Did Christ uh experience fatigue? No, yes, absolutely experienced. Was he hungry? Yes. He experienced the effects. I'm not sure hunger is an exp uh effect of the fall, but he experienced the effects of the fall. So in the likeness of sinful flesh. Why? Why is this? So that he could be made sin for us. This is why Paul is pointing this out. For he made, 2 Corinthians 5. 21, he made him who knew no sin to be sin for us, so that we might become the righteousness of God in him. He made him to be sin for us who knew no sin. That we might be made. So the righteousness of God for him. So that he had the ability to bear our sins on himself. on that cross so that he would then be able to die for our sin. And in doing so, the text tells us he condemned sin in the flesh. He was able to put to death sin in the flesh. Isaiah 53 says it perfectly. Surely he has borne our grease and carried our sorrows. Yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten of God and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities, the chastisement of our peace was upon him. And with his stripes we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned every one to his own way, and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. For this purpose. Verse 4 What's the purpose? And we get down to what he he he this is extremely practical what happens next in verse 4. We see it says that the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us. Now he hasn't said that before. For he has said that the righteous requirement of the law is fulfilled in Christ. And it is true that it is, right? But now he is saying that the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us What is he saying here? This righteous this word righteous requirement, that's the best translation that you can I think that you can come up with. It's actually only one Greek word. And it looks, if you just read it in the Greek, which I did, it looks like the word righteous. It's the same cognate, it's just the word righteousness. But it has an ending on it that's different that indicates that there is a there is an there is a requirement there. So you literally could read this as requirement of righteousness. Or it could be translated the requirement of righteousness of the law or the law's righteous requirement. In other words, we are now able to fulfill righteousness. We are practically able to do this. What is this righteousness referring to? Philippians chapter 1, verse 11 says it this way, being filled with the fruits of righteousness which are by Jesus Christ to the glory and praise of God. For this reason we also, since the day we heard it, did not cease to pray for you, and to ask that you be filled with the knowledge of his will in all wisdom and spiritual understanding. If you'll look down at Romans, I think this is the key, the key point. If you look down at verse 8, notice what it says there. Just sort of as a summary of the rest of it, you'll see he says. So then those who are not in the flesh can what? Cannot what? Those who are in the flesh cannot what? Please God. That's it. Okay, now we can please God. See, that's not Romans 7, by the way, right? Romans 7, he in his mind wants to do right, but can't. The things that I Want to do, I can't do. The things I don't want to do, that I do, he says, right? But now we have a different we have a whole different Paul here, so to speak. Now, the Apostle Paul is saying, now those who there is a way because of the Spirit of God, there is a way to fulfill the righteousness of the or the pleasing of God in us. But notice what it says here, who do what. Who walk not in the flesh, but in the spirit, who walk, who do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the spirit. And this idea of walking according to the Spirit is a very, very important term here. Galatians 5. 25 If we live in the Spirit, that is, if we are positionally, that is, if the Spirit of God dwells us as Christians, if we live in the Spirit, he says, Let us also walk in the Spirit. And there it's a command. Here it's not a command, but there it's a command. We ought to walk In the Spirit. Ephesians chapter 1, verse 4 says this, just as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy without blame before him in love. In other words, Christ saved us. So that we would have, we would no longer be condemned. There is therefore now no condemnation in the Lord in Christ Jesus. But and and would be able to put to death the law of sin But now we are freed to be able to finally do what God has created us to do to please God. We're finally able to do it. So the question then becomes, what does it mean to walk according to the Spirit? And the best passage to go to on this is Galatians chapter 5. So we'll pick up here in Galatians chapter 5, verses 16 through 25. In Galatians chapter 5, you could turn your Bibles there. I do have it up there on the screen as well. But he says this, this I say then, walk in the spirit, and you shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. For the flesh lusts against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh, and these are contrary to one to another, that you cannot do the things that you wish. That's Romans 7 a sense. I mean that's there you can't they're contrary to one another. But if you are, notice what it says, if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law. Now the works of the flesh are evident, which are adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lewdness, idolatry, sorcery, hatred, contentions, jealousies, outward bursts of wrath, selfish ambition, dissension, heresies, envy, murders, drunkenness, revelries, and the like, of which I tell you beforehand, just as I told you in time past, that those who practice those things will not inherit the kingdom of God. But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentle self-control. Against such there is no law. And those who are Christ have crucified the flesh with his passions and desires. If we, notice what it says there, if we live in the Spirit, then let us walk in the Spirit. Now there's a lot there that we don't have time to go over. I'd encourage you to check to s flesh out that passage more. But basically what that passage is telling us is that if we will be led by the Spirit of God, and we'll learn how to do that in a few minutes. minutes. If we will led be led by the Spirit of God and walk in the Spirit of God one step at a time, follow in the Spirit of God. Then we will be able to please God. And frankly, it's the only way we can please God. Now, the question then becomes, well, how do I do that? How do I walk in the Spirit? And that brings us to verses 5 through 8. And we pick up in verse 5, and we're going to learn that this freedom experiences life and peace. But notice in verse 5 it says this, for those who live according to the flesh, check out what it says there. Look at what it says. Those who live according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh. But those who live according to the Spirit, the things of the Spirit. What does he mean there? This is a really important phrase to understand. You have two phrases there that are actually parallel with each other. For those who live according to the flesh, set their minds according to the flesh. What was that saying? Well that if you are the flesh is the sinful nature. If you live according to the sinful nature, it is because you have set your mind on the sinful nature. Your mindset is to follow the sinful nature, right? So that what your mind is set on is what you live in. And the same is true the other way. But those who live in the flesh, the things of the flesh, set their mind on the things of the flesh. In other words, listen carefully, this is so important. In other words, he is saying that because of what the Spirit of God has done in our lives, what you set your mind on is what you will live out. What you set, the mindset that you have is what you will live out. Now, you know what's so daunting about that? Is it is so different from what? Romans 7. Remember Romans 7? Romans 7, verse 21 says, I then find a law that is evil that evil is present with me. The one who wills to do good, for I delight in the law of God according to the inward man, but I see another law in my members, warring against the law of my mind, and bringing me into captivity the law of sin in which uh uh uh which is in my members. Oh wretched man that I am, who will deliver me from the body of this death? What's the problem? My mind wants to do right, but I can't live it out. My mind wants to do the right thing, but I can't but I can't do what I want to do. But now, with the Spirit of God, my mind wants to do right, and I live out what my mind wants to do. Do you see the contrast here? And so we have Part of the answer to walking in the Spirit is that we choose to. We set our mind on things that are spiritual. So that brings us to verse 6. Verse 6 says, for to be carnally minded, that is to be sinfully minded, fleshly minded, is death. But to be spiritually minded is life and peace. Philippians chapter 3, remember it says, set your Your mind actually is the word there. Set your mind on things above, not on the things of this world And in verse 19 there of Philippians chapter 3, it actually says that the people who set their mind on earthly things Their end is destruction, their God is their belly, their glory is their shame. So it says then, but to be spiritually minded, this is another key. We set our mind But then what it notice what it says, to be spiritually minded. Here's what he says it is. It is life and it is peace Now, again, is that not so different from Romans chapter 7? Here is Paul who's not living much life and he's living not in any peace. But we have here, to be spiritually minded is life. That is, it is energizing, it is motivating, it is It's life. We're living the life that God wants us to live. And peace. Do you remember back in Romans chapter 5, verse 1, it says that we are positionally at peace with God, therefore having been justified by faith. we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. And that is a positional kind of peace. But it actually can be experienced in our life When we are walking in the Spirit, we can experience the peace that God has set for us. Now, well, how how does that work? Well let's ask this question. When is it that we're not in peace? What keeps us from having peace? Part of it is the things that we talked about before, the guilt and the insecurity and all those kinds of things, right? Or insecurity or sense of rejection, those will keep you from experiencing the peace So what is peace? I'll tell you what peace is biblically. Experiential peace is when you are doing you you know what to do to please God and you're pleasing God. That things are aligned consistently. That you know how to please God and then you are actually pleasing God. I mean, that's essentially what brings peace. Conflict and the opposite of peace is when we when we know how to please God and we don't please God. Right? That's guilt and struggle and conflict and frustration. But knowing how to please God and then setting our mind on pleasing God. is going to bring about peace. So the question is, how is it that we become spiritually minded? What does it mean to be spiritually minded? Would you take your Bibles and turn to 1 Corinthians 2? 1 Corinthians 2 is going to help us with this. What does it mean to be spiritually minded? Verse 10 of 1 Corinthians 2 says this. It's also going to be up on the screen. But God has revealed them to us through his Spirit. The Spirit searches all things. Now notice what the Spirit does in the mind. For the Christian, the Spirit searches all things, the deep things of God. For what man knows the things of man except the Spirit of Man which is in him. Even so, no one knows the things of God except the Spirit of God. Now we have received not the Spirit of the world, but the Spirit of Him, but the Spirit who is from God. that we might know the things that have been freely given to us by God. These things we also speak, not in words which man's wisdom teaches. but which the Holy Spirit teaches, comparing spiritual things with spiritual. But the natural man does not receive the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness to him, nor can he know them because they are spiritually discerned. But he who is spiritual judges all things, yet he himself is rightly judged by no one. For who has known the mind of the Lord that he may instruct him? But we have, notice what it says, we have the mind. the mind of Christ. What does it mean to be spiritually minded? Well, we see from the passage that it is the Spirit of God who helps us to think, to understand the deep things of God. Now you have to go back to chapter one to note that really what we're talking about is the message of Scripture. It is the scriptures that reveal to us the deep things of God. It is the scriptures that reveal to us who God really is. And it is the Spirit of God that reveals to us and unveils to us as we read the Word of God and as we know the Word of God who God really is. and as we have a relationship with God. He goes on to say, verse 7, because the carnal mind is an enmity against God. Look, if you're not spiritually minded, if you are carnally minded, that's an enmity against God, for it is not subject to the law of God, nor the can be. So verse 8, so then those who are in the flesh cannot please God God. No, remember Romans chapter 12. We're going to see this later on, but he says this: and do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. Okay, let's put all of this together. How do I walk in the Spirit, resulting in pleasing God? and having life and peace. Okay? Because that's what the passage has talked about. I'm able to fulfill the righteous requirement or to please God. I'm able to have the life that God wants me to have. I'm not talking about material blessing or anything like that. I'm talking about a a fellowship, a life with God. And peace and experiencing peace with God. How do I walk in the spirit that results in all of this? How do I do that? Number one. And I'm gonna we're just gonna put all this together. I've said a lot of things, but we're gonna just try to put it all together. Number one, realize your absolute freedom from guilt, insecurity, rejection, and defeat. There's no condemnation in Christ Jesus. That's number one. That is, look, this is key. You've got to realize your guilt, insecurity, rejection, and defeat. Can you guys put that up there? No? Okay. Okay. So realize that I will email these out to if you're a member of our church. I'll get an email. And if you're not a member of revisiting, give me your email address and I'll send it out to you. Sorry about that. Number two, fill your mind with the knowledge of God's Word, knowing that the Spirit will reveal deep truths. rich truths of God. This is ki critical. There is no way. There we go. Good. Thank you guys. Alright. Set your mind attention to please God rather than oh I see. Okay now I see why you're not putting on there because it it changed. Okay. Fill your mind with the knowledge of God's Word. So so we have to have the Word of God dwelling in us richly. In Ephesians chapter 5, I won't take the time because then we're running out of time here, but Roman chapter in Ephesians chapter 5 it says this. And do not be drunk with wine, which is it which in his dissipation, but be filled with the Spirit. To be under the influence of the Spirit of God. The parallel passage to that is in Colossians 3, verse 16. It says, Let the word of Christ dwell in us richly. So that's an important. How do we do this? How are we filled with the Spirit of God? We allow the Word of Christ to dwell in us richly. And then finally, set your mind's attention to please God rather than self. Let me get to the point. Here's the main point. There is no way to be to walk in the Spirit without really knowing the Word There is no way to be under the influence of the Spirit of God. There is no way to walk in the Spirit. There is no way to please God. There is no way to do that. without letting the word of Christ dwell in you richly. And we ended the Sunday school hour talking about the filling of the Spirit the same way we're going to end this hour, and that is simply this. The Bible tells us throughout His Word that we've got to meditate on the Word of God. As we meditate on the Word of God. As we know his word and we know his truth and we and we understand it and as we apply it to our lives And then as we choose to do it, as we choose to follow it, then we will be, we will be walking in the Spirit of God. What unfortunately is happening happening in many, many cases today, it feels like, frankly, that we are so busy doing so many other things. So preoccupied with so many activities of every kind imaginable that we are not, we just don't know the word anymore. We aren't allowing the Word of Christ to dwell in us richly. We're not really meditating on it. We're not studying it hard. We're not knowing the rich truths that are in it. And there is absolutely no way, according to Scripture, for us to truly be walking in the Spirit without knowing the word of the Spirit. And if we can be encouraged to do that this morning, the more that we do that, the more that we will truly be under its influence and we will be pleasing God. Perhaps you're here this morning and you can't it you say there's the there's really no condemnation to those are in Christ Jesus. I don't really know if I've experienced that before. I don't know what it's like to truly be forgiven by God, to know that I'm forgiven by God. If you're wondering about that, if you're questioning that, if you're not sure about that, let me encourage you. To come and talk with me after the service, I would be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you have a relationship with God And that you are truly not condemned by God, that you are declared righteous by God through what Jesus Christ did for you on the cross. cross. Let's pretty good. Father, we come to you this morning and we thank you for your truth of your word. We thank you for your many truths here that we've learned and been reminded of this morning. Lord, we know that we see here clearly from your word that it is as we walk in your spirit. That we are going to be under the influence of your word and your spirit and be able to please you. And I pray, Lord, that we would um we would be really understanding that the importance of this. That that the word would be central in our lives. that meditating on the word would be would be something that we are constantly doing in our lives so that we can truly be spiritually minded. That we can then set our minds on things of you and know how to please you and then follow through by pleasing you. We thank you for the privilege of being able to do this. And we pray that as in the weeks to come, as we continue through Romans chapter 8, that you would teach us how. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, We can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide. That helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for. Please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon