Take your Bibles and turn to Philippians chapter 2. Philippians chapter two, we'll be reading verse nine through eighteen. Philippians chapter two 9 through 18. Therefore, God also has highly exalted him, and given him the name which is above every name, that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow. Of those in heaven and of those on earth and of those under the earth, and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling, for it is God who works in you, both to will and to do for his good pleasure. Do all things without complaining and disputing, that you may become blameless and harmless, the children of God, without fault, in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation, among whom you shine as lights in the world, holding fast the word of life. So that I may rejoice in the day of Christ, that I have not run in vain, or labored in vain. Yes, then if I am being poured out as a drink offering on the sacrifice and service of your faith I am glad and rejoice with you all. For the same reason, you also be glad and rejoice with me. Let's pray. Dear Lord, thank you that one day we know that we will be there as we see every knee bow and every tongue confess that you are Lord. And Lord, as we await that day, I pray that you would help us to be faithful. Strengthen us to follow you. May we be blameless and harmless in a crooked and perverse world. And may you shine forth and be glorified. I pray you be with Pastor Jim as he opens your word and preaches this morning. I pray you give us ears to hear what your Spirit says to us. In Jesus' name. The passage that we've just looked at just reading to the Church of Philippi and Interestingly enough, when this passage is is preached and read through and those kinds of things, it usually usually the the break is um is not where we have it today and that's actually intentional. Um you have the humiliation of Christ, which we a couple of weeks ago uh looked at. And then you have the exaltation of Christ in this passage, uh beginning in verse nine, and then going through verse eleven. And then you have this word therefore at verse 12. And I think that's a very important therefore. Most of them are, um, because these concepts link together, and we're going to see that. I want to bring your attention in this passage to verse 16. particularly to begin this. And I want you to see that the Apostle Paul is very concerned about um his life and the life of the people that he is speaking to and he wants to make sure that he is not running in vain Look at verse sixteen. It says, Behold, fast uh holding fast the word of life, so that I may rejoice in the day of Christ And have not run in vain or labored in vain. This is a common theme for the Apostle Paul as you look through the New Testament. Very uh fairly often he says something about in his epistles about his concern that he could possibly live a life that would be in vain. Live a life of emptiness. Live a life of purposelessness. He's concerned about this. And for example, in 2 Corinthians chapter 9, I'm sorry, 1 Corinthians chapter 9 verses 24 through 26 it says this, do you not know that those who run in a race all run? But one receives the prize. Run in such a way that you may obtain, and every one who competes for the prize is temperate in all things. Now they do it to obtain a perishable crown, but we for an imperishable crown. Therefore I run thus. Not with uncertainty, thus I fight, not as one who beats the air. Think of a boxer who's just beating the air. It's futile. It's vain. In Galatians chapter 2, verse 2 it says, And I went up by revelation and communicated to them that gospel which I preach among the Gentiles. who privately to those who were of reputation, lest by any means I might run or had run in vain. In 1 Corinthians 15, verse 10, it says, By the grace of God I am what I am, and his grace toward me Was not in vain, but I labored more abundantly than they all, yet not I, but the grace of God which was with me. He said he labored more abundantly than all. Paul was concerned about running the race, serving faithfully, purposefully. Not in vain, doing living his life in a way that would ultimately he'd be able to win the prize, as he says. What what day was he looking to? Well, in this passage, Philippians 2. 16, it says the day of the Lord. There's a whole concept we won't get into But it means at it means at least in part the judgment seat of Christ. And he says this in Second Corinthians chapter 5, verse 10, for we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. that each one may receive the things done in the body according to what he has done, whether good or bad. And he says something very similar in Romans 14, which I think is very appropriate for what we're going to be looking at this morning. He says this, verse 10, Why do you judge your brother, or why do you show contempt for your brother? For we shall all stand before the judgment. seed of Christ. And he says this, for it is written, As I live, says the Lord, every knee shall bow to me, and every tongue shall confess to God. So then each of us shall give account of itself to God Now I want to hasten to say that sometimes the when someone preaches on the judgment seat of Christ that's going to come for those who are Christians in the future. They preach sort of in a way that that uh indicates that there's going to be some sort of condemnation for those who are Christians before the judgment seat of Christ. And I want to say at the very opposite of this, that there is no condemnation To those that are in Christ Jesus. But on the other hand, Paul is concerned, and even Christ was concerned when he says that there is a possibility that we would be good for nothing as salt that's lost its savor. There is this possibility, folks, that we can live in such a way that's vain and empty rather than living purposefully. And living where one day we would stand before the Lord, and he would say, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. And I have to tell you That the events of this past year in my life has really caused me to give serious consideration to the reality that our life is brief. We don't know how brief our life is, but it's entirely possible. I was thinking last night with some sadness that this time last year I had no idea that my dad would die this year The truth is, this time this year, you don't know next this coming year who's going to die and who's not. Life is brief. And we don't aren't guaranteed another day. And this is not intended to scare us. I'm not saying this to scare us, but it is a reality. That we do not know how much time that we have. And every once in a while it's helpful for us to really consider: are we living this life the way God wants us to live it? And this passage begins with the exaltation that we're going to look at today, begins with the exaltation of Christ, actually begins with the humiliation of Christ, but The exaltation of Christ and God working in Christ to exalt him. And then bringing us, and then how he is working in our lives as well. There is a poem that is, I don't think it's necessarily a Christian poem, but it probably comes closest to being helpful. ago and it has become somewhat popular, so much so that I it's almost I almost decided not to read it because it's a a bit cliche. However, I'm going to read it because I think it is thought provoking But I think it comes short of really helping us to do what it is thinking, calling us to consider. And the qu of course it's the poem, what will you well how will you spend your dash? How many of you all have heard that poem before? A few of you. Actually, not enough not enough. Okay, well it good. I'm reading it because it's it wasn't like it Everybody raise their hand. Some of you are just so tired because you stayed up so late last night. You're like, yeah, I don't really remember what poems I've heard and what not. And if if that's you then I'll just go ahead and read it anyway and uh hopefully you can have enough energy this morning. I probably we probably should have handed Red Bulls as you walked in this morning. Uh that would have been helpful. I think you had a rib Red Bull this morning, Enrique. Did you? No? Oh, okay. Well I was hoping Okay, anyway. Uh you you did very well for Sunday school for not having Red Bull. Okay, let's read uh let's read what this says here. It says, I read of a man who stood to speak at a funeral of his friend. He referred to the dates on the tombstone from the beginning to the end. He noted first came the date of the birth of the birth, and spoke the following date with tears. But he said what matters most of all was the dash between the years. For the dash represents all the time that they spent life on Earth. And now only those who love them know what that little line is worth. For it matters not how much we own, the cars, the house, the cash. What matters is how we live and love and how we spend our debt. So think about this long and hard. Are there things you'd like to change? For you never know how much time is left that can still be rearranged. If we could just slow down enough to consider what's true and real and always try to understand the way other people feel be less quick to anger and show appreciation more and love the people in our lives like we've never loved before. So we treat each other with respect and more often wear a smile Remembering that this special dash might only last a little while. So when your eulogy is being read with your life's action to rehash, what you would you be proud of the things that they say about how you spend your Now the first part of this poem is better than the second part. The second part and how it recommends that we spend our dash, though some of it's not wrong. I mean if you want to smile more, fine. But it's a bit trite and it's a bit a bit comes short of what God calls the believer to do and how we spend our dash. And so we want to look at this this morning. God's work in Christ and in us. will result in his glory. And the question we're going to ask is how does this happen? How does this work? We're going to see three things. We're going to see that God works in Christ. Verses 9 through 11 of this passage. God also works in us. Verses 12 and 13 and then our work for God. Verses fourteen through sixteen. We'll begin by looking at God's work in Christ. It says this verse nine, therefore God also has highly exalted him Now, we noted already that this that this is a result of the fact that Christ humbled himself He humbled himself, left a left his glory, came to earth, took on the form of humanity and the form of a servant, was made in the likeness of men. He took on he was clothed with humanity. He then uh went to the cross and died, even the death of the cross, humbling himself as low as you possibly can imagine. Christ did that for you and for me. And it says that as a result of this that God, the Father, highly exalted him and gave him a name. Which is above every name. God did this in Christ. He he uh wherefore God has highly exalted him and given him a name which is above every name. So we have here the exaltation of Christ. The extent of the exaltation of Christ is is uh proportionate to the humiliation of Christ. Christ went as low as he could go, and now God, the Father, is exalting him as high as he could go. As high as we c I mean that's it's sort of it's sort of infinite, so to say as high as he could go isn't quite correct, but infinitely high, I guess I'll say it that way. Matthew chapter 23 verse uh or I'm sorry, Acts chapter two, verse thirty-three says this: Therefore, being exalted to the right hand of God, and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit He poured out this which you now see and hear. What is the name that God the Father gave to Jesus? Jesus. What is this name? Well, in the context, the next verse, it it it appe you know there's the the most apparent thing would be this name Jesus. Is it the name Jesus? Is it the name God? What name is it What name are we talking about here? Well, we know that the name of God is of significance. If you think back to Moses when he met God at the burning bush, it says this, Exodus 3. 14, and God said to Moses, I am who I am, and he said, Thus you shall say to the children of Israel, I am has sent me. When Moses asked the name of God, I am. Jesus had many, many titles, many names. Emmanuel, wonderful counselor, mighty God, Prince of Peace, Ancient of Days. He calls himself the door, the shepherd, the good shepherd, the great shepherd. He's the word, the light, the lamp, the bread the bread of life, the rock, the bridegroom, the alpha and omega. He's his favorite title of himself is the Son of Man in Scripture You have, or at least his the most frequently used is the Son of Man in Scripture. You have lots of names, but what is this name that the Father gives him? Some suggest that it is the name Jesus, because you have in verse 10 that it it says that the name of Jesus every knee should bow. But I don't think it could it can be the name Jesus. Why? Because number one, he was given that name At his incarnation, not as a result of his humiliation. Matthew 1 21 says, It is also a was actually a fairly common name in the first century, not a name that is superlatively above all other names. So it was it's not likely uh it's not likely Jesus uh Jesus, the name Jesus. Would you take your Bibles and I'd like you to turn to Isaiah for a moment? Isaiah 45, and we'll see more than likely what this name is. Isaiah 45. In fact, I would assert this. Would you pick up in verse um let's do this? Let's look at verse let's pick up in verse 18. And I'm going to read through this, and you'll note that the passage that we're looking at is actually quoted In Philippians, and I think that's important to understand. Verse 18, For thus says the Lord who creates the heavens, who is God, who formed the earth and made it, who has established it, who did not create it in vain. who formed it in the uh to be inhabited. I am the Lord, and there is no other. I have not spoken in secret and dark place for the Lord. I did not say to the seed of Jacob, Seek me in vain. The Lord spoke speak righteousness. I declare things that are right. Assemble yourselves and come Draw near together, you have escaped from the nations. They have no knowledge who carry the wood of their carvings and pray to the God that cannot save. Tell and bring forth your case Yes, let them take your counsel together, who has declared this from ancient time, who has told it from that time, have not I the Lord And there is no other God beside me, I just got uh a just God and a Savior. There is none beside me Look to me and be saved, all you ends of the earth, for I am God, and there is no other. Verse 4023 I have sworn by myself the word has gone out of my mouth in righteousness and shall not return, that to me every knee shall bow, every tongue shall take an oath He shall say, Surely the Lord, I have righteousness, righteousness and strength. The name is Lord. That's the name that God has given Christ. Isaiah forty five, five through six, it says this, I am the Lord, there is none no other. There is no God beside me. I will gird you, though you have not known me. That they may know from the rising of the sun, the setting that there is none besides me, I am the Lord, and there is no other Now that does not mean that God that God suddenly gave his son deity. He we already learned that. He was he has always been God and always will be God. But he is now to be viewed as the supreme Supreme Lord of all. Acts two, thirty-six says it this way. Therefore let all the house of Israel know assuredly that God has made this Jesus, whom you crucified, both Lord and Christ. He is now to be viewed as the King. He is to be viewed as sovereign. He is to be viewed overall as Lord. I think that the Philippians would have understood this. Back then the the Philipp the ch the uh the the the city of Philippi was a Roman City, they hailed to Caesar and many would call him Lord. They understood the supreme significance of this And he is saying to them, Jesus has been exalted to where he is Lord and Christ. We see then this, Christ's destiny in verse ten. That all the that at the name of Jesus that is at Jesus' name, which is Lord, every knee should bow of those in heaven and those on earth and those under the earth, and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is what? Is Lord to the glory of God the Father. There is going to be a day, this is still in the future, where every knee shall bow and every tongue shall confess. that Jesus Christ is Lord. In 1 Corinthians 15 it says it this way, then comes the end when he delivers the kingdom of God, the Father When he puts an end to all rule and authority and all power, for he must reign till he puts all enemies under his feet. The last enemy that would that will be destroyed is death. Things under his feet. But when he says all things are put under him, it is evident that he who puts all things under him is accepted Now, when all things are made subject to him, then the Son Himself will also be subject to Him who put all things under Him, that God may be all in all. The participants are those in heaven. Those would be angels and all those in heaven, those saints who have gone on. Those on earth and those under the earth, it's those who are in the grave. All people will one day confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. This is a, we anticipate the time where Christ will be worshipped in the entirety of the universe. All will bow before him. It is going to be an incredible day when this happens. This idea of Lord is a confession of the authority of God. Of Christ. Isaiah 42. 8, I and the Lord, that is my name, and my glory will not I will not give to another In Hebrews chapter two, verse eight it says, You have put all things in subjection under his feet, for in that he put all in subjection under him. He left nothing that is put under him, but now we do not yet see all things put under. Under him. We will see that in the future. And the Bible taught invites us in Romans chapter ten, verse nine, that if you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus And believe in your heart that God hath raised them from the dead, you will be saved. That is, you need to recognize Christ as Lord. Have you done that? Just a very simple question. Do you know for sure where you will spend eternity? Is it's not, you don't make Christ Lord of your life, by the way. You recognize him as Lord. And you recognize him as Savior, both Lord and Savior. Have you done that? Have you submitted yourself to him as one who is a child of God? That is a question that I encourage you to consider this morning. It says it's to the glory of God the Father. In John chapter 5, verse 23, it says that if it all should honor the Son, just as the honor, they honor the Father. He who does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent him Now, what's interesting about this passage, and I think this is going to be helpful for us as we move into some more practical application, is that Jesus came to glorify the Father when he was on earth in his humiliation. And now the Father glorifies the Son in his exaltation. You have this relationship. between the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, and they desire to glorify each other. This is really quite It's helpful for us to understand in understanding the concept of the glorifying of God. And um it's kind of I think this is all illustrations are going to break down here, but it's kind of like a sports team. So if you think of a sports team and everybody is wanting to win having the team win, they're taking part and if a team wins the Super Bowl, for example, like a a football team wins Everybody is taking part in the glory of that team winning. It's a team concept. And even within the Godhead, there is this this elevated team concept between the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. Jesus says it this way in John 17 verse Verse twenty one that they all may be one as you Father are in me and I in you, that they also may be one in us, that the world may believe that you sent me And the glory which you gave me, I have given them, that they may be one just as we are one. I in them And you and me, that they may also. There is a sense in which we are sharing. By Christ, by no merit of our own, we're sharing in the glory of Christ. Christ is it says he's given us his glory. Now that doesn't mean he you know in in in Isaiah we've already read that he doesn't give his glory to another. In other words, he does not there are things about God that will never be true of us But in another sense, we get to share in all of this. We get to glorify God. Let me put it that way. We have the privilege of sharing in the glory of God, one day in the future, being glorified by God in our glorified bodies. God is doing something. He is working in us. And the same the the what we saw in Christ. What we saw in this passage that God highly exalts Jesus, gives us this amazing awe, this confidence and this awe that that same God who elevated Jesus, who who who exalts Jesus, is working in you and me. That's what the passage says. Look at the passage. It says this. Pick up in verse in verse 12. Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed not my presence only, but now much more in my absence, work out your own salvation in fear and trembling. We'll learn what that means in a minute. Verse 13: For it is what? It is God who works in you both to will and to do for his good pleasure. What amazing Motivation, the same God who exalts Jesus, who worked in Jesus to exalt him to glory, to exalt him Superlatively above anything imaginable, and will in the future, where every knee shall bow and every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. Therefore, God works in you and me as well. To one day bring us to glory. It's incredible. It's amazing. God, number two, then verses twelve through two through thirteen, God works in us. Now, I want you to see this, notice this in verse 12. He doesn't begin with God's working with us. That's not until verse 13. He begins by saying this, therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more my absence. Why does he begin there? And we're going to understand this a little bit more as we go through this. And I just want to say this: that I think it's really helpful sometimes. To step back for a moment, to look at our lives, and to ask the question: Am I doing what God wants me to do? Am I running this race? Am I walking with God? Am I fulfilling the calling that God has given me? Am I doing what God wants me to do? And I think sometimes What we need to do is we need to go down and just strip away all of what we're doing and go right down to the very core of what we should be doing. And here's what I mean by that. I'll illustrate it this way When we were in the other building, we've been in this building five years. We were in another building before this. There was a small parsonage in that building. And in that parsonage, there was a bathroom. And before we rented renovated that bathroom, it was interesting. And I don't mean that in any way positive It was just the most horrible bathroom that you could ever imagine. I'm I'm sorry, I don't mean to offend anybody, but that it was. Um in fact I don't think anybody knew how bad it was. Uh the you know it had been it had been painted a couple times, that kind of thing. But uh a friend of mine, um actually you know him, Joel Borshe, he and I ripped out the walls of that bathroom. We we we did some exploratory stuff first and we found mold all through the bath all through the bathroom. It was everywhere. Lots and lots of mold. We we we looked into the piping and somebody had put you know that foam insulation stuff? In order to fix a leak, they took that foam insulation stuff and shoved it into the pipe the the leak in the pipe. Now you don't have to be a plumber to know that that is not the way you fix a pipe. And I looked at all this and a couple of th you know, we c cut a couple of holes here and there and I finally said I'm gonna have to just we need to go all the way down to the studs on this thing. And that's exactly what we did. And we were young and dumb enough to do it just get it done, basically. And we we ripped everything out of there, down to the floor joists, down to the studs. There was nothing left in that bathroom after we done we were done, except, you know, just the pipes coming up through the floor. Everything was stripped down. Why? Because we had to get it down to them. And thankfully the studs didn't have any mold. But we had to get it down to where it we could then rebuild from there. And sometimes, you know, in our minds we need to strip down all of the uh things that we do, all of the added things and all every and go down and say, okay, what is it? What exactly is it? What is the very framework? of what God wants me to do so that I can share in the glory. I can be gr grow in my walk with Christ. I can grow in Christlieness. I can be involved in what God wants me to involve be involved in. I can glorify him. What exactly at the very basics, the very framework What exactly does God want me to do? And this passage tells us. So notice it again. What does it say? Therefore, my beloved brethren, as you have always, what does it say there? Obeyed. As you have always obeyed. There is a trend within Christianity, can't it That seems to downplay obedience. That seems to make it seem as though, you know, you just need to let go and let God and let it You know, whatever you're led to do, whatever your feelings tell you to do, and you've got to be inspired and all this stuff God says, obey. And that's not just in the Old Testament, it's in the New Testament, too. Now, you can obey with two different motives, right? I want to be clear about that. You can obey with self-righteousness. You can obey and by your obedience think that you're really something special because you obey so well. And then you you have failed to obey in the way that God intends to for you to obey. In fact, it's interesting that this obedience is exactly how we humble ourselves. Remember I said, I think it was last week where I said you can't like decide I'm gonna be humble today and then evaluate at the end of the day. You know, I was really a great humble person today and tell everybody that you were more humble than you've ever been before. I mean, that just doesn't work. But what you can do is obey. You can humble yourself to deliberately, even when it's hard, even when it doesn't make sense, even when it You can humble yourself to obedience. And that's exactly what it says Jesus did. You remember? He what did he do? He humbled himself even to the obedience of the cross. Now he says, now Paul says, he says, therefore, my beloved brethren, as you have always obeyed, Not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence. He says, keep doing it, and he says it this way: work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. Now when he says work out your own salvation, he is not saying work for it. And I think most of us know that. He's not saying work for your salvation. He's not saying that you're going to You're going to accomplish something in your life that will bring you to a place where you will be right with God. There is nothing you can do to be right with God. There is no self-effort. There is nothing that you are going to be able to be good enough. The Bible God is very clear about this. All our righteousnesses are as filthy rags And the only thing that we can do is accept the righteousness of Christ applied through the death of Christ and applied to us by faith. And that is the only way. In other words, we accept what Jesus did on the cross and die dying on the cross for us And he he take we we trust that he takes our sin and we take his righteousness on ourselves and then we are saved. But that's not what this is talking about. This is talking about now that you are saved, you do have a role to play. There is human agency involved here, where now you are to work out your own salvation. With fear and trembling. Now, what does it mean when it says fear and trembling? Well, first of all, let me m mention what this word work means. What are we talking about when it says to work out your own salvation? There's a couple of different ways this is used in Scripture, but I want to note a couple of passages. For example, in Romans chapter 7, verse 8 it says this, but sin, taking opportunity by the commandment, produced in me. It's the same word. 2 Corinthians 7, verse 11 says this, for observe this very thing that you sorrowed in a godly manner, but what diligence it produced in you. Again, same word. And in 2 Corinthians 12, verse 12 it says, truly the signs of the apostles were accomplished. It's the word accomplished among you with all perseverance. It's the same word. Folks, it's clear from this passage then what that God does want us to serve and to work and to obey. It does require effort from us to do what God wants us to do. Now, I want to be very clear, careful about this. Because you can if if you're if if you do this in such a way that brings on self-righteousness, then that is not the point. The goal here is not to feel good about yourself by obeying. Or feel good about yourself by working. Here's what it says. It says to do it in fear and trembling. And I think that points back to the previous passage where every knee shall bow and every tongue will confess. that Jesus Christ is Lord. There is an anticipation of the worship, the ultimate worship of Christ. And a knowledge of the presence of God that as I obey and as I work for him and as I serve him, I am doing it with a knowledge of his presence And looking to the day where it'll we're worshiping Him with all of our heart, with everything we have. In fact, the word worship and the word serve are interchangeable in the New Testament. They're the same. Same Greek word. Now I then notice this. He gives he he says this for it is God that works in you He says, you work out your own salvation for God is working. It is God that works in you for his good pleasure. The Christian's responsibility is to obey and to serve, and to please the Lord and to work out your salvation. But on the other hand, and you're doing it in the knowledge of the presence of God, anticipation of the complete worship of Christ in the future, and It's sort of saying, do it now. Serve God now. Worship Him now. Everybody's going to be doing it in the future. Do it now with your whole life. And then he says this, it is God that works in you, both to will and to do for his good pleasure. And I think he's referring back to this whole idea of God doing something. Verse 9: Therefore God also has highly exalted him. And given him a name which is above every name. God did that in Christ, and is and now you, God, is working in you. And in Philippians chapter 1, verse 6, same book. Previous chapter, being confident of this very thing, that he who has begun a good work in you will complete it under the day of Jesus Christ. Which he re references here as well. So God works in us both to will, that's motivation, and to do, that's ability for his good pleasure. It is the fact What Paul is saying here is that God is w He works in us to both motivate us and to empower us to do what He has called us to do. Augustine said it this way. are our own because of the free will producing them. And they are God's because of his grace causes our free will to produce them. Now, let me flesh all this out this way. Would you notice the order? Paul didn't say God works in you, therefore, as you see God working in you, you work. It's interesting that he started off with a command. Work out your own salvation. And then he says, For it is God that works in you. And I'm going to make this suggestion. I think that we really don't see God work unless we're working. Or at least not to the extent that we otherwise would. In other words, if you if you want to see God working in your life. If you and I want to see God doing things in our lives, God's providence in our lives, his guidance in our lives, if we want to see God doing those things, in our lives, then we need to put forth the work and the effort to do it. And as we work We know confidently that He is going to work in us. Somebody says, you know, I'm not seeing God work in my life. Well, are you serving? And are you serving with a motive of love for God and love for others or just self- There's a lot of things that I mean if I'm serving to make myself feel better about myself, that's going to derail the whole process. Or if I'm serving and obeying in order to be self-righteous, that will derail it as well. But if I am humbly serving my God. And I'm just coming before God saying, God, I want to obey you. I want to follow you. And I do it. I obey Him. Any way I know to obey Him, I obey Him. Any way I follow I f Home, I follow him. One step at a time When you have that mentality, you know, where you just simply say, Lord, whatever it is, you're gonna see God work. God will work in you both to will and to do for his good pleasure. It's kind of like exercising Of course it's the new year and everybody wants to lose weight again, you know, and all that kind of thing, right? So everybody's got my you know, like we've got Elizabeth is trying this new trial version of this thing called GNOME and She's like, have you tried this? Like, no, I haven't tried that. She's like, it's pretty good. So she's doing the trial, the free trial version of this gnome thing. She's probably like, why are you telling me to tell me Well I'll tell you one thing though when it comes to exercise. If you wait till you feel like it, you won't exercise. Or it'll be very, very infrequent. Nobody gets up and says, Man, I just okay, maybe once you know a month. You wake up and or you get up and you say, Okay, I just want to go out and Exercise. I want to go out and push it hard and work hard and s nobody does that. But I tell you what, if uh every day you gotta go or You know, if you're going to exercise, you just do it. You just get up and you do it. And very few times in exercising do I come to the end of running or exercising or whatever and I go, man, I wish I would have done that Man, that wa that was harder than I expected. No, there there's this sense of which y it's it's the same thing. There are spiritual disciplines in life And I am not I am not pro you know we've heard all of us have heard sermons that are guilt trips and and and and uh you know uh feeling like oh I'm never gonna be able to match that is not what I'm talking about here. I'm simply saying that if you want to see God work in your life, you're gonna have to Serve and obey and work with love for God and love for others. And if you do, you can have the faith and the confidence of knowing it is God who works in you both the will and do good for good pleasure. And I would candidly say to you that you'll begin to be able to see that in your life as a Christian. God working in you. So what does that look like? Alright, we've stripped everything down the brass we've stuck to strip everything down, we've seen just the you know the just the frame, just the studs. Okay. Now what does it look like? And we'll look at verses fift fourteen fourteen si fourteen to sixteen here it says this do all things without complaining and disputing that you may become blameless and harmless Children of God without fault in this midst in the midst of this of a crooked and perverse generation, among whom you shine as lights in the world. Holding fast the word of life, so that I may rejoice in the day of Christ, that I have not run in vain or labored in vain. It's interesting that he starts off negatively. He says, here's what you don't do, here's what it doesn't look like. If you're working out your salvation, if you're serving the Lord faithfully, if you're obeying faithfully, here's what it doesn't look like. Do not do all things, all you're doing, do without complaining or disputing. The word complaining though is the you it's also trans you know some The King James I think translates it murmurings. The word this word uh means to it's it's has to do with I mean exactly what it says. Complaining or self pity, that kind of a thing. I immediately I I think we our minds should go back to the Old Testament, right? Where Israel complained of over everything And that is the classic example. They didn't have, you know, they didn't have food and they complained and they got f food and then they didn't want to didn't like that kind of food, so they had a different kind of food. God gave them a different kind of food and they complained. I mean, just constant complaining. And this says, Don't complain. Paul and the New Testament is so this is such an issue for him That he says this in 1 Corinthians chapter 10 verse 8. It says, let no nor let us commit sexual immorality, as some of them of some of them did, in one day 20 three thousand fell, nor let us uh tempt Christ as some of them also tempted and were destroyed by serpents, nor complain. As some of you of some of them also complained, and were destroyed by the destroyer. 1 Peter 4:9, be hospitable to one another without grumbling, without complaining. There are plenty of other examples as well of this idea of complaining. And then you have this word disputing. What does the word disputing mean? It's interesting. The word disputing seems to have both an internal idea and an external idea idea. In other words, you can dispute in your mind or think in your mind, and then also it can be an argument on the outside. Arguments on the inside you're For example, Matthew five or fifteen verse nineteen it says, For out of the heart proceeds evil thoughts. That word thoughts is actually the same word disputed. Luke two thirty-five, uh that the thoughts of uh the thoughts of many hearts may be revealed. Luke five twenty-two, same thing they put Jesus perceived their thoughts. Luke 9, 40 47. Again, Jesus perceived their thoughts. And then Luke 24, 38 is really interesting. It says this, and he said to them, Why are you troubled And why do doubts, it's the word doubts there, why do doubts arise in your hearts? And then Romans 14, 1, receive one who is weak in the faith, but do not to disputes uh do na uh but not to disputes over doubtful things. There seems to be, if you put all this together, there seems to be and that what this is talking about here is in doubtful arguments, skeptical arguments in your head about other in the context other brothers and sisters in Christ that come out in arguments and disputings. And you know that is very, very commonly the case. Whether it's in a family or in a church or maybe even in the workplace, it's very common that these disputes and arguments come from doubts in the map back of your head. Usually distrust, usually something that's going on in your met uh head that you're afraid of. And it comes out in such a way where it can it comes out in a dispute. So why why would out of all the things that that Paul could have said as he's getting down to brass tacks and all this, I mean out of all the things, why would he you why would he mention this And I think it's because of what it says in Deuteronomy. Would you take your Bibles and turn there, Deuteronomy chapter 32 for a moment? I think it's what it says because of what it says in Deuteronomy. Look at what it says here, picking up in verse one, it says this Give ear, O heavens, and I will speak. And hear, O earth, the words of thy of my mouth. Let my teaching drop as the rain, my speech distill as the dew, as rain drops on the tender herb, and as showers on the grass. For I proclaim the name of the Lord, ascribe greatness to our God. He is a rock, He is his work is perfect, for all his ways are justice, a God of truth and without injustice, righteousness. Righteous and upright is he. They have corrupted themselves. They're not his children because of their blemish. And notice what it says there, a perverse and crooked generation. It's the same wording in this passage. You know what Paul is saying here in this passage? He is saying this. In fact, if you look, notice the next thing he says here. He says, I want you to be blameless and harmless in this crooked and perverse generation. generation. Paul is concerned that this kind of doubtful thinking, this kind of arguments in our minds that come out in disputes among other believers This kind of thing is what the world does and it is perverse. And he is saying, I want you to be blameless and pure in a world that is crooked and And if you will do this, it says you'll shine as light, or you'll shine as stars in the darkness. Now, would you say that we live in a crooked and perverse generation? I don't even have to prove that. I don't need to give statistics statistics for it. I don't need that I don't need to give some anecdote. You know that. It was mentioned in the Old Testament, in Isaiah, it was mentioned in the New Testament, it was crooked and perverse then, and it certainly hadn't gotten any better now. There is a sense in which what this passage is saying, what Paul is saying, is that as we do not want to be corrupted by These kinds of doubtful, fearful uh uh arguments in our minds that come out in disputes among other believers. He says this because I want you to be I want you to shine. That's what the world does. There's disputes and arguments and issues and problems and all that. He says, I want you to shine And there's sort of this idea that the darker the the the night is, the word lights actually it could be translated stars actually here, the the more bright the stars shine Now we can go one of two ways with this darkness that we find ourselves in in 2023. We can be fatalists and feel defeated and be like, man, I don't know, you know, the world's so bad, it's corrupt, it's perverse, and it is Or we can say in our own hearts, we have greater opportunity as Christians than we ever have before. Because the darker the world is, the more opportunity we have to shine brightly. He says be blameless and harmless. This word harmless is is to not have alloy. You know alloy is two metals. that are put together so it's not there's not purity. Like pure like gold. If it's not twenty four karat gold, it has some sort of alloys in it. Usually you know, I think it's nickel or other things in it. Twenty four pure gold carat gold is like the purest gold you can get And he says this is pu he wants you to be pure and blameless. And these kinds of things running in your minds, this is going to keep keep you from being pure and blameless, and it's to keep you from shining as lights to the world. He's quoting really from Daniel twelve three where it says, those who are wise shall shine like the brightness of the firmament, and those who turn He's probably alluding to, not quoting there, but he's alluding to Daniel twelve three. Then he says this. How do we do this? How do we stay firm? So important. He says, hold fast the words of life. When I read this, the first thing one of the things I thought of was Peter and the old and saying, Where shall we go? You have the words of life. And that needs to be our attitude. Where else are we going to go in this world? Everything else is sinking sand. Everything else is fleeting. Everything else is here today and gone tomorrow. But we have the words of life Cling to it. Grasp a hold of it. Hold on to it. Give attention to it. And I can think of no better application for us in 2023 than we would become greater Greater students of the word, meditators of the word, appliers of the word. May we give attention to the word of God. 1 Timothy 4 16, take heed to yourselves and to the doctrine. Continue in them, for in doing this you will save both yourself and those who hear you. So there are three things then that we need to just to wrap all this up that we need to to pay close attention to. Number one The humility and exaltation of Jesus is a pattern for us. As we humble ourselves before Christ, He will lift us up Number two, humbling ourselves means that we should deliberately work at being obedient. Knowing that God actively works in us. Got some typos in there. Number three, God calls us to shine brightly for Him in this generation by living in purity and holding to the word of life. He calls us to shine brightly for him by holding to the word of life. And I just want to say once again that if you are here this morning and you say, Well, I don't know where I stand with the Lord, let me encourage you that you You can know where you stand. The Bible's very clear. These things are written that you might know that you have eternal life. It's not something that you have to guess at. It's something that you can The Bible says that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures, and that he was buried, and he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. Scriptures. If you will believe that, he died for your sin. He died in your place. Need to understand that more or um you're unsure about about that, please come and talk with me after the service. I'd be glad to take a Bible and help and and and and show you how you can know for sure that you will spend eternity. With the Lord. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and thank you for your word and your truth. And Lord, as we look ahead to this year, I pray that you would help us all to really Boil everything down and sincerely ask the question, what do you want us to what do you want me to do? What do you want us to do with our lives? And may we answer that question with the truth of your word. So that as Paul was concerned about living in vain and Running in vain. We also would be concerned about that as well. And we can run well so that one day we can stand before the Lord Lord, and hear well done, thou good and faithful servant. We look forward to that day, Father. Lord, we need your help. We are living in a crooked and perverse generation, and we need your help to shine as lights in this world. We thank you that you are, to those who know you as their Savior, you are working in us both to will and to do for your good pleasure. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Gannam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called The Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God. according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call So we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need, we can pray for. Please call us at 410-768-4273 or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, senior Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called The Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God. according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone. or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call, so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us Or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273 or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.