They're failing in this situation, and they come, and the Father comes to Jesus and says, Have mercy on me. So it tells us a lot about what faith is and how important faith is. and a twisted faith in the culture that apparently also influenced these disciples. And the child was cured from the very hour. The problem was not self-confidence. It's so easy for us to be doing all kinds of ministry, all kinds of serving, all kinds of work, taking care of our kids, keeping them alive. You'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. Or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. Okay. This is the father of the son. First Corinthians chapter 9, verse 12 says, if others are partakers of this right over you, are you not even more? and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. May the Lord richly bless you. For these issues. And they will kill him, and the third day he will be raised again. He was flawless in his execution of everything he did, whether it was rattlesnakes, mountain lions, or leading somebody to Christ or whatever it is. We're going to see the rehearsal of mission in verses 22 through 23, and finally the wisdom of deference in 24 through 27. The focus of faith, the rehearsal of mission, and the wisdom of deference. And in verse 14 it says, And when they had come to the multitude, a man came to him kneeling down to him. uh uh son who was uh who was demonic uh who had who was demonic pro uh possessed with a demon and also epileptic And he asked the scribes, what are you discussing with them? The disciples had every confidence that they would be able to deal with the situation, and yet they couldn't, and multitudes have surrounded him, and his father is just They fail to cast out demons. Verse twenty one of Mark nine it says, and he asked his father how long has it has this been happening to him? And often he had he has thrown him both into the fire and into the water to destroy him. He comes, he comes kneeling before Christ. And although we may not be entirely understand how prayer functions in the heart of God, what we see here is that it certainly does have an influence. Sometimes we look to problems that we have and we think, well, I just need to have more confidence. If you could imagine I I know going through Pennsylvania, you ever know some of sometimes in Pennsylvania you'll it's it's a little more hilly than it is here and you'll drive and you'll you'll be driving on the turnpike or whatever and you'll come and suddenly you're in a tunnel underneath a mountain. I mean that's the kind of power that God has. Not have great quality of faith, not have faith that everybody goes, oh, how wonderful his faith is. he's talking about. But before long, our faith is diverted from trusting trusting in Christ to trusting in ourselves. We've got to be on our knees in prayer before the Lord in order for there to be anything truly eternal of eternal value that's going to happen. He said to his disciples, Let these words sink down into your ears, for the Son of Man is about to be betrayed into the hands of men, but they will they did not understand these say saying this saying And just as Jesus repeated his mission over and over again, so we ought to rehearse the mission that God has given to us over and over again as well. So they're not paying tax. You are liberated from having to pay this tax. And the issues back in the New Testament, as you move through the epistles, you'll find that the issues are diets and days and eating meat offered to idols. 1 Corinthians 8. To show love to them, don't do it. Like they they've let up on all so many rules, they're going so liberal over there. You had to wear a suitcoat to dinner in 90 plus degree weather every uh uh every night. Our inabilities and it diverts it diverts our attention from really depending on Christ Am I following Christ myself as a disciple as an example? uh in a gospel centered way. is to make disciples. And to show deference to weak uh to Christians who don't know, who are uh not mature. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. We, especially when the difficulties of life come upon us, we go to sources outside of yourself and outside of your word. And that you would wipe away the inaccuracies in our view that we have of you. For he is an epileptic and suffers severely, for he often falls into the fire and often into the water. Well, at least for me it goes way back. Freezing cold, blistering heat, snows, floods, bears, rattlesnakes, mountain lions, yes, all this in exchange for the satisfaction and pride of a job well done. But I hope that you will see in this passage some really very valuable truth about faith and very valuable truth about living the cross-centered life, the cross-life. We're going to see in this passage three things. that there's a multitude and but in Mark verse the the Mark passage that is parallel to this in verses fourteen through sixteen it says and when he came to his disciples he saw a multitude around them and scribes disputing with them. And this dear poor father who is in the midst of all of this, who just wants his son to be healed, I want you to sort of understand the position of this father that he is in. He is has uh multiple seizures and apparently as I did a little bit of research on it there are different kinds of epilepsy depending on and fell on the ground and wallowed foaming at the mouth. And he is desperate. where the pro where the difficulty is in the brain. We don't see this term kneeling down used very often in Scripture. For he often falls into the fire and often into the water. And very likely he has his disciples in mind as well. He said, Nevertheless, not my will but thine be done. So either the generation had no faith or they had twisted faith. It says, because of your unbelief. The problem here, folks, was that their faith was focused on the wrong thing. situation and Jesus says you if you'll have appropriate small amount of faith in the right focus, the right person This is what I'm going to do. And they will kill him, and the third day he will be raised up, and they were exceedingly sorrowful. And it was hidden from them so that they did not perceive it, and they were afraid to ask him about this saying. And I think the disciples knew by this point, he'd already said it several times, they're still not getting it, that they better not ask. That the idea of the resurrection of someone is there's pretty much no frame of reference for that. and uh they would give this together. And they're asking Peter the question, does Jesus pay this? From whom the kings of earth take customs or taxes, from their sons or from strangers? Jesus, he is saying, then, Jesus is saying, I am not required to pay this temple tax. He's a tax collector, so he would he would remember the story. It is the idea of even though you are freed from doing something that is not your obligation, you are going to do it anyway. In other words, you do not have to withhold from that. But endure all things lest we hinder the gospel of Christ. We shouldn't fight for our rights in the sense that we want we want our right to be able to worship the I mean we we should we should on a we should be very thankful and we should you know be grateful for the rights that we have in this nation it we may be completely liberated to do it. Well one of the one of the most common complaints that I heard from my roommates about following rules was they're not treating us like adults A lot of rules. It would bother them so much that they're like, they're not treating us like adults. Actually they weren't. If you're truly an adult, just follow the rules, knowing you're an adult. And Jesus would call that twisted or perverted faith. I'm just so tired of wrestling through various issues in my life. Why am I doing what I'm doing? We thank you for Christ and all that he is, and we thank you for the faith that is displayed by this Father that that's faith that's real. This is something we can emulate. And Lord, if there is anybody here, or many people here, struggling in their own faith, there's doubts, there's things like that, Lord, help them to keep wrestling with you and struggling with you in this. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community here at BBC. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. according to the Bible. or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. To have the best experience you can possibly have. It is called the Exchange. we come up with these inaccurate views of of who you are and at times we are guilty of refashioning you in some other image. And Jesus rebuked the demon, and it came out of him, and the child was cured from that very hour. So Jesus said to them, Because of your unbelief, for assuredly I say to you, that if you have faith as a mustard seed, you will say to this mountain, Move from here to there, and it will move, and nothing will be impossible for you. He said yes, and when he had come into the house, Jesus anticipated him, saying, What do you think, Simon? From their sons or from strangers? Nevertheless, lest we offend them, go to the sea, cast in a hook, and take the fish that comes up first. Um we I listened up to WRBS back when WRBS was worth listening to uh for years um uh growing up as a as a um as a teenage or as a kid and a teenager and Ranger Bill was this program that definitely appealed to young men. Traveling dangerous trails, fighting the many enemies of nature. And nothing wrong, it was a r it was a great radio show, and I remember it to this day, and it was helpful and all of that, but it was totally unrealistic. life and suffers and struggles and all of that is like that. We've got some disciples, and they failed. We've got uh Jesus, of course, he's the only one on the scene that's perfect. That of course, if you remember lot from last week, Peter, James, and John along with Christ is up on the Mount of Transfiguration. Immediately it says in that passage, when they saw him, all people were greatly amazed, saw Jesus, were greatly amazed, and running to him greeted him. with his son who has had multiple seizures uh looks like many you know several times a day for years since his childhood, he says uh in Mark. to cast out demons, but they were unable to cast this demon out. In verse 20, it actually says of the Mark passage, it actually says, Then they brought him to him, and when he saw him, immediately the spirit convulsed him. You wouldn't necessarily see this, but I'm going to make the suggestion and maybe the argument that he is actually exemplary in his handling of his son. And I want you to see a few things about this. Notice the posture of this man. He appeals to his mercy in the Matthew passage in verse 15, Lord, have mercy on my son, for he is an epileptic and suffers severely. It's a matter of faith. Now he is not saying by saying that all things are possible to him to believe. That's not what what Jesus is saying here. God can answer our prayers in the way that we would desire. But understand when it comes to dealing with the problems of life, going through the difficulties of life, prayer matters. God is the God of the impossible. It was actually in the song that we just sang, in the song of the month. But it need it's gotta go down. Um so a couple of a few things here. Do it. He sees this first of all as a generational problem. And if we're not careful, it can influence us as well. So the problem here was not a problem of self-confidence. God didn't Jesus didn't say the man's faith was perverse and and uh and twisted. Wrestling with God, understanding, Lord, Lord, I do believe, but help my unbelief. And this problem would be solved. wrestling, going over things, realizing that we are, yes, we're trusting God, but we're struggling that and we're praying But if we are praying, even if we don't know what to pray, even if we're struggling with what to say, isn't it wonderful in Scripture? He intercedes on our behalf. causing my heart and my mind to pray. It's interesting that in uh that Luke says it this way, Luke 9, 43 through 45 is a parallel passage, and they were amazed at the majesty of God, but while everyone marveled at all the things which Jesus did They didn't understand what he was saying. You'd be like, are you talking figuratively here or something? that he was going to die and suffer. And very likely that, I think that is why they were grieved, that one of them was actually going to betray Jesus In our church, in our home, in our world, in the workplace. And he says, yes. It was it it was it was imposed for men between the ages of twenty and fifty, and it was a tax that helped support the work of the temple. term called the drachma uh and they were required it was a base it was basically um they were required to give this once a year Do they tax their sons or do they tax strangers? The royal family does not pay any tax. Who's the who is the the king of the temple, so to speak? true that you will withhold from doing things that are clearly that you clearly have the freedom to do for the same reason out of deference for those who would struggle. But when it comes to a a personal a personal liberty to either withhold from something or to participate in something And on the other hand, we have the responsibility and the privilege of not taking advantage of those rights. Folks, when it comes to our testimony, when it comes to weaker brothers and sisters in Christ, when it comes to all that, we need to choose to withhold our rights solely and completely on Jesus and who he was, who he is, and what he did on the cross. be saved. Ultimately, folks, what we need to do, look, if you're struggling in your face, that's okay. Are we willing to give up our rights out of deference for others? In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. So this and of course Ranger Bill was this larger in life character. Now, who do you suppose he's saying it to? I will tell you, I think this is such an encouraging, encouraging truth. Okay, alright, thank you. And Jesus then hits the root problem in verse 20. about very deliberately about what I'm doing. He actually does end up paying the tax. And in this, we have a very, very important principle that's actually going to be elaborated on in the New Testament. Does that make sense? They would say this all the time. Don't there are look there are Christians or uh that that say, I'm just so tired of struggling. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. May the Lord richly bless you. Help us, Lord, to rely on your character. Alright, like five of you. And all these people are presumably discussing this situation. Can you imagine having a child who is demon-possessed since his childhood? I'm almost glad, I hate to say it, but these disciples fail like you and I do You wouldn't necessarily see it at first. frustrated with having to deal with this son in this situation for years and years and years and finally thinking that he's going to have a cure and that fails and all the multitudes discussing this, you would think this man would be so frustrated and yet And we have this humble appeal in the Mark passage, he says, would you if would you have compassion on us and help us? We come to him knowing that he can. But then he says, Lord, would you help my unbelief? And frankly, all of us should be able to come to the realization that that is exactly where we are. What happens? That the disciples could not heal this man, uh the the the boy. Faithless generation, how long will I be with you? Isaiah 49. Uh i the quality of your faith is not um well I you know I got a stiff upper lip and I've just got enough stoicism to stuff the emotions and I'm just gonna push through this. We're going to see this, I think, I think it's five times throughout the book of Matthew, where he is going to again very deliberately and very purposefully remind the disciples, this is what I'm going to do. They didn't understand. uh the priesthood and the l you know all that. In fact, there's an implication here that actually you disciples, because you are also sons of the king, you're also with me, you don't actually have to pay this tax either. and catches a fish and sure enough there's coins in the fish, they pay their taxes. And Paul's response to the issue of eating meat offered to idols was that you are free to be able, as a Christian, you are free to be able to eat that meat. Do we do that? That we could never attain it is not faith that is real. And I pray, Lord, that you would help us with that. I pray, Lord, that you would help us to show deference to those who need Christ. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273 or email us. However, this kind does not go out except by prayer and fasting. Very likely at his wit's end. Jesus' reply is certainly worth noting. Now, there was another problem that we're going to splesh out now, and the problem was If you say, well, I I don't think I have very good faith, then I'm doubting. What do we learn from this? And when they came and they were asked as it was actually half a shekel is what it was. Folks, this is an important Christian virtue. Because when we really realize how free we are in Christ, it liberates us to withhold our rights and still know we're free. But you're going, we're going to do it anyway, so that we do not cause these people that we desire to win, we do not cause them to stumble. And that we would understand who we are in Christ, and that that would liberate us and free us to be able to love others in a way that we're able to show deference to others. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Shape us and create in us a mindset that goes to you and your word first. Father, we come before you having sung truths. Understanding that you are truly always good. Then Jesus answered and said, O faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you? pastors or um patriarchs in the Old Testament or whoever, that they that they lived a certain way and and they were so stalwart in their faith and we could never be anything like that. The Father is, can you imagine a heartbroken father who has come to these disciples But as we pray to the Lord, God is the God of the impossible. What this is saying is that this man's focus, his, the object of his faith is exactly in the right place. If you're struggling because you think, you know, my faith is not as strong as it ought to be, join the club. He's wet wrestling, he's struggling, he's working, he doesn't give up. You ever find yourself struggling with that? Jesus moves on now, and he's going to again, again, remind them of his mission. In other words, Jesus is progressively revealing to them more about what's going to happen, and this time he says the betrayal is going to come from the inside. So what Jesus says here, what Jesus says here is the sons of kings are not taxed. Because out of deference for those who would struggle if you didn't. We do whatever he wants us to do. But these m roommates of mine, they were just absolutely like, they're not treating us like adults. You're actually s when those who who have to have their rights, they've got to do it their way, they're struggling internally with who they really are. You might have grown up with God, but there is a twistedness in your faith that keeps you from placing your trust and Jesus. We can have faith that's dependent upon ourselves, our own experience, our own talents, our own education And thirdly, are we willing to give up our rights out of deference for others? I pray, Father, that we would realize that, that we humble ourselves before you, know your love for us, and love you. Because nobody's like that. The failure of the disciples is seen in this passage. was a culture of of uh of faithlessness and twisted faith. So if you want to evaluate your faith, don't ask whether or not it has doubts. In fact, in fact, it happens frequently in this. Sometimes Jesus has said yeah that's a good question. And when you have that, when you know who you are, when you know what freedoms you have, when you know, then you it gives you the ability to be able to withhold the rights. Answers and satisfaction from our own reasonings and and we also look outside as well There are disciples below, nine disciples below, presumably, and they are dealing with a situation. They can't deal with the problem. And Jesus says, the problem is unbelief, that if you will believe, you will be able to, if you have faith as a mustard seed, a small, extremely small speck. As best as I can see, their f the focus of their faith was on their own giftedness or their own experience, and they run up ran up against a And also, Jesus lets out something else that they are going to, he is going to be betrayed internally. We need to rehearse our mission. Now that the the passage quickly then moves to when they had come to Capernaum. When they had come to Capernaum, those who received the temple tax came to Peter and said, Does your teacher not pay the temple tax? And as a Christian, we need to come to the realization that we don't have any rights in Christ. We see thirdly about this man that he's struggling in his faith. I I'm going to need to ask somebody to turn that that that TV down in there because I can hear myself echo. Let's see, verse 17. Now, understand the disciples had been used to casting out demons. The man was transparently very humble. The quality of the faith he's talking about is a faith that put that is on their knees before God. of not resting on things, placing our faith in areas that we shouldn't place our faith in. Knowing that we are free, but we don't participate in certain things because out of love for others We often seek answers outside of your word. So and I didn't memorize that. And God delights. Understand that godly people doubt and waver. Then you'll be able to move mountains. The crooked places shall be made straight and the rough places smooth. That should be comforting to us. And yet, if we're not careful, you've got to make sure that you understand your kids are our future disciples of Christ, hopefully. Our goals as dads are to make disciples. Why? We don't want to give up our rights. Well that might be very American, but it's not very Christian. Be like this father who says, Lord, I believe, help my unbelief. Lord, when we think of our own rights, it is so easy for us to stand on our rights instead of laying our rights down at the cross. When they had come to Capernaum, those who received the temple tax came to Peter and said, Does your teacher not pay the temple tax? And then we see, after he says this, we see Christ heals. In Isaiah 50, verse 4, it says this, every valley shall be exalted, and every mountain and hill brought low. Well, this passage says he'll make it flat. He did not want to be an offense. But uh but but uh are you I mean they legally were, but not really. Let's go to the Lord in prayer together. And I pray, Lord, that you would use even this morning's passage and message to help us understand more and more who you truly are. Um how many of y'all grew up listening or knew uh have listened to the pa this is this goes way back. Sometimes we get the impression that the great hearers of the faith that have gone before us, whether it's missionaries or To place our trust, our dependence, our confidence in our abilities, or in our education, or in our experience. They struggle with that so much that Paul says you need to show deference in this area But um but I mean you're in it and you just do it and it's not that big a deal. And so we see here in the passage, Jesus first says, what does he say? Can you imagine they're building and they're going, well what do we do with this? Whether it's whatever ministries we're doing, whatever sir way we're serving, whether it's in the morning service, whether it's vacation Bible school, whatever it is But when Jesus when Peter gets back to the house and when Jesus probably Peter's house actually, Jesus asks Peter, what do you think, Simon? Why do we have why do we struggle with this so much? And then and then we we we feel like we have to exercise our rights. Am I rehearsing that mission? And it doesn't Okay well, I was gonna say it doesn't change when they're teenagers, but it changes a little. So he is very wealthy and doesn't pay any tax. 13 says, Therefore, if food makes my brother stumble, I will never again eat meat, lest I make my brother to stumble. And um and it was it was it had a lot of rules. But the truth is, most of the heroes of the faith, most missionaries, most pastors struggle. Instead of getting on my knees before the Lord and saying, Lord, help me. They also are paid a lot. What's the result? You can't have true faith without prayer. This is what I'm going to do. Let me illustrate it this way. Loring knowing that you, and and then Lord, help us to submit to your will as well, whatever that is. Some of you goes like that's not that far back. Lord have mercy on me, for he is an epileptic and suffers severely. 11 says, I will make each of my mountains a road, and my highways shall be elevated. And we see here, then he says this. If we are not praying, then we are not, we do not have the kind of faith this passage is talking about. As we close all this, let's ask three questions. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. It's so easy for us. Reading from the text today will be in Matthew 17, verses 14 through 27. And they were so they were at this point afraid to ask why. So maturity says, I have a right to, but I will withhold. Whatever it is in my in my workplace, am I working hardly as unto the Lord and not unto men? Okay. Anyway, uh we might need to put some seal around that door or something. If you don't know Christ as your Savior, the possibility is that your fo the focus of your faith, the problem is you might be a good person and you might have be very religious. And he is coming to Jesus. Jesus says, let this go down deep into your ears. Am I doing what I'm doing to make disciples for Christ? We hope to see you soon. Then Jesus answered and said, O faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you? Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. Beginning in verse fourteen, states, And when they had come to the multitude, a man came to him, kneeling down to him and saying, Lord, have mercy on my son. Uh anyway, I've uh I'm literally hearing myself talk every uh and I I I put up with it for about, you know, fifteen minutes now and I can't or whatever it is and Well, a couple of things we can learn. Every other effort has been made. Verse 14 says this. Well, certainly he is saying it to his father. The problem was actually not even a problem of the quality of their faith. What is our mission? Because, notice what it says in the text. There were all kinds of different rules. We hope to see you soon. May we find that all we need truly is found in you and your Son. This man does not come with this attitude of I'm entitled. Now what's going on here? He says verse chapter 9, 1 Corinthians, I will give up my rights. Frankly, after a c a couple of weeks, you just I mean I just kind of got used to following the rules and they didn't have to make sense and I didn't have to understand them and I look back and I go, wow, that was On the other hand, if we know Christ is our Savior, we can have twisted faith as well, can't we? Every day of our lives are we asking ourselves the question, what is my mission? The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible So apparently there was this discussion and maybe even argument going on over this That's the kind of God of the impossible that he that he is. Notice what it says in verse 22. All right. What was the problem for the disciples? Withhold your right. I've used this illustration before, but it's been a very long time, so I can use it again. We confess that before you. He says first of all, verse seventeen in the passage, he says, um uh um You can do it. Or the fact that you're a good person and Jesus. It comes only by prayer and fasting. I finally said to them one time, are you adults or not? I pray, Lord, that we would see you truly more and more as you really are. He's struggling even with belief in Mark. We're like the disciples. And Jesus used this to teach the disciples a very important lesson. Do you know how much I this is for free. Jesus said to him, From strangers. And he first looks to the generation and he says, Oh faithless and perverse generation. And this was imposed on everybody, but probably wasn't, as I already mentioned, sanctioned by Roman law. Frankly, no Christian is like that. This this young man is cured. You ever find yourself saying, Yeah, I've done this before, I got that? But anyway, um Ranger Bill. That was from when I was a kid. They can't fail over and over again. And there there can be all kinds of uh out out cries and different things that go on depending on what kind it is He delights when his saints come to him in prayer and in dependency on him. You'll remember the story. All right. He did not want to cause them to stumble. Go into all the world and make disciples. And he says in this passage, all things are possible to him who believe. It's not required of you. The kind of faith that's doubtless, the kind of faith that's of such high quality You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. This is the job of the Guardian of the Forest, Ranger Bill, pouring rain We're going to see, first of all, the focus of faith, verses 14 through 21. On one hand, we have all of the rights, all the rights and privileges of being an adult son. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. It's interesting how Jesus replies. And his answer is uh and they worded it in a way they said, does not Jesus pay this? They couldn't do it. Am I being good testimony to others in order for them to become uh become a disciple of Christ? Amen. But he is saying that God is the God of the impossible But there were Christians who associated so closely idolatry with the eating of meat offered to idols. So Ranger Bill was this character in uh he it was a it was a a a radio program. And I want you to see, I want us to look at this father and realize that actually this father is exemplary in his attitude. Lord, I believe, help my unbelief. I'm guilty of it. I mean, what does that mean? And that stubb, it says they were grieved by it. What am I doing to make disciples? So there was this tax, this temple tax. I have rights and I need to I need to I I should be able to exercise those rights and don't keep me from exercising my rights and I have rights I mean, you you actually don't have to wear a suit coat to dinner anymore. Christ's instruction here then is this. We've got to keep it's not just it's not just uh boy I hope I hope my kids end up you know successful. So you have this scene, the there's multitudes everywhere. The question is, will he? We go along, we do this, we do that, and we do this, and we've done that enough. We've got a father who is struggling with an epileptic son that is also has is demon-possessed. We may be totally free to do it, but God says if you're going to cause somebody to stumble, He understood the importance of submitting his heart and life unto the will of his father. And when we come to Him, we need to come with Him. Well, not exactly that way, but he said he basically answered as though it was a good question. Why? Everything he went through he was able to solve the problem completely. Notice verse 14 in Matthew. Help us to rely on your person, who you are. There's no question about that. The man was transparently saying, Lord, I believe, help my unbelief. First of all, that Jesus rehearsed his mission often, and frankly, we need to rehearse Jesus' mission often as well. It's a few times used, and it's used really in the along, you know, carries the idea of worshiping. We need to have faith like the Father. Now, while they were staying in get in Galilee, Jesus said to them, The Son of Man is about to be betrayed into the hands of men And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. That was a bit of that was quite confusing for the disciples, as we'll see. Why weren't they able to cast this demon out? That's not a test for the quality of your faith. The real faith of a of a struggling Christian, and all we all struggle at times, is a is a faith that comes to you on our knees before you in prayer. Anyway, like I didn't actually try to memorize that. The critical issue in this passage is a matter of belief. That is the case here. And uh and so they go out and they they he he send he puts out a line fishing Keep from don't exercise that right. You can walk off, you can leave. And how in my life am I doing that? That you would cause us to realize And they were exceedingly sorrowful. And he comes to Jesus and he says, and he appeals to Jesus at this point. Why was he, why did he pay the tax? Am I serving the Lord even in my own family? Because they're the ones who do the taxing. What's the whole temple for? First Corinthians nine twenty-two, to the weak I became weak that I might win the weak. That is, that the culture in which the disciples found themselves was a culture It wasn't that the disciples lost confidence in themselves. This is a big mountain in front of us. Of course, all things need to be need to come come under the submission of the will of God. The disciples' focus of their faith was no longer on Christ. I think it's only mentioned here in the book of Matthew, but uh and that doesn't surprise us, does it? Why do we struggle with the idea that, well, I have my rights? That is a fictional character. In fact, this has become a theme, by the way, where the disciples are constantly failing one thing after another. This son is cured They had faith that was not focused in the right way. There are times where I I'm just kind of going along and I can do this because I did it a thousand times already. And you just had to learn to follow the rules. First we'll look at the focus of faith. He says, So Jesus said to them, Because of your unbelief, for assuredly I say to you. He'll just, God will flatten the mountain. It is called the Exchange. We ask, Lord, that you would train us, teach us In fact, in chapter 14 they fail, in chapter 15 they fail, in chapter 16 they fail, and in chapter 17 they fa Anyway, all right. You've got multitudes, you've got scribes and phara scribes in the passage, you've got all these different people, none of which are perfect. There are a lot of things we can learn from this first point here. Why? And uh th there was a particular monetary Number one, what is the focus of your faith? The disciples previously had been given them the ability to be able He's reverent and he's worshipful You just go stay within the lines that they've provided and it's not that big a deal Um are you are yeah, yeah, we're adults. And on top of that, he has epilepsy so that he is So imagine the scene. He couldn't heal the son. In the Old Testament, a mountain was was basically an insurmountable problem. This is something that it feels like, frankly, we have forgotten in our Christianity. But if you can do anything, have compassion on us and help us. He says it is perverse. Prayer is the natural byproduct of true faith in Christ. I'm the son of the king You know what he's saying there? Now we just uh the the uh England uh Great Britain just had a coronation this past weekend, right? But do you know how much King George III is paid per year? Let's pray together. Truths from your word. How many of you know that's n that ra ha put your hands up. No no no solid biblical Christian, no Christian that is mature and loves the Lord, no Christian that lives Because well actually if you remember in Matthew, the disciples have asked asked questions a lot. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. This man appeals to the Lord and says, Lord, help my son. Is that why I'm doing what I'm doing? This is not a guarantee. The disciples can't they can't This is what Christ can do. Jesus pays the tax both for for him and for Peter. Keep struggling. He says, Lord, help my, I believe, help my unbelief. And I'll just point out by way of application that folks, our culture is a faithless and perverse generation as well. And that's what the disciples, they were struggling with this. And sometimes two people together would go in together to to do this temple tax in one one at one time. We seek answers uh from our own hearts. God had given them that ability. Ask Ask yourself the question, am I is my safe No, stay strong and go ahead and struggle in prayer before God. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone. This man does not come even in frustration at this point. No. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. And you have this, then Jesus asks the question, how long was he like this? That kind of faith No, just a mustard seed of faith. That's our mission. That's all tax free from a grant, uh a royal grant that's been set up. It's for God, the Father. And I'm not saying that we shouldn't And he said, From childhood. Um I I apologize, but I actually just couldn't do it anymore. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. And when you have opened its mouth you will find a piece of money. And he is at his wit's end in Matthew. And when they had come to the multitude, a man came kneeling down to him. But what we see from this man is that he continues the struggle. He heals this young man. So what happens? We can go over it we or we can go through it and they for whatever reason decided to go through it because it would probably safer ultimately. I mean you can walk off a couple, you don't have to be here. But there's also no question from both passages that he is also speaking to the multitudes. They were overly self-confident, in fact. They he said the disciples' faith was. And what then does Jesus end up doing? He says, we do not have to pay this tax. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, He says in the Mark passage, and I've got to tell you, this is such Lord, you know, the truth of the matter is we can do nothing apart from Christ. And it maybe the the Bible is very clear about this. Whatever we're doing, the mindset needs to be uh the mission of Christ for my life as a Christian Jesus said to him, Then the sons are free. Lord, transparent faith. Ask whether or not you are praying. We've done that so much that we just we just sort of say, okay, well I did it before, I can do it again. That's God's call to us as disciples, to make disciples. Verse 27, nevertheless, lest we offend them. I mean it is nothing compared to what it was. We're adults, we're adults, and they're not treating us like adults. The sun is doing this right in front of Jesus. And if the Lord wills, and if the Lord chooses to do so, You know why? Now, while they were staying in Galilee, Jesus said to them, The Son of Man is about to be betrayed into the hands of men. It was because of their unbelief. May you completely grasp this. And the reverse is Well yeah, we're adults. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. Jesus says all things are possible to him who believes. And we're going to understand a little bit more what that means in a minute, but there was a there was a faithlessness And before we're too hard on our on these disciples, remember Then the disciples came to Jesus privately and said, Why could we not cast it out? Um this is how it started. Anyway, so um It's never a question of whether or not God can. It was not likely a tax imposed by the Romans at all. And Lord, really, we confess before you that if we're not willing to do that, it shows our own immaturity. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. Truths from your word that we rely on. He had total faith in Christ in everything that he did. This was the kind of character that he was. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes You have this poor father who has been dealing There's a sense in which it's we we are servants, we are bond slaves of Christ Or the fact that you had a great a great family who taught you really good things and Jesus. Father, we come to you and we thank you for your word. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God. Or email us at info at bbcofmd. And I've I've actually was hoping that The disciples come to Jesus and they privately say, Why could we not cast it out? Look at the contrast between the disciples' faith and this man's faith. Don't check out. In some way So you have this situation. God put you flat on your face. Here's what I think. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. He doesn't need to go over it. Galatians says it this way: don't use your liberty as an occasion for the flesh. Relying on the fact that you make not a single mistake. The word means to twisted. It can happen in ministry. When I was in college, I went to, I won't mention the the name of the college, but its initials were PCC And all we have to do is not have grand faith Here's how you know the quality of your faith. Faith that's we're when we're on our knees before God, struggling I mean, think about it. I said so then why do you need to prove it by hav why do you need to prove it? It may be that you are putting your faith in works They're coming down off the mountain, and this is what they come to. He rehearses the mission, then we're moving on. He asks the question. And in our story, we have a lot of real life people. It must be through prayer. Now, this is the first time that he said this. And Jesus Peter's answering in the affirmative in the sense that, yes, Jesus pays this. It was because The passage tells us You know, it's really easy in life Peter and his Sorry This is not a rub a genie in a bottle and get whatever you want if you believe enough. In fact, quite the opposite. From whom do the kings of earth take customs or taxes? Now, when this when this response occurs If you think, you know, I doubt and I waver. There are times I ate ramen in my room just because I didn't want to throw a suit coat on. How long shall I bear with you? We need to rehearse our mission frequently. Nevertheless, we have not used this right Am I making disciples even in my family? Matthew 17, 14 through 27, encourage you to read along with me, if you will. Um So it really surprised them when they couldn't cast this one out. So I brought him to your disciples, but they could not cure him And Jesus says And other times he's like, why haven't you gotten this yet? Am I sharing my faith with others? Ranger Bill I guess actually can do it from memory. It's on Christ. And apparently the faith that this man shows He doesn't need to go through it. So that's what's going on here. Lord, you are good. If you've if you listen to Ranger Bill, I'm curious how many of you It says the Holy Spirit in Romans 8 prays when we can't, when we don't know what to pray. What does this mean? We thank you, Lord, and pray all this in Christ's name. Now what's the correlation? I think it's because we really don't realize how free we are in Christ. But we really would love to meet you in person. And may we be satisfied. Somebody like like if somebody told you, I'm going to rise from the grave. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. It says that Jesus rebuked the demon, and it came out of him. He says, from king, who do kings tax? Mark is going to help us even more with what's going on here. That's true faith But one of the things that we can learn is that the is the importance I become all things to all men that I might They would belly over the rules, they would have so many they'd be complaining about the rules all the time. How long shall I bear with you? They're surprised they can't cast them out. Neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must Well, who was more confident? Because all things are possible. That's often the problem. We seek Take that and give it to them, for me and you And they didn't. Forty-four million dollars per year He said this several occasions, and he's going to say it again. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. Wouldn't I mean you would think this man would be out of his mind But at this point, they at least understood this. Verse 24, it says this. That's why Jesus said at the garden Your goal, moms, are to make disciples. No, I need to think Because Matthew was what? All of the people have come and they're looking to Jesus finally after after We can see the correlation, right? You ever been there? He says, I believe You're not obligated to do it. He'll flatten it. He literally probably never did anything wrong of any kind This father is he is low. Am I raising my kids Faithless and perverse generation. Bring him here to me. Have mercy on my son. We thank you for the truth that's in your word. Sometimes Jesus has said These disciples are failing a lot. Um all right. That's not faith. Christ tells us that. This was tax a tax that was imposed by the Jews What is the focus of your faith The quality of your faith is not whether or not you doubt. You are always good. Lord, it is true that And he sets an example for us in that way. You don't need somebody to prove it to you May we find all our satisfaction in you. Warrior of the Woodlands struggling against extreme odds. He comes and he worships Jesus. The disciples were more confident So often, Father, we I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. org. Bring him here to me But we really would love to meet you in person. That's not the quality that's not the quality of faith. They fail to understand what Jesus is saying. And I looked it up The passage here tells us Does that sound familiar by the way? Your way is perfect. Amen. Your way is perfect. And Verse 19. They would they would