Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you and we praise you. We praise you for the gift of Christ. We praise you for your working through us, your faithfulness to work through us, even often despite our failures and our lack of faithfulness to you. We thank you for this hymn that we just sung that reminds us that the motives that we need to have of true love for you and And not love for ourselves. We are so inclined, we confess before you, Father, that we are so inclined To make ourselves the center of our world, instead of having Christ be the center of everything. And so part of why we worship together is to realign our hearts and our minds and our thinking. That our what we do would be for your glory, for your purposes, for your kingdom, out of love for you, rather than our own selfish desires, agenda, or mind Motives. And so, Lord, as we come to you this morning, as we anticipate Brother David's preaching to us from your word, we pray, Lord, that our hearts would be encouraged, our faith would be strengthened, our mind would be established and informed. About how we can know you more and worship you better and serve you in great ways this coming week. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Take your Bibles if you would and turn to 2 Peter chapter 3 for scripture reading this morning. 2 Peter chapter 3. This is is going to be we're ha we're privileged today to have Brother David Summerdorf. Um he would be uh probably better known as Kevin's father in our church. And uh we appreciate I appreciate the relationship I've had with him over the la ever since Kevin He he drops in. I usually don't know when and I'm always happy to see him every time and uh he's always encouraged an encouragement to me. Um And uh and so I'm really thankful that he'll be able to come and preach for us. The text that he'll be preaching from is here in Second Peter chapter three, and we'll be reading from verses three through ten. It talks in this passage about the last days. And we know from scripture that the last days started with the ascension of Christ and ends with the coming of Christ. So we've been living in the last days a long time. And uh let's begin in verse 3 of chapter 3 of this passage. Knowing this first, that scoffers will come in the last days. Walking according to their own lusts, and saying, Where is the promise of his coming? For since the fathers fell asleep, all things continue as they were from the beginning of creation. From this they will forget they will fully forget that by the word of God the heavens were of old. and the earth standing out of water and in the water, by which the world that then existed perished, being flooded with water. For the heavens and the earth, which are now preserved by the same word, are reserved for fire unto the day of judgment and perdition of ungodly men. But beloved, do not forget this one thing, that with the Lord one day is as a thousand years, and a thousand years is as one day. The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some count slackness, but is long suffering to usward, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night, in which the heavens will pass away with a great noise, and the elements will melt with fervent heat. Both the earth and the works that are in it will be burned up. The Lord add blessings to the reading of His Well, good morning, church family. A blessing to be a part of your VBS the last couple of days. Great job to all involved, and I want to say a special thank you to Pastor Ghana staff, church family, for uh and pastor for not only your friendship but your uh desperation in having a guy like me bring the Word of God. And I appreciate that and trust we can be helpful this morning. 2 Peter chapter 3, I want you to go there. And if you would like an outline or a handout and you don't have one, my wife does have a few extras. And uh if you just slip your hand up if you'd like one. Uh if you don't have one, just slip your hand up. She'll get those to you. I want to remind you, if you are visiting, there are ink pens in the in the the little pouch right in front of you. And uh I've grown fond of giving out outlines now as I travel and speak across America, sometimes in Canada, sometimes overseas Because I've learned now that I'm 63 years old that a sharp pencil will always be the dull mind. I've been in church services before where pastors preach something. I said, man, that is a great thought. But I had nothing to write with and nothing to write on. And so for the rest of the service, I would remind myself, don't forget that thought, and in that process, oftentimes I would never hear anything else. Because I was so focused on not forgetting something that touched my heart. And then at the end of the service I found I forgot it anyhow. And so the pen and paper is a great way to just record things 2 Peter chapter 3, we've just read that, but I want to just cap at beginning in verse 3, and we do recognize this is going on even today, knowing this first that there shall come in the last day scoffers walking after their own lusts And look at what they're saying. They're saying, where is the promise of the coming of Jesus Christ? You know, we're living in those days today. Where people are questioning the promise that Jesus said he would return. But notice in verse 8, the little gentle reminder the Spirit of God gives every one of us, he says, But beloved Be not ignorant of this one thing that one day is with the Lord as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day. In other words, time means nothing to a God who is eternal. And then look at what he says. And the Lord's not slack concerning his promise. As some men count slackness, but is long-suffering to usward, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. And notice God's response. To every single scoffer and mocker, through time immemorial and even to us today, he says this in verse 10, but the day of the Lord. Don't just say this this morning. He is coming. He is coming. He is coming. He is coming. Jesus is coming again as he promised. And so to that end, I want to speak to you this morning of what I call the last lap of time. I believe as Americans we need to recognize, number one, this morning, as we look around us and concern ourselves with the Word of God and all that's going on in not just our nation but the world You could jot this in your notes. I believe this morning you and I are living in the last lap of time. I believe you and I this morning are living In the last lap of time. In other words, these days are uniquely different. And you don't need mathematical formulas and supernatural visions from individuals out there. Every one of us instinctively, even People who don't know Christ as Savior just know there's something different about these days above any other days that have ever been lived. I wrote down some of the indicators. This is your homework assignment, first of all. Some of the indicators that I see right now in the Word of God. That would tell us we're living in the last slap of time. There's a technological indicator in Daniel 12 and verse 4. It's in place right now that would tell you these days are different Jesus is coming again very, very soon. Second of all, there's a moral and spiritual indicator. You'll find in 2 Timothy 3 20 signs and sins that will be in place when Jesus Christ returns. Thirdly, I find a political and prophetic indicator in the book of Ezekiel 11 and Ezekiel 37 and many other chapters, even in the Old Testament, that would tell us we're living in the last lap of time. God has always had a prophetic stopwatch. And God's prophetic stopwatch is the nation of Israel. In fact, you'll see in Zechariah 12, 13, and 14 that when Messiah comes back, the Jewish people are in their land functioning as a nation. And he touches down on the Mount of Olives. This is an Old Testament scripture. The Jews today bury, the wealthy Jews bury their dead on the Mount of Olives. So they can be first in resurrection. They know Messiah is touching down on the Mount of Olives. They're regathered as a single nation to meet their Messiah. And when they meet him, they're going to say, where'd you get those wounds in your hands? And he'll say, at the household of my friends, and as a nation, those that survive The seven-year Holocaust or the tribulation, those Jews will meet Messiah face to face, and a fountain will be opened, and it's the closest thing to irresistible grace you find in the Word of God. But in A. D. 70, Israel ceased to exist as a nation. Swept to the Gentile nations, the diaspora, as the Jew calls it. But the times of the Gentiles, as we refer to it, now came to pass. There are people without a land. She's a land without her people. They were scattered as two nations, and then for 100, 200, 300, 5 centuries, they come and go. There's no Jew in the land. There's no nation there to meet Messiah 1,000 years, 1492, 1,400 years still. They're a land without a people, a people without their land But on May 14th, 1947, a Jewish nation was reborn And in that moment, gathered again, they became a nation, and God's prophetic stopwatch began again chipping off the last seconds and minutes and days of time. Don't tell me this morning these days are same o samo. Don't go and fall into the trap, well, we got another thousand years to go before Jesus comes again. The Jew is in her land She is prepared to meet her Messiah now. She's gathered in unbelief. And Zechariah 12, 13, and 14 are on the verge of being fulfilled to the Jewish people. But fourthly, I want to note this. We have an economic indicator. Go to Revelation 13. We'll look at this one together I'm just introducing the thought here that you and I, I believe this morning, from everything I see in Scripture, we are living in the last lap of time. Everything is set up for the return of Jesus Christ. Look at what's said in Revelation 13, an economic indicator in verse number 16. It's in place right now. Revelation 13, 16 says this. And he, the Antichrist, the global leader. Satan manifests, if you will, causeth all, both small and great, rich and poor, free and bond, to receive a mark in their right hand or in their foreheads. And that no man might buy or sell save he that had the mark or the name of the beast or the number of his name. Here in Revelation 13, we see near the end of time a global Cashless society. A global cashless society. I don't know how old everybody here is, but let me tell you something. When I was a teenager, software wasn't even a word. When I was a teenager, there were no credit cards. You paid with a check or you paid with cash And had I stood out in front of the local grocery store and said these words, hear ye, hear ye, we're on the verge of a global cashless society. Put away your cash, everything's electronic, you don't need cash, they would have sent me to the loony bin. Figuring I'd been reading too many cartoon Buck Rogers something or other. You know what I mean? Let me tell you something. You stand in front of your Walmart right now and say We'll never have a global cashless society. You'll be the one that'll be sent away in the white suit. We are there. Fox News, two and a half years ago, featured an incredible breakthrough in technology. A Swedish firm, technology firm, introduced a new RF chip the size of a grain of rice that can be put in The flap of your skin on your right hand between your thumb and your pointer finger, and on that would be vaccination status, bank account numbers, all your medical history Let me tell you, they said this, whether you like this or not, the future is here. Global, cashless society Not until the last decade have we reached that technological pinnacle where Revelation 13 can now be fulfilled. Do not believe for one moment. We've got centuries left to go. Every combination tumbler is in place right now. From everything I see in Scripture, there's more, but you check just these four out. They're all there, just waiting for the lever to be pulled. Amen? I remember the middle of the pandemic, my son Kevin called me. He went ahead and said, Dad, don't get me wrong. I've always believed the book of Revelation was going to come to pass, but I just couldn't see how we would get there. But now I look around at everything going on and the global response to the pandemic and the no cash and just all of this. And Dad, I can see now. How we are going to get there. What was that young generation saying? He was simply saying what dad's preaching right now. You and I are living in the last lap of time. The return of Jesus Christ is so close now. We are living in the last lap of time. But here's the good news. You want to write this in, it's exciting for believers because some of us are going to be leaving in the last slap of time. Write that one in there That's exciting for a believer of the days in which we live because many of us are going to be leaving in the last lap of time. Do you know this morning as I move this thought forward, the last lap has something no other lap holds? Any idea what that is? The last lap is the only lap that has this. What is it It's the finish line. Did you notice that? All those relays they ran and all the races they ran? Only the last lap had the finish line. And let me say, for the believer that's alive when Jesus Christ returns, what a finish we have. It is literally out of this world. Go to 1 Thessalonians. We just need to read this one more time. 1 Thessalonians, look with me in chapter 4. We see here the finish for a believer if they're alive and remain when Jesus Christ returns. Look at what's said here in 1 Thessalonians 4 and verse number 13 1 Thessalonians 4 and verse number 13, all of us are living in the last lap, lost or saved, rich or poor, young or old, but But many of us are going to be leaving in the last lap of time in a very supernatural way. Look at that moment is described in 1 Thessalonians 4 in verse 13. Look with me. He says this, but I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren. So he's talking to saved people here. The word brethren denotes people who are born again. Concerning them which are asleep, those who died in Jesus. They've gone ahead of us. They sour not even as others which have no hope. For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again. Even so them also which sleep in Jesus will God bring with them. Look at verse 15. For this we say unto you, by the word of the Lord. We which are alive and remain under the coming of the Lord shall not prevent, which means precede them which are asleep. Look at verse 16. For the Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, with the trump of God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first. Verse 17, then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up. That's where the word rapture comes from, the taking away. The bodily resurrection of those of us that are saved when Jesus comes. We're caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. Oh, and so shall we ever be with the Lord, and believers comfort one another with these words Here we see what's referred to as the rapture. And you and I need to recognize if you and I are alive and remain when Jesus returns, What an incredible way we're going to be leaving this earth in the last slap of time. How fast does that occur? Does anybody know? 1 Corinthians tells us that moment of resurrection occurs in the what? Twinkling of an eye. Twinkling of an eye. That's faster than eye can light can bounce off your eyeball. Alright? How fast does light travel? Anyone know? Can't all be homeschooled. All right? How fast does light travel? Just slip you say, I think it's this fast. Anybody know? Joe, you gotta know, man. Meters, all right. So the socialist communist answer Hundred eighty six thousand miles per second. Sorry, Joe, I just If I make fun of you publicly, I like you. Joe's the guy that when I came in the wrong colors to BBS, he made me go get dressed in blue and come back for blue team. All right, I just want you to know Other than Joe, no one el uh uh well my wife will dress me once in a while, but Joe dressed me, all right? When he addressed me. Hundred eighty-six I'll go with miles per second because that's so technical, that meter thing Hundred eighty-six thousand miles per second. Young people. I mean if you took a flashlight out there tonight And you just turned it on for one second, one one thousand up to space, and shut it off, if unobstructed and strong enough, that beam would have traveled 186,000 miles in that one single second. I hate to say it, but that's faster than some of you drive around here. All right? That's like real I I almost thought how did they figure that one out, you know. The twinkling of an eye, faster than the blink of an eye, faster than you can blink your eye. That's how fast the return of Jesus Christ is going to be. Have you ever had a blink of an eye experience blink? And everything changed? Let me tell you about mine. Right about now your pastor's going, why did I have this guy preach? I was a teenager. And I remember it was a Friday. We were prepping for a junior high basketball game. My right side was hurting horribly. And all throughout the day it just got worse and worse until finally, right there before the game, I'm suited up to play and I can't even walk. I'm stretched out in the men's locker room on the bench The coach has called my dad. Dad's come in. They're checking me out, and they came to find out I had appendicitis. So off to Glenko Memorial Hospital in Minnesota. Ya, ya let's ya. There I go. Off to Minnesota, Glenko Hospital. I get there. I've had stitches all over, but I've never been put out before. And they got me all scrubbed up, ready to roll. The little anesthesiologist came to me and said, now young David, I'm your anesthesiologist. This tube I have in your arm, that's the anesthetic. And when I pull this little pin here, that anesthetic's going to go into your arm. through your body and it will knock you out completely and you won't be able to stop that. I said, is that right? That's it's me, you know. She that's right. There's not I said, I'll bet you I can I bet you I can fight it. She said, No you can't. I said I betcha I can. You know. She says, well you can't, but I'll tell you what, we'll play a game When I say go, I'm going to pull the little pin and release the anesthetic. And I want you to start at 100. And out loud count backwards as fast as you can by ones, and before you get to ninety, this will knock you out. I said, is that right? She said, that's right. I said, you know, this is typical me. Game on. You know, my life is in the balance, but we're gonna go out with a bang. You know? And so she said, on your mark. She said, Are you ready? I said, I'm ready. Are you ready? She said, I'm ready. On your mark. Get set. And she goes, Go. Pulls a little pin. And I began counting. One hundred, ninety-nine, ninety-eight, ninety-seven. I could feel that stuff start to go ahead. Ninety-six, ninety-five, and between ninety-five And 94, thump. I went out and I woke up in a dark room, elevated bed, uh an hour or two later, going ninety-four, ninety-three, nine. Where am I? Let me tell you something. When Jesus Christ returns, that will be the speed of his return. I've had people tell me, you know, I'm not I I know I'm not saved, preacher. I know that I'm not a believer, but when I start seeing or somebody says to me, ready not, here he comes, I'll get saved. No one will even have the time to draw back their breath to give you that verbal warning. This is your warning. And if you've heard the gospel and you've willingly rejected Jesus Christ, Scripture's clear, strong delusion will be sent. You will buy the lie and be damned and be a zombie heading into eternity. This is your moment. You say, Preacher, I'm not sure I'm saved. I I don't know if my sin debt's paid. This is now. You need to deal with that now. Believer, if you're not right with the Lord, there's something not right. This is the time to get right Because when he returns, it is in the twinkling of an eye. All of us are living in the last lap. Some of us will be leaving in the last slap, in the twinkling of an eye. But thirdly, I want you to write this in on the back of your notes because this is what I want to close with, and I think this is really the focus that the Lord wants me to give you as a church family. Though all of us are living in the last slap, regardless of who you are this morning, Regardless of whether you believe it or not, you're there. And some of us, if not many of us, will be leaving in the last lap. Here's what I want you to jot in. None of us needs to be losing in the last lap of time None of you today needs to be losing in this last lap of time. And I'll just say this, you know, it's bad enough to lose a race. I mean, you saw the men lose the gold by fumbling the baton. There's a message right there passing the truth. And it always stung me when I lost a race. I was a runner. I've had to give that up now just as the aging process. But you know what really smarts is to lose it in the last lap. You hear Paul, the Spirit of God, through Paul saying to the Galatian believers, you did run well. You were doing so well. Who hindered you? What happened? And I I'm uniquely as that minister that travels the nation. Every two, three years I come back through a church. There'll be times I'll ask the preacher, hey, that couple that sat right there Where are they? What's up with them? And boy, the head goes down and the preacher says, man, they're not serving the Lord anymore, something bad. And I literally Of all the times you and I quit the race. We're so close. We're so close to everything the prophets talked about. And everything, the consummation. Now? I mean the finish line's in view. Why would you quit now? My heart just false Jot these three words down because I think they'll help you. They're not in the notes, but you and I need to recognize the nature of a last lap. Now whether that's a physical lap. An actual race you're running, an emotional lap, a spiritual lap, or what I'm speaking to this morning, which is time coming to an end and Jesus Christ returning There's three things about every last lap that are always true. Number one, the last lap is the most distracting lap you'll ever run. Did you notice it's the last lap and all the voices start screaming from the stands? All the sounds start erupting. You know what I mean? The stands get louder than the track Did you notice that? And look across America. There are voices screaming for our attention. political voices, moral voices, some good causes, some bad causes. This is a cacophony of sound that's enveloping us right now as we final fight turn that final corner in our service to the Lord. Don't get distracted. It's a very distracting lap. Second of all, I've learned by experience the last lap is the most exhausting lap. This is the most exhausting lap you'll ever run. And look at America. Look at the world. As America goes, so goes the world. What an exhausting day we live in. Can I just throw out something that exhausts me? If you cannot get male and female right, you're not going to get much else right It's exhausting. Good is evil. Evil is good. I don't care where you're it's not a political thing. That's just common sense. I'm an old farm boy. You can't get that right You're not going to get anything else right. It's exhausting today what's going on out there. But thirdly, this is a big one, the last slap, that's the most painful and intense lap you'll run. Just jot that down. You know, believers, as I move this final thought ahead, let's recognize As we get closer to the Lord's return, it's not going to get easier to serve Him. It's going to cost you more. And it's going to get painful because the days of casual Christianity in America are coming quickly to a close. If you can't serve him now when the table's full and the bank account's got money and things are tickety-boo, I'm going to tell you you're going to really struggle when the persecution comes. This is the nature of the last lap. And in all of that, write this down. Actually, I wrote it down for you. Don't lose your focus. Go to Hebrews with me and just look. Hebrews chapter twelve, Christian We're living in the last lap. Some of us will have the blessed privilege of leaving in the last lap. But none of us needs to be losing in this last lap of time. And I'm addressing believers. This is my major focus this morning Don't lose your focus in this last lap of time. Look at Hebrews. In Hebrews chapter 12. Notice what said here in Hebrews 12 and verse number 1, he says, Wherefore, seeing we also are compassion about so great a crowd of witnesses, let us lay aside every way, and the sin which has so easily beset us. Let us run with patience, the race that is set before us. Not talking about the race of salvation. That already got run in Jesus. He's talking about your race of service. Notice Verse 2, looking unto Jesus. Say those three words with me out loud. Looking unto Jesus. In this last lap of time, Christian, don't lose your focus. We are commanded to be looking unto Jesus. Notice what he doesn't say. I love to do this. He doesn't say looking under the government. Could I get an amen? Yeah? He doesn't say looking under the news. Could I get an amen? Oh, that one got a little quieter, all right. Should have been here for Sunday school. Pastor Ganah and I are tag teaming that one, that one thought, all right? And uh great feedback from everybody that was there in Sunday school But you know what I used to do when we were on the road with our children? Monday was my day. I would find a coffee shop. And I'd buy, I know you'll never believe, you'll never believe this thing once existed, a newspaper, a USA Today. Back when it was 75 cents a copy. And people always say, why USA Today? Well, color pictures, all right? So no one had color. I'm a Marine Corps. We kind of like our crayons, all right? So into color. So I'd buy a USA Today, go to a coffee shop, and I would order breakfast, have my cup of joe, and I I took my Bible out and I would read my Bible publicly Coffee shops are the Mars Hill of our day-to-day. Best place to witness. Coffee shops, Starbucks, Panera Breads, I mean just, you know, they're just great places to mix it up with people. And I'd go there, have my Bible here, and have my USA-to-day here And I'd be reading some scripture, then I go over a section of USA Today and I go back and forth. That was how I would start my week. I remember one day I'm doing that one Monday and a guy comes along, older guy. Never met him before. He had a cup of Joe and he looks at my desk like that. He kind of nods and then he goes, hm. He said, That's good news, pointed to my Bible, and he said, and that's bad news, and pointed to the USA today, and then just walked off. I remember watching that coot go and I'm thinking, wow, he kind of nailed it, you know. If you and I are careful We get so wrapped up with the bad news, we have no place for the good news. Amen. And let me tell you, you get into the papers and all that's going. Well papers, you don't, but into your electronics. I'm going to tell you right now. There's a plethora of bad news, but the good news is what lasts forever. Amen. He doesn't say looking under the news. He doesn't say looking under talk radio. He doesn't say looking under Facebook. He doesn't say looking unto social media. He says looking unto who? Jesus. Got a little test for you. This works every time for me. It was tapped. Pastor Ganaeam, he had no idea what I was preaching. But I'm going to just reconfirm it. You want to find out what you're looking on to today? You want to find out what you're obsessively focused on? There's a very easy task every morning. After you get your cup of Joe Brush your little toofies. Start your day. What's the first thing you reach for? Is it the TV remote? Is it the smartphone to see how the markets are doing, see what your 401k has been doing? Is it the political i is it that? Or is it the word of God? Whatever you reach for first, that is what you're looking to every single time. In this last lap of time, you and I that are saved We're to be looking unto Jesus. Amen? Don't lose your focus. And when you look to him, write this in your notes. You'll get into the Word of God. Number one, and you and I need this. You will find that your God Your Savior is a sovereign God. Write that in there. He's a sovereign God. Go to Daniel. I want you to see a verse in Daniel chapter 4. Daniel 4 and verse 17. Your God is a sovereign God. Your God is a sovereign God. When you get into his word, you will notice He's sovereign. He rules. And look at what he says in a single verse in Daniel 4 and verse number 17. Listen to what he says. Daniel 4, 17. This matters by the decree of the watchers. And the demand by the word of the Holy Ones, to the intent that the living, pause. This is important. If you're alive right now, this verse is for you, the living. If you're alive, God wants you to know this. What does he want you to know? That the Most High, that's our God, ruleth in the kingdom of men. And giveth it to whomsoever he will, and setteth up over it the basest of men. Wow. You know, if you visited heaven this morning, here's what you're not going to find. You're not going to find God pacing heaven, drinking maloks. And worrying about who's gonna win the presidency in November. He's not. See, my Bible tells me right there that God will allow no president to power without his permission. No president comes to power without our God's permission. No judge gets on the bench without our God's permission. No senator wins election without our God's permission. He deals in the kingdoms and affairs of men. And I have men all the time tell me, but you don't understand how wicked he is. God knows because he sets up over it even the basest of men This world is not falling apart. It's falling into place because a king is coming Who will turn everything right side up. I tell people all the time, if you're disappointed in the elephant or the donkey, why don't you try following the lamb? That's just a better option. You know? Because he deals in the kingdoms and affairs of men. And if our Father in heaven is not pacing heaven, then why should his children pace earth? We need to rest in a sovereign God. We need to believe the words we sing. Our God reigns. Our God reigns. Our God reigns, my God reigns. You say, but it's getting so dark, then light's easier to see, because the keeping of this country has never been For the White House or the courthouse, the keeping of this country is your house, my house, and the church house. If my people Which are called by my name, shall humble themselves and pray, seek my face and turn from their wicked ways. Wow! We actually hate our sin more than theirs We get angrier about our problems than theirs. God says, I'll hear from heaven. I'll forgive their sin. Isn't that refreshing? Oh, and icing on the cake, I will heal their land. Christian, we do not need a seat at the table of power. To go ahead and persuade men and women to consider Jesus Christ. Amen? You and I do not need that. We have the Holy Spirit of God, the Word of God, and the opportunity to witness, and God's word never returns void. And for far too long in America, American believers have petitioned Congress more than Jesus Christ. And you now need to get back to the better country. Don't look at me weird, Marine Corps under Ronnie Reagan. I love America. I don't care for oppressors, but God will raise them up if God's people aren't the salt and white they're supposed to be. Amen. And I do pray for a space of grace. I wrote in my notes this little note that as God moves all People and nations towards a pre-drawn conclusion in the book of Revelation. Sometimes he gives a nation a leader who's better than they deserve, and we call that a space of grace. But sometimes he gives us exactly who we do Deserve. If we will not worship and serve him while things are going well, he will raise the level of Jordan To cause us to cry out to him in our persecution and suffering. Amen. Our God is a sovereign God. Recognize that. But second of all, our God is a good and gracious God. Write that in the notes Our God is a good and gracious God. You get into the Word of God and you see the goodness of God. You see a God who delights in mercy. Listen to how good and gracious our God is, John 3. 16, for God so loved the world. That he gave his only begotten son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have what? Everlasting life I don't know who you are, but I'm a guy that loves a happy ending. I just love happy endings, and our God is the God. of happy endings. Amen. He's not happily ever after. He's happily forever after. You get into the Word of God. You get your focus on Jesus Christ. He changes not Kings rise and kings fall. Markets rise and markets fall. But our God changes not. He's the same yesterday, today, and forever. And you'll see he's sovereign and he's good and he's gracious. Amen? Christian, don't lose your focus in this last lap of time. But I wrote this one down. Don't leave your first love. Don't leave your first love. Allow all of this to push you closer to the Lord. I remember years ago I met a man named Alfred Smith. I don't know if that name rings a bell, brother, but he was a songwriter. He wrote one song that stood out above all other songs. He's passed away now, he's in heaven I met him in Fairbanks, Alaska, just a year before I married Deb. And he gave the following hymn history and then sang the song to us as preachers about that hymn history. He spoke of the days that D. L. Moody and others took the gospel to the gypsy camp, early 1900s, and men and women were saved, and one man became a notable preacher. He was known as Gypsy Smith. Gypsy lived about the age of 84 or 85. And late in life he was preaching one of his final sermons, and following the sermon, an elderly man tottered up to him And this is what he said, Gypsy, I heard you when you were a young man. Preach one of your first sermons about Jesus Christ. And when you preached about him, your sermon lifted my heart. It just made Jesus becomes so real and your passion and love for him was so palpable it was infectious. And he said, I came to hear you late in life. One more time to preach, Gypsy. We're both old men now. And Gypsy, nothing's changed. Your passion for the Savior is I did not have. And as you preached, it just lifted my heart To just appreciate it more. And Gypsy, he asked the question, what's your secret to your passion and your love for Jesus Christ? And this is what Gypsy said. And this is the song that Alfred Smith wrote. He said, Sir. I have never lost the wonder of it all. I Never gotten over why he saved me. I've never gotten over why he keeps me. I've never lost the wonder of it all. I remember those first months, year or two of being saved. Every night he was the last thought that went through my mind when my brain closed off. He was the first thought in the morning. I couldn't believe all my sins were gone. I couldn't believe in place of that he gave me his kingdom. I just I was overwhelmed by that. And you were too. You remember when your faith found that resting place and the burden was lifted? And I remember Kevin Fontana, California. He comes in. And I late at night and I'm praying in back and he said, Dad, God just saved me. And I don't know why. I thought that so encapsulated that But somewhere along the line, maybe bitterness, maybe familiarity Maybe entanglement. This thought that Jesus saves, that's just a box that got checked. It's just a box that got checked. You say, yeah, I did that. Yeah, I'm saved. You and I lost the wonder. And when we lose the wonder, we leave our first love. You never lose your first love. You leave it. You trade it out for someone else or something else. And when that happens, we will never be effective like we could have been when we longed for him. Believers, this last lap is exhausting. This last lap is noisy. This last lap is painful. Don't lose your focus Don't leave your first love. And I wrote the third one down. Don't forsake your faith. I hear that song. I have decided. To follow Jesus. Have ya? No turning back. No turning back. You know, American believers, people would say, why would someone who's saved ever forsake their faith? Scripture tells us in 2 Timothy, Demas hath forsaken me, Paul said, what? Having loved this world. There's the rub. There it is. If there's ever been a time I've gone back from the Lord, it's because I've fallen in love with this world, not the next one. And American believers, uniquely, we have something that works against us more than anything else. We are prosperous. We have material things. And we are people that are not happy with one heaven. We want two. Like the old candy that would pull your fillings, we want a now and later Y'all with me? We're glad we got one there, but we want one now, and we will throw in the kitchen sink. And our energies to keep our little heaven here until we get the real one over there. But let me tell you something. There's only one heaven. Did you find that out? Have you found that true? Nothing lasts forever except what God does. Amen. You all get your little nest made, everything's fine, and COVID blows up your 401k. You know? Everything's fine. Then your kids scratch your motorhome. It wasn't Kevin, by the way, I found out later. That might have been. Brand new motorhome, first thing that happened Nothing lasts forever. Have you noticed that? It's life. And we try to carve out of heaven. And in the process, we lose our focus. We leave our first love. And without actually doing it, we kind of forsake the faith. And treat the visible as more genuine than the invisible This last slap, don't lose your focus. Believers, don't leave your first love. Don't forsake your faith. And unbelievers, if you're not saved this morning, you say, I just don't know. What shall it profit if you if you gain the whole world and lose your own soul? Don't lose your soul. God paid the price for your pardon. And this whole world and Bezos' billions and Elon Musk's millions, they don't mean anything compared to the forever part of you that's going to spin into eternity. You need Jesus as your Savior. Don't lose your soul. And as we close this morning, I want you to go to 2 Timothy. I want you to just see something I want to close with, I think will help you. As we look at this thought, we're all living in the last lap. Every one of us this morning, you're in the last lap, whether you like it or not. We are so close to the return of Jesus Christ. And some of us will be leaving in the last lap in a very supernatural way, but we don't want to be losing in this last lap of time. Notice in 2 Timothy 4, as I wind the thoughts down. Notice in verse number six, the Apostle Paul knows he's in his last lap. He knows the time of his departure is very imminent. He knows he's going home to glory, and look at what he says in verse 6 of 2 Timothy 4. He says, For I am now ready to be offered. The time of my departure is at hand You know, you see him, there he is, he's like us. Only this is going to be a physical department. He just knows he's going home. And he turns and he looks back at his life. Look at what he says. He says in verse 7, I fought a good fight. That's what a soldier says. Mission accomplished. Aye aye, sir. He said, I finished my course. That's an athlete. I ran it to the tape. I ran the race to the finish line. I didn't pull up. And then he added this. I've kept the faith. That's an accountant I didn't cook the books. I kept the faith. I wonder this morning as we close, you look back at your life. We're all in the last slap of time. In your heart can you say, I've fought a good fight I've finished my course. By the grace of God, I've kept the faith We came into a college graduation. It was Marinatha College. Young Lady Rachel invited us to come. Deb and I went. And I rarely get to college graduations. Just always in a meeting somewhere. And I'm the guy that always goes for the balcony. I don't know why. Maybe it's I'm a pilot. Maybe I just love being up looking down. But I got up in the balcony. I'm looking out. And there were all the hundreds of graduates in the first three, four rows of that Christian college. You could tell they were the graduates they had All the same gowns and caps and tassels, you know, the different colored tassels based on who was on a roll or not. But you could see all of them, just hundreds of them scattered there, and there was this one graduate that stood out like a sore thumb. In fact, as I scanned row after row I I kind of stopped and I looked because under that mortar board were not uh it was not brown hair or gold hair or black hair. It was gray hair. It was this head of white, gray hair. And I I remember Pastor looking there. He was probably in his mid-fifties and I said, look at that guy. He got in the wrong line. That's what I said Now made sure he was no he wasn't a professor. He's a student. I said, what is he doing there? Do you know how they'll do that in graduations? They'll call the Balvictorian up They'll call the salutatory and up. None of us got to do that, you know. Different awards. And of all that they called up, he was one of them. And I'll never forget. what he said. He got up there to the lectern and he said, I imagine when you see a guy like me in my mid-50s And you look at all my classmates, young people, you're probably wondering what a guy my age is doing here graduating with these kids. As soon as he said that, I said, yep. Exactly what I was wondering. Right there He said, you know, unlike my classmates, I came to the Lord late in life. And unlike my fellow classmates who have a whole life ahead of them, I've just got a little life ahead of me. And I've been asked by people all the time, hey old man, why did you spend the money? Why did you go through all this time? You've got a lot of time left. Why did you do that? with very few years left. And when they ask me why, I tell them this. Well He said, I guess for me it's all about finishing well Well, I heard that. And I thought to myself, as I look back over my Christian laps and the years that I've run. And you look back at yours, some of you have been safe for many, many years. Has there ever been a lap? A year? A month? A week? Just wish you had a redo. You wish you could just wave the magic wand and just change some choices you made. And some decisions you made because there's regrets involved in them. Are you there? Are you there? I I can think of times I said, what was I thinking? But the sands of time just go one way through that hourglass of life. You've got no redo. But you know what I do know? Every one of us, regardless of our past. Regardless of our choices, right now, right here, in your heart, you can choose to finish well. You can choose to finish well. Y'all with me? Right now? You say, you know what? I can choose to finish well. You say, what does that mean? Finishing well? Varies. If you're not saved, you know what finishing well for you is? Get on a winning team. Get saved. Quit hanging with losers. Hang with the winners that are going on to heaven. Amen? That's finishing well. If you're you're saved and you've got a sin that's dogging and you know what finishing well is, lay aside the sin. Amen? Unencumber yourself so you can run your race with patience. You with me? You you maybe you're bitter, you know, maybe you just need to let it go. Maybe finishing well for you is to drop that identity that you were wronged And pick up the identity that you're more than a conqueror through Jesus Christ. And the biggest victim was never you. It was Jesus. Who's not a bitter savior, he's a sweet savior. I I don't know what finishing well means, but as I just ran that Thoughts went through minds, and I will promise you that's where God wants to meet you to finish well. All of us are living in the last lap. Jesus is coming so soon Some of us get to leave in the last lap. Wow, twinkling of an eye. That's going to be an amazing exit strategy our king has, amen. But none of us needs to be losing Fight a good fight. Finish your course. Keep the faith. King is coming soon Amen. Let's bow our hearts before the Lord. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Just for a moment. Where are you in the message this morning? Where are you in the message? Many of you don't know my style, you don't know really how I do things, but it's simply this, right where you're seated right now, what is the Lord tapping your heart? About. Say, I'm not sure I'm saved. You ought to get that settled. If you're not sure in the next ten days, you ought to schedule an appointment with your pastor to sit down and ask him to help you get to Jesus You ought to do that. A year and a half ago we started our year at a church, eight adults acknowledged they did not know for sure. And within a month, five of those eight had come to know Jesus. And I simply asked them, make an appointment with your pastor. Sit down and have him help guide you through Scripture. No, that would be a great finish. Is to get on the winning side. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. If that's you right now, you ought to go ahead in your heart, say, I need to set that appointment right now. I need to set that appointment with my pastor I need to sit down with him and get this handled. I need to just, I'm not sure, and God says he wants me to know that I have eternal life. Right now. You hear this morning, you say, Preacher, I'm saved. I know heaven's my home. But man, am I struggling I am struggling with bitterness. Maybe this morning you need to just turn your eyes back to Jesus Christ. You need to get back to that first love. Right now, right where you are, you say, Lord, help me. Give me grace. Maybe here this morning you say, I've got a lot of losses. I've made some dumb choices. You know what? You don't have to keep making them Why don't you right now say, Lord, help me to finish well? Help me to set those things behind and to forget them. Help me to draw a line and just finish well. Lord, help me to finish well. Help me to finish well. Father, we thank you this morning for this thought. We see in your word that your son is coming so soon. Time is brief. Our opportunities are closing out quickly. Lord, I pray for your people this morning that we would not lose our focus. So many things we could turn toward and just pour ourselves into. Help us, Father, to keep our eyes on Jesus Christ. Help us to focus on a Savior who changes not in a world of constant change. Help us to focus on the eternal constant who's same yesterday, today, and forever. Help us your people, Lord, to rest in your sovereignty, Father. Though this world is tumultuous, you still reign and you still deal in the kingdoms and affairs of men. Lord, help us to rest in your sovereign oversight. Give us that peace that passes all understanding. And then, Father, help us not to leave our first love. Your Son. Help us, Lord, to stay so close to Him. We never lose the wonder of what He did for us. And help us not to forsake our faith. Help us not to be a demus. And for the unsaved, Lord, I pray. They'd spend and get that schedules in place to spend time with Pastor Ganail. May you secure their soul, forgive their sin. May your son be their Savior, not just ours. Thank you that through your grace we can finish well. Help us to do so. Now we pray in Jesus' name Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet. or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes. and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called The Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God. according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.