And the thoughts of God are higher than our thoughts. This is not the first time he's mentioned it. And he said to him, All these things I will give you if you will fall down and worship me. Will you take your Bibles and keep your finger in Matthew, we'll be back. He says it's your reasonable service. And they're living their life. And living his life for Christ, and going through the sacrifice of all of that, and realizing that it will be worth it all when we see Jesus. And it actually had, I was like, yeah, that makes a lot of sense. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. Or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource Or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. Please call us at 410-768-4273 or email us at info at bbcofmd. Please call us at 410-768-4273. Amen. Or it's translated a little differently in Matthew 5. and without hypocrisy. Now it's interesting that it's not just suffering for righteousness' sake. And he answered and said to them, Teacher, all these things I have kept from my youth. Or email us at info at bbcofmd. Or email us at info at bbcofmd. From birth, from my mother's womb, you have been my God. But he turned and said to Peter, get behind me, Satan. We're going to see the mindset in verses 24 through 26, and then we're going to see the guarantee in verses 27 through 28. But I say to you, Elijah has come already, and they did not know him, but did uh didn't did to him whatever he they wished. Later on in the text it says he will be killed. And in Matthew 20, verse 28, it says, he will give his life a ransom for many. immaturity. And he says, get behind me. Blessed are you, Peter. w and and then rise from the grave. For but we preach Christ crucified to the Jews a stumbling block, and to the Greeks foolishness. Is that how we measure a church? But the wisdom that is up from above is first peep pure, then peaceable, gentle, willing to yield, full of mercy and good fruits, without per partiality. This wisdom does not descend from above, but is earthly, sensual, and demonic. Where is the scribe? then the church can be full of people, full of bodies, full of buildings and full of bucks, and be biblically and spiritually unsuccessful. There's nothing worse than a carnal Christian. And claims to be a Christian, that could be dangerous. Doesn't mean that we take down our website and uh and make sure that nobody knows who we are or anything like that and God'll take God'll bring them in or I mean Seek those things which are above, where Christ is, sitting at the right hand of God. Therefore, put to death your members which are on the earth, fornication, uncleanness, passion, evil desires, covetousness, which is idolatry. But whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. We are perplexed but not in despair, persecuted but not forsaken, struck down but not destroyed, always carrying about in my body the dying of the Lord Jesus. And that life of Jesus also may be manifested in our mortal flesh. that the life of Jesus also may be manifested in our body. Sell whatever you have, give to the poor, and you will have the treasure in heaven. possessions. And give yourself to the world at the same time, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God Knowing this that our old man is crucified with him, that the body of sin might be done away, that we should no longer be slaves of sin. Philippians 2. And so they die and go into a Christeless eternity. Then each one's praise will come from God. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. May the Lord richly bless you. Or email us at info at bbcofmd. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. It helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. Or email us at info at bbcofmd. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. May the Lord richly bless you. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. So we can walk you through this helpful resource. that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. They shoot out the uh the lip, they shake the head saying, He trusted in the Lord, let him rescue him, let him deliver him. Imagine. Ashamed, but I am a warm worm and no man, a reproach of men, and despised by the people. Your wisdom. um to what you would want us to think. May we set our mind on things above. And he asks his team, what do the other teams think of our team and what do the other teams think of me as a coach? Then the coach says, well, who what kind of coach do you think that I am? And the coach said to the captain, yes, that's true, and we are going to win the championship. In order to win, you have to lose. It totally doesn't make any sense at all from a human perspective. We see a shift in this passage. and the disciples do not get it. Let's begin first by looking at Christ's mission. and be killed and be raised the third day. Historically they've not been together, they've actually been at odds with each other a lot, but now they're actually going to unify together You've got these different groups of people, the elders. from the Father in the Transfiguration, from all these different people, we're going to see that Jesus is going to suffer and die from the and rise from the for the grave. Jesus is truly the Messiah. uh would live with them and eat with them and teach them and set examples for them. uh um his place as one of the leaders of the church of jerusalem, we really see him grow and develop and we he he loses that inconsistency. I mean think about it. But for now, we see a very inconsistent Peter because immaturity is inconsistent. Because what he's going to go on to say is that he says, You're an offense to me. Of course, Christ is not actually stumbling, but this is a temptation. of the things of men instead of the things of God. what God is trying to do. Peter. if people aren't coming to know Christ, if people aren't growing spiritually, if they're not making steps in Christ's likeness in their lives, if that's not happening in the church how this is going to work. Or what will a man gain give in exchange for his soul? In Matthew 10, 38, we've already seen it before, and he who does not take his cross and follow after me is not worthy of me. These would compel you to be circumcised only that they may not suffer persecution for the cross of Christ. In Galatians chapter 6 verse 12 it says, But God forbid that I should boast except in the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. In Mark chapter 10, verses 17 through 22, we have the story of the rich young ruler. by whom the world has been crucified to me and I to the world. So Jesus said to him, Why do you call me good? And I like driving it. to do something if he would are we willing to do it are we willing to die to the world number three is not any easier it includes dying to self dying to self Knowing that Christ, having been raised from the dead, dies no more. But for the life that he lives, he lives to God. For he who has died has been freed from sin. And do I give that day to Christ? Look, my life, I do my job to build wealth. to be well pleasing to him. There will be sh he will show his glory. Do you know that there are at least, I counted at least seven different views of what this is talking about from different commentators? When did they see Christ's glory when he was on earth? The transfiguration of Christ. If you don't know where you stand with God, let me encourage you. And when we do that, we will live a life that has value. We are accumulating future rewards in heaven. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. according to the Bible. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. But we really would love to meet you in person. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. according to the Bible. or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. four week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. according to the Bible. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Look at your plan to for Christ to build his church, when you we look at the plan for ultimately to set up for Christ to set up his kingdom. For whoever desires to save his life will lose it. For what profit is it to a man if he gains the whole world and loses his own soul? For the Son of Man will come in the glory of his Father with his angels, and then he will reward each according to his works. Assuredly, I say to you, there are some standing here who shall not taste death till they see the Son of Man coming in his kingdom. What we're going to learn from this passage is that Christ is going to get across to us and get across to his disciples that the Christ life is the cross life. The Christ life is the cross life. to be able to go against Jesus Christ. the resurrection part of what he said, but they were focused on the suffering and dying part of what he said. He pulls out his sword and lops off a guy's ear, and Jesus has to heal the ear. And Jesus was taking this method and using it for these disciples. And in Matthew 17, 18, when Jesus rebuked the demon, it was that kind of force. Can you imagine doing that in a situation like that? Peter was blessed by God. steps that he probably shouldn't take and saying things that he probably shouldn't say and he's speaking up perhaps when he shouldn't speak up. Remember that? Get behind me, Satan. And you know what Peter was doing when he said, May this never be so. Well, uh the the the the verse that finishes, away with you, Satan, for it is written, You shall worship the Lord your God, and him only you shall serve. That they could take the kingdom, they could set up Christ's kingdom, they could overthrow the Roman Empire, they could do all of these things, and Jesus would not have to suffer and die. Why was he being a stumbling block to Jesus? the things of the Spirit. Really? So in your vocation, you serve God, and God provides for you. Peter was thinking in a human, worldly, practical, functional way. Can I ask you a question? We can have the wrong focus in our homes. Are we to measure the success of a church by, well, they got a lot of people, so they must be a good church. But when they come through a friend, when they come through Peter's own Peter's a disciple of Christ, when the temptation comes through a friend, it is insidious. When Christ, who is our life, appears, then you will appear with him in glory Because these things, the wrath of God is coming upon the sons of disobedience, in which you yourselves once walked when you lived in them. Deny yourself, take up your cross and follow me. A cross was like a guillotine or electric chair. implying that they are going to die for Christ as well, and all except for John may perhaps did. includes suffering for Christ's sake. Well, you know, I did that one time. and follow Christ. Can be included in this concept of taking up your cross. That the wisdom of God and the power of God, the grace of God, the peace of God, the strength of God is manifested in our lives. will determine, will tell you whether or not you are dying to the world or you are living quite well with it. But he was sad at the word and went all went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions. To be clear, what it's saying in this passage is not that you have to take a vow of poverty in order to be a Christian. to follow me, would you do it? But here's what it is saying. holy, acceptable to God, which is your reasonable service. Because Jesus gave his life for you. It says this, for we have been united together in the likeness of his death, certainly we also shall be light in the likeness of his resurrection. The natural response from that is that we should want to die to sin and self. It says to take up your cross daily and follow Christ. Uh maybe you get up with the sun or something and you I don't know what your routine is, but a lot of people they're that they're up and they're thinking about other things immediately, all the things they gotta do for that day, and they're thinking about what they what I never extended my li I just lived my life. Paradigm is what it's called. It ends in death with nothing to show for it. and it will propagate life and it will save life and he wants he's hoping that there's going to be interstellar uh travel and that maybe we'll bump into some other alien. And the reason that God includes these is to encourage the Christian that is going through life and trying to serve the Lord faithfully. Now, the emphasis on this statement is that he will come in the glory of his father and of the angels. Has Christ come yet? Or you are living for righteousness' sake rather than your own sake, as you're going through those things, be encouraged that there are rewards at the end for us. It really isn't on the literal coming of Christ. I realized something. Now after six days, Jesus took Peter, James, and John and led them up in the high mountain apart uh apart by themselves, and he was transfigured before them. any kind of teaching that does not include the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ as a means to to to God. I'm going to show you my glory, and we're going to see that next week, the glory of Christ in the Transfiguration. What Christ has done on the cross. took our sin on himself and died in our place, satisfying God's just demands. It is when we choose to take up our cross and follow Christ, to die to self, to die to what the world values, and to follow after Christ. But we really would love to meet you in person. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word But we really would love to meet you in person. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. But we really would love to meet you in person. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. But we really would love to meet you in person. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Last week we learned that Jesus asked the question, Who do you say that I am? What Christ is going to explain is that you actually, in order to win, you have to lose. And even then, he didn't get the fact that he was going to rise from the grave until it actually happened. Uh and by the way, when Peter says this, this is actually a very severe rebuke of Peter. Helping someone grow in a certain area, particular way of thinking. And it says he began to rebuke him. Quick to say, as we learned yesterday, or last Sunday rather, he was quick to say that this was revealed by God, not by flesh and blood. It's interesting that the crucifixion of Christ is actually a stumbling block to the Jewish people. Because what Jesus is going to do is he is now going to, he's identified the root problem. Setting his mind on a human way of doing things rather than a godly spiritual way of doing things. He's basically one thing he's inferring is that they're going to die, and they are, aren't they? Luke 14, 27, and whoever does not bear his cross and come after me cannot be my disciple. There are going to be times in our lives where we are going to suffer for righteousness' sake. dying bodies, he says. What I boast in, what makes up my identity, what really matters is the cross of Christ Beginning verse 17 it says, Now as he was going out on the road, one came running, knelt before him, and asked him, Good teacher, what shall I do that I may inherit eternal life? Looking at him loved him and said to him, One thing you lack. You know what he valued? Otherwise, it is all vanity and futile. First Corinthians four five, therefore judge nothing before the time unto the Lord comes, for he will both bring to light the hidden things of darkness and reveal the counsels of the hearts And he said to them, Assurely I say to you, that there are some standing here who will not taste death till they see the kingdom of God present with power. There and there are probably more. May we have know your word and think your word to think the way you think, to have the mind of Christ, Lord. saying, Far be it from you, Lord, this shall not happen to you. Get behind me, Satan. That would absolutely have been something that would have been uh very inappropriate for him to do. Well, this is not the first time we actually have seen this phrase in Matthew. sort of a a a stumbling block, a stumbling a stone you would stumble on. This word, set your minds, is found, for example, in Romans chapter 8, verse 5. Peter's mind was set on the wrong thing in the wrong way, and as a result, he was thinking wrongly about the plan of God and the plan of Christ. worldly things. We do this when our job. Actually I told my girls I'm like I'm actually fine if you live with me for I really I that doesn't bother me a bit. instead of a God-centered way. To those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved, it is the power of God. And the methods of the world, frankly, should be spiritually foolishness to us. It is under subterfuge. Look carefully. This is a this is when he says, take up your cross and follow me, this is something that is reiterated over and over in the Gospels. negative effects on your life and my life if we are going to stand firm for the cross of Christ. five things that are included in taking up your cross. Daily thinking. To die to self, to die to sin, to die to the things that I don't uh that that you don't please you. Where do we get so busy doing, doing, doing, doing, doing, doing, doing, doing, doing, doing all these things, and we we have we have not even asked God, do you want me to do these But whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. He says, what does it profit a man if he gains the whole world and loses his own soul? His whole his whole life goal is to be able to contribute to society in this in in such a way that it will extend life My life, for example, what do I want to do with my life? He says, I want to give you a guarantee. Till they see the Son of Man coming in his kingdom. I'll just read them for you. It is the key that unlocks the door to the kingdom. The Son of God, He is very God, took on human flesh, came, lived a perfect life. And then he declared uh then all we have to do is accept that by faith, and we will be declared righteous by God. Number two, thinking like man rather than God can cause us to be tools of Satan for his destructive purposes. And if there is anybody here that doesn't know whether or not they are truly followers of Christ, I pray today would be a day that you would work in their heart. When we realize what all goes into that, including suffering and death and thankfully resurrection as well, we look at all of that and we are in awe at Be under the preaching of your word, Lord, so that our worship of you would be pleasing in your sight. The team the captain of the team spoke up and said, well, uh the other teams think that you're a pretty good coach, and some don't think you're a very good coach. And the captain said, no, we're not going to lose the playoffs. It doesn't make sense. This week we're going to see not the person of Christ so much now. And Jesus says to him, get thee behind me Satan. And we see in the book of Matthew, he continues to explain this. Jesus says that he turns to Peter, and in the parallel passage in Mark 8. And in verse 8 of Matthew 4 it says, again the devil took him up on a high exceedingly high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory. Families do this. But we want them to my wife doesn't agree, I don't think, but anyway. You died, put your members to death. Deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. First century, and Jesus is saying us, you've got to deny yourself and take up your cross. I I really the world doesn't care what I think of it either. Each day, daily doing that. You know how many health products there are out there and different ways of extending your life and living a longer life and I mean it is everywhere, all over the place. Jim Elliott said it this way, he is no fool who gives what he cannot keep to gain what he cannot lose. So my life versus Christ's life. What kind of life are we building? And as you are going through suffering or struggles or s or you're serving the Lord faithfully, and it's hard The Bible says because of your sin, when you die, you will die, go to a place called hell, and be separated from God from all of eternity. Because he cannot overlook sin, sin must be judged, scripture says. Do you realize that? We will hear from Christ, well done, thou good and faithful servant. And we so easily live our lives without intentionally and purposefully asking the question, is what I am doing done for Christ? And if there are people here, Lord, I'm sure there are. Our fathers trusted in you. From the elders and the chief priests and the scribes, and be killed, and be raised the third day. It was the beginning of the playoff season and the football coach gathered the people together, gathered his team together. Then Jesus said to the disciples, If anyone desires to come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. And and he was able to gather his team and the team was all excited about winning the champion championship. Satan. Jesus is the Messiah. Or it could be translated, you are setting your mind on the things of men rather than the things of God. But they they we we want them to be successful so they can you know get jobs and make money and have their own way of of surviving and and and all that How do we measure the success in Christ's church? Our education of them. We can be practical. I mean just think we think of a cross as a you know thing on a necklace or earrings or all this stuff. Mark 8. Number two, it includes dying to the world. What do you value? I'm not saying that you should be irresponsible with your life either, but those who are just preoccupied with trying to make their life longer will ultimately lose their life. But he who gives over his life to God Christ will find it. He's now dropped to the second richest man in the world, I think. He knows the serving is going to be hard. These people standing there, the disciples are standing there, it says, you won't taste death. The gospel is the key that unlocks the door of the kingdom, and it includes the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. Thinking like man rather than thinking like God can cause us to be tools of Satan for his destructive purposes. Father, we come to you and praise you for who you are. Very s very uh inappropriate for a disciple to rebuke a master What makes up your identity? Have you accepted that truth by faith? Sent your own son to die to pay the punishment for our sin, plans to set up your kingdom in the future, and you desire for us to be disciples of Christ, following after you. We praise you that you are an all-wise God who set forth a plan that is not like any plan we would ever imagine. Now, I think we all understand why he did it. And what does Jesus say? It's easy when our temptations, it's easy when our problems are right there in front of us. In Matthew, he says, set your mind on things above, not on things of the earth. We give our lives to Him. And in fact, he awaits for us, or he will actually be coming for us, with rewards. Revelation 22, 12, and behold, I come quickly, and my reward is with me, to give to everyone according to his work. And and uh I very candidly I I recommend that you a lot. Do you catch what it is? O my God, I cry in the daytime, but you do not hear, and in the night season, and am not silent. Now, if you know where we're where we're at today, you know where that comes from, but does that make any sense at all? Or build boy they have the greatest buildings. And if we're not careful, we can do the exact same thing. As Christ did. God desires for us as we go through suffering to respond to it in such a way that it is clear but alive to God in Jesus Christ our Lord. Uh and if you listen to if you talk to him and you are you and you and you listen to an interview by him It's like anything in life. Your ways are way higher than our ways, and your thoughts way higher than our thoughts. But it doesn't make any sense. But it's really interesting that I don't the disciples didn't get it. Imagine Peter, disciple of Christ, who is thinking like Satan and actually being used of Satan. Because he says this, whoever desires, verse 25, to save his life will lose it. Are there people that are gaining the whole world? In fact, we find sometimes it's hard to grasp it and it seems counterintuitive to us. Well, I don't want to do it for free. Are we shouldn't that they build mass amass great amounts of wealth? As I'm asking you to give your life to me, I want you to understand that I'm going to come for you someday and I'm going to give you rewards. At least the ones mentioned here. I never dreamed I'd have it I've I'd had this nice of a vehicle ever in my life I thought about that myself. 8, and being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient to the point of death, even the death of the cross. We thank you, Lord, that you intervened on our behalf. You wouldn't, but that's actually essentially how confusing it is what Jesus is saying to these disciples. Peter just before announced that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God, and now Peter clearly doesn't understand Jesus' plan. By the way, in case you didn't realize this, in the first century, they were not the only disciples and Jesus was not the only master. You know what's really popular live to to to live for? He that will what does it profit a man if he gains the whole world and loses his own soul? In 2 Corinthians chapter 5, verse 8, we are confident, yes, uh well pleased rather to be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord, whether we make our aim, whether present or absent, Number three, will you choose to deny yourself? Lord, may we daily take up our cross and follow Christ. He was thinking in a worldly, man-centered way, rather than from God's perspective. But if I just needed to give it up, would I give it up? Is this, am I following your will or am I just doing what I want to do? And so what he does is he we move now to verse twenty-seven and he says this From that time Jesus began to show his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things. I'm going to have to suffer and die and rise from the grave. Clearly we see a immature Peter. Now the fruit of the s the of righteousness is sown in peace by those who make peace. Look at verse 1. His possessions were too great to him. Romans 12, 1 and 2 say this, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice We're going to be in Matthew chapter 16 this morning, verses 21 through 28. Think of anybody that doesn't know Christ. It only makes sense to live for Christ. God, we have quite a few examples in Scripture of the Christian, the believer, the faithful Christian's rewards. Jesus has just said, upon this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell will not prevail against it. Where is the disputer of this age? So we need to remember that. This is a call from God to do this. What was he saying there? That is not a question I don't think anybody can answer for anybody else. Hello, my name is Jim Gannam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. Hello, my name is Jim Gannam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. Guard us from worldly thinking, guard us from thinking that would be contrary to And so Peter here is inconsistent and and there's his his focus, everything it's really wrong what he's what he's saying, and we'll learn how that's all wrong in a few moments. You died and your life is hidden with Christ in God. Are we presenting our bodies? If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. Do we set our mind on even human reasoned things? We miss the plan of God. We want our famil kids to be successful, right? We can think of practical ways of reaching out and those kinds of things. In fact, it's really hard and getting the other stuff I've got. And every person that lives their entire life trying to figure out how to make it longer Perhaps in two ways. Actually, I'll tell you I'll I'll tell you where I realized it from. He's mentioned it in so many words and in coded ways, and he's alluded to it before, and he has illustrated it before, but now he is very explicit in saying exactly what he is going to do. Peter speaks up a lot when he really shouldn't speak up. Romans 12, 16, be of the same mind toward one another. I took up my cross. So the question is, what does it mean to take up your cross? For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, that each one may receive the things done in the body according to what has been done, whether good or bad That's what he's saying. God revealed this to you. What did Satan do? If we're not careful, folks, we can get really focused as a church on measuring ministry in a human-centered way. Why? Daily thinking. It's a entirely different way of thinking. There's a very biblical illustration. My first thought in the morning is coffee. We hope to see you soon. We hope to see you soon. He says, for the Son of Man will come in the glory of his father with the angels, and then he will reward each according to his works. May we put away the distractions of our mind and sing to you and pray to you and He was going to be the king. If we're not careful, we can educate them to get good jobs and to to w what are we shooting for? It'd be better that in some ways it'd be better for them to be around unsaved people that are clearly not thinking biblically than to have a Christian try that is thinking unbiblically and How do we move from the thinking of the world to the thinking of Christ to setting our mind on things above rather than the things of this earth? How can you win if you're not winning all along? Do we ever do this? 34. Why does he say it's our reasonable service? I mean, if we're going to establish our king your kingdom and we're going to have victory over the Roman Empire and we're going to rule as Israel and we're going to do all these things, you can't suffer and die. I couldn't believe all the different commentaries. There are paradoxes. No, I get it. They trusted and you delivered them. Jesus is now going to be very open about the fact that he is going to suffer and die and rise from the grave. It is under the surface, and it's harder to detect. Help us to set our mind on things above, not on the things of this earth. You are an offense to me. Not ahead of me. Why would he call Peter Satan? Or Matthew 4. Galatians chapter 6 verse 12 says this, as many as desire to to make a good showing in the flesh He hasn't, right? Okay, so it's really not that hard. If God calls you, or if God were to command you to give up something or everything, would you? I don't like to think daily. I wasted it. And here's what I mean by personally accepted. Peter, Jesus basically said to Peter, you are being a tool of Satan right now. Now it's interesting before we get to the other part where he actually calls him Satan. He is going to set up his kingdom. I'm I'm preaching this message before I preach a message. We present ourselves, our bodies, as a living sacrifice to God. In Matthew 20, it says that they're going to deliver him to the Gentiles to mock and to scourge and to crucify, and the third day he will rise again. I'm going to a job and I'm going there to make money. And he called the people to himself and his and his disciples also, and he said to them, Whoever desires to come after me, let him deny himself, take up his cross, and follow me. All of these ways to try to save our lives, and the problem is we still all die. He explains in the text that you have these scribes and you've got the religious leaders. Verse 10, away with you, Satan! If then you were raised with Christ, seek those things which are above. Likewise, you also reckon yourselves to be dead indeed to sin. Now, if we died with Christ, we believe that we shall also live with him. The resurrection, the ascension, the Pentecost, the spread of Christianity, the internal development of the gospel, the destruction of Jerusalem, the Second Advent. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Now, I'd like you to take your Bibles for a moment because this is such a helpful passage that is going to dovetail so well with this one. What? He valued a good name. God will bring praise to us. At the transfiguration, which just happened. He says, do not be mindful of the things of God. I understand. Then Jesus said to his disciples, If anyone desires to come after me, let him do what? I had a cross to bear and I took it up. That the excellency of the excellence of the power may be of God and not of us. I wrote down a few things. Now, with that in mind, would you look at verse 28? You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. But you are on my mother's breasts. Jesus blessed him in that in the last passage. They've got such nice buildings. No one is good but one that is God. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. You are an offense to me, for you are not mindful of the things of God, the things of men. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. Well, what does that include? The elders were sort of a general leadership group. Now you need to go to a place of insignificance. And then Jesus says what the root problem is. Do you know what we do? We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need, we can pray for. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. And he, as a result, is going to suffer and die. But in Matthew 4, do you remember the devil, Satan, comes to tempt Jesus? Satan offered Jesus in Matthew 4 a shortcut But secondly, if you live your whole life trying to extend your life, you won't be able to, and you'll look back at it and you'll realize I want you to keep this in mind. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Verse 21, for from that time Jesus began to show his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things from the elders and chief priests and scribes They're gonna have to go through me first, kind of a thing. Has not God made foolish the wisdom of this world? But turn to Colossians chapter 3. Do we do that? And if today you don't you have not personally accepted Don't get ahead of me. I mean you can you imagine the disciples there going, take like take up your elect like take up your cross like I mean it all these other things these things that he's doing, but really w what is it I mean, what does it all matter? Do we want Christ give it over to Christ so he could do something with it? Do you think that I am? And the k and the and the coach said, you are working for the other team. Now, with that in mind, look at the next verse in Matthew 16, verse 24. I like to think once a week, once a month, a year. The Bible says, But as many as received him, to them gave the power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. Number four, in times of discouragement or great personal sac sacrifice, we must remember that we are Then Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him, saying, Far be it from you, Lord, this shall not happen to you. He's saying that when he comes, he'll bring rewards, but the emphasis is that he will come and it will be glorious. We need to identify wrong, unbiblical thinking, spiritually wrong thinking. That's our lives. He says it's just reasonable. And here's the wonderful thing about Christ. He's actually wanting to prepare his disciples in a short section here for a life of suffering and heartache and all kinds of problems. And then when you look at the parallel passages, it becomes really quite obvious. No wonder we go through our lives very frequently saying, Lord, why are you doing what you're doing? What makes up your sense of value? In fact, it uses the same phrasing as this passage. But by the way, covetousness wasn't mentioned that in that list if you'll notice. Christ's life, I do my job to serve the Lord and He supplies my needs. We're going to turn to the work of Christ, where in verse 21, Christ says to his disciples, But you're actually there to do it as under the Lord and not under men. I wrote down some areas that we tend to do this. For then death is working in us, but life in you. Your sense of value, what you actually value yourselves. Philosophers would have their disciples around them and would For what profit is it to a man if he gains the whole world and loses his own soul? What are they living for? He certainly hadn't come then, right? I'm going through all multiple commentaries and trying to figure out trying to see the different views and look at the different views. Please come and talk to me. In order to gain your life, you've got to give it. This is the same, this word rebuke is the same word rebuke as in Matthew 828. There are a couple of reasons, right? There is a sense in which all of our suffering, if we respond to it in a right way, in a godly manner org. org. org. But whosoever loses his life for my sake will find it. We want our kids to grow up, get jobs, and not live with us forever. He who lives his life, who he tries to save his life, you're going to lose it. One way is they're never taking time to let to to cause Christ I mean to to to to think about their eternity in life He is saying, you guys are going to see my glory. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. org. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. We're going to see three things here. In fact, I'm not sure Peter ever got it until he actually died. It is absolutely necessary. Hello, my name is Jim Gannam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. Hello, my name is Jim Gannam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. Let's pray together. We can have the wrong focus in our church Jesus says your mind is on the wrong go your mind is you've got the wrong method to get to establishing the kingdom to G to Peter. In 2 Corinthians chapter 4, verse 7 through 12, it says, but we have this treasure in earthen vessels, in human vessels And out of gratefulness for what he has done for us. Death no longer has dominion over him. Um but I really should have it be the Lord and then coffee. Or email us at info at bbcofmd. And he just didn't get it. What does it mean to take up your cross? And Jesus, looking at him, loved him. They cried to you and were delivered. Is that what we're shooting for? I mean, basically he was saying to the disciples, take up your electric chair and follow me. Questions. What is he saying there? I want you to think of somebody who is living to save their lives. May the Lord richly bless you. May the Lord richly bless you. I think through it myself and I've got a really nice red truck. Christ's life, what does Christ want me to do with my life? It is called the Exchange. May the Lord richly bless you. It is called the Exchange. It is called The Exchange. May the Lord richly bless you. It is called the Exchange. It is called The Exchange. For you are not mindful of the things of God, but the things of men. And for a disciple to turn to his master and say, not so, Lord. Now Peter is going to adjust when we see we see we're going to see him grow a lot after the resurrection of Christ and after he takes 33, it actually says he turns to all the disciples and he rebukes Peter. Get behind me. Get behind me, Satan. Why? Then he says this, set your mind, right? If you know there's a light at the end of the tunnel, if you know that there are rewards at the end, you can go through just about anything. Um I think it's a great study Bible, but I don't um I don't use it all my when I'm studying, I'm looking at a lot of other things. We thank you, Lord, for Christ. It is called The Exchange. It is called The Exchange. It is called The Exchange. He did not understand. It's like no, they need anyway. Obviously, this is a good church. As you have to take up your cross, as you include as as that includes suffering Now, I want us to think back as though we're the disciples. It's not this great thing if you do this, oh this wonderful thing, this special thing. It goes d him and another person they kind of go back and forth a little bit. What it looks like it's saying is you won't taste death until Christ comes again. There's that you have all that kind of thing going on in the first century as a man uh as a means of education. Do we measure it through bodies, buildings, and bucks? Luke 9, 23 says this: that we need to take up our cross daily. It includes dying to the world. Do you remember that story? He's saying what I really value And come and take up the cross and follow me. He valued a moral upstanding, a morally upstanding life. Are we presenting our bodies as a living sacrifice? It's the only life worth living. We must remember that we are accumulating future rewards in heaven. And the captain replied, we think that you're the bet best coach that could ever, that was ever in the history of the game. Throughout the book of Matthew, we're going to see announcements from Jesus. The word offense means trap or obstacle. For where evil and self-seeking exist, confusion and every evil thing are there. For we who live are always delivered to death for Jesus' sake. We get up in the morning. I certainly know for myself, we are so good at forgetting things. In an unprecedented response, Jesus literally says to Peter and calls him Satan. I they you're you're always welcome If I'm thinking in terms of my life, I might ask one question. You have sinned. You are not mindful of the things of God. Do we set our minds on Peter had a worldly perspective instead of a godly perspective. Christ identified this temptation very early, and I want you to notice it came from a friend. No, what was a cross? The death of Christ, as we join in union with the death of Christ, Um, health It says this: Assuredly I say to you, there are some standing here who shall not taste death But first he must suffer and die on the cross. It will happen I don't want to think daily. We'll hear from God. I just happened to look at my study Bible. I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you will spend eternity with the Lord. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. He continues to say this, for example, in Matthew 17, next chapter over, verse 12. And if you look at Matthew, verse chapter 17, if you've got a heading in your Bible, what is that chapter on? Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. He speaks up when he should, and he did, and he was blessed for it, but he speaks up when he shouldn't, when he really should be quiet. He says in this passage, if you want to follow me, you must, you must. We're going to see the mission in verses 21 through 23. Take up your cross and follow Christ But he's actually going to say to his disciples, First he says, Peter, you're a stone. Maybe they're living for wealth. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And Jesus quickly and sharply identifies it as such. Remember when the Roman guard and all of the religious leaders came and gathered to get Jesus? He was functioning the same way by suggesting They're all cheering, and he says, but we're going to lose the playoffs. And Peter answered on behalf of the disciples, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God. He's going to do this in in Matthew 17 as well at the Mount of Transfiguration. I think this is absolutely essential to the passage. Father, we praise you for who you are But he turned and said to Peter, Get behind me. The very person that was that had God reveal him great things now is being used by Satan. Or boy, their their finances are really good. Now that doesn't mean we don't think in any way practically. You must deny yourself, take up your cross, and follow Christ. And Peter responds, not so, Lord. That's wonderful. But he is going to deal with this problem in a certain way. You know the commandments, do not commit adultery, do not murder, do not steal, do not bear false witness, do not defraud, honor your father and mother And do not be conformed to this world. Number four, it includes humble obedience and humility. Does that sound look a little confusing to you? You've got the scribes, you've got all these different religious leaders. They got good buildings. Well now I was praying this morning about this, honestly, and I was thinking to myself, do I every day, every morning, do I wake up in the morning And this passage is exactly what you and I need to think every day of our lives. Follow me. It's worded a little differently, but it's basically the same phrase. He says, you are mindful. Or are we, through our education, doing our best to equip them to serve God? If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for He did not understand what was going on, why if Christ is not only going to die, he's going to suffer, he's going to die, he's told them that. Number one, it includes suffering for Christ's sake Go your way You will not taste death until you see my glory. Very frankly, Peter was very much out of line when he did this. For those who lived according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh, but those who live according to the Spirit Do not set your mind on high things, but associate with the humble For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise and bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent. And I've got this really nice red truck sitting there No. We will come to the end of our life and we'll realize it was a life worth living, and then we'll extend it into eternity. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. Lord, help may we have the mind of Christ in our lives. First Corinthians chapter one, verse twenty-three. If you want to win a kingdom, you got to win the battles. I mean he had didn't go to his father and then come. Except that not only is God holy and just, but he is also loving. Why are you so far from helping me? And we can understand that. It's interesting he says, get behind me. Why was Jesus being used of Satan in this way? It's a familiar passage, but I think it'll be helpful for you to actually see this. And in that story, it Well done, thou good and faithful servant. We pray these things in Christ's name. We hope to see you soon. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. We hope to see you soon. Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. And do you know what Peter is doing? For the death that he died, he died to sin once for all Do I say, Lord, whatever you want to do with this day, help me to follow you We hope to see you soon. We hope to see you soon. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. One is he probably wanted to protect Jesus. Do we set our mind on those kinds of things and we miss But folks, understand that if there's not true discipleship occurring, Um if God calls us We have to literally daily think about this. And so when we look at this plan of redemption, when we look Clearly, Peter was not focused, and the disciples were not focused on It would have been it would have been um uh This was a a common way of teaching and passing on information. You are mindful of the things of Sometimes we do this in our vocation. Help me to know how to please you with my life. Taking up the cross is daily following Christ. The crucifixion was a stumbling block to the Jewish people. Do you know what Paul is saying there in that passage? Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. The Exchange is an easy-to-use The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide They trusted in you and were not delivered. And even as we are worshiping together this morning Then Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him And now Peter is taking sort of Then the devil left him, and behold, the angels came and ministered to him. He loved him enough to tell him the truth. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God. Or email us at info at bbcofmd. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God. Or email us at info at bbcofmd. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last The Exchange is an easy-to-use The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God. And yet we know from Scripture that the ways of God are higher than our ways. Likewise the Son of Man is also able or about to suffer at their hands This is human thinking instead of God thinking that Peter is dealing with. Cannot If God said, give it all up, By definition, that is one of the things about maturity. Actually, if you are thinking in a godly way, you're actually not going there to make money primarily. Bodies, buildings, and bucks First Corinthians one says it this way, for the message of the cross is foolishness. Your sin separates you from God because He is holy. There's a sense in which for a Christian that wants to grow in Christ I want you to notice that. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. What was a cross back then? So we need to look at some things, just remind ourselves of some things this morning. I mean if you just think about it, how would you win the championship and lose the playoffs? For you died. It's not saying that. You must take your cross. Maybe they're living for power. If you do this, you can live a longer life. Christ is so loving, he knows it's going to be hard. And so he said he was going to have to suffer many things and be killed. Um Sometimes it depends on different people's habits. This is, this is, this I'm going to show you my glory. Go to a place of insignificance. Christ said to his disciples, You will suffer persecution. All living of life outside of Christ is totally vain and futile. If you try to keep your life, you're going to lose it The Bible tell tells us to do that. We just saw that here. For whoever desires to save his life will lose it He offers Jesus what? Or what will a man give in exchange for his soul? The mission, the mindset, and the guarantee. So Jesus says to Peter, But he is actually saying quite a bit more than that as well. But I do have to wake up enough to even think about the Lord. So in the parallel passages, I'll read one for you for sake of time. But you are holy, enthroned in the praises of Israel Well, how do you do that practically? My life, I want to build my life. We thank you for his work. And then he says, yeah, you're stumbling I'm stumbling over you. That was the root problem. A cross was a means of execution. May we as a church We pray all these things in Christ's name. Um far be it from me. There is no way around it. But then he says this. That's the godly kingdom biblical way. There's going to be And Jesus continues with an irrefutable argument. But anyway If you know Christ as your Savior, you were raised with Christ. And what I want to do is I want to give you five Matthew 16, 21 through 28. If you have a family, we can help your kids. They got a lot of money, so they must, God's blessing them, they must be a good church. The cross is foolishness to the world. You can identify them, you can see them clearly. You cannot do both. I've listened to a couple of interviews on uh of of Elon Musk I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. Maybe they're living for position. Let's pray together. org. org. Have you heard that before? So what is this talking about? My life, what am I good at? All those who see me ridicule me He was But Peter probably, by this time, his ego had swelled a bit Amen. If you do this, this is this will help your the health beauty and health industry is incredible in this country. And from the words of my groaning. Jesus is saying, I'm going to suffer and die, and Peter is saying, no, you won't. For we are hard pressed on every side, yet not crushed And if I'm thinking in terms of Christ's life, I might ask a different question. But what what did G what was the problem? May the Lord richly bless you. May the Lord richly bless you. What's a little bit strange about that? Okay? Right? In James chapter 3, verse 15 it says I don't care what the world thinks of me, and I really don't care. And you can't suffer and die, or you're not going to win. Are we shooting for they be rich? We need to be willing to identify it as it comes. And you know how he responded No, it's just reasonable. They're actually, and they aren't always and 26 when Jesus rebuked the winds and the sea. You cannot give yourself to God. Actually, back in Romans 6, it explains how to do that practically. And then He kept all of the Ten Commandments. A Bacar Study Bible. That should sober us. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone. And we're sitting there No, you're not going to do that. This was a stumbling block to Peter, and Peter as a result was being a stumbling block to the Jewish And number five, it includes daily thinking. Maybe they're living for popul If you have never trusted Christ as your Savior, He's going to say, hey, we should build shrines for you guys But but clearly Peter was We have this guarantee of reward for when Christ comes. Don't ever accept any At least some of you, he says. I've put you in a place of significance Maturity brings consistency, and inconsistency indicates So I d uh you know. I'm I don't really come I don't understand. And I think it will help us to look at Colossians 3 to see Christ's life, I want Christ to build my life. The same word again, he rebukes Peter. But now he is Maybe the phone gets you up. And Jesus says, you are thinking like Satan. Christ's life, how can I use my ability for Him? It will You're or I'm not really stumbling. We hope to see you soon. We hope to see you soon. What does Peter do? org. So Jesus Christ org. Is that what we're shooting for? What is he saying? In Mark chapter 9, verse 1, it says this. But we really would love to meet you in person. But anyway, we you All right. But we really would love to meet you in person. But we really would love to meet you in person. It will happen Kingdoms I don't get it. Why Number one I'm not going to allow it. You've got to take up your cross. Where is the wise? He valued his You're a stone in the way.