Good morning. Let's go to the Lord together in prayer. Heavenly Father, we come with grateful and thankful hearts this morning. Lord. And it is a joy to be gathered together in your presence with all the brothers and sisters in Christ. Father, we thank you for the goodness that you have bestowed upon us the grace and the mercy. And Father, we're thankful for your Son Jesus, who is our Lord, who is our Savior and our King. We're thankful for what He has done at the cross on our behalf. We are saved solely by your grace through faith. Father. And we are thankful this morning. And Father, we lift up those who are unable to be here this morning, and we think of uh those who are traveling, we think of those who are having health issues We ask that you would comfort them and that, Lord, if they're on the stream, that they would be encouraged and blessed by your word. And Father, we just want to do all things for your praise. And we ask now as we come to the time that read your word and sit under your teaching, Father. May you set aside all the cares that we have had this week. Help us to do that and to concentrate totally and fully upon your word and may your spirit do a mighty work in us that we will be changed, Lord, for being in your presence this morning from when we came in. We ask in Jesus' name Amen. We are going to be in Romans chapter 3, looking at verses 9 through 20. Romans chapter 3, verses 9 through 20. What then? Are we better than they? Not at all For we have previously charged both Jews and Greeks that they are all under sin. As it is written There is none righteous. No, not one. There is none who understands. There is none who seeketh after God. For all have turned aside. They have together become unprofitable. There is none who does good. No, not one. Their throat is an open tomb With their tongues they have practiced deceit. The poison of asp is under their lips, whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness. Their feet are swift to shed blood. Destruction and misery are their ways, and the way of peace they have not known. There is no fear of God before their eyes Now we know that whatever the law says, it says to those who are under the law that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world may become guilty before God. Therefore, by the deeds of the law no flesh will be justified in his sight, for by the law is the knowledge of sin. So I was Studying this passage and coming up with a title and um uh my initial title was The Universal Effects of Sin. And I realized that that really wasn't going to get anybody's attention. And then I thought, if you read this passage, it's just like people are really bad, so I was going to put that as a title. And then I thought, well that's not really, you know, that's not really a very creative title, so I came up with Despicable Me I mean if you read the passage you end up with despicable me. That's essentially what you end up with when you read this passage at the end. Uh in fact if you think of uh if you think of the you remember those stories Despicable Me that you got this supervillain Gru who wants national notoriety for being a supervillain and so he decides to steal the moon. You remember the story? So he goes and he steals the moon, or he tries to attempts to steal the moon, works all out his s sinister plan to steal the moon, but he doesn't He doesn't uh expect to be won over by three orphan girls with sad eye cute eyes. And at the end of the movie, he he decides that he's going to leave his life of crime and take care of these three orphan girls. The problem with the plot, uh among many, many, many plots of many, many movies and stories, other than being really silly that you you're gonna steal the moon. But other than that, um the problem with a lot of what we see in stories and and is is the idea that people can be reformed. When the Bible doesn't teach that, the Bible doesn't teach that people can be reformed. The Bible teaches that people must be transformed. And if you really think about it, we are all born into sin, and this passage is going to lay that out extremely clearly. And it teaches it in such a way that it is inescapable that we are all guilty of our sin. We are in need of a savior. We cannot be reformed in some way from our bad ways. We must be transformed by Christ Himself. This is going to be the la the passage, the last section of our entire entire of this part of the of the book itself, which we Which begins in Romans chapter 1, verse 18. And in that verse it says, For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, who suppress the truth and unrighteousness. Paul goes on to explain that the Gentile non-believer, though he may not have the law of God, he can see the creation, know there's a creator. And so he is without excuse and and and he is but he is created born into sin. And uh talks about the the the the horrors of that that we see in chap in Romans chapter one, that that the non cr the non-Christian who is a non who is not a Jew is completely depraved, we saw that in that passage. But then we turn to Romans chapter 2 and we find that the Jew, Paul says, is that is not a Christian, is equally depraved. that he stands guilty before God as well. And the Jewish person, if you recall from previous map messages, was confident in their in their con the the confidence in keeping the law in the sense of they knew they couldn't keep it completely but they could keep it uh you know they could they could do the circumcision thing and They possessed the law, they read the law, they memorized the law, they knew the law, and yet they didn't apply the law. And so Paul and helping them to understand that they are guilty before God says in Romans chapter 2, verse 13, For now the hears of law are just in the sight of for not the hears of law are just in the sight of God But the doers of the law will be justified. But then, by the time we get to verse 20, look down at verse 20, what it's going to say is Therefore, by the deeds of the law, no flesh will be justified in his sight, for by the law is the knowledge of sin. Between the idea that we are judged by the deeds of the law and that no flesh will be justified is this reality that we are all completely, universally under sin. And that's what this passage is going to. He is going to bring all of this to a head in this passage. He has made arguments to show that the Jewish people were equally guilty before God. that because of the law, in fact, it condemned them. And now he he shifts gears and he is going to talk about everybody universally You're going to see in this passage as we go through it statements like, no not one. Everyone is under sin. No one stands righteous before God. No, not one, throughout the passage. That every person besides Christ who has set foot on this earth, or who was born, in fact Has a sin nature. And so we come to this passage here, and what we're going to learn is that people are universally affected by sin. Well, how? We're going to see three things. First of all, we're going to see that They are universally, we are all universally placed under sin. We are placed under it. Number two, we're going to see that we are universally corrupted by it in verses 10 through 18. And then we'll see in verses 19 through 20 that we are universally accountable for it. We are placed under sin, we are corrupted by sin, and we are accountable for sin. That's the flow of thought in the passage. Let's begin to see what it says about the fact that we are placed under sin in verse 9. What then? Are we better than they? Not at all. For we are previously, we have previously charged both Jews and Greeks that they are all under sin. When he says, what then are we better than they, there is some debate as to who we is talking about. Is he continuing to talk about the Jews when he says this? Um the Jewish people that he'd been talking about before? Is he referring to um uh is he referring to Christians? Is that what he's referring to? Well, I think the best Paul is including himself here, and I I think what he is is simply saying is that we are no one is better than anyone else. No one is in a better place than anyone else. Now there are certain advantages, he's already said, by possessing the law, that we have the truth of God's word, we have the oracles of God. And so there is an advantage for the Jew, and frankly, there is also an advantage for the Christian that has the Bible or grown up in a Christian home and you have scripture and you have access to it. And so there is an advantage to having access to the Word of God. But in no way is there anyone better than anyone else because of anything. Essentially what he's saying here. Some are advantaged, but no one is morally superior to anyone else. And I think we need to remember that You may look at the world and see what's going on and see all of the the even unnatural things that are happening in the world. And if we're not careful We can come to a place where we think that somehow they are that we are morally superior to somebody else. We are not. There is no one in this room that is morally superior to anybody else outside this room Or inside the road. We are not. We all are under, the Bible describes it this way, under sin. So when it says it's under sin, we're under sin, what does it mean? Well, the word means to be under the authority or the dominion of sin. To be under its power, to be in its realm. It is in reference to our relationship with God. We are not under God, we are born under sin. And there are only two options. You are either born under sin or you are born under God. And of course we cannot be born under God because of Adam because sin is passed down from Adam and Eve. And so all of us are born under. Galatians 3. 22 says it this way, but the scripture has confined all under sin, that the promise by faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe. We are all imprisoned by sin. You can think of it this way. Let's say you're traveling to a foreign country. Headed over to Europe or Asia or somewhere and you and you get and you touch down there and they and as you're rubbing shoulders with people, you're either going to be identified as a tourist or a local. Very likely they're going to identify you as a tourist Pretty much anywhere you go. I thought it was funny, you know, Hawaii was we went to Hawaii recently and it's a state. It's one of the fifty states. And they had tourists and locals there. I'm like, well I'm you know I'm a US citizen. Does that make no you're a tourist. Anyway, so um but and and then the next question, once you're a tourist and if you're talking to a local, they're gonna ask you what Where from what country are you? What citizenship do you have? Under what realm are you? And that's the idea of this word, under Under the realm of sin, under the authority of sin, imprisoned by sin. Now, we we read this and it probably doesn't shock us. It's probably not something that we go, oh, well, that's I can't believe you would say that about me. But that's the way the Jewish people that were listening would have taken this. They did not see themselves as under the realm of sin. This would have been an offense to any Jewish listeners, any any Jewish recipient. of this book. They would have said they would have said that would have that would be an offensive thing. See, they only see saw people who were infirmed or poor or crippled. They saw those people under sin. Not if if you were healthy and you were, you know, normal middle class kind of a person, not that they actually had middle class back then, but anyway, uh the Then you were not under sin. Remember actually in John chapter 9, verses 1 through 3, it says this, now as Jesus passed by, he saw a man who was blind from birth. And his disciples, his rather ignorant disciples, but this is the way the Jewish people thought, asked him, saying, Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, that he was born blind? Jesus answered, neither this man nor his parents sinned, but that the works of God should be revealed to him. See, they they took it that way that if you were not if you were somehow cursed or poor or you were you had some sort of uh something wrong with you, then you were under the curse of sin. And now Paul is saying, no, you everyone All people are under the curse of sin Truly, it's right to say only, folks, only a sinner. We're only a sinner saved by grace. And we need to understand this and remember this. This is something that we need to live with. We ought never feel any kind of superiority. towards someone to towards somebody else. We ought not look at a situation that we see and say, well, we are somehow superior to them. We are not. But we also need to understand, in a biblical worldview, that the main problem with society is sin. That's the main problem That's the issue. We are all born into sin. We and the we are living in a fallen world. And if you You turn on the news and you see a problem, ultimately, it may not be personal sin, but ultimately it goes back to the problem of sin. We need to see it that way. See, in the world there are all kinds of people that have different ideas of why society has so many problems. The Marxists will say that it's unequal distribution of wealth, that that's the problem. And the way that we fix that problem is we just make sure that we We equalize the wealth and so that there's no oppressor and there's no uh and there's no oppressed and then we'll solve the problem, all our societal problems, if you have no oppressor and no oppressor, and everybody has equal distribution of wealth. The philosopher, the erudite says, uh no, that's not the problem. The problem is knowledge. It's a lack of knowledge. People are ignorant. They don't have the knowledge that they need. What we really need to fix society is education. That's the thing that we really need. If we have more education, then that will solve the problems of society. But folks, the Christian says that it it doesn't mean that we don't we education is not helpful. Doesn't mean that there could not be some kinds of uh irregularities in in uh in in in those kinds of things in fi in in economics. But ultimately, folks, the problem is sin. That's the problem. And that's the shr uh that and that is folks that is how we must view our world. Now we must view our world that way for For many reasons, but one primary reason is this, that if you see the problem is sin, then you have a solution, the Savior. If you understand that ultimately the people that you rub shoulders with are sinners, then you will see them as in need of a savior and you have the solution and it's the gospel. This is how we should look through our look through that this is the lens through which we should look through in our world That we are all hopelessly lost and depraved apart from Christ. Now what's going to happen here is we're going to see then that we that this is sin is is completely part of us. That we are That because we're born into sin, it is inseparable from us. We are inherently sinful. Let me illustrate it this way. So Um uh uh did you know that there are certain fruits? I was looking this up and you know you can graft fruits to g certain plants together, right, to make a a new kind, a new breed of fruit or a new breed of plant. These are all fruits that are hybrids. They look a little funny, don't they? It's because they're hybrids of two fruits. So you you have the the uh the pine berry which is a cross between a pineapple and a strawberry Or the the pluet, which is the cross across between the plum and the apricot. Or a a limequat, which is the a cross between a lime and a cumquat. That doesn't sound very good to me, honestly. But anyway, a line of comquat put those two together. Anyway, now can you imagine somebody getting a whole you know a whole pack of pine berries and saying, you know, they taste the pineapple, they taste the the strawberry, and then they go, you know, I I don't like this uh I don't like this combination. Let's see if we could separate the strawberry from the pine berry from the pineapple. Because I like the strawberry. I don't like the pineapple. So let's see if we could take this batch of pine berries and separate them out. Can you do that No, because you you have an entirely new fruit. You can put them together through grafting, but you can't, once that fruit has come, it you can't separate it. And that's the is the way with our sin Our sin is that way. We are born into sin. And you cannot separate the sin from the person. You can't separate it apart and somehow try to reform them. And that is why the gospel is going to become so absolutely necessary, because it is the answer to this huge problem. unassailable problem of sin that has been combined with us that we can't get out of, we can't do anything about, and the gospel ultimately is going to make us born again, transformed. It's the only way out of our problem. Well, that's for later. We're going to get to that, beginning in verse 21 of chapter 3. But for now, we really need to just understand that sin is inseparably part of every person who walks the face of the earth. And I'm not overstating this. You say, boy, you're really on this today. See, the thing about it is, as people, we really would prefer it feels better to think of everybody as good Doesn't that feel better? Like if I could just if I could feel like that person is good, that I feel good about the fact that I they they're good and I'll feel better. I don't want to think of somebody as bad, I want to think of somebody as good And frankly, I want to think of myself as good. I don't want to think of myself as bad. I want to think of myself as good. But that's not what the Bible teaches. The Bible teaches that I'm bad, and the Bible teaches that the world is bad. And that sin is inseparable from people. And so Paul is going to really make this point By putting together, he's going to chain together a description of people that are born into sin. And what he's going to do is he's going to use the Old Testament. He's going to take from many different places in the Old Testament. He's going to cite many different texts from the Old Testament to show just exactly how sin has corrupted us. We pick up here it says this, as it is written, There is none righteous, no not one. There is none that understands, there is none who seeks after God. They have all turned aside. They have turned and become unprofitable. There is none who does good. No, not one. Their throat is an open s tomb. Uh with their tongues they have pr practice deceit, the poison of asps is under their lips, whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness, their feet are swift to shed blood, destruction and misery are in their ways, and the way of peace they have not known So what we're going to do is go through this description. One thing I'm going to these descriptions one thing I want to point out here is that he uses the Old Testament for one very obvious reason. The reason is because the majority of the people that, not maybe not the majority, at least half of the people that would be reading this in the first century were Jewish Christians. And so they are and so they needed to understand truth, and frankly, it was probably going to be spread among non-Jewish Chr uh Jewish non-Christians And so they needed to see this from the Old Testament. In other words, Paul said, yes, you're advantaged because you have the oracles of God. Now let me show you from the oracles of God exactly how you are guilty before God. So we pick up here and we're going to see this. So let's pick up. He says, first of all, he says, there is none righteous. No, not one. There's none righteous. No, not one. This comes from Psalm 14, verses 1 through 3. The fool has said in his heart, there is no God. They are corrupt They have done abominable works. There is none who does good. The Lord looks down from heaven upon the children of men. To see if there are any who understand, who seek God. They have all turned aside, they have together become corrupt. There is none who does good, no not one. Psalm 14 And we're going to see some of these descriptions in this text here as well. So we're actually going to see three different categories that describe the person. We're going to see sins of the mind. Then he's going to move to sins of the sins of the tongue, of the mouth, and then he's going to move to sins of the deeds. First sins of the mind, and we're going to see here it says, there is none who understands. He's talking here about the ability to understand Who God is and how to come to Him. We do not have that ability. We are unable to understand. Romans chapter 1 verse 20 tells us that we can understand that there is a God from creation, but we can't understand more than that. We are, and in Matthew chapter 13, verses 13 through 15, we have this description. Jesus speaks here, and he says, Therefore I speak to them in parables, because seeing they do not see, hearing they do not hear, nor do they understand. And in them the prophecy of Isaiah is fulfilled, which says, Hearing will you uh you will hear and shall not understand, and seeing you will see and not perceive. They could read the words of Scripture, but they can't understand them. What's the problem? Well, Jesus is going to say this in Matthew 13, verse 15. For the hearts of his people have grown dull. Their ears are hard of hearing, and their eyes have been closed, lest they see with their eyes and hear with their ears, lest they shall understand with the hearts and turn, so that they should heal them. So, because of sin, we have inability to understand the truth of the gospel. We cannot do it. Number two. There is none who seeks after God. Now this is an interesting phrase. There is none. There is no one that seeks after God. It's very telling. In Matthew 7. 7 it says, seek and you will find, knock and the door will be opened unto you. Hebrews 11, chapter 11, verse 6. says that God is a rewarder of them who diligently seek him. And the person who has true faith understands and diligently seeks God in that passage. And yet we do not have the ability to do that. It's interesting because we're living in a day where uh Christians even will say, well, I think that that per that they're seekers. You ever heard that? So-and-so is a seeker. This person's a seeker. That person's a seeker. Or you think even overseas, sometimes people say this in missions. I want to go to the mission field because that group of people is much, they're much more open to the gospel than that group of people. Not according to the Bible, they're not. No one's more open than somebody else to the Bible. Uh else to the gospel Uh well yeah, but you know they don't have all the things that we have, so they're open to the gospel. No, they're open to receiving food because they need food. But but they are still they are still close to the gospel. They do not seek after God. No one understands. No one seeks after God. I've even heard see people say, well, I'm called to the mission field field because there's so much they're gonna they they seek after God more than people in the United States. We're just too spoiled. Well we are spoiled, okay And other people in other countries don't have what we have, but it doesn't mean biblically that they seek after God. No one does that, the Bible says. In fact that's why Jesus said that he came to do what? To seek and to save that which was lost. It's Jesus who came to seek us because we cannot seek. seek him. And then we see as a result of these things there is there is uh uh there are two results. First of all it says they've turned aside And then secondly it says they have to become all unprofitable. This turning aside very likely comes from Isaiah 53, 6, where it says, all we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned every one to his own way, and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. We have turned aside Proverbs 14, 12 warns us, there is a way that seems right unto a man, but the end thereof are the ways of death. And so we try to do right, we try to be a good person, and yet because we do not understand and we cannot seek after God, We fail and we turn aside. And in fact, we have altogether become unprofitable. Now, this isn't very nice, is it? It's telling us that people are not useful. People are not profitable. They're not useful for God God made them to be useful to glorify himself. But what has happened because of sin is that we can't reflect the glory of God correctly anymore. We are a distortion of the glory of God instead of a reflection of the glory of God because of our sin. And so the Bible says they have turned altogether become unprofitable. Matthew chapter 5 verse 13, you are the salt of the earth, but if salt loses its flavor, how shall it be seasoned? It is good for nothing. It's the same idea there. And that's why Isaiah 64-6 says this, but we are all like an unclean thing and all our righteousnesses are as filthy rags. We all fade as a leaf, and our iniquities like the wind have taken us away. Even our good things, our righteousnesses, they are all filthy rags to God. They're unusable, they're not useful. Lloyd Jones says it's like their soured milk. Of course, you know he was an Englishman and loved his tea. And he, you know, you all a good Englishman always puts milk in his tea. But if you put milk in your tea that's sour, it's totally use makes the entire tea useless. Now I couldn't identify with that that much. I don't drink that much tea. But if you're a tea drinker and you like milk, if you put sour I can think of coffee, you know, you put sour cream and coffee. I would not like that uh very much. Um And so it's it's so it's it's it's a sour milk. It's useless. That's what we are. We are sour to God. We are useless to Him. Why? Because of our sin. It doesn't mean we're not made in the image of God. We are. But because of sin, it has made us useless to Him. We are altogether unprofitable. Now we move to the sins of the mouth. You thought we were dying. We're not close to that. Now we move to the sins of the mouth. It says their throat is an open tomb. Boy, that's a description, quite a description. It doesn't say the tongue or the mouth, it says the throat is an open tomb. I mean just I understand, you know, we're talking about we're talking about a grave that has been opened up. Uh you know, their body is still decomposing, and as you open up a tomb, the stench is just unbelievably overwhelming. That's what he says about the human heart. He's talking about the fact that our hearts, the stench of our hearts, are overwhelmingly putrid. Our throat is an open tomb. This comes from Psalm 5, verses 5 through 10. In that context, it says, the boastful shall not stand in your sight. You hate all workers of iniquity. And then he says, for there is, verse 9, for there is no faithful in their mouth, their inward part is destruction, their throat is an open tomb. They flatter with their tongue, pronounce them guilty, O God, let them fall by their own counsels, cast them out in the multitude of their transgressions, for they have rebelled against you. And God is saying this about all of us. We are all rebellious against God. The poison of asps are on our lips. Talk about snakes. You guys like snakes? Neither do I. And it says in Psalm one hundred forty, verses one through three, Deliver me, O Lord, from evil evil men. Preserve me from the violent men Who have planned evil things in their hearts, they continually gather together for war, they sharpen their tongues like a serpent, and the poison of ass is under their lips. This is a reference to the venom sack. That the the sacks they're under the fangs of a snake. And as he bites down on his victim, he injects venom into his bloodstream and it begins to corrupt the entire body That is the nature of who we are. We are poisonous internally, and as we interact with others, we extract our venom on others. And then those who curse, the mouth is full of cursing and bitterness, verse 14. Psalm 10, verse 16 7 says this, his mouth is full of cursing and deceit and oppression. Under the tongue is trouble and iniquity. We're like snakes. This is what w this this description is unbelievable. We're open smelly open graves who are like snakes that have venom that prey on victims And then we move, we're not done yet. And then we move to deeds, verses 15 through 17. So now we've moved from the the mind, the understanding to the the the mouth to sins of deeds. Their feet are swift to shed blood. Let's talk about murder. Now he's not saying that we have all murdered, but he is saying that we all have the potential of being murderers. Do you remember that Jesus said that if you hate your brother Or then you have committed murder against them? If you are angry, hatred and anger are actually the same thing in the New Testament. They're the same word. If we have anger or bitterness or hatred or and if we m uh it is as though we is the same impulse as being a murderer. Verse 16, destruction and misery are in their ways. This is a cause and effect verse. There's just we we create destruction because of who we are, because of all the problems that he's described, because our heart is wrong, and our tongue are wr is wrong and our deeds are wrong, because everything is sinful. We create destruction wherever we go. And it's not that hard to see that the news verifies this. Turn the news on and destruction is being created wherever we go And so, because of that, destruction and misery, misery is a result of destruction. You take a town or a city and it's destroyed by an earthquake or a natural disaster or a military bombing, misery is a result of that. Verse 17, the way of peace they have not known. This comes from Isaiah chapter 6, verse 14. They have also healed the herd of my people slightly, saying, Peace, peace. Proverbs 317, and all her paths are peace. Peace. They don't know peace. The world wants peace. World peace. Let's have world peace. You can never have world peace because of sin. Sin is the problem. Now he gets to verse 18 and he is going to summarize it in a very unusual way that we wouldn't necessarily expect. What's the root problem? Well, people are bad, they're sinful, they're corrupt. He's going to say it in such a way that is really quite striking. He says, verse 18, out of all the horrible things that he said, I wouldn't think that he would end with this. But he says, verse 18, there is no fear of God. before their eyes. What does he mean when he says there are no there's no fear of God before their eyes? This comes from Psalm 36. 1. An oracle within my heart concern concerning the transgression of the wicked, there is no fear of God before his eyes. Did you know, folks, that Psalm 17, Proverbs 17, among other places, says that wisdom comes from the fear of the Lord? Now he has already said that we don't understand, we don't seek after God, but now he says the problem is there is no fear of the Lord. And their lies before his eyes. What is the fear of the Lord? Lloyd Jones gives four descriptors of the fear of the Lord. I I reword them a bit, but here they are. First, he says, the fear of the Lord is a sense of the greatness of God. When you think of the Old Testament, the description of them, you're not going to see in the Old Testament that Abraham was a Christian. It doesn't say that in the Old Testament. It doesn't say that Moses is or David. It doesn't say any of these people are Christians. But when someone is a godly person in the Old Testament, what it says is that they fear God. What does that mean? Well, number one, they have a sense of the greatness of God. What's the problem with people is they don't have a sense of the greatness of God. There's no fear of God. Hebrews chapter 12, verse 28 through 29. Therefore, since we are receiving a kingdom which cannot be shaken, Let us have grace by which we may serve God acceptably with reverence and godly fear. For our God is a consuming fire. Number two. the setting of God before. The fear of the Lord causes someone to constantly set God before them. Psalm 168 says it this way, I have set the Lord always before me, because he is at my right hand, and I shall not be moved. Do you set God before you always? Is God constantly before you? Are you constantly thinking about Him? Praying to him, is your mind on him? Are you constantly wondering if he's approving of you? Are you constantly concerned about what pleasing him? Is God always before you? The fear of the Lord Someone who fears the Lord. God is always before them. And finally, there's a healthy punishment, fear of God's punishment. Now, this has all kinds of application for us, but I want us to notice something about all the all of these descrip descriptors. All of these descriptions come from the Old Testament. And if you look at the context, which I did, of all of these, I didn't I didn't take the time to read all the context of each one for you for you. And you're probably thankful about that. But if you look at the context of all of these different passages that this these quote that Paul quotes, all of them refer not to the Jewish non-Christian. But to the Gentile non-Christian. Now that's interesting. Why would Paul tell Jewish people Why would he tell them that they are like the non the Gentile non-Christians in the Old Testament? Why? Because they are. What he's doing there is he is basically making the argument. He's saying all, you know, a j a Jewish person would go past something like their throat is an open sepulchre. They'd read these things in the Old Testament and they'd say, oh that's not me, that's the Gentile. Well, that's not me, that's the Gentile. You know, all these different things. That's not me, that's the Gentile. And Paul's saying, no, that's you and the Gentile. All of those descriptions of the sinfulness and and all of the s the the the there it is it applies to you. You know, we need to be careful, Christians, we need to be careful that we don't look at scripture and go, well, that applies to somebody else. Doesn't apply to me. That doesn't apply to me. No, all scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction, righteousness. But also I want us to just ask the question. Do you fear the Lord? I mean it's very clear in the passage that the root problem for the non Christian and why he is the way he is is because there is no fear of God before their eyes. But what about us Christians? Do you fear the Lord? Do you set God before your eyes all of the time, all every day? Do you do you raise your kids to please God? Do I work every day? Desiring to please God. Am I, could it be said of me that I fear God? Or do I look more like a non-Christian or act more like a non-Christian because I don't fear God? Well finally, we then move to the fact that we are all universally accountable for our sin. We're inseparable from sin. Now it is very clear that we are accountable for sin. Verse 19 Now we know that whatever the law says, it says to those who are under the law, that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world may become guilty before God. The description here is of a courtroom. And you can imagine it's the law is the prosecutor. In fact, look at the next verse. Therefore, by the deeds of the law, no flesh will be justified in this sight. Why? For by the law is the knowledge of sin. Imagine the courtroom. You're the one who's guilty. The law is your prosecutor And one sin after another, one thing after another after another is another is brought up And you know that you're guilty of all of these things, and the arguments made to the judge who is Christ. are so condemning and are so airtight that when it comes to you to give a defense, you simply Say nothing. Your mouth is stopped. There is no defense. You are defenseless. This is exactly the point of the law, and it's exactly the place where every m one must come to They have no defense. The Jewish people, they would give a defense. Well, I'm better than other people. Yeah, I'm not perfect, but I'm better than them. And at least I'm a good person inside. And no. God says no. You are accountable for God. You are liable, is what this word means. And you have absolutely no defense so that your mouth is stopped. Can I ask you a question? Has your mouth ever been stopped? See what what do you mean? Have you ever been so convicted by sin? That you don't you don't come up with a explanation for it. You don't come up with a defense for it. You don't blame somebody else. You just stop and you say, I'm guilty. I think that is how that a great description of this is Isaiah 6. Do you remember Isaiah 6 in the Old Testament? Isaiah sees God. And the thing he sees about God in Isaiah 6 is that he is holy. The seraphim are surrounding him in the throne. And they say, holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is full of his glory. And how does Isaiah respond? He says, Woe is me, for I am undone. Because I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips, for mine eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts. This is God's goal for people, that they come to a place where they realize that they are utterly guilty before God. That there is no defense, that they are completely, utterly, helplessly, hopelessly sinful before God. And when they come and their mouth is stopped, and they are under the conviction of the Spirit of God in that way Now they are ready. And I'm going to give you a sneak peek on what we're learning next. Look at verse 21. We won't stay there, but look at verse 21. Chapter 3. You have this major change here, which we will review again. But now The righteousness of God, apart from the law, is revealed, being witnesses by the law. Even the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ to all and on all. You've got these same universal statements. to all, on all who what? Who believe, for there is no difference But the key is coming to that place. You cannot receive the grace of God until you understand that you are hopelessly and helplessly guilty before God. So we end by looking at three very important truths here. Number one. We must view sin as the universal problem and the gospel as the universal solution. Our entire worldview should find its root and foundation in this that the universal problem is sin and the universal solution is the gospel. The Romans is going to flesh all of this out for us. And we're going to see this. We're going to see how God is going to redeem creation in Romans chapter 8. We're going to see how He will conform us to the image of His Son in Romans chapter 8. We're going to see this throughout scripture, throughout Romans. But we've got to understand that the universal problem among all people is sin, and the universal solution to all people is the gospel. Number two, sin renders us totally unable to come to God. We are, we cannot come to God on our own John says it this way: no one comes to the Father unless he is drawn by him. If you look, this should bring such amazing gratefulness if you know Christ as your Savior. You didn't do it. You couldn't do it. You couldn't understand. It was the working of the Spirit of God in your life that brought you to a place of understanding. It's the Spirit of God and the Word of God. Sin renders us totally unable to come to God. Number three. We are defenselessly liable and accountable for our sin. And we are in desperate need of a savior. That's where this passage ends. I gave you I gave you a little bit more because I don't want to I don't like any mare. The truth of the matter is it's all to bring us to a place where we understand our need of a savior. And maybe you're listening today. And you know, you've had some sort of religious upbringing, and you've, you know, you're you you've tried to be a good person, but you've never understand that you are inherently guilty before God. And you need Jesus who paid the punishment for your sin. You need the righteousness of Jesus applied to you because you have no none of your own. The Bible says, anybody who will do this by faith, as many as received him, to them gave you the power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. Anyone who chooses to trust Christ as their Lord and Savior, to trust that Jesus took our sin on himself. And died to pay the punishment for our sin so that we could have his righteousness applied to us. Bible says you can. If you are here today and you're not sure whether or not you will spend eternity with the Lord, let me encourage you from what the Bible says here, be saved today. And I think ahead here to a few minutes when we're going to have communion together. What a blessed, wonderful time. I think that the reason often we take this for granted. That it becomes just another ritual is because we really do not see how sinful we really are. How hopeless we really are apart from a Savior. And so the work of Christ on the cross, it becomes it just becomes cheap in our minds. May we today, as we think through this description of who we are outside of Christ We can partake together being so grateful for who we are in Christ. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and we praise you because of who you are. Lord, this passage teaches us the utter depravity of man. It shows us so clearly that we are hopeless apart from the the amazing wisdom that you had To send your only son to die to pay the punishment for our sins. Outside of that provision, we would be lost. We thank you today that you've given us an ordinance that we can partake of together, celebrating and remembering what Christ did for us on the cross. And may we, as we do this today, uh may we think of our own sin. Our own sinful selves, our own hopelessness apart from Christ, then may we truly be able to remember and be grateful for what you have done for us. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. And uh we're going to sing. Um, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our dismissal. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to have the deacon. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.