How does it do this? And then many of them probably did move over into where they come accepted Christianity which it once once they understood it. But no, Paul says no, the law increases our trespasses in sin. Christ even made that clear that there is no marriage in heaven. And we can't be married to the Mosaic Law and Christ's law at the same time. But if the ministry of death written and engraved on stones, what is that folks? But there's a verse before it that helps us here. 2 Corinthians 11, verse 2 says it this way, for I am jealous for you with a godly jealousy, for I have betrothed you to one husband that I may present you as a chaste virgin to Christ We know what this is like, right? Or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. And as we enter into this communion time, Lord, it is all about remembering the great love that you had for us. See, what will happen if we serve from that kind of sense is that we will it will become a burden to us And Paul is just saying there that he's under the law, or that he's not actually under the law, but he'll be willing to defer to others for their own conscience. who are a man after the manifold of God's own heart, that truly communed with God, that had a relationship with God, that had a loving relationship back and forth. And challenge us as you see fit, Lord, we ask in all all this in Christ's name. They're the foot of the cross and the burden just falls off, representing what happens when we come to Christ, that the our burden of sin is left at the foot of the cross as Christ takes it from us. in Christ's likeness and still facing many, many trials, as well as uh uh uh knowing more and more about who Jesus is and growing from all of it. We do not have to be burdened by sin, and we no longer have to be burdened by the law. You could literally overcome your propensity, your passion, your desire for sin. Let's learn how all this works together this morning. uh Jewish people. Romans three twenty eight, therefore we conclude that man is justified by faith apart from the deeds of the law For where there is no law, there is no transgression. in the text as well in Ephesians later on. Now the implication here is very simple. When we come to this passage and it says that we are Christians are dead to the law, what is it talking about? We're bound by the moral law of God, and usually people say the Ten Commandments. To those who are without the law is without the law. Like, you know, Exodus chapter 20, there's like this Ten thing, Ten Commandments. as an opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve one another. But if you bite and devour one another, beware lest you be consumed by one another. 2 Corinthians chapter 3 verse 6. I know you can't see it, but nine out of the Ten Commandments, there is a reference for every one of there is a New Testament reference for every one of these nine out of the Ten Commandments. That is, as it says in Galatians chapter 2, verse 19, for I through the law died the law that I might live to God. It's found in Ephesians chapter 5, verses 24 through 27, it says this. Now, what does he mean when it says bear fruit to God? Galatians 5, 22-23 tells us this. Because it said, why does he get that spot? No big deal, it's fine, no problem. Uh there's other other texts where it does mention that, but you've heard the phrase, well, I'm just following the spirit of the law versus the letter of the law. I have a lot to do every week, but it did seem uh overly a lot I don't know why, but it was a lot last week. to have the best experience you can possibly have. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. It's not possible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins. So that we should serve in the newness of the Spirit and not in the oldness of the letter. uh pretty much anywhere of the Christian life is the famous allegory Pilgrim's Progress. Are you one who feels burdened by life? The Apostle Paul is brought into a place of criticism among other Christians because the Apostle Paul says, no, you do not have to follow the law any longer And if they weren't Jewish Christians, they were influenced by Jewish Christians. As we have mentioned already, this is not to assume that he's only speaking to Jewish people. As long as a person lives, he is under the law. But every mouth may be stopped, that all the world may be guilty before God. Before we get there, I think it's important for us to understand, just remember from the book of Romans what we have already learned about the law. The law actually increases sin. The law enters into that. Romans 6, we just learned this last week. He's going to say this for the woman, and he's going to use this as an illustration. the matter of divorce or marriage. It's an illustration about the binding relationship of marriage that ends in death. Yes, that is how you are released from the law. You can't do both at the same time. We're going to see more of this in a minute, but what we need to understand first of all is that God has freed us from the obligations of the law. that has made to try to understand how we can how we on one hand aren't lawless but on the other hand aren't bound by the law at the same time Another problem is that there is nowhere in the New Testament, nowhere in the Old Testament, nowhere in Scripture that it makes these distinctions, and nowhere in the New Testament does it say that If you look at 1 Corinthians chapter 9, in fact I have it up here for you. I have made myself a servant to all, that I might win the more. And love your neighbor as yourself. of what law we are bound by. So we have died to the to the obligations of the Mosaic Law. So that now that cancels out we are under Christ's law. Oh man alive, that's that can't be right. You are dead to the law through the body of Christ. I died in the law that I might live to God. So that there has been a death, so that I am no longer obligated by the law Why? in a son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. He has a purpose in this, that he might sanctify and cleanse her with the washing of the water by the word, that he might present to herself a gl to himself were at work in our members to bear fruit to death. There's no law against those, by the way. To uh to uh to help us understand actually how the law works. I mean, there's something in our spirit that we see a sign, we see a law, if you will, and we just want to do it, or not do it, depending on what it is. I didn't see any at Cedarville, but um they always have signs for where the president parks. Um we were taking the same class and he parked in the dean of the seminary spot on purpose. When there is this we we want to defy it, we want to go against it. Is it service to God, joyful service to God? We actually go back to Romans 2, verse 29 for this, but he is a Jew who is one inwardly, and circumcision is that of the heart in the spirit. I will put my spirit within you and cause you to walk in my statutes and will keep my judgments and do them. Who also made us sufficient as ministers of the new covenant, not of the letter of the spirit, but not of the letter, but of the spirit, for the letter kills stop, spend some time with the Lord, say, Lord, why am I doing what I even this even I'm as I'm studying for this as I'm relay I'm I'm thinking about this I'm thinking no this is kind of convicting. just for me coming and just talking to them. uh just talk with them about the Christian life and they had questions and we talked and they were just extremely grateful. It was life-giving. and relational service. uh took them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt. We do it because we love him. There's going to be a new era, a new covenant, a new time, and in this time, which is occurring now, at least in part, and then will be fulfilled in the millennial kingdom The house of Israel after those days, says the Lord, I will put my law in their minds and write it in their hearts And there will be a knowledge of him. Not in the oldness of the letter. What kind of fruit are we bearing? Later on in the afternoon, can I encourage you to just take some time if it's a half hour or an hour, just spend some time with the Lord. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. four week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. A state of receptiveness, a state of readiness to receive your word, may it impact It is very it hard sometimes to picture the Christian life, but that really helps us do it In Pilgrim's Progress, the story starts off with Pilgrim who has a great burden. is described in Romans 7. Do you feel like Christian did at the foot of the cross where his burden was left? But now we turn to Romans chapter 7, and he asks another question. The dominion of sin is released when we come to Christ. But created the Torah, that's the law, to overcome it. to be one of controversy. It could show us our sin. Death of the law result in fruit for God, and finally, death to the law frees us to serve in the Spirit. Secondly, death to the law results in fruit for God. Free from obligation, fruitfulness for God, and freedom to serve in the Spirit And then we have here, it says that the law has dominion over man as long as it lives, as he lives And that was something that the Jewish people, the rabbinical writings, would bear that out. control, uh rulership over a person as long as he lives. You are aware of sin because of the law. The law cannot declare us righteous. But now the righteousness of God apart from the law is revealed, being witnessed by the law and the prophets. The law brings wrath, Scripture says. And Paul is not disagreeing with the idea that as long as someone is alive, they are under the law of God. And actually the rabbinical writings reiterated that, that the woman was released from the law to her husband by death. So then, if while her husband lives, she marries another man, another man, she will be called an adulteress So if you're talking about the issue of divorce through a marriage and you're going to Romans chapter 7, you're going to the wrong place. Do you serve as though you're obligated? Would you say, well, that's what the Bible says, that's the law? I mean that doesn't make any sense at all. You have to felt fulfill the moral law, but not the ceremonial and civil law. That might make sense, but we have two problems. We are no longer under the Mosaic Law. that we might win those who are without the law. was glorious. See, we are dead to the entire Mosaic Law, including the Ten Commandments. that teach that tell that explain that what Christ has done is he has re-readed reiter reiterated all all of the Ten Commandments except for one. Okay. Uh we can fr uh we are free from the Mosaic Law, all of it. Christ's law, which is the law of love for him and love for others. God frees us from the law. So let the wives be to their own husbands in everything. so that he can cleanse us and present us blameless before him, so that we can become Christ-like and holy before him. as bearing fruit. And works in our body parts, our members, to violate it, to sin more The more you're under the law, the more you're knowing the law, the more you feel under the obligation of the law, the more it works in you to sin against the law. We were in we were in seminary and uh uh doing doing a uh a di uh a uh a uh a uh uh a class. We know that from Romans chapter 6, verse 23. There are some times where Christian kids kids go to teens go to a Christian camp and they make vows, I'm never going to do such and such again. We will have uh different wrong kinds of fruit. Am I functioning from a place of obligation? You we do what we do because we want to. You you do things because you want to. in the newness of the spirit. So when we talk about newness of the Spirit, we're talking about service from the heart, heart service. There was a a good amount and uh they were so fervent in wanting to know truth from scripture and wanting to live out the cry. So that it's not burdensome. Jeremiah thirty-one says this, Behold the days are coming, says the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah, not according to the covenant I made with their fathers in that in in the day that I I will be their God, and they shall know, they shall be my people. He's talking about intimacy, that kind of knowledge. He has freed it up so that we could be in relationship, clearly in relationship with him, so that we are not bound by the Mosaic Law. Or are you feeling just a sense of overwhelming obligation that brings burden to you? I mean some people I I feel like it should like it's not easy for them. And the sacrifice that he made on the cross for me and his goals for me. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. For when we were in the flesh, the sinful passions which were aroused by the law were at work in our members to bear fruit to death. I I mentioned in Sunday school this as well that I think every Christian frankly should read Pilgrim's Progress and many of us should read more than once, many times over, that wonderful allegory because How, what has he said so far about the law? Your loyalty to the law cannot be you cannot have loyalty to the law and loyalty to Christ at the same time, just no more than a woman can be married to two men at the same time. Now the point here is simply this. feel ob to not live from a from a sense of obligation, to not serve from a sense of obligation And we're going to learn more about this, but this kind of brings up a question. Uh are we really completely freed from the law? What law is Paul referring to? See, what we're actually talking about is a different kind of law. Not the moral part, but not the ceremonial part, the civil part. It would look like this. present her to himself a glorious church, not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that she should be holy and without blemish. Functioning from a place of obligation. it's going to result in those kinds of of wrong fruit, bearing sinful kinds of fruit. And then I'm like, pfft, it's just, hey, great, I'll buy her flowers. brings death. And um I I gotta tell you, it was extremely encouraging encouraging to me. to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. The truth that we have just sung about, we praise you for the sending of your son. And as we just sang, we we think of the sufficiency of Christ, his sacrifice. The word says, Or do you not know, brethren? For the woman who has a husband is bound by the law to her husband as long as he lives. So then if while her husband lives she marries another man, she will be called an adulteress. But there is another kind of burden. Certainly not. By obligations and responsibilities, burdened by what you believe to be something that you must do? One rabbinic uh commentary, Rabbi Rabbah says this, the one the Holy One created man's equal inclination Release from obligation, fruit for God, and freedom to serve in the Spirit. And so in fact there were even Gentile converts to Judaism during that time The law is binding and has authority and enslavement over us. Frankly, this also would have been something that the Jewish people and Christians who n understood the law would have understood. And he is saying here that a woman is freed from the law of her husband once that husband has died. And he's pointing out that there is a death that has occurred, which we'll see in a few moments. Would you have any other reason for why you do right? Do you see yourself as free from the obligations of the law? I'll ask it this way. Sounds like a drag. But when it comes to this, they really they really didn't, I don't believe they got it right. But under the law, and here's the key, the law toward Christ. You say, oh man, I can't what are you saying we shouldn't follow the the the the Ten Commandments? So that helps us understand a little bit about how we are freed from the Mosaic Law, all of it. his rule. That is the law, as we've already seen before, it arouses in us and works in us What kind of fruit do you have? Is that what you see? And you've got to follow them, and you are you you have the obligation to do so. That is, I mean, like the worst investment, no demand. Is it hard to buy flowers for somebody that you fall in love with? The law, the Mosaic law causes you to be you're going to fail. We serve the Lord. See, we're empowered by the Spirit of God. But it really is easy to get up in the morning and suddenly just get going because I got so much to do and not even give consideration to the person whom I'm serving. Just say, Lord, I love you. And that we can function from a place of loving relationship rather than law and obligation. Verses one through six. Or being freed, which one are you? And but created the Torah to overcome that inclination. that people are bound to until there is a death and then there is no longer they're no longer bound to that Is that what you maybe you would say that would you is that what you would feel? Yes, they are. And God has set it set forth so that he joins us with him. Look at what it says there, verse five. The fruits of the Spirit, all of these are not things that you can physically see. I mean you wouldn't even thought of doing anything different until you see the sign and you're like, I'm not doing that. Um uh the it just works in us. Um but uh and we were all thinking think it was funny. Death. Do you know what you're doing? Actually the Bible says don't vow. If we're serving from that place of feeling obligated eventually See, that's the difference between the Mosaic Law and Christ's law. Now, actually, this isn't talking when it says the spirit and the law and the letter of the law, that's actually not what it's talking about here. you will be able to succeed. But the Spirit gives life. But at some point, they don't give out a give back a whole lot. Number three, are we serving from a life-giving relationship? And see how nothing can separate us from the love of God. To be clothed with human flesh, to live a perfect life, to fulfill all the demands of the law, and to go to the cross separated from you. But Lord, you sent the perfect sacrifice, the willing sacrifice of Christ. We ask, Lord, as we consider the word and the preaching to come, that you would put our hearts and minds in the right state. I'm reminded of Hebrews 10 where it talks about how the sacrifices of the animals were done every day, year by year, but it says that Therefore, my brethren, you also have become dead to the law, through the body of Christ, that you may be married to another, to him who is raised from the dead, that we should bear fruit to God. Sin certainly is a burden. What we're going to learn in this passage is that death to the law brings fruitful service in the Spirit. But there has been a death. There is morality according to the Jewish law for a man to divorce her husband. And you have three different parts, the civil law, the ceremonial law, and the moral law. Remember the Sabbath and keep it holy. Christ frees us from sin and frees us from the law so that we can join with Christ. So that he can make us what he wants us to be. Because it arouses in us a rebellion that we have that is actually in our sin nature. And our passions increase our sin. But now we have been delivered from the law, having died to what we were held by. Number two. Or it feels like everything's gonna fall apart if I don't do them. Right? Okay. or jealousy and judgmentalism and comparing one another and being angry because somebody else isn't doing what I'm should doing and that kind of thing. Not even spend any time with him. and living and serving from a place of relationship with you rather than from obligation to either the Mosaic law or some sort of law we've made for ourselves. And our love for you. It says that but this man, after he had offered one sacrifice for sins forever, he sat down at the right hand of God, for by one offering he has perfected forever those who are being sanctified. And he is goes to all ki great lengths to try to remove the burden. So so w uh and uh Jewish people really believed that the law was actually to be their very savior. This really actually probably goes back to the Puritan times. There's a contrast here though. All right. What does that mean? Our relationship with God. And I'm again I am not preaching this in a way where I go, well, see, you guys need to do better, and I got this figured out because I know what I what the Bible says here. And may we proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. We praise you, Lord, for this efficient sacrifice of Christ. Look at the purpose, verse 4 here. Or to or last week or two years ago, it might be because you're actually functioning from a place of law There this is to know him. Right? Do we live and serve out of obligation? So how are you where from where are you functioning? Three questions. And I I griped at my wife. All of these things, Lord. All right. Um second Corinthians 4 12, so that so then death is working in us, but life in you. I uh I uh I I will tell you that I struggle with this sometimes. to live and function and serve and be burdened by our by by our own sense of obligation, be burdened by To return to to walking with you, loving you, knowing your love for us Reading from the text today will be in Romans chapter 7. For what wondrous love is this? That we would be restored in our relationship with you, in our fellowship with you. If we were left up to any of the other things that we are tempted to put confidence and trust in, we would be hopeless. The Christians in general in Rome at that time were associated with the Jewish people and they were familiar with the law. other kinds of fruit which are sin, jealousy, and comparison and judgmentalism and those kinds of things. When we serve the Lord, are we serving out of obligation? This past week I went to Hishan Rose's they have a stu uh basically a Bible study with a bunch of college students. Christian from then on, he moves his name changes from pilgrim to Christian, and he goes on to live what we would see as the Christian life growing. At least lawfully. Why did God do this? or uh in a store or um you're driving a car whatever, have you seen a sign and and it made you want to do exactly the opposite of what it said? What kind of fruit are you producing? That God loves us with an everlasting love. Scripture is going to teach us in this passage that the burden of the law is a burden that you and I as Christians no longer have. This idea of serve in the newness of the Spirit is a very full term, very full phrase. So it's to be enslaved, but not in the oldness of the letter, but in the newness of the spirit. And we do confess before you that it is so easy for us to So to the Lord in prayer together. So that we should serve in what? What in the world does a two-year-old boy give back? For us. Uh I can I think I can live with that. We uh uh we when we really love somebody how about your kids? How does death to the law bring fruitful service to the Spirit? It kills. And this passage, frankly, for me personally, couldn't have come at a better time because I had a lot to do last week The oppression, the burden of the law. Verse 10 of that passage, for what is passing away was glorious. I think it's interesting that God actually pro uh he he prof he uses Jeremiah to prophesy that And those of us who are uh who feel obligated to make sure everything's going right, we end up uh you know we're we're pretty upset over that. Thank you for loving your s loving us enough to sending to send your son. The gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. More sin. This is intended as an illustration to help us to understand our relationship to the law. You're creating yourself a law that you cannot fall follow. Number one, do we live and serve out of obligation? But they do. I think I think a good illustration is when you first, you know, when you when you s when you're dating you meet somebody that you just fall in love with. Actually, also Ezekiel 36 says this: I will give you a new heart and put in a new spirit within you. So that we can serve in newness, and then it says, of the spirit. Well, if you look at scripture, you're going to see three three things that this means. It was it was something that I really I said boy this is this is there why? You look around people who have no care in the world and they float around and somehow survive in life. We we're constantly uh uh we we constantly succumb to sin Should a Christian have to be circumcised? Number five, the law has binding authority and enslavement. Are you law-oriented? That's not in the New Testament. You can do them as much as you want. Moms of infants? We love him because he first loved us, so that as I serve, I doing it as a love sacrifice to him. And that knowledge, that knowing the Lord, is not oh yeah, I know about him. I know you love me. Romans 6, 14 and 15. It's making a connection here to help us understand that there is God's law Are we under the Ten Commandments? There's another kind of fruit here. Secondly, thirdly, brings us right to the third one, relational service. How shall we who are dead to sin live any longer therein? You cannot be married to the law or be bound to the law and be bound to Christ at the same time. God is the source of all law. That's something's something's gotta be wrong with that. We are dead to the law. She finally had to tell me to stop buying flowers because it's a bad investment. Father, we thank you for your word this morning. Number four, the law increases trespasses and sin. He says, like when I'm not with people that are without the law, I'm without the law. Look at what it says. You know, I I want to park in that spot. Okay. Help us to know how to do that. But the Spirit gives life. We'll begin by looking at death to law bringing release from obligation. Why do you do that? It isn't as though we are lawless, or as Christians, we have no law, but there has been a change There is a different kind of fruit altogether. What are we under? I did almost no preparation for that, frankly, if you want to know the truth. Love, joy, peace, gentleness, kindness, goodness, faith. You must be freed from one in order to be bound to the other I have been, notice what he says, I have been crucified with Christ. And that's exactly what what this next part of this passage is talking about. There's a relationship involved. But we couldn't overcome our desire for sin just by the law. The Jewish people thought the law would actually alleviate sin, would would deal with the problem of sin, would actually overcome our inclination toward evil. Now let me pick let me just mention this. I know you're all saying, okay, I I think I can live with that. For I through the law died to the law that I might live to God, because I am crucified with Christ. You know it well. But sometimes we what we really need to do is inspect our fruit. Do you do right and withhold from doing wrong out of obligation? If you're dead to it, you have no obligation to fulfill any of it whatsoever Christ describes this marriage with his church for a very, very important reason. We're indwelt by the Spirit of God. Well, the New Testament talks about basically two kinds of fruit. The word serve actually means enslaved. Well, notice number one, the law stirs up consciousness of sin Romans seven, verses one through six But we we need to understand this, that this is an illustration, not a text to teach us about how divorce and remarriage is supposed to work. Alright? Is it obedience to God? See, when we see ourselves producing the wrong kind of fruit, we've got to go back and we need to ask ourselves some questions. Whatever we're doing in life, it's actually, it should be out of serving God. Number two, what kind of fruit are we bearing? Paul deals with the problem of license in Romans 6. It stirs up us, the consciousness of sin, but it cannot declare us righteous. And so you are free to marry another once your spouse has died. But if it says her husband dies, she is free from the law, so that she is no adulteress, though she has married another man You ever feel that way? Think about, we're going to do it here. What does that mean? That you may be married to another, who? Husband, love your wives just as Christ loved the church and gave himself for her why. And why do we want to? You buy something that three days later dies. In fact, that's exactly what it says in 1 John, that the commandments are not burdensome. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. It's to result in fruit for God. We had just reviewed that last week. Not even think about and pray to him and think about who he is and his love for me. In fact In fact, is is this really saying that lawlessness is okay, that we are as Christians, that there is lawlessness? But of the spirit, for the letter kills, but the spirit gives life. But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. For I speak to those who know the law, that the law has dominion over a man as long as he lives. One problem is the Bible actually describes us as being dead to the law. Number two, life-giving service. He's gonna be a n they will be their God, they will be the pe uh we I will be their god, they will be their our peop uh they'll be people, our my people Romans 3. This has actually come under quite a bit of debate, and so I want to take a few moments to just uh help us to understand this. Why? These are these are there is no limit to these Let your yes be yes and your no be yes. Is your fruit one of love and joy? Maybe it's two-year-olds. I did. Why do you serve so faithfully in so many different ministries? For when we were in the flesh, the sinful passions which were aroused by the law. May we remember well the sacrifice that Christ made for our sin. See, death releases us from the law. 1 Corinthians chapter 9, verse 19, it says this. We are not under any of the Mosaic law whatsoever So that command is not reiterated, which means we are not we're no longer bound by it. But uh th that kind of illustrates what happens in us when there is a law That's dealt with in Acts chapter 15. He says, for the woman who has a husband is bound by the law to her husband as long as he lives. And to the Jews I became as a Jew, that I might win the Jews, to those who are under the law, as under the law, that I might win those who are under the law What is Paul talking about here? We are no longer under the Mosaic law. In fact, Christ fulfilled the Mosaic Law. I mean like I didn't it was I didn't even bat an eye and I was a poor college student. May the Lord richly bless you. It stirs up the consciousness of sin. For sin shall not have dominion over you, for you are not under the law, but under grace. If somebody says, well, why do you go to church every Sunday? What is the law of Christ? What are they going to do to me if they park in that spot? I gotta tell you, I hated buying flowers before that. And Lord, I pray that you'd help us all. Galatians 5 says it this way, verse 13, for you brethren, having been called to liberty, only do not use liberty Oh boy, you're gonna breathe uh boy don't tell me I'm not under the Ten Commandments anymore. That's why you can never promise yourself that you're going to do better and fulfill that promise. Now I'm actually a fan of the Puritans. We are under a different kind of law, the law of Christ. So that we can be married or we can be joined to Christ and under Functioning from a place that God said you're actually free from. My covenant will be uh which w they broke, though I was a husband to them, says the Lord. Did you catch that? 19. Therefore, by the deeds of the law no flesh will be justified in the sight. The body of Christ here isn't talking about the church. And sometimes serving does call us to serve people that do not return anything. I'm all I'm I'm confessing to you now. But we read we know verse 20, right? In the book of Acts, we find many places where this issue of how does the Christian relate to the law We are permanently indwelt by the Spirit of God, empowered by the Spirit of God to Like they don't they feel obligated to know one and they're like floating around and that makes us pe th those of us who feel obligated about everything pretty mad. Burdened by the circumstances that you're in? Well, I won't tell you. There are times where I um I'll tell you one that it's funny. Or do you see other kinds of sin Are we serving from a life-giving relationship? And I pray, Lord, today, as we come to this communion table No one is able to re remove the burden. Scripture describes it that way as an enslaving kind of burden. Or do you not know, brethren, that the law has dominion over man as long as he lives? And ultimately, what happens as a result? Like there was like twenty uh I don't know, maybe less than that, but He says brethren. This text is not intended to be a text on divorce and remarriage and the and the issue of it's not meant to be that Therefore, just as the church is subject to Christ, He says there is a fruit to death, verse 5. See, God intends in our time Give us wisdom. It is called the Exchange. Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. Well, what about the Ten Commandments? Is that the fruit that you have in your life? Usually they start in here and they end up outside. Now we know that whatever the law says, it says to those who are under the law. Do you realize that God is desires us to not Maybe you've never thought of yourself or thought of non-Christians You love your kids? Not much. But then he's going to say this: Death releases us from the law. Romans 5. Now that might make sense. Remember that Christ said that the law can be summed up in two things. Second that so we see secondly that death to the law The oldness of the letter brings death. That the law does have dominion. There's nowhere we see that in Scripture. There's only one law that was written and engraved on stones. Well I I have I have I have something that's very important here. Well, I mean they do they do they are kind of cuddly and cute and and you know and you guys have uh as it's true, that's part of it I guess, but Except nine out of the Ten Commandments have been reiterated in Christ's law. Literally, the law arouses us The Mosaic Law gives a sterile standard of 613 commandments. Because we love Christ. And if that's the case, we need to ask why. That Christ died for us. But if the husband dies, she is released from the law of her husband. This was a real problem for the Christians at Rome because the Roman Christians, many of them, were actually Jewish Christians. Is it necessarily wrong to say that's what the Bible says, that's the law? Here it is. Did you know, folks, that there is a kind of service that is life-giving, not life-taking. Now, I have a question for you. So, death to the law brings release of obligation. A wife pretty much couldn't get out of it. You have the Mosaic Law and Christ's law. So I just throw that last slide up for just a second. But we are s we are now, we're actually freed to follow All of these things are attitudes that God wants us to have. So there's a good good thing to consider because scripture says stay away from vows unless you know it's a marriage vow. Do you know what will happen if we serve out of obligation? Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. He's talking about the Mosaic Law. Why? It says, for the wages of sin is what? Are you functioning from a place of being new, of in the spirit, in relationship? So the fruit that brings sin is, that brings death rather, is sin itself Yeah, I love my kids. But then he makes this little caveat here that I think is very important. No, we have died because of Christ. I know you're surprised he would do something like that, but Just think about it this way. Behold what manner of love the Father has toward us that we would be called the children of God The Holy One created man's inclination, which is not quite right. Right? We hope to see you soon Number one, death to the law brings release of obligation. Certainly if you are married, once your spouse dies, you are no longer bound to your spouse Do you live as though you are obligated? What law is he talking about? Now you might be saying, are you sure all the Mosaic Law? I I I struggle with it sometimes and I have to And to just serve because I've got so much to do. We pray these things in Christ's name. But what about this dominion of the law? 20, moreover the law entered that fent that offense may abound And yet you've got to serve them. We thank you for its truth. Romans 7, please turn there along and read along with me if you will. But if her husband dies, she is free from that law, so that she is no adulteress, though she has married another man. The burden of sin, the enslaving burden of sin is in Romans 6, but the enslaving burden of the law He's speaking to s certainly Jewish brethren, Jewish Christians, but also those that would be closely associated with Jewish But this is a very interesting passage, very interesting verse Or am I functioning in a place of relationship? I probably it's not what I'm supposed to be doing with a sermon, but I said, We should never do this again. But we really would love to meet you in person. In newness of the Spirit, and not in oldness of the letter Because there was this relationship involved there. And nothing went right. Amen. The Apostle Paul is actually brought in Acts chapter 20 The idea of the Jewish mind was that somehow by following the law It cannot declare us righteous. I read them often. I'll let Scripture tell you So that this is the kind of fruit we produce. It just makes no sense whatsoever, right? Maybe open while we're doing communion. But later on in the same chapter, talking about Christ If it were left up to us, we would be utterly hopeless. He lived a perfect life, and he died fulfilling that Mosaic Law. In verse 21 there. Christ's law All kinds of advice is given to him on how to remove the burden, but he doesn't isn't able to remove the burden until he comes Well, a common view is this, that you have God's law For all the law is fulfilled in one word, even this, that you love your neighbor as yourself That's what we've learned so far about the law. Why do you do that? Look at what it says in the text, verse 4. No more shall every man teach his neighbor and every man his brother, saying, Know the Lord, for they all shall know me. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you Which brings us to number two. Why do you do that? These are the problems that we find. It's a lot easier to do things for people you love, right? Two-year-old boys. How do you even survive with that kind of attitude? You know, we live in a day where we have access to Is that the kind of life that you're living as a Christian? How many of you ever heard this before, by the way? We see that throughout the Psalms. If someone ever come to you and ask you, why do you do right? For though I am free of all uh I am free from all men Are they not part of the Mosaic Law? And I just I we went over the book of Acts and uh you know some uh passages and we just described How would you describe your life, even right now? It could be translated that way. Heart service, life-giving service. That this is not got Paul never intended to go to Romans chapter 7 to understand But here's what he says. The Exchange is an easy-to-use Verse 3 It's talking about the death of Jesus Christ himself. There is a freeness to be able to serve in the spirit. And I walked away saying, man, I want to do more of that. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last It increases trespasses and sin. To him, Jesus, who was raised from the dead. 2 Corinthians chapter 3, we were there before, says it this way, verse 6. It's one of the Look at verse 2. They're applications of Scripture excellent. Or I'm gonna do exactly what that says not to do. Or the dean of such and such parks. Number one See, this is where it starts. You have ever had one of those week weeks where nothing go nothing went right last week, I'm telling you. It is binding and enslaving. Just remember during these kinds of times That was clear in the rabbinical writings. It is no longer I who live, but Christ lives in me. In the Old Testament, I mean, I think about the times that the Bible actually says that Abraham knew Sarah his wife Burdened And God will do this from very using the the concept of marriage often and we'll see that And although we aren't bound by the civil law and the ceremonial law One is a fruit of attitude. I came around buying flowers, I'm buying flowers. Father, we come before you and our hearts are full of the Would you say, well, I just feel obligated No, there's there's actually a more a whole lot more going on here than that That burden is the burden of sin. That is a construct What remains is more glorious. Boy, isn't it easy to do this? That's what we're going to see the contrast later on. We bear fruit. But now we have been delivered from the law, having died to what we were held by Every Christian was at some level familiar with the law It made no sense to me whatsoever. There are a lot of things that I do that I do because I pretty much have to do them or everything's gonna fall apart. What shall we say then? If you think of your attitude, is it love, joy, peace, gentleness, goodness, patience, self-control? If you just look at the results in your life, which is what fruit is, they're results. He says, Do you not know, brethren? I think we have some examples of that in the book of Acts Frankly, there there is very little ability for a woman to be able to divorce her husband according to the law. Now I think we can illustrate this. Do you want to sin more today than you did yesterday? Can I encourage you, maybe it's even during the communion time together or That his goals are good for us. None of it. We know that that verse, I have been crucified with Christ. So it wasn't void in the Old Testament, but it is freely given in the New Testament. The newness of the Spirit brings life. When you think of the scripture of pilgrim being burdened, And yet the law was powerless to do that. The only way was by death. It was uh and the guy Toby that preached a couple weeks ago here. And for this we are forever grateful. For by the law is the knowledge of sin. We'll work through this kind of quickly, but I want to remember, Paul, this is not the first time Paul has talked about the law. Paul is picking up on that, and he is saying We have died with Christ. But the relational law of Christ, the relationship I'm just curious. And I didn't know them before, but there was this there's this gratefulness and there's this joy and And it brings wrath. What is that one? The letter therefore Why? Even our vocation, our everything should be out of serving the Lord. Is that your motive for why you serve and live? So if you're dead to something, how can you be obligated to follow one part of it But all of the rest are Therefore, my brethren, you also have become dead to the law through the body of Christ. The fruit it's talking about here is actually sin. And just Maybe open to Romans chapter 8. And I want to ask you, just by way of application There is a much better New Testament way of understanding this Every bit of it, every word of it. Amen. Love, joy, peace, long-suffering, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. Do you feel burdened or do you feel free? That was the Ten Commandments. When I go on to different campuses, college campuses like Bob Jones or Pensacola or Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? I will take the heart of stone out of your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. Okay, many have heard this before. See Does anybody know? Because they are within the context of a relationship. Now it was it I mean you have people like David in the Old Testament, for example He says, not being without law toward God. Jealousy, judgmentalism, ultimately burnout. I mean when you're in a relationship with people Are the Ten Commandments part of the Mosaic Law? You can move on to the next slide. We see that from Romans chapter 6. Not any of it. Love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, and mind, and strength God has joined us up with him, with Christ. Do you see this? Do you know how often I want to just park in that spot? And then I met Elizabeth. And the idea of buying something that's gonna die What then shall we sin? And here's the key question. I mean, I it was just and they were so grateful for Romans 7 How many times have you in a parking lot So Paul is actually saying, yes, that's true. Did you realize that? I mean, isn't there like some really important ones in there like Uh how am I doing why why am I doing what I'm doing? But this is the covenant I will make with He says, for I speak to those who know the law. It's passed away. Romans 4. We bear fruit. We should never can't do that. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, We know sin because of the law Serve in the newness of the Spirit Because we are under the law, but under grace? 15, because the law brings about wrath. He did it perfectly. Like it was crazy. And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of Christ. We're delivered. Serve in the new Against such there is no law. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Nobody else could Look at verse 6. What Anyway. Certainly not.