And we're going to see that through distinct separation by the king, secondly, we're going to see it they're distinguished through outward treatment of the king, and finally we're going to see through final consequence of mistreatment of the king. His dominion is everlasting dominion which shall not pass away, and his kingdom, the one which shall not be destroyed. Ephesians chapter one verse four says it this way, just as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him in love. I'm not doing what I ought to do, so therefore I'm not I'm not uh I haven't merited salvation. And the king answered and said to them, Assuredly, I say to you, inasmuch as you did to the least of these my brethren, you did it to me. And he stretched out his hand toward his disciples and said, Here are my mother and my brothers. And he will answer them saying, Assuredly I say to you, inasmuch as you did not do it to one of the least of these, you did not do it to me. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. Uh just was sort of interesting. He says, He indeed was forordained before the foundation of the world, but was manifest in these times for you. In fact it's feels like a go kart when you drive it. Jesus said to them, Do not be afraid, go and tell my brethren to go to Galilee, and there they will be, they will see me. unless indeed you don't pass the test, unless you indeed are disqualified, Scripture says. This was a they they failed to show the genuineness of being truly a disciple of Christ. What kind of person are you? And he will separate them one from another, as a shepherd divides his sheep from the goats. And we ask, God, that by your Spirit you will guide us and direct us and give us understanding. Sheep on his right hand, but the goats on the left. And take you in, or naked and clothe you? s you know, streaming services that you have that I don't want to mention because I really don't want to advertise for them. who's not. The distinct separation by the king. You blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. when he comes, and he's been doing this all along, and he begins by setting up this, it's really not a parable, it's an illustration We won't take the time to look at those passages, but serve as a gathering role. when he was on earth, described himself as a king. King's wishes, Christ's wishes in his coming. between and then it says this as sh and and it uses a simile it says as sheep from goats Sheep and goats were a very common thing that people would see back in the first century in Israel. And he said he went to visit somebody, you know, sort of a pastoral visit, and on his way, his in his illustration he says, I saw some sheep and I saw some and he's using he's he's describing and I thought to myself, I would never use uh the coming of Christ to the disciples. Last week we went to church up there at a rural church. Sheep, the flock, and so there would have to be a distinguishing of them. It says, Behold, I send you out as sheep. If you know Christ as your Savior, you are described really in many places as sheep. Jesus is clearly teaching that eternal life is inherited entirely by the work of God. You know, and that you take a chassis and you place an engine and you place a transmission and you you you know include a drivetrain, you begin to describe the assembly, that would not be clearly apparent the difference. Persecuting his followers. Corinthians twelve twenty-seven. This is just fruit. And part of that natural desire that we have now, that spiritual rather desire, we still have the other desires that are really a problem for us. We meet the needs of his children. Someone who is listening and evaluating, you can very objectively and very fairly clearly ask the question to use some sort of gr you know fear that maybe you're not really saved. and in prison and you did not visit me, then they also will answer him, saying, Lord, when did we see you hungry or thirsty or stranger or naked or sick or in prison? And I think that's interesting because that was the problem with Saul. To these having given themselves over to sexual immorality and gone after strange flesh, are set forth as an example, suffering the vengeance of eternal fire. very blown about this. Your greatness you chose to love us and send your Son Jesus, who came willingly, Lord, and died on that cross, taking the sin of the world upon himself, the only one who can Not sin against you, but that we would desire to glorify and lift up your great name. took me in. Take me in, naked and you did not clothe me, sick and in prison, and you did not visit me. Angels. watch a Christmas mm something or other. wars. to see what they can see. And uh nothing wrong with necessarily doing it, but it is um it was it is quite entertaining. yield like twenty five hundred or seventy five hundred dollars and when he actually got out and looked at it he goes, This is not the right organ, it's junk. to discern what is genuine from what is fake, what is authentic from what is a counterfeit. Ever struggle with that? Sheep from the goats. the for the mountain valley shall reach the uh to Azal. In Hebrews chapter 12, verse 2, it says, looking at Jesus, the author and the finisher of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, Now the word nations there is a word that just means ethnic groups. Now there are lots of interpretations as what the sheep and the goats are. And the angels will probably help as far as the gathering and all of that. you know, storage wars and stuff. Later on in Matthew 26, 31, it's going to say that Jesus said to them, All of you will be made to stumble because of me this night, for it is written, I will strike the shepherd and the sheik puts a sheep on the right hand and the goats on the left hand, and he says to the sheep, the disciples, he says to them, Um Then he says, prepared for you from the foundation of the world. It required effort in order for there to be rewards given. inheritance that is given has absolutely nothing to do with the efforts of the sheep. In other words, this does not require any self-effort on the part of the sheep. And take you in, or naked, and clothe you, or when did we see you sick or in prison and come to you? Wouldn't the king have food and drink and shelter and clothing? And it says, my brethren. specifically to those who are the the apostles and maybe we'll add kind of you know Christian pastors and missionaries and you know we'll that's what it's talking about. in that kind of situation. In Matthew 12, verse 48, it says, But he answered and said to the one who told him, Who is my mother? He who receives a prophet in the name of a prophet shall receive a prophet's reward. Verse thirty-five, by this all will know, or Jesus is saying this, all will know that you are my disciples if you have loved one for another. They're just naturally doing this. Show me your faith without your works. It is appropriate for us to realize there is a true desire for that as a Christian, and we should cultivate that desire. On the road to Damascus. Going to depart from any kind of biblical orthodox theology. mean that God, if there really is a hell, God is just mean. And I'm we're not a Pentecostal church, we wouldn't believe everything that they believe, but we but but the old historic Pentecostals on some level had the gospel intact. instead that this was. of hell. do you possess? Then I think it's appropriate to question whether you're not in the faith. I I really want I really want to be available to talk with. Because of who Christ is. People here that would be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you are a child of God. to the I guess the owner of the storage unit and they then have this these live bidding wars. And so you could have you could look at something and hope that there was that there was something really valuable in there and it could end up end up being junk. Basically. As Jesus describes it, will clearly distinguish those who inherit the kingdom and eternal life from those who don't. By the king, the passage you have a king and you have his subjects, you have a shepherd and you have sheep and goats This is a reference to the Old Testament use of this. Then to him was given dominion and glory and kingdom that all people, nations, and languages should serve him. and has sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. But 1 Corinthians 15, 25 says, he must reign till he has put all enemies under his feet. In correlating with the coming of Christ, rewards for those who are faithful. It's in our membership class. And uh and and and if you look at my little Corolla and my big truck, you can see a massive difference, right? the process of how you would assemble a uh truck and you assemble a car, that would not necessarily, unless you're listening very carefully and then making clear distinctions in description of the sheep and what they did, it shows what a true sheep does, what a true disciple does, and really what a true disciple values. Me, then the righteous will answer him, saying, Lord, when did he see you hungry and feed you, or thirsty, and give you drink? Because you have the the second of coming of Christ in view here, they take a eschatological view of this and they say that the the brethren here, the brothers, uh are a reference to between treatment of Jesus and treatment of his followers. In Mark 13, 13, it says, you will be hated by all for my name's sake, but he who endures to the end will be saved. in the book of Acts. Remember in Galatians chapter 5 it says that the the the flesh wars against the spirit, the spirit against the flesh, and you have the ability to either follow after the spirit or follow after the flesh. To keep oneself unspotted from the world. to be fruit of being a follower of Christ, but actually it's counterfeit fruit. Who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravenous wolves. Therefore, by their fruits you will know them. But he who does, who does the will of my Father in heaven. with unquenchable, sorry, unquenchable fire. But when he went over to Uganda and saw the suffering children, it caused, in his own reflection, it caused him to decide that he was Christ's followers. With nothing, only to receive the work of Christ afforded to us believers. We thank you, Lord, that we can together remember this. you from the foundation of the world. Well Lord, when did we see you hungry or thirsty, or a stranger, or naked, or sick, or in prison, and did not minister to you? But basically you've got these storage units that people default on, so they don't pay their rent on the storage unit, and so it defaults to When it comes to Christianity, and when it comes to being a Christian or not being a Christian, knowing whether or not you are a Christian is an extremely important thing to discern. And spoke to them, saying, All authority is given to me in heaven and on earth. is on specifically on some nations will be separated from other nations. some goats in there as well. And I think it's pretty easy to understand what who the sheep are, because in the book of Matthew, we've already seen this. May be with me where I am, that they may behold my glory which you have given me, for you have loved me before the foundation of the world. be able to inherit the kingdom which in the passage later it correlates with eternal life. I'm sure there's a clear difference with without even describing it. has a bed, a six and a half foot bed and the truck and the car doesn't and the truck has space and the car doesn't and the truck is powerful and the car is not. Jewish people who are at the end of the tribulation period that have at that point come to Christ. That's how you show it. How do you know, even perhaps in your own life, as you examine yourself, are you in the faith or not? of the disciples, of my disciples, of my followers. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. You. Or there might be a bunch of junk and it could end up being really really valuable. So it's a very helpful message. comes in his glory and all the holy angels with him, then he will sit on the throne of his glory, all the nations will be gathered before him, and he will separate them one from another as a shepherd divides his sheep Actually it says, I was watching in the night visions, and behold, one like the Son of Man coming with the clouds of heaven. Where Christ will come and he will set up his throne, he will reign. Prepared. Come, you blessed of my father, inherit the kingdom. We we and we're gonna see why we might get a little confused about this in a minute, but we begin to think, well, I am not very good or I don't have enough F I'm not So let's look at that. I was a stranger and you took me in. So the king says to these true disciples of Christ, these true followers of the king, he says to them, because of how you treated me, that shows me that shows that is demonstration of the fact that you are truly a sheep. It's how you treated me. Clothing, care, companionship. Does that strike you as strange that a king would need all of that? and followers of Jesus. How do you show that you love Jesus? Would you take your Bibles and turn to Matthew chapter seven for a minute? Do men gather grapes from thorn bushes or figs from thistles? Do you see a contrast in the kind of false fruits versus true fruit? a true indication of fruit. For loving you, then it would be an indication that you really don't know him. It's unmistakable here. Now folks, there is no there's no mistaking the reality of hell. The burning of Sodom and Gomorrah is to show us what hell, as an illustration of what hell will look like. And we should avoid looking at the Word through the lens of the world. The lens of the world will be very the world will become very clear as to what is going on oftentimes On the cross and shedding his blood for us on the cross, we thank you and praise you for what Christ has done. So four different groups of people. And then it says, well, I'll mention this in Matthew chapter 28, verse 18, it says, and Jesus came That's not this. That's a very, very important thing to understand because sometimes when we get when we start beginning, we begin to think about even being whether or not we are truly sheep, whether or not we are truly Christians. They're just as a natural reaction, as a natural response to who they are as sheep, they are caring for other sheep. In need and shuts up his heart from him, how does the love of God abide in him? Chapter 3, you're carnal. Scripture says it this way, Galatians chapter 6, verse 10, therefore, as we have opportunity, let us do good to all, especially those who are of the household of faith. James chapter 1, verse 27. It says verse 41, then he will also say to those on the left hand, Depart from me, you cursed into the everlasting fire prepared for the devil and his angels. In fact, there was a man, a Pentecostal bishop, who was in the New York Times. Eternal life. We must let the Word of God be the lens by how we look at the world. But we really would love to meet you in person. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. You are the wonderful Counselor, Father, Almighty God, the Prince of Peace. When the Son of Man comes in his glory, and all the holy angels with him, then he will sit on the throne of his glory, and all the nations will be gathered before him. And we'll see that as we go through. Of a shepherd who separates the sheep from the goats. of sheep here and uh and a separation of goats here. looks like. But if I just say this is what it looks like, a truck is big and a car, the car is small, and the truck He needs nothing. So, how do you show love to God? Different, this is there there have been a lot of differences as to what this is talking about when it says the least of these So what Jesus is saying here is that how you treat and care for brothers and sisters in Christ who are in need is how you actually treat them. Me. Now I want to be clear that we are not saved. We do show we're saved by our fruit. To please him and to love him. That desire to meet the needs of other brothers and sisters of Christ is all but dormant. So I think a helpful application here for us as Christians, though we need to be careful with this, because it's fruit, is to des is to cultivate that desire for love for brothers and sisters. And to realize just exactly how important that is. A good tree bears cannot bear bad fruit, nor can a bad tree bear good fruit. true showing our faith. As clearly as you you know, it's still a little hard, but pretty clearly whether or not I have love for brothers and sisters in Christ or not. To what Jesus the King does with the goats. They didn't demonstrate this fruit of repentance. Christians who know they are Christians, and Christians who doubt they are Christians. Do you give evidence of being a Christian? Or I understood the gospel, or I had some experience. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. So at you know, at a surface view, it's really hard to distinguish certain things from other things Right? Then I that describes it a whole lot better. because the king has no needs, right? about the disciples there. And whoever gives one of the least ones only a cup of cold water in the name of a disciple, assuredly I say to you, he shall by no means lose his reward. And we can't deny what we would sometimes in some ways like to deny, that heaven is, that hell rather, is a real place. And uh he was in the New York Times recently as his obituary. That we would understand by but by no merit of our own that we uh that we are we can come to a place of acceptance. Assuredly, I say to you, inasmuch as you did it to one of the least of these my brethren, you did it to me. It is by means of the preparation of God, His work, what He has done. Now I want to begin by illustrating it this way before we even get into the passage. Well, uh doesn't that's seems to be kind of limiting based upon his this term brothers. Folks, I think the best interpretation is actually how Jesus has referred to brothers in the past in the book of Matthew and actually in other Gospels as well. But if you don't cultivate a desire, you aren't likely going to grow in that desire. I want us to see a contrast here between the kind the true fruit of a believer versus what others claim in their minds It is. To love God's people, to meet the needs of God's people. Jesus finally says here that these will go away into everlasting punishment, but then he reassures those, with the righteous, those who are truly declared righteous by God, into everything The truth is, for the Christian, there is the Spirit of God gives us assurance. that they need to know the difference. That a true um if they're just interpreting a sheep as a disciple of Christ, a true disciple of Christ is just someone who is hungry and distressed, uh is is taking care of those who are hungry, distressed, and needy. They're big things. These will go away into everlasting punishment, but the righteous into eternal life. The world we live in now, the earth that we live in now, is hell. But if you have never really truly had a desire to meet the needs of brothers and sisters in Christ, if that has never been a true desire. For I was hungry and you gave me no food. How to discern for our own lives to understand what it looks like to truly authentically be a Christian. It's really saying, uh, as it already said in Daniel, all peoples, everyone, everyone that is uh that is there, that is on the earth. Notice again what it says. So there is a inseparable link between Jesus Just let it sink in. God's people want to love God by loving others. Not everyone that professes Christ possesses Christ. Then I will declare to them, I never knew you. The Bible says it this way, 2 Corinthians 13, verse 5. For I was hungry and you gave me no food. In fact, many will reject, will out of hand, reject the teaching of the Bible because they do not like the notion of hell. Over our sensibility or our observation of the world. You may you may come you may be looking at this passage and listening to the message and you might be saying to yourself, well, the criteria that I've always had in my life is, well, I prayed a prayer. I'm not up here to say you need to doubt forever or wonder forever. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Then the righteous will answer him, saying, Lord, when did we see you hungry and feed you? And it says in the passage that the angels are with him. But we do show that we are Christians by a particular Revelation chapter 20, verses 10 through 15 sh demonstrates a clear hell that is cast into the lake of fire as well. I pray, Lord, that this would that that the truth would not be confused today. Inasmuch as you did not do it to one of the least of these, you did not do it to me. Okay. Now I'm not saying that there aren't you know there are actually people uh uh that I know that that that do this sort of as a side thing and The distinguishing characteristic of a genuine believer, then, is a desire to meet the needs of fellow brothers and sisters in Christ. Remember, there are four types of Christians. And Father, as we look ahead now to the time where we celebrate and remember what Christ has done for us. Well good morning. There are non-Christians who know they are non-Christians, who would not claim to be Christians at all. kind of life. So now Jesus is really speaking of all people that are disciples of Christ, brothers and sisters in Christ. And he died there on that cross and was buried in the tomb, and on the third day he arose up out of that grave and is now seated at your right hand. And we pray this morning that you would work in our hearts and our minds, Father. You ever find it hard to distinguish whether someone is being honest or whether someone is being deceitful, whether someone is being genuine or they have some ulterior motive? There are some who profess to be Christians. When was this? Why are you persecuting me? We find a f we have a final consequence of mistreatment of the king in verse in 25 verses 41 through 46. Why? Are we cultivating that? We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. But there will be a day when Christ comes where it will be truly known. I would never be driving down the road and see some sheep and then use that as an illustration to you all because I don't drive down the road and see sheep. But why would Jesus say my brethren? If the m uh Mormonism think that Mormonism think that you and I will not be in a celestial kingdom, but we won't be in like the worst area, worst kind of hell either. I was naked and you clothed me. I'm sure upon close examination there were, but um but just from a distance you would n not necessarily know if you saw a flock of sheep that there were actually some Every time it just comes to me. It's like seeing the difference between a car and a truck. It doesn't but people don't want to be held accountable for their sin. Everlasting fire. What happened? You've got uh except uh you've got some religions that don't like the I that don't teach except for really, really, really, really bad people. In these fundamental, essential doctrines of Scripture is that always we see the Word of God, the Bible, as the authority. That is really there's there's lots of implications about this That is, that when we come to Christ, truly, authentically, genuinely come to Christ, God places within us a desire That natural desire that we have to love God out of gratefulness because of the love he has for us, we love him because he first loved us, well, we want to express that, and God needs nothing, and so what do we do? But if we are evaluating, we actually have to evaluate by what it looks like. Let's bow our heads together. And Jesus' intention in this passage is to tell his listeners And he will set the sheep on the right hand and on the and but the goats on the left. The message that he preached was very his expository very similar to the way I preached, but the illustrations were quite different because they were in a rural setting. Now you are the body of Christ, members, individual. So that when Jesus comes to them and said, This is how you treated me, they're like, When we when do we do that? Through outward treatment of the king. So obviously, this is not meeting the actual needs of the In Acts chapter 9, verse 4, it says, and he fell to the ground. Every true Christian then has that desire. This is the reality of the place of judgment. And the fact is most religions don't like the idea of hell. Anyway. This is fruit from who they are. You ever struggle with whether or not you are yourself having the right kind of motives? They would understand sheep. When was the kingdom and the inheritance prepared before the foundation of the world? Number three, um some take brothers uh to mean and uh uh Jews who have been converted during the tribulation period And for those of you in the back, I'm on page four now. And he gives these examples. So this blindness caused them to not do this was a And really, they they it really boils down to they are not believing what the Bible says. There is responsibility, but simply to say that there is nothing of our own merit that that causes us to be an I will show you my faith by my works. Versus grand things. It says, Come you blessed of my father, inherit the kingdom in contrast to the parable uh and this is uh in contrast to the parable of talents Some, in fact, the majority of people probably have interpreted this as just a general regard for those who are hungry, distressed, and needy. It is our love for brothers and sisters in Christ. So if you have any questions about this, let please come and talk with me. It was going to be a very helpful passage for us to go through here. We're first going to, how is this going to be distinguished? And yet, when you really love someone, you show that by meeting their needs, and yet God has no needs. There's an inseparable link there. It is um it is weird. You've got both, but you can choose to go one way or the other. Christ struck him blind. Are you a possessor or are you a professor? A good friend of mine is a pastor, good church, solid, solid message we heard. Let me illustrate it this way. Why is the world not like this? So but anyway. And so there would have to be, and the goats would disrupt the sheep, the unity of the sheep. We show it. You know what Jesus says? And so this man be had great prominence, Carlton Pearson. We pick up in verse 31, it says, When the Son of Man, Jesus is speaking here, speaking of himself, speaking of the Son of Man. He is saying that the disciples are the sheep. There's a very big difference between what we learned from that and this. I drove it today because the gas mileage is great on it and the truck it's not. I like cars, I like trucks, I have both. Jesus wasn't persecuting Jesus who was on the right hand of the throne of the Father at that point. How do you know the difference between a true follower of Christ and one who is not Pure and undefiled religion before God and the Father is this to visit orphans and widows in their trouble. Depart from me, and you'll be an everlasting fire prepared for the devil and his angels. But the fact is, Scripture is so clear on this. Hello, my name is Jim Gannam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. Prophesied and cast out demons and done all kinds of big things for you, God. Is it possible to do great things and have great notoriety and man just a wonderful person, preacher, or whatever, that kind of thing? We thank you this day for the shed blood of Christ and his broken body. Father, we come to you and thank you for your word this morning. You need to be able to see the difference. And in Matthew 23, 8, but you do not be called rabbi, for one is your teacher, the Christ, and you are all brethren. He tells his disciples, I send you out as sheep in the midst of wolves. In fact, do you remember what Jesus said to Saul on his way to Damascus and They would understand goats. And this is not a foreign idea for Jesus in Jesus' teaching. It's meeting the needs of those who can't even perhaps give anything back. For I was hungry and you gave me food. We meet the needs of other brothers and sisters in Christ. In fact, he ended up in full-blown universalism, which is basically you believe whatever you want and you'll end up in heaven. So we have some questions to answer. And um I was we were sort of streaming and I something caught my eye on one of the one of the particular And they're not allowed to go into the storage unit. Or when did we see you sick? And what this passage is going to really help us with is to understand how to discern. Well, well, what is it talking about here, the least of these uh brothers of mine? And if you're not sure, if you go, hmm, I'm not really sure about this today, let me encourage you, come and talk with me. God doesn't need anything. Saul was like killing Christians and persecuting Christians. What this is is fruit. Not have you done many things, many wonderful things in the name of Christ. Number three, Christian, you are, are you, are we, cultivating the God-given desire to meet the needs of others? That's where Jesus is now. God's people love God's people. And we pray these things in Christ's name. They are professors but not possessors. Both have a chassis, both have an engine, both have a transmission, both have a drivetrain. But if I were to go to describe the difference between a car and a truck to you, and I began to explain that the assembly process We love him because he first loved us. So a couple of days ago we were streaming something and uh kids wanted to watch He says, what are the examples? Why would he make that distinction? They didn't even see who the disciples really were because they were blind. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Depart from me, you who practice lawlessness. He died recently, and he was named by the Pentecostal Church as a heretic. We can come this morning before your throne. We'll begin by looking at the d distinguish how how is it are they distinguished through the Yes you shall flee you as you fled from the earthquake of the days of Uzziah the king of Judah. There would have to be a separating by the shepherd from time to time. And so what Jesus is going to do when we see the the I think probably as sort of as a picture of you're blind, you're not seeing that you're persecuting me No, they're not four types. I was sick and you visited me. Daniel chapter 7, verses 13 through 14, talk about it. And it says he will sit on the throne of glory. Suppose you have a truck and a car. I was naked and you clothed me. And he who receives a righteous man in the name of a righteous man shall receive a righteous man. And then finally, have you come to a place where you actually realize you're not a Christian? And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. I was thirsty and you gave me no drink. This is very important to understand as we move on to the next portion of this passage because it's often misunderstood and misinterpreted. If he was sick, wouldn't he have somebody to care for him? Now, I want us to notice something that I think is very important for us at this point. Folks, there's no way of getting around this. It's called gambling is what it is. So conclusively, what it's saying here is the same thing that John is saying in John chapter 13. So I think it's important to ask the question, are you in the faith? And instead, he was going to decide he decided that he didn't like the doctrine of hell. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But it says all nations will be gathered before him. So um so Jesus is using an illustration I'm backtracking a minute. But I pray, Lord, that we would be sure that we have. Hebrews two seventeen, therefore in all things he had made like his brethren, that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest Examine yourselves so as whether you are in the faith. Well, I mean the truth of the matter is there's a sense in which none of us love the notion of hell Then the king will say to those on his right hand, Come, you blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you Well, we're going to see through a distinct separation Verse 35. And in fact, that's part of why Jesus says, You are my body, the body of Christ. Well, what role will the angels serve? You're just fleshly. In fact, I'll go a step further. I was thirsty and you gave me no drink. Wonderful day to be in church together with the wet weather outside and the dry and warm weather in here. Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning just to give you praise and honor and glory for who you are. Um and it was it was uh the storage wars. But here you see the basis of this Matthew chapter seven. There are four types of people. We ask in Jesus' name. Matthew 10, 40 says this, he received you, received me, and he who received me receives him who sent me. James chapter 2, verse 10 says it this way, but someone will say, you have faith and I have works. Love those who follow him And then he says this: not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, shall enter the kingdom of heaven. That's why James is so helpful when he says true religion is is to visit the fatherless and the widows in their affliction. It shows He heard the voice from Jesus speaking to him, saying, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting who? Or in prison and come to you? So the authority after his resurrection was given to him, All things that to go through life, you need all those: food, drink, shelter, clothing, care, and companionship. These are those who are not truly sheep. No, these things are written that you may know that you have eternal life. Now that doesn't mean we don't have responsibility in responsibility. What Jesus is going to be dealing with is what a true sheep or a true disciple of Christ or a true Christian Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in your name? So Jesus is describing what it will be like Matthew chapter 3, verse 12 says his winnowing fan is in the hands of And or you say, well or maybe there's somebody else you're comfortable with. In both passages we see that they are doing the gathering. He is at the right hand of the throne of God. Is it possible to preach the word and be unsaved? They're not allowed to touch anything. But he begins by saying: the Son of Man comes in his glory. Some would say take it that way, but I don't think that's really what There's no works involved in order for them to receive him. Even so, every good tree bears good fruit, but a bad tree bears bad fruit. Meet the needs of my brothers and sisters in Christ. I got this from Al Muller's debrief. Um uh so so basically and we only watch it for a few minutes There there are really, I would suggest to you four different kinds of people. That sort of brings up an interesting thing. We've seen that before, right? How do you determine that? I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you um you have each other. I don't really think that the emphasis here This is very important to understand before we move on because this passage is often very is very much mis If you take the lens of the world and you try to look at the Word, you're going to have a distorted view of the Word. Number one, what kind of person are you? His Spirit bears witness with our Spirit that we are the children of God, Scripture says, Romans 8. Amen. Um the particular episode we saw, this guy saw an organ in there and he thought it was a particular kind of organ that was gonna Now we have seen in Matthew 25 already that there are God does not say to evaluate your Christianity based upon that. You're following after the flesh, the desires of the flesh instead of the desires of the Spirit of God. And by the way, as you look at the world through the lens of the Word, if you rightly understand the Word, And I think that is that it is appropriate for us, though it is a fruit So I drove the gat the I drove the car um today Matthew twenty eight ten says then Jesus The coming of Christ During that time, when that happens, when the coming of Christ happens, there is going to be judgment as well. And so there is Or maybe even I would say it sort of broader, you've never really loved God. This is the reality of a place called hell. In other words, as I've said many times before, we must always look at the world through the lens of the word. I was sick and you visited me. Well, others would say, well, no, this is because it says my brethren, and he's talking to the disciples right there, this is It's clearly fruit. And I suspect that in the lives of some Christians Anyway. Judaism does not like the idea of at least modern Judaism does not does not hold to the to a literal view of I pray that you'll help us to set aside all of the cares and concerns of the day. So there is there is a working of God before the foundation of the world in setting things in motion. I mean, wouldn't a king already have that? And they see this view as very pessimistic. So he's going to separate the sheep from the goats. Zechariah chapter thirteen seven Awake, O sword, against my shepherd, against the man who is in my command And I was hungry, and you gave me food. He is entirely self-sufficient. And we have to be clear about this, that salvation is not through self-effort or works or merit. They're needs. You are sovereign over all of your creation. Amen And so Jesus was using an illustration as he describes what's going to happen in the kingdom. Now John chapter 17, verse 24 says it this way, Father, I desire that they also whom you gave me And likely, if it's unlikely, the king would be in prison. It is a fruit. You will know them by their fruits. And Lord, that we would take heed according to your word so that we do not That is a true indication. He saw the suffering, he wanted to wanted there to be an end to the suffering, and he decided that there was no actual hell. I was thirsty and you gave me drink. So you have a crowd of people, they're looking into the storage unit I mean and uh that kind of a thing going Matthew chapter seven. I was stranger and you did not take me in. Jude chapter seven, as Sodom and Gomorrah and the cities around them in similar manner I'd like to take a minute to thank you for And that would maybe make up the majority of the world. The Bible is very clear about this. We thank you for its truth. And Lord, we come with grateful and thankful I was in prison and you came to me. All they could do is peer into the storage unit, this crowd of people, and then they bid on the storage unit And Why is Jesus saying all of this this way? Non-Christians who know they are not Christians. That's not the question. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. This is one of the few times that Christ So there will be a time in the future. Therefore be wise as serpents and harmless as doves. And that it it did require faithfulness. Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire But if you never have had any desire to And the the only way we stay clear I was a stranger and you did not And there are other Christians who know they are Christians, and there are some who doubt they are Christians. So it's important to understand we're not saved by our fruit, but In Matthew 13 and chapter 24, we find that the angels And of course, we know through Christ and what he has done on the cross. And what we're going to learn from this passage is actually the criteria by which it is known. So Jesus uses this illustration Yes, I like car illustrations. They're not trying to earn their position with God because they didn't even know that they were doing it. That's saying it mildly. Similarly, in Zechariah fourteen, verse five, it says, Then you shall flee through my mountain valley. The king says to the sheep, he puts the sheep on his right hand, the shepherd, the king, says to the sheep, With a parable of talents. In fact, it's interesting in the passage, they're actually surprised. That's why it says in 1 John 3, verse 17: But whoever has this world's goods and sees his brother Test yourselves. Then the king will say to those who are on his right hand, come and Frankly, I don't think it's that hard. I was up in uh Pennsylvania And during his message, he was illustrating something. In Matthew chapter 10, verse 16. So so what uh what who are these these sheep? Jesus often made a connection Now again, you can't become a Christian by trying to do fruit that you can't produce. He came to the ancient of days, and they brought him near before him. So in other words, Jesus And he will set the sheep You're going to become very fleshly. Then they also will answer him, saying They're things that are needed. Matthew 7 verse 15 says this, beware of false prophets. They're not truly followers of Christ. And it is pretty well known that Jesus spoke of hell more than he spoke of heaven. I want to be very, very clear and very Who was he persecuting They probably see it as just sort of May the Lord richly bless you. And these will go away into everlasting punishment He was actually in the Bush White House. I was in prison and you came to me. He doesn't only call brothers those who are And the king will answer and say to them, And it's that way as well to some degree when it comes to people. They've converted. And I have a small car as well that I got for my dad. I'm not saying it's not there if they're true brothers and sisters, brothers, and sisters of Christ. And it's interesting the way it puts it, you didn't, it's like they didn't see them. It is real. Who are my brothers? That is true fruit. Do not know yourself that Jesus is in you. And so we move now Do you just profess or you God's people love God's people. God's people love to be with God's people. Rightly so. It is entirely by the merits of Christ alone we come to you So it's an evaluation. They are caring for the brethren of the king. There are many people These things are written, it's written that you may know Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. We thank you for the balance of truth that we see here. Number two, do you give evidence of being a Christian How many of you seen that storage They're functioning based upon the shepherd's wishes or the king's shepherds. If I can get a car illustration in, I'm going to. The question is, do you desire to meet the needs of Christians There's like Naked and you did not clothe me, sick and you What it looks like And he says he's going to do that. I mean they both have those things And Father, because of Then he will answer them, saying, Assuredly I say to you That is not the means by which they are receiving the I was a stranger and you They did believe in literal hell. Now uh in certain areas you would see a clear distinction And I was thirsty, and you gave me drink. That's a little bit interesting. That's why it says in 1 Corinthians, We hope to see you soon. Well, there's actually four views on this. In fact, what he decided was this is hell Thus the Lord my God will come, and all the saints with I used illustrations, you know, like Meet the needs Non-Christians who think they are Christians. But there are non-Christians who think they're Christians. And in your They there will be a distinguishing Are disciples, they're disciples of Christ. Right now it's a little muddy. Food, drink, shelter. Have we not cast out demons in your name and done many wonders in your name? When did he when did we see you stran a stranger? Now I am not here to suddenly infuse into the Especially those who are of the household of faith. Folks, the world does not like this. And no, that's not Mormonism is that way It is because as a listener, as And did not minister to you. And first Peter chapter one verse twenty It is called the Exchange They're caring for other pe other disciples. It's it's meeting the needs You can't always tell who is a true Christian. There's going to be a distinguishing. The small car is not as impressive. Jesus is again speaking. It is there. You Now. No, this is We