And uh so let's look at we're gonna be looking at verses three through seven of Philippians chapter one. I thank my God upon every remembrance of you, always in every prayer of mine, making requests for you all with joy. For your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now, being confident of this very thing that he who has begun a good work in you will complete it unto the day of Jesus Christ. Just as it is right for me to think this of you all, because I have you in my heart, in as much as both in my chains and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel You all are partakers with me of grace. Let's go, Lord, in prayer. Father, we come to you and praise you and thank you for the truth of your word this morning. We thank you that you uh show us from your word the the the need and the uh example of Paul in thankfulness. We see also from this passage that you providentially work in our lives, and we can have confidence of knowing that whether we're thinking of ourselves as disciples of Christ or we are discipling others. We are confident that when you begin a good work in somebody, you will complete it in the day of Christ. Lord, we are so thankful for that that it is not dependent upon us. It is a dependent upon you, upon the finished work of Christ, upon your grace, and Lord we are thankful for that. I pray now to this this morning As we hear from your word and as Brother Enrique brings it to us, I pray that you would help him to be able to communicate your word clearly and that our minds and hearts would be receptive to it. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello friends. Wonderful to be with you this morning. As always, isn't it good to come together, worship the Lord together, fellowship together. Being together, that is uh such an important thing for us to do on a regular basis I want to begin this morning by asking the question, what is it that makes us thankful? What are the common things that cause us to have gratitude in our hearts? Often, I think you will probably agree with me. It often it it revolves around the physical, does it not? Often we are grateful for, let's say, uh safety in travel Uh often we are grateful for and thankful for the jobs that God provides for us and the income and we're we're we feel gratitude for that. Sometimes we're thankful for good children or at least decent ones that won't become criminals someday. We're thankful for these different things But sometimes, in the arena of the spiritual, our hearts don't always well up with as much gratitude. And there are perhaps a variety of reasons why. We won't get into them right now, but the the reality is that at times Our hearts are more focused on the physical rather than the spiritual. When you look at the beginning of Philippians, and actually often in many of the Pauldine epistles, the Pauldine letters. He begins with a section of thankfulness. And the things that he is thankful for are often Well, they're a little different, perhaps, than what we are sometimes thankful for. A full disclosure, I thought when I began studying this passage, this air this general area that I'd be preaching on verses eight. uh verses yeah eight through eleven, I changed my mind. Because when I looked at uh I looked at the verses preceding it, I thought, wow this is really important. This is really good. And so perhaps in the future we'll get uh eight to eight through eleven, but today we do want to focus our attention on these handful of verses And what we uh what God has for us in this passage. You know, being thankful for provision, being thankful for jobs, being thankful for safety, all those those aren't wrong or bad things to be thankful for. But I think that those aren't the only things that we should I'm going to suggest today at the outset that what we become most thankful for actually can reveal what our priorities are What we are most thankful for can often reveal what our priorities are. In the passage today, we are going to see some of what demonstrates A thankful heart. And in those demonstrations, we're going to see that they are focused around one group. The thankful heart that the author here, Paul, shows us, is centered around one group of people. And that is, fellow believers. And so I ask ourselves: how do we view each other? How do we perceive one another? You don't have to talk to too many folks to come across a person or come across a few people that have in one way or another been hurt by the church. Been burned is a common phrase that we use. Quite frankly, in a room even of this size, there are probably hurts that could be shared. That aren't from unbelievers but are actually from believers. Even in the midst of those types of difficulties and offenses and hurts. Even in all of that, we should see, we should have a thankful heart to one another. You know, Philippians is a very positive letter. There isn't much negativity. in it. But even in this group for this group of believers, later on in chapter 4, you see that there is a dispute among two people. that are in the church and he urges them to get it rectified, get it fixed for the sake of the gospel. So what is our view of each other, even in light of the joys and the happiness that can come along with being together, and in light of the offenses and the hurts that can come along with it Do our hearts swell up with gratitude for each other, or is some does something less savory, perhaps, swell up within us? Or perhaps we could fall into the camp of a measure of indifference a little bit Uh yeah, church is important and and the body of believers is is really great, but you know I have a lot going on over here in life and I have a lot going on over here in life. And so I fit in as much of God's people as I can In our passage today, we're going to see what being thankful for each other looks like In this passage, we're going to see three demonstrations of that type of thankfulness that we can really apply to our lives. And so as we look at this, we see here in verses 3 through 5, being thankful for each other, first of all, looks like a joyful attitude. Towards one another. We see that here. Verse 3, it says, I thank my God upon every remembrance of you, always in every prayer of mine making requests for you All with joy for your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now. So it says here that in his prayers, when he makes requests for them, he does it for them all with joy. The content, the attitude of joy. When he remembers them, when he thinks of the Philippians, he thinks of them with joy, and it colors his prayer life. Now, he gets more into that prayer later on and what exactly he prays for. So I'm going to save some of that for a different time. But we see here that when his thoughts go towards this church It is colored, it is uh full of this joy. But what is it, what is it exactly that brings about this joy What is it that makes Paul joyful in regards to this? The relationship between Paul and this church We know started back in Acts, he was uh going through that town. Uh there was no synagogue at at that church, and he uh ends up going to where a meeting takes place by a river and meets uh some Christians there or meets uh rather some folks uh Jewish people um um congregating there and he leads them to the Lord through the gospel And he was there as long as he could. He wasn't really um people weren't happy with him there very much, so he spent as much time as he could there. But then he had to move on. But this relationship between Paul and this church, it went deeper than just a normal human friendship. And I think we can all sort of understand that concept. We all have folks that we in one way or another we are acquaintances of or we're friends of, but it's It's more um it's a more general friendship. It's not, you know, what do people say nowadays, they're besties or whatever, you know, they're not not we're not BFFs and and that and that sort of thing. It's just, you know, a common friendship. Um it's hard to keep up with all the lingo nowadays, you know. I feel sometimes I feel feel older than I am because of all that. Anyway. No, it goes deeper than that just general human friendship. We're seeing here in this text that it is for the fellowship, for your fellowship in the gospel. From the first day until now. So from the time of their conversion until this point now, he's thankful for them And it it falls in place with this fellowship in the gospel. Now, when we see the word fellowship Often in our minds, and often the the the Bible says it this way and means it this way, it is a a congregating together. For mutual encouragement and edification. And that is certainly an understanding of the word. But when it's in the context like this, and you see that it's in the gospel What does he mean precisely by that? And I'm going to suggest that maybe we use a slightly different word to convey the meaning here. I'm going to use the word partnership. Partnership in the gospel. Now, when you think about a partnership, we can also sort of get a uh we could get a misunderstanding there as well. Um sometimes when we think partner, we think maybe business partner. we have sort of duty or obligations to our business partners because we need to come through for them and that sort of thing. And that's that's also not exactly the idea that's going on. On here. What is it that does he mean by this sense of partnership? It is the type of partnership that is centered around the same goals Based off the same desires. It's the same goals based off of the same desires. So what is the goal? It's making disciples. What is the desire? The desire to see others discipled, to see people grow in Christ. Now the relationship that Paul had in particular here is a little different perhaps than the ones that you and I have with each other today. He at this time writing is in prison and he has He has had a significant impact in the beginning of this church and certainly in the area of discipleship as well, but he spends most of the time apart from them So what else is going on here? Well, if you remember, the occasion of the writing of Philippians is in a general sense, this is a thank you letter. For a gift, a sacrificial gift that the Philippians gave to him for the work of the ministry. They went above and beyond in providing for for Paul in the ministry. And even while he's in prison, they don't consider that much of a setback, you might say They they bear this with him as well. And so we have then a an element here Where they are united with Paul in the work of the ministry this way. Certainly as they grow in Christ, but also as they they minister and help Paul minister as well. So, in a very real sense, this partnership. We still see is around the goal of making disciples and the desire to see that take place. And by aiding Paul in his ministry, uh they were also in fellowship with him or in partnership with him In making the gospel known to others and enabling others to see and know the work of Christ that He had done for them. There are many things that Paul could have been thankful for for these people. There's a variety of things. I'm sure there is other things. I'm sure there are people that he can think of. He's probably thankful for those first converts. He's thankful that they're still going forward. But what really sparks joy in his heart His their labor in the ministry, their work in the ministry, and what they are doing while they're in the city of Philippi, and what they're doing for him specifically. You know, for us, there are many things that could make us happy as a body of believers, right? If we as a church have plenty of funds If we have plenty of people, if we have plenty of space in the ministry, you know, those are all things to be thankful for, and I think we are But none of that really should compare to the joy that we can get from serving together in various capacities. We have a fellowship in the gospel. We have a partnership in ministry of the gospel. We have the united goal of making disciples, using the truth of the gospel to impact lives. Just like Paul thanking God for their partnership in the ministry, meaning that the spread of the gospel, they were contributing to that in tangible ways. We also can see each other and how we contribute to the spread of the gospel and making disciples in tangible ways. Paul generally stating here, in a general sense, he's showing that the tie that binds Christians together is the gospel message. Here the advancement of the gospel is what is uniting them And I would consider us to this question, have us consider this question, what is it in your mind that unites us? It should be more than just, well, it's Sunday and I need to be at church. It should be more than, well, I just want to see my favorite people at church. And I'm sure we all have favorite people, but it should be more than that. No, it is the gospel that unites us, ties us together, and it is that gospel that pushes us, propels us forward. You know, sometimes we can think of this in in the realm of other sort of team or crew types of situations. uh like a sports team or a crew at a job or even a family. You know when you when you go through life with a group of people for long enough Centered around the same purpose. There is a bonding that takes place. But this is this is even more than that, I would say. Because even if you didn't have those types of things, you would still have the gospel. We would still have the gospel. The task of disciple making is what unifies us together. When we do this together, it brings about a type of joy. It's a type of joy that you can't get necessarily anywhere else. So we see here the first demonstration of thankfulness for fellow believers It is this joyful attitude that wells up within us because of the united, the unity that we have around the gospel. And what that causes us to go forward through. But there is a second demonstration of this thankfulness that we see here, and it is this In verse 6, it says, being confident of this very thing, that he who has begun a good work in you will complete it until the day of Jesus Christ. So number two, we be thankful for each other with a confident expectation. So we see here in this in this flow of thought, in this section of gratitude that he has, he is thankful for the work that they're doing. But more specifically, He's thankful for the reason behind the work that they're doing. So when he looks at the Philippian believers, he's not saying, Man, you guys are thankful the best. You're like the best Christians I've ever met. He's not he's not saying you guys like you have it together. Those like Those Corinthians, for instance, they're they're not like you. You have it really together, like you have all your your your ducks in a row, like you got this ministry thing down, you should be really, really proud of yourself. Now obviously Paul would never ever say that. No, but it's important to note why is he Thankful like this. Why is there this joy that comes with this gratitude? Well, let's look at this verse here. Paul is confident, he had a confident expectation about the Philippians. But that confidence is not based on the Philippians' own achievements, own abilities, even for this latest gift that he has received from them The confidence is based on the power and love of God, and because God can be relied on to bring about what he begins. To completion. When we see that God has begun a good work in these people's lives, we can be sure that His purpose will continue So when he says this verse, and this is a a fairly well-known verse, is it not? When he says this, what exactly for him is in view when he He states this. Read it again, being confident of this very thing, that he who has begun a good work in you will complete it until the day of Jesus Christ. In general, what he has in view here is the whole salvation process. Particularly the progressive element, the progressive sanctification element of salvation, ultimately culminating in the final element. Glorification. Since God began a work of Christian growth in them, it is evidenced by their giving and their partnership in the gospel ministry. Paul is confident that God will complete that growth until the day of Jesus Christ. So it's important to remember then that there are these stages of salvation. When we are when we are first saved, when we are converted, that is known as justification The reality of justification is that reality of being judicially declared righteous by God Someone, and someone who has been declared righteous by God cannot be unjustified. Once you are justified, you are saved, and you forever belong to Him. But then we are not immediately brought into heaven, are we? That doesn't take place immediately. And so there is an element of sanctification or being saved, the process of salvation. It is whereby we grow in Christ's likeness. We are not yet sinless, but we are, shall we say, sinning less as we mature in Christ. As we yield more and more to the Spirit. This is actually mentioned later on in Philippians in chapter 3, where chapter 3 is very much focused on pressing towards a specific That is the goal of Christ-likeness. Why? Well, he's saying that because that's what God has laid hold, that is what God has prepared for us. That is what we're all headed to as Christians. So that when he comes to the end of chapter 3 and the end of that argument, he says in verse 20, For our citizenship is in heaven, from which also we eagerly wait for the Savior. The Lord Jesus Christ. Why? Why would we eagerly wait for that? Who will transform our lowly body that it may be conformed to His glorious body? According to the working by which he is even able to subdue all things to himself. Therefore, my beloved and longed-for brethren, my joy and my crown, so stand fast in the Lord. We see here then the final stage, the final step, if you will, of salvation is glorification. This is our salvation is completed. It's fully realized. The presence of sin has been removed from us. And we are said to be like Christ. We have been transformed into his glorious life. Likeness. We see him as he is. So in this verse, very Very concretely, we see the element of sanctification, the process of salvation, and the glorification at the end at the at the day of Jesus Christ, the end. When our salvation is fully realized and completed. So In in setting the stage with all of that, there are what are the reasons then why is Paul confident That God will perform this work in them until the end, until the day of Jesus Christ. Well, the first reason would be because of the nature of the work in the Philippians Paul was confident that what God began in them, God would complete. His words came from a deep conviction that it was God working in them. them. In other words, this work that that the Philippians had shown, it wasn't a a man-made, man-generated work in the flesh that didn't come from the Spirit. It came from God. The partnering in the gospel ministry was evidence of that. And the gift that they sent to Paul, the very generous gift, was also evidence of that work. And we see that, and that's really the second reason, the timing involved. We see that this is a time when Paul is in prison. Paul, in a very human sense, could have been written off. Right? I mean he could have said, well, you're done, right? It's over. And for any believer who has ended up in prison Um I could all I could very well easily see that as the mentality of the person imprisoned as well. But again, even in this book itself, we know that that was not the case The ministry wasn't over for Paul. It just changed. It uh we find out later on in chapter in chapter 1 that uh in looking at verse 12 he says but i want you to know brethren that the things which happened to me that is his imprisonment have actually turned out for the furtherance of the gospel So that as it has become evident to the whole palace guard and to all the rest that my chains are in Christ. People were asking, why is this guy here? Well, he's preaching about this Jesus guy. And so that is spreading like wildflower, like wildflower now, like wildfire throughout the uh the the the palace guard, and then he says to the rest, like it is just This knowledge of this is spreading out. And so the ministry wasn't over, it just changed. And um the this did not hinder the the support of the Philippian church in any way. So their gift, their gifts evidenced a significant level of Christian maturity. God was seeing, I'm sorry, Paul was seeing God's work in their lives. And so this is the reason why Paul is so confident. He's seeing the work of God in them. So it was not because of their work alone. There the Philippian church wasn't this this sort of fringe church with uh you know a mixture of of folks that were non-committed sort of just going through the motions they were a legitimate Gospel-centered, ministry-centered, making disciple-centered church. It's what their focus was I would suggest that Paul would not be saying this To a group of people who hadn't perhaps made professions, but did not show evidence of Of saving faith. There are many in our day-to-day that profess, but don't necessarily show evidence of that faith. Paul is commending them. There is a commendation here in this, but this is not a baseless commendation. And so we can't look at this and say, well, Paul is not, he is not saying this, and we can't draw from this like a form of easy believism. Like we he's he's not stating, well, you know, you you pray your prayer, God saves you, you live how you want after that, and you're good because God saved you No, he's looking at their lives, the fruit, the evidence, and making this commendation of them. That's why he is confident. When there is evidence of works in people's lives, we can know that it is likely sourced in God. It is a supernatural thing We're not saying here, now I want to be clear, we're not saying that salvation is by works. No, salvation is by faith. It's by faith alone, through grace alone. But we must remember and understand, James 2 talks about this, that the faith that genuinely saves Is never alone. It is always accompanied by works. Works that are sourced in God, supernatural works from God, shows that God has genuinely saved you. And friends, we we cannot be deceived into thinking that salvation is genuinely ours if we do not demonstrate evidence of that salvation. We may have exercised faith in the past. We may have prayed a prayer to ask God to save us. But think about what you are depending on. I would I would ask you right now, what are you depending on for say of salvation right now? Not what you did, not what happened in the past, not those circumstances. What are you depending on right now? And if it's anything less than the the atoning sacrifice of Jesus, then your dependence may be on the wrong place, your faith may be misplaced And that is very important to know. Or if it's it could be in the format of a Jesus plus blank equals salvation. And that's equally incorrect and erroneous. We cannot have Jesus and then add to his work for salvation. It can't be Jesus plus baptism. It can't be Jesus plus these works. It can't be Jesus plus church attendance. It is Jesus plus nothing. It is Jesus alone that saves. Salvation belongs to those who place their faith on Jesus and only Him. And when that takes place, there is evidence of God's work in your life. And I would say it's supernatural It goes against nature. It goes against your human nature. It goes against your sin nature. God overcomes that in your life. And it's an amazing thing to see. When that takes place, you know. You know that God is at work in you and you genuinely belong to Him. Notice how here also in this verse he Paul mentions this confidence expectation. That would be completed until the day of Jesus Christ. And this so often takes place in Pauline writings where Paul has the end in view Yes, he's doing the ministry now and he's working and he's spreading the gospel and making disciples, but it's all done with this end in view, and we see that as we're Reminder here. Paul's constant concern, one commentator put it, Paul's constant concern was that he and his fellow Christians might be presented before God mature and unashamed in that day, the day of Jesus. Jesus Christ. So what does this point boil down to in light of thankfulness? Well we can have thankful joy. As we see God working in each other, we can have a thankful joy when we see God working in in each other, confidence that God is going to continue that work in all who are genuinely saved. Look, is it not kind of amazing That you, as you look at your life, if you're here and you are bought by the blood of the Lamb, who were you five years ago? And what were you dealing with? And what sins were were hampering you, besetting you? Maybe look ten years ago. Do you see difference? Do you see how God is working on you? Do you see how those certain besetting sins no longer beset you? What about when you see that take place in another person's life? Many of us have known each other a long time. Some of us it's more recent But many of us have known each other a really long time. Some of you have known me since I was like not maybe not maybe this big, but you know, maybe this big Um, isn't it incredible to see God's work in another person's life To see that growth and to know that it's not them. It's not them by their willpower overcoming these issues of sin. It's God doing the miracle of salvation in your heart. How could that not cause you to be thankful? It reminds you of God's great goodness in our lives We can be confident that when we see that in each other and we see it in our own lives, we can be confident that God is going to continue that work in all of us. So, we have seen this thankfulness that Paul has here. We've seen it demonstrated by a joyful attitude towards each other. We have seen it demonstrated in that confident expectation of the work that God is doing in each of us. But not only that, we see it demonstrated by us knowing, and I put it this way, knowing its rightness Look at what it says here. You could say rightness, you could say properness, perhaps. But look at what it says here. I'll read from the beginning again in verse three. I thank my God upon every remembrance of you. Always in every prayer of mine making requests for you all with joy. For your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now, being confident of this very thing, that he who has begun a good work in you will complete it until the day of Jesus Christ. Just as it is right for me to think this of you all. Because I have you in my heart. Inasmuch as both in my change and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel, you all are partakers with me. So he says here at the first at the outset of verse seven, just as it is right for me to think this of you all. So what is it talking about here? How does he say it this way? He uses some wording about them being in his heart. What does this all look like exactly? Well We see here that he is unashamedly, unabashedly thinking this way about the Philippians. And he's unashamed about it because it's completely he's completely in the right thinking this way of them There is nothing wrong, there's nothing odd about this. This is actually the most natural way he can think about it I would suggest that it is unnatural for a believer to think otherwise of other believers. And so I bring it back to some of what we we talked about earlier. How are our thoughts towards other believers, whether they're in this congregation or if they're in uh other believers that are around that you know. And what does it look like when you think about A fellow believer, a brother or sister in Christ. It is unnatural for a Christian To think ill of another believer, to have a condemning spirit or a judgmental spirit towards a fellow believer. We can very much, if that creeps up in our minds, if it if it creeps up in our hearts, It really reveals in us that we are not operating under the Spirit's control. But at the very least, the flesh is rearing its ugly head. And trying to take control of that situation. And look, it takes a lot of patience and it takes a lot of spirit-controlledness to always think right about each other, does it not? Um it's it is amazing how much people can be people, right? And so often things are done by accident. Sometimes we it's not intentional, but we do hurt each other, do we not? Now, when those things take place, we can either we can do one of two things, really, in general. We can either go down the road of Uh mentally go down the mental path of thinking ill of that person, uh questioning motives uh questioning desires, questioning their their um their perception of us We can go down that road and and frankly a lot of the time not even speak to them about it. Our mind just goes there, right? We can go down that road. And it's not of the spirit. It's of the flesh. But the alternative is that when those things take place, we can remember one very important thing. They are a work in progress, just like me. We are all on this path of sanctification. We are all on this way of salvation, right? And yes, there are different stages of the journey, and there are different uh levels, shall we say, of Christian maturity. But who are we to say that someone is, shall we say, um Not in the place of maturity that they should be, necessarily. God's work and God's timetable for that person is his work and his timetable, not yours And so, yes, there are there are opportunities and there are times where confrontation and making sure that we are at peace with all men, those things are necessary and important But really what we're speaking against here is the mental the mental trail that we can go on without ever speaking to that person person and we have those ill thoughts and we harbor them, that that is in defiance of this passage here. It is right for us to be thankful for each other And look, I gotta ask this question because I don't know about you, but being a part of this church has been the best experience I have ever had. And so this is not a um this is not a a message or this isn't an application that that comes from the heart of you guys really Think it all this. No, it it is actually a it serves as a warning, I think, to us. Because we do this really well. The spirit of this church is quite frankly amazing. And yes, there are disagreements, yes, there are wrinkles and ripples that take place, but for the most part, I believe that our hearts really are knit together. And we there are sins and offenses, yes, but they are covered in love for each other. And that's really what we're talking about here. Now And that's what he says next, actually. He says here that That just it is right for me to think this of you all, because I have you in my heart. Now this honestly this is I think one of the coolest parts of of the passage. You you've heard of the phrase hearts knit together, you know, that that sort of thing being knit together or hearts knit together. And I don't know knitting, I'm sorry. I don't. Um I know that it involves like yarn and there's like two sticks and it it it comes together like something and there's like different ways of feeding it and all that and you get this beautiful thing that you make. So I'm not going to use that illustration. I am going to use one more that I'm more familiar with. And I think it's much stronger. I'm sorry ladies, I don't mean to diss anybody who knits, male or female, if you knit, I'm glad. that you do that. I just don't understand it. Um but I'm going to go with something that's a little bit stronger and more in my wheelhouse. So, you know, metalworking, uh metal fabrication and welding are is uh A side passion of mine. So when when you take two pieces of metal, yes, metal, and you put them together and you weld them together. So there's a couple of the different ways of welding, but I won't bore you with that. Basically, it's joining two pieces of metal together And if done properly, that weld is going to be even stronger than the metal that they are combining. So that if Uh the illustration bat breaks down a little bit, but so yeah that if you know under load the weld won't fail, the metal will actually fail before the weld does. The only way really to do a proper w to to destroy a proper weld is to do violence to it through a cutting wheel or something else. And that's what I personally think about when I think of have you in my heart. Now it's interesting, the way this is written, commentators have shown that this could be the reverse. It yes, it can read, I have you in my heart, but it could also be you have me in your heart. And it's kind of interchangeable that way. I think God did it on purpose. You know why? I think it's both. I think it's fair to say both. They had each other in their hearts. The Philippian Church and Paul, they are knit together. They are welded together in such a way that they are inseparable. Do we view our bond with each other as if our hearts are bonded like that? Yes, I I admit and I fully understand there are other strong bonds that we have. Certainly the familial bond is a strong one But I would ask us all, how far down the list is your bond with the church family? How far does it go? I'm not going to tell you where to put it, but I am going to suggest it shouldn't be far. Shouldn't be far at all. Maybe that's a an extra bonus question for home groups tonight. How far should it go? Have fun with that. So how strong do you see that bond? Do you as you evaluate your life, your spiritual life, your your church life How strong do you see your bond with the church? And it look uh we have several visitors here. It doesn't have to be this church. It can be any church that you're Well, not any church, but it can be any Bible-believing gospel preaching church. But you you gotta be linked with that church vitally It can't be just something that you are you think, well I'll get to it after such and such happens, or you know, yeah, I know I'm not exactly where I need to be in that, but But you know, I'm getting there. No, get there and then let God work on you to even strengthen that bond more. It doesn't happen, quite frankly, if you're not here. It doesn't happen if you don't put in, at least on your part, some effort, some, shall we say, time and energy. It takes that. It takes that. We see here um in the second part of verse seven Says he has him he has them in his heart. Then he says, Inasmuch as both in my chains and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel, you all are partakers with me. Of grace. And I foreshadowed or hinted at this earlier. But when he references this, he's referencing his imprisonment But he's also referencing their their fellowship or their partnership in this The idea here is that Paul, the Philippians didn't just see Paul in prison. They almost They felt im the imprisonment with him. It's it's this this sharing of the the burden that he has. Certainly there was God was doing amazing things, but I think if you would have given Paul the option, he would have said, Yeah, I want to be free. I need to get uh these different places. I I I want all these different places to go to, but God had other plans. But they had the imprison they had the attitude that it was their imprisonment also, one commentator put it As far as Paul's imprisonment, there wasn't really another church that quite viewed Paul's imprisonment like this one. And so when he calls it a defense for confirmation, he's saying that the the ministry of the gospel that he was doing, the the propaganda The proclaiming of the gospel and and and sharing Jesus with others, his imprisonment was a defense and a confirmation of the gospel. The gospel is real. It is doing what it is supposed to be doing. And this is a result of that. This can happen And he is aware of that. The partaking, the partnering that this church had with Paul, it was in the best of times, shall we say, and the worst of times. It didn't stop. So they are bearing the burden with Paul, just as they are bearing the blessings with Paul. Likewise, folks, a healthy church does the same. We, when we are thankful in this way and joy, and we think rightly about each other in all of this. We bear one another's burdens. We are aware of each other's high times and low times, and we seek to meet the needs of others as the opportunities arise. In a nutshell, Paul is saying here, it is right of us to think this way of each other, shall we say, because we are bonded together in the gospel ministry. And we support each other in all seasons of life. So, with that in mind, what applications can we take home from all of this? First of all, we ask the we'll ask these questions here. Do we have a joyful attitude towards others in the church? And does that attitude arise from our unity in the gospel? We should have a joyful attitude towards each other Mm more than just because we might have the same, you know, we we we share the same fandom of a certain football team or baseball team or whatever. It goes beyond that. It is the gospel that should propel us to this joyful attitude towards one another. Few things can harm a church more than ill thoughts directed towards other believers. My friends, we must guard against that. We do that by binding ourselves together through the gospel. That binding is unlike anything else. On earth. Second, are we encouraging, sorry, are we encouraged by seeing God work in others' lives? Are we gaining confidence in our own walks before God? It is possible you're here today, and maybe you lack that confidence. Maybe it's because you aren't positive that God's gift of salvation applies directly to you. Perhaps you've seen today that the object of your faith Or maybe it is you've you've yes you've believed Jesus, but you've added these other things to gain salvation. And today, my friend, would be a great day to know with confidence that you are justified by the blood of the Lamb. Myself or Pastor Jim, Harry, someone else you're comfortable with would would be able to share that with you from the Bible, how you can know that you are saved by Jesus. And finally, is your heart bound to the hearts of other believers, being able to bear burdens and meet needs Are you vitally linked to this church? Are you really are you here? I guess I'm asking. And if and if God is moving you somewhere else. If if you're here visiting, I should say, and and you're you're looking and you're wondering, I would encourage you also that Um that even in another church that perhaps God directs you to, it is important, it is vitally important that you are linked to that church, not just at a cursory level, but at at the very core level of it. And also are are you attuned to the needs of others? Are you able to meet that This only works. This only happens if your level of commitment to other believers, to the body of Christ, is in the place that God expects. As I said, there uh there is more to this passage. Really the thought doesn't stop there, it goes on in the chapter, and Lord willing, um in the future We will look at how all of this really affects how we pray for each other as well. Let's go ahead and close in prayer. Father We're so thankful for the work that you do in our lives. We admit before you that There are times where we hinder that work through our unyieldedness to the Spirit, through Ill thoughts towards others. Lord, I pray that you would protect our church from Those things. But ultimately, Lord, we are thankful for the work that you are doing in us individually, in us collectively. Lord, you are doing a great work among us, and it is it is amazing to see. Not because we are so great and we're doing it so right, but because you are so great. You are so right. Your work, you're doing what we cannot do for ourselves, Lord. We can't grow ourselves spiritually. We can't become more Christ-like on our own. That's something that you're doing. Us. Lord, may you increase our gratitude for each other. May you increase and strengthen our bonds with each other. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. To have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.