Psalm 119 as we begin our worship this morning. Oh, how I love your law. It is my meditation all the day. You through your commandments make me wiser than my enemies. For they are ever with me. I have more understanding than all my teachers, for your testimonies are my meditation. I understand more than the ancients because I keep your precepts. I have restrained my feet from every evil way, that I may keep your word. I have not departed from your judgments, for you yourself have taught me. How sweet are your words to my taste, sweeter than honey to my mouth. Through your precepts I get understanding. Therefore I hate every false way. Let's go, Lord, in prayer. Father, we praise you because you are the all-wise God. Your wisdom transcends creation, and in fact, your word tells us that with wisdom creation was made. And you are the creator of all things, and we glean wisdom from you through your word, through the commandments of the law, through your word and scripture, as you reveal yourself to us. We confess before you, Father, that often we look to other things to give us the wisdom that really should really only come from you. And we have a tainted view of The decis of things we should do and decisions we should make because we are not as biblically minded as we ought to be sometimes Father, would you cause us and help us with this? We thank you for your word. We thank you for its truth. We thank you for its principles. We thank you for its wisdom. We thank you for the gospel of Christ. Lord, as we look ahead to the service this morning, I pray that we would worship you in spirit and in truth. And Lord, there's a particular prayer request that we have that's sort of urgent from Ray and Darlene Johnson, their son-in-law is in the hospital with a possible heart attack. We pray, Lord, that you would be with them and strengthen strengthen him and give the doctors wisdom in that more urgent uh situation there, Lord. We ask for healing for Him. Lord, as we worship you this morning, we pray that you would help us to worship you in spirit and in truth. Help us to put aside the things that could distract us. And really focus on you, focus on the message of the songs and the hymns that we sing. Focus on your word as it is preached. I pray, Lord, that our hearts and minds would be receptive to all of it, and that you would be pleased with our worship this morning. We pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, good morning. That was good. Bow our hearts together as we go to the Lord this morning. Heavenly Father, we are coming with grateful and thankful hearts to Morning. We come to praise you and worship you. And Lord, it is wonderful to know that you are the creator and sustainer of all life. You are sovereign over all creation. And we're thankful that you loved us so much that you would send Jesus, your son, to die on the cross to pay the penalty for our sins. And you raised him up on the third day, and he is now interceding for us. on our behalf this morning at the right hand of you, Father. And we're so grateful this morning for the blessings that you bestow upon us. And Lord, just the protection you've kept around us this week. And Lord, I'd like to lift up those who are unable to be here this morning for different reasons. And uh Lord, I particularly want to lift up Brother Jim Sr. Father, and just ask that you would comfort him and help him to uh get his strength and all back and uh Lord that he would be able to have an appetite to be able to eat and strengthen his body. Help him to be able to withstand the treatment uh results uh from his treatment. And we ask God for your good hand. And Father, we lift up uh our own hearts to you this morning, and we ask that you would remove all those thoughts and all those cares of this week All the things that we come in here with this morning. Help us to focus solely upon you and your word this morning. And I pray that you will reveal the truth to us that we need to hear this morning. And Lord, by your spirit, we will be changed more and more into your image. And we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. We were going to be reading from Matthew chapter 10 this morning, and we are going to begin with 16 through 26. Behold, I send you out as sheep. In the midst of wolves. Therefore be wise as serpents and harmless as doves. But beware of men, for they will deliver you up to counsels and scourge you. In their synagogues. You will be brought before governors and kings for my sake, as a testimony to them and to the Gentiles. But when they deliver you up, do not worry about how or what you should speak, for it will be given to you in that hour what you should speak. For it is not you who speak But the spirit of your father who speaks in you. Now brother will deliver brother to death and father his child, and children will rise up against their parents and cause them to be put to death. And you will be hated by all for my name's sake. But he who endures to the end will be saved. And when they persecute you in the city, flee to another. For assuredly I say to you, you will not have gone through the cities of Israel before the Son of Man returns A disciple is not above his teacher, nor a servant above his master. It is enough for a disciple that he be like his teacher, and a servant like his master. If they have called the master of the house Bilzebab, how much more will they call those from his household Therefore, do not fear them, for there is nothing covered that will not be revealed, and hidden that will not be made known Verse 16 of this chapter, Jesus warns the disciples that they are, he is sending them as sheep among wolves. We learned last week what that meant, and this week the passage is going to explain and prepare. Jesus is preparing his disciples for opposition. And there there really is a truth, is really is true that we can glean a lot in in as Christians preparing ourselves for opposition in this world, and I hope that we'll be able to do that this morning. It's interesting that Jesus, in calling his disciples and now commissioning his disciples, warns them in this way. Uh tries to give them an a a realistic idea of what to expect. He's going to say, hey, you're going to be whipped, you're going to be scourged, you're going to go before councils, you're going to have uh be persecuted for my name's sake. He he really tries to prepare them and warn them so that they're not caught off guard by what is going to happen. And there's a sense in which Jesus did that with his disciples and even in the early church that was understood that that in order when you came to Christ there was going to be potential sacrifice uh that was you know that you were going to have to make. Um that in some ways makes it distinct from other religion from religions the true faith of Christ, Christ didn't say, come to me and I'll solve, and you're going to live a prosperous life and have no problems. And that wasn't the experience of the early church. And there it it really actually is quite different than that. You know, if you think of it, think of it this way, how often in In a work environment, let's say you're interviewing, does the employer explain to you all of the different problems that you're going to face? if if you become an employee of that particular uh that particular company. Or if you're dating someone. You're good looking to marry them. Do they warn you about all of the different things that you are going to face if you marry me? I I did that I was a little weird. Um I didn't I don't think I listed everything, but I do remember one particular conversation I had with my my wife, well with my I don't know what it was, girlfriend or something back then, whatever you call it, uh the person I was interested in, I w Elizabeth. I was uh I was um I had lost my wallet, which was not that unusual And um uh I I have I to this day have this sort of mental problem where I can't remember where I place things. You guys probably know that 'cause I leave stuff all over this building all the time. And And you find it, especially anybody who's cleaning here. But anyway, so I I I like like I don't know why, but I cannot I have a very hard time remembering where when I set something down, where I place it. It's it's something I've always dealt with I've learned over the years to try to compensate for that. I think to myself, okay, where would I have logically placed that instead of at remembering, because I can't remember. And that helps a little bit. But anyway, you know, so I was a little bit of a mess in college in that sense and I wanted to prepare Elizabeth that I was like, if we're really going down this road, do you are you real do you really want to go down this road? I she was you know, pretty well organized and detail oriented and I liked that about her and kind of felt like I needed it. But on the other hand, I didn't want to frustrate her to no end. So I literally at dinner time one time I was like twenty minutes late because I was looking for my wallet And and I went to her and I sat down and I said, Are you sure about this? I I just warned her. I said, look, I am really bad about this. I have gotten a little better over the years, but every once in a while it's like it flares up or something. I lose something. That's weird though. Okay? That's not normal to do that And yet, and I'm a little weird, so that's okay. But but uh when Jesus is doing this, he's saying, oh, come follow me, and here's all these problems you're gonna face. Because I faced them, so you're gonna face them too. He is preparing them for not a life of ease or prosperity or anything. He's preparing them, but he is doing this. He's preparing them for a life of mission and purpose. And that is really what Jesus calls all of us to as disciples of Christ. He calls us to a life of mission and purpose. And although, as we discussed last week, there are certain things that we're not going to be able to exactly duplicate from this passage because he's calling the apostles. Commissioning the apostles here, there are many things that we see reiterated throughout the New Testament that are going to be clear applications for us as we go through this. So in preparing the disciples for opposition, You know, how does he do this? We're going to see three things here in the passage. We're going to see he assures them of divine purpose and empowerment. He encourages them to persevere, and he promises divine justice. Three things. He assures them of divine purpose and empowerment. He encourages them in verses 21 and 22 to persevere. And then he promises in 23-26. He promises Divine justice. So first we pick up here, and Christ assures his disciples of divine purpose and empowerment. And it says in verse 17, but beware of men, for they will deliver you up to counsels. and scourge you in their synagogues. You will be brought before governors and kings for my sake as a testimony to them and to the Gentiles. But when they deliver you up, do not worry about how or how or what you shall speak. For it will be given to you in that hour that you shall speak. For it is not you who speak, but the Spirit of the of your Father who speaks in you. He says to them at the at the very outset of this commissioning and this portion of the passage and looking ahead not only to where he's going to go to the lost sheep of Israel like last week, but now he's broadening this, I think, to include uh his further commission uh even into the book of Acts and all of that. He's now he now says, you're gonna be delivered up to councils and you're gonna be scourged in synagogues And you will be brought before governors and kings. And he says, for my sake, as a testimony of them and of the Gentiles. Jesus predicts this. And you see, if you go through the book of Acts, you see this prediction of Jesus really clearly being fulfilled in the book of Acts. For example, Acts 5. 17. And the high priest rose up, and all those who were with him, which the sect of the Sadducees, and they were filled with indignation. That's just one of the many places. Jesus in other places prophesies the same kind of opposition and persecution. In Matthew 23, 35, it says, Therefore indeed I send you as as I send you prophets Wise men and scribes, some of them you uh uh you will kill and crucify, some of them you will scourge in your synagogues and persecute from city to city. Same kind of thing is said in Mark 13, 9. It's fulfilled, for example, in Acts 22. 19. In fact, Paul, the Apostle Paul, or Saul, rather Prior to that, he he was one of the ones who did a huge amount of imprisoning and scourging, even And he confesses this in Acts 22. 19. He says, Lord, they know that in every synagogue I am prisoned and beat those who believe on you. Saul beat people and he imprisoned people. And of course, in 2 Corinthians 11, 24 through 25, we find in G in Paul's own testimony that he himself was scourged and beaten and imprisoned as well. These are just some of the examples in the book of Acts that we see the fulfillment of what Jesus says is going to happen here. But I want us to notice the purpose. The purpose in this passage, he says, is for a testimony. It's for a testimony. before the Gentiles. He says, you're going to be, you're going to be, you're going to go before the Jewish Sanhedrin, and you're going to go in the synagogues, and you're going to be persecuted there, and then you're going to go into governor, Gentile governors, and you're going to be you're going to be And in some cases they're going to team up on you. There are a couple times in the book of Acts where they uh they team up uh together. Those kinds of things are going to happen. He says, but it's it's it's for a testimony. Would you take your Bibles for just a moment and turn to Acts chapter 16? I want to give you what I think is a very vivid example of this happening. Just for a moment. We could spend a long time. We're not going to exposit this text. I just want to read through the text if you and and you'll see this taking place on a on a more personal level here. Acts sixteen. Verse nineteen it says, but when her master saw that there hope of of profit was gone. They seized Paul and Silas and dragged them into the marketplace to the authorities. And they brought them to the magistrates and said, These men, being Jews, exceedingly trouble our city. And they teach customs which are not lawful for us, being Romans, to receive or observe. And the multitude rose up together against them, and the magistrates tore off their clothes and commanded them to be beaten with rods, and when they had laid many stripes on them, they threw them into prison, commanding the jailer to keep them securely. Having received such a charge, he put them into the inner prison and fastened their feet in the stocks. But at midnight Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns to God, and the prisoners were listening to them. Pause. You'll notice in the passage that they're singing through all of this persecution. They're singing hymns to God and the prisoners there It's a testimony to them. The suffering is a testimony, and their own their own response To what they're going through is a testimony to them. Suddenly, verse 26, there was a great earthquake, so the foundation of the prison was shaken, and immediately all the doors were opened, and everyone's chains were loose And the keeper of the prison awake from the s from sleep, and seeing the prison doors open, supposing the prisoners had fled, drew his sword and was about to kill himself, but Paul called with a loud voice, Do not harm yourself, we are here And he called for the light and ran and fell down and trembled before Paul and Silas and brought them and said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? And they said, Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and you'll be saved. That's an example of the kind. Look, what we see in the early church and what we see that Christ prophesied is that the suffering and the persecution and the harm and the opposition Even that Satan intended to thwart the work of God, God uses as a testimony of who he is in the lives of people. And that does not, that doesn't stop with the apostles. That kind of thing continues, and we find instruction on this in 1 Peter. In fact, the entire book of 1 Peter really helps us to understand The role of suffering in the life of the believer, particularly when they're suffering for Christ's sake For example, in 1 Peter 3, verse 13, it says, And who is he that will harm you if you be followers of that which is good? But even if you should suffer for righteousness' sake, you're blessed. You're literally happy. Now you're not, it's not that you you are sort of giddily happy, but there is a blessedness to this. And do not be afraid of their threats, nor be troubled, but sanctify the Lord God in your hearts, and always be ready to give an answer a defense to everyone who ask the reason for the hope that is in you with meekness and fear, having a good conscience that when they def they defame you as evildoers By the way, is that not happening now? Did it not happen in the first century? It's starting to happen now. Christians are seen as evildoers. But when that happens, those who revile your good conduct in Christ may be ashamed. For it is better, if the will of God be so to suffer for good, doing good than doing evil. So he's telling the disciples here that they Have uh a perpose in this as a testimony. And then we find He says, don't worry, but when they deliver you, do not worry, he says, about what you should speak This word worry, now he's going to get into how he's going to get enable them and empower them. This word worry is the same word that's used, for example, in Matthew chapter 6. And Philippians chapter 4, talking about anxiety. Don't be anxious, the Bible says, but in everything by prayer and supplication, make your requests to God, be made known to God. Did Paul and Silas, when they were in those jails, were they worried? They weren't worried. Particularly, it says in the passage: don't worry what you will speak, what you will say. And so the question then becomes, he says, it says this, don't worry about what you're going to say, because the Spirit, your Father, who will speak in you, essentially, you're the Spirit of your Father. The Holy Spirit is going to speak in you and for you. So the question then for us is, okay, well, does this apply to us? And what exactly is he talking about? Is he saying that the apostles can literally be uh brought before the Sanhedrin and before uh Roman governors, they can be brought to these places and then they'll just like mindlessly begin to just say whatever they the Holy Spirit sort of takes over them and is that what's going on here? I think not. I don't think that's what he's saying here. I think that Christ is preparing them through much, much and much teaching In the three and a half years of ministry that he's here, their understanding scripture, and they'll understand a great deal after the resurrection. You remember the disciples in the Rhoda Mayus and all that Jesus explained to them and all that. I think we have perhaps an example of this occurring in Acts chapter four. Would you take your Bibles and turn there to Acts chapter four for a moment? I think we're going to see this taking place in Acts chapter 4. And I'm going to do something that I haven't done probably ever. I'm going to ask somebody with a light nice loud voice to read this for me. Acts chapter 4. Let me ask Josh Mullins, would you read Acts 4? He's got the loudest voice I know of. There's pros and cons, buddy. Acts four, one through twenty-two. It's a long passage. And I might stop you to make a comment, but would you read that for me? And that's it's expensive to people and breathe. And the captains alright Pat, thanks, yeah, we come. And the captains of the temple and the Sadducees came upon them, being grieved, and they taught the people and Howbeit, many of us Them which heard the word believed, and the number of men was about five thousand. And John and Alexander, and as many as were of the kindred of the high priest were gathered together at Jerusalem. When they had set them in the mist, they asked by what power and by what name have ye done this? Then Peter filled with the Holy Ghost and said Okay, you can go keep going. Sorry to Peter filled with with the Holy Ghost and said unto them, Ye rulers of the people and elders of Israel, if we this day be examined of the good deed done to the impotent man, by what means he is made whole, be it known unto you all and to all the people of Israel. That by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom He crucified, whom God raised from the dead, even by him doth this man stand here before you whole. This is the stone which was set at not of you builders, which has become the head of the corner. Neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. Now, when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, and perceived that they were unlearned and ignorant men, they marveled and took knowledge of them that they had been with Jesus. And behold, the man which was healed, standing with them, they could say nothing against him. But when he had commanded them to go aside and out of counsel, and conferred among themselves, saying, What shall we do to these men? For that indeed a notable miracle hath been done by them is manifest to all of them that dwell in Jerusalem, and we cannot deny it. Thank you, appreciate it. We'll go we'll start we'll stop there. Appreciate it. Okay, so what's going on so do you know this there the people the audience is so Struck by what these these quote unlearned people are saying because there's such content in what they are saying The Holy Spirit is helping them. The Holy Spirit is working in there, working through them, speaking through them. But they're it's not as though they're speaking without understanding what they're saying here as well. And I think that's important for us to understand in this passage Now the question then becomes by way of application, does this apply to us? And I think in a sense it does, in a sense it doesn't. . do we have the same kind of power? That the apostles had, and the answer is categorically no. But the Spirit of God does work in our lives as well to strengthen us. to empower us to proclaim the gospel in difficult situations. And so there's a sense in which when it comes to application that we do not have to worry as well. And we find that in 1 Peter 4, verses 12 through 14. It says this Beloved, do not think it strange concerning the fiery trial which is to try you, as though some strange thing happened to you. But rejoice to the extent that you partake of Christ's sufferings, that when you when his glory is revealed, you may also be glad with exceeding joy. If you are reproached for the name of Christ, blessed are you. For the spirit of glory and of God rests upon you. On their part he is blasphemed, but on your part he is glorified. The truth is that there there are three kinds of suffering that people go through. One kind is because of either personal sin or foolish decisions. Isn't it true that some trials, some suffering, some life's difficulties are self-imposed? Occasionally, somebody will say, well, I'm going through a really hard trial and I'll listen a little bit. I'm not doing this every time, so don't worry, but listen I listen, I'll listen a little bit and I'm going my I'm going That's like their own fault. Or sometimes sometimes I'm listening to my own self complain about something and I go, this is really actually my fault. Sometimes trials and suffering are a result of my own sin or my own foolish decisions. Sometimes though, and maybe most of suffering is because we are living in a fall living in a fallen world. And because we are living in a fallen world We go through things that maybe are not of any personal fault of our own, but they are hard things to go through. And God tells us in his word, for example, in Romans 8. that he will bring purpose through them. And it will be for our good and for his glory. And there are other, still other kinds of suffering, the kinds of suffering that we are learning about here in Matthew and also in 1 Peter, and that is suffering for righteousness' sake. And what we find throughout the New Testament is that suffering for righteousness' sake is actually something to be celebrated. Throughout the New Testament, we see this. It's something to be to glory in. In Matthew 5, it says this. I mean sorry, in Acts 5, verses 23-21, it says this. And they agreed with him, and when they had called for the apostles and beaten them, they commanded that they should not speak in the name of Jesus and let them go. So they departed from the presence of the council, rejoicing That they were counted worthy to suffer shame for his name. Now I gotta tell you, on a practical level, on a on a real practical level, I find it, I read these passages And I look through these texts, and I see the overall attitude that comes with suffering for righteousness' sake. And I see this and I sort of go, okay, I mentally understand this. I intellectually understand that it's something to be celebrated, that it's something that is is a glory for the Christian that goes through this and it's It's partakers in the sufferings of Christ. I understand this mentally, but man, I have a hard time seeing experientially how this could be true. How could you really sing? When you've been beaten? How can you really rejoice when you've been cast into prison in shackles? How can this be true? And I have to tell you by way of a personal illustration that I think I understand a little bit more just from seeing not the third, but being having sort of observing the second suffering up close. And I don't want to use my dad as an illustration every time I preach or anything like that, but I just want to mention One thing that I think will illustrate this and and and will help us understand a little bit more, maybe, at least it's helped me. A couple weeks ago, I was in the ER with my dad on a Sunday. Actually, Matt uh preached for me that Sunday. I was providential that he came And it was a very, very, very difficult time. Uh very uh lots of suffering going on there and and there there and uh very hard. Uh we were the the problem was able to to to be resolved. And toward the end of the stay in the ER, the attending physician came in, and I think he was kind of making his rounds and he went and spoke with my dad. And I was amazed at what my dad said. And this is not to lift up my dad, and he's probably watching right now, and uh he would not want to be lifted up here. I I I don't think it is by what I'm gonna say. I I I think you'll see that, but He said to the doctor, you know, cancer has been really a blessing. And he has said, I uh I sounds strange to say But there has there have been a lot of really good things that have happened. And he went on to explain a few things, good things that have happened. And do you know what that that what that doctor said? He looked at him and he said, Sir, you have an amazing amount. Catch it. Of grace. Now, I don't know if that doctor was a Christian, but he certainly spoke like one. I have no idea if he really was or not. But he was certainly very perceptive. And what he said by his own testimony of observing what my dad said really shows the kind the kind of blessing in suffering. Now the reason I mention that is because in even dad's not su dad's suffering because of a fallen world. Okay. He's not suffering I don't think because of personal sin or or bad decisions. He's suffering because he lives in a fallen world. As we all do. He's not suffering technically for righteousness' sake as um you know, somebody like a doc uh you know dis disciple would or something like that and in the book of Acts. But that is even more so true. There is something That God really does and really uses when we as Christians go through suffering. And it puts us in a position to receive more of God's grace. And it is, it is a testimony. To those who are either saved or unsaved all around. When someone responds with cancer, And says it is, there is a sense in which it is a blessing after having just suffered some of the effects of it in an acute way. There's no way to look at that other. Than grace. And I think that Jesus knows as He It warns them about what's going to take place, that this is going to be a testimony. And we see that carried out throughout the book of Acts. We also see it carried in into 1 Peter. But also I want us to note this that the empowerment that Jesus talked about We do have and are indwelt by the Spirit of God. And it should encourage us and assure us in the same way Jesus was assuring the disciples as well. In Acts 1. 8 he says, but you will receive power when the Holy Ghost has come, Holy Spirit has come upon you. And you will be witnesses to me in Jerusalem, in all Judea, and Samaria, and to the end of the earth. And that message of the work of the Spirit of God is carried out throughout the New Testament. 1 Thessalonians 1:5 says, For our gospel did not come to you in word only but also in power and in the Holy Spirit and in much assurance as you know what kind of men we were among you for your sake It's the work of the Spirit of God that does that. And although the Spirit of God may not exactly empower us, the way he did in speaking through the apostles in the book of Acts, what we see in the New Testament is that there is a strengthening and an empowering and influencing that we can be assured of that when we suffer for righteousness' sake, frankly, even when we suffer for as a normal A normal product of being in a fallen world, that we will receive the grace of God through the power of the Spirit of God. So he assures them of purpose and divine empowerment. Next, he encourages his disciples to persevere. He encourages them to persevere. Matthew 10:21 says this. Now a brother will deliver a brother to death and father his child, and children will rise up against parents and cause them to be put to death. And you will be hated by all for my name's sake, but he who endures to the end will be saved. Jesus is not going to mince any words. He's telling them that they are going, that brother is, look, and this is the nature of the gospel. The nature of the gospel is that it divides. It divides brother against brother. It divides families. See, that's another distinctive difference between the faith of Christ and many religions. Many religions, you're actually, you inherit the religion through your family. You end up sort of adopting it because you're in a particular family. But in Christ Uh you convert if you convert, for example, from you know Middle Eastern religion and you know m Islam or something like that, and you you convert to Christianity. You you are going to be shun by your family. It is very, very distinctive in that way. But also real he's saying to them, look, you're going to have to, you're really going to have to follow me through this And he says this, you're going to have to endure. And he says, those who endure will be saved. Now there's a lot of things I could talk about. about this idea of you'll be hated for my namesake. And that idea of being hated for my namesake is mentioned several times in Scripture. It's mentioned in Matthew 24, verses 9 through 14. In Mark 13, 13, and several other places, it's mentioned as well. that people will be hated, they will be uh rejected for the sake of Christ. And of course, church history explains Why that is the case. In Matthew 24, for example, verse 9, it says, Then they will deliver you up to tribulation and kill you, and you will be hated by all nations for my namesake. This is really a reference to the tribulation period. Starts In Matthew 10, now we've got a uh reference to the tribulation period. And then many will be offended, will betray one another, and will hate one another. Then many prop false prophets will rise and receive many, and because lawlessness will abound and the love of many will grow cold, but he endure who endures to the end will be saved And this gospel that of the kingdom will be preached in all the world as a witness to all the nations. Now the question that bec comes up What does it mean here that he who endures to the end will be saved? Some have tried to make this word saved some sort of physical salvation. If you endure to the end, then you'll be physically saved. Well, that doesn't make any sense at all. If you think of church history, that history is replete with all kinds of martyrs. So of course it's not talking about it's not talking about physical salvation. It must be talking about spiritual salvation. And it's mentioned on several occasions. He who endures to the end will be saved. Now that causes a bit of a struggle because it implies that if you don't endure, then you won't be saved. It almost imply we could take it as implying that, okay, well maybe Is this implying that you can lose your salvation, that you can start off following Christ and then and then you lose your salvation and then you're not saved because you didn't endure? Is that what it's saying? Well of course that can't be what it's saying because there are many other clear passages in Scripture that teach us that we cannot lose our salvation once we are saved. uh John chapter 10 and uh Hebrews 13 many other places. So it can't be saying that. What is it talking about when it says this? Others would say, well it can't be saying that those who are saved must endure, that they have to endure, because then it takes it's like it it questions uh you know free will Is that you know we have a will, we can choose what we want. How is that the case? I think it was C. S. Lewis that gave this illustration, I think, really helps. And he closes the gap between I can't and I won't. I think it helps us understand what's going on here. It gives us illustration. So if you have a steak if you have a plate, and you have a steak on the plate, and this is a perfectly seasoned, perfectly cooked, nice cut of steak. And it's put in front of you, what are you going to do? And they say, hey, take a bite. It you are going to most of us anyway, are naturally going to take a bite at that steak. No problem, right? It it will be something that will naturally But if you take the same steak, let it sit out for two weeks, it becomes rancid, it smells putref it's a there's a putrefrying smell, and there are flies crawling all over it. And you put that one in front of you and you say, and somebody says, take a bite, what are you going to do? Well, you're not going to. And if you're asked why, what might you say? Well, I just what? Can't Well, you can't or you won't. And you might say, both. I can't and I won't. Well, technically you can. You have the ability to choose. But why wouldn't you eat that, take a bite of that steak? Because it goes everything against your nature. Even though you can, you won't. And it's the same thing with a Christian, a true disciple of Christ, a true Christian. He can stray away from the faith, and true disciples of Christ do. But a true believer does not, it's not in his nature to stay uh away from Christ. He will be chastened by Christ. He will ultimately endure and be saved. Those that endure will be saved. And that's what I think it's saying here in this passage. But more than that, what we find as we look through the New Testament is a is a exhortation to stand firm. In first uh well, in first Peter chapter 5, verse 8, it says this: Be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, walks about like a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour. Resist him. Steadfast in the faith, knowing that the same sufferings are experienced by your brotherhood in the world But may the God of all grace, who called us to eternal glory by Christ Jesus, after you have suffered a while, perfect, establish, strengthen, and settle you. To him be glory and dominion forever and ever. Now, folks, even though the true Christian will endure and will be saved, there is, we do have a response to suffering. And the response that we have will cause either there to be a greater testimony for Christ or to harm the testimony of Christ. And so Peter, with this in mind, says we need to stand firm when we come under that kind of suffering. Likewise, Paul says to Timothy in 2 Timothy 2, verse 3, you therefore must endure hardship as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. No one engaged in warfare entangles himself in the affairs of this life, that he may please him who enlists him as a soldier. So he encourages them to endure and to stand firm. Then we move on What about this opposition? Isn't there a lot of injustice going on? Isn't there a lot of, you know, persecuting and you know, oppression. What there's a sense in which when if you're living in the midst of all of this as the first century church did and m frankly most of church history people have, There's a sense in which what's going on here? How can you take this? And so now Jesus is going to move on and he's going to say, he's going to promise them that there is divine justice. Look at verse 23. It says, When you persecute, when they persecute you in a city, flee to another. For assuredly I say to you, Uh you will not have gone through the cities of Israel before the Son of Man comes. A disciple is not above his teacher, nor a servant above his master. It is enough for a disciple that he be like his teacher, and a servant like his master. If they have called the master of the house of Beelzebub, how much more will they call those of his household? Therefore do not fear them. For there is nothing covered that will be received revealed, and hidden that will not be made known. He says, when you go into a city, if you are persecuted in that city, move on to another city. And realize That as you move on from one city to the next, don't stay in the city, just move on. Keep moving. And as you do that, realize this, and this is a very difficult verse. It says You will not have gone through the cities of Israel before the Son of Man comes. And there's real debate as to what it means when it says before the Son of Man comes. Some suggest that it's talking about the second coming of Christ, and that's understandable because in Matthew 24, as we read, you have the same kind of wording there. The problem with interpreting of that is this seems very specific to have gone through the cities of Israel. And then before that happens, the Son of Man will come. What is it talking about there? I think more likely what it's talking about is a general reference to Christ's judgment of the nation of Israel. This is something that Matthew is going to mention on several occasions throughout his book, that Jesus has come to offer salvation to Israel, to offer the opportunity to follow him, but also to judge Israel as well. For example, in Matthew 12, verses 36 through 37, which we'll get to more in detail later. It says, But I say to you, that every idle word men may speak, they will give account in the day of judgment. And speaking to the to religious leaders here, Israel For by your words you will be justified, and by your words you will be condemned. I think he's talking here about a general he's saying that he's saying that you will not get everywhere before there will be a general A judgment for the nation of Israel. Then he says this. He wants to remind them that, look, you're not above your master, and so you are going to undergo persecution. You are going to go opposition. I remember when I was in college I don't know why I'm giving all these college illustrations, I don't usually do that, but um when I was in college I was in an old testament survey class and the teacher was a was a pastor previously to to being a teacher there, instructor. And and he would give a lot of illustrations about all the problems he had in ministry, in his church. And he pastored for quite a while, I think in Pennsylvania. Which is ironic. And I used to sit there and listen and think to myself, it'll happen to him, but it's not going to happen to me That he'd go through these different illustrations of how and I I don't know if I consciously said that but I said, well just because he went through that doesn't mean that I have to go through it. And they're like horrific stuff. Like ha hard, really, really hard things, rejection and And church splits and all kinds of things like that. And all kinds of anguish and I'd sit in his class and I would listen and I'd listen and I'd go, What you know, in my own uh Foolish youthful optimism. I thought, well, my ministry won't necessarily be like that. And you know what? That was so foolish and youthful. And optimistic. Because it actually has been, I mean, I'm I'm thankful for you all, but it has not always been uh a loving bed of roses And I think that Jesus, I don't know if this is what he's thinking, but Jesus is reiterating, look, this will h just so you know. You may be listening, disciples, and you might be saying, okay, it'll happen to you, but it's not going to happen. It is going to happen to you. The master is not, the servant is not above his master. And you know what's interesting is When you go over to John chapter 15 and many, many other places, Jesus keeps saying this. It will happen to you. And there is a general understanding in the New Testament that Christians will suffer for righteousness' sake. It will happen. Don't think it won't happen to you. That's why he's going to say, Peter's going to say in his book, don't think it's strange when fiery trials come upon you. Don't be a don't be don't think that's odd. It's not. The servant is not above his master And it's important for us to understand that as well. We live in relative peace. Most of us have not experienced a great deal of being persecuted for righteousness' sake, although Opposition for righteousness' sake can include all kinds of things, including choosing to be honest when it would be detrimental to do so, choosing to say the right thing and walk away from difficult situations and And living for righteousness' sake, doing do those are included in the entire idea. And many, I've heard many kinds of demotions and failure to get promotions and all kinds of things that the Christian goes through. And that is a But certainly to some level that's exactly that that is suffering for righteousness. It's going to happen. And if it hasn't happened to you yet, Christian, it will at some point. Don't think it's strange when it happens. But what Jesus then says is, don't fear it, but understand that God sees all. He sees everything. He sees all the injustice. He sees all the problems. He sees all of it And although there will be a delay, we want to see the execution of justice much faster than God does. Although there will be a delay, God will judge. If you think over to the book of Revelation, which we went through a few not too long ago in Sunday school. The context of the book of Revelation is that the audience are people who are suffering from persecution. And there are several times throughout that book. sort of caveats to explain that what's happening to the martyrs and the saints in heaven as they view God's justice and God's even God's wrath that's poured out. on those who have persecuted his church. And in Romans or Revelation chapter 14, verse 8, it says this. In fact, go ahead and take your Bibles and turn there for a moment. Revelation chapter 14, verse 8, it says this. And another angel followed, saying, Babylon has fallen, is fallen, and that great city, because he has made all nations drink of the wine of the wrath of our fornic fornication. Then the third angel followed him, saying, with a loud voice, if anyone worships the beast of his image and receives his mark on his forehead or on his hand, He himself shall also drink of the wine of the wrath of God, which is poured out full strength into the cup of his indignation. He shall be tormented with fire and brimstone in the presence of the holy angels and in the presence of the Lamb. And the smoke of their torment ascends forever and ever, and they have no rest day or night who worship the beast in his image and whoever receives the mark of his name. Here is the patience of the saints. Here is the endurance of the saints. Here are those who keep the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus. Then I heard a voice from heaven saying to me, Write, Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on. Yes, says the Spirit, that they may rest from their labors and their works follow them. And wrapping all of this up, I want to point out three important principles. Number one We should not fear or worry about opposition, but we should expect opposition. In serving the Lord and following after the Lord, we should not worry, uh fear or worry about opposition. But we should expect it. 1 Peter 3 tells us this. Do not be afraid of their frets, nor be troubled. But we uh it's better of the will of God to suffer for good, for doing good, than for doing evil. In 1986, a man by the name of Martin and his wife Gracia Burnham began serving as missionaries in the new in New Tribes mission in the Philippines. Martin grew up in the Philippines with his missionary parents, and he wanted to be a mission aviator pilot his entire life. While celebrating their 18th wedding anniversary in Das Palamas resort from Palawan Island, they were kidnapped on May 27, 2001 by Abu Sayyev Group, a terrorist group. of Filipino rebels. They were held hostage for three hundred and seventy-six days in the jungles of Basil Basilan and Medana m Medano. When the Filipino military group attempted to rescue them, Gratia was wounded and Martin was killed. During that their captivity, they shared with their captors the food that was sent to them, and they also shared the gospel with them and challenged the rebels Muslims belief. When Gratia reunited with her family, she said this. We want everyone to know that God was good to us every single day of our captivity. Martin was also a source of strength to the other hostages. He was a good man and he died well. This is his wife. He died well. Dan German, an executive with New Tribes Mission, said to Martin and Gracia, these are people who love God and didn't reluctantly move toward a mission field. They did it gladly because they their eyes were fixed on him. In that sense, they're modern-day heroes. Martin once said, apparently, Martin once said this: I am not called to the Philippines or to be a missionary. I'm called to serve. Christ. Folks, we may not be called to the Philippines or called to be a missionary, but all of us, if you name the name of Christ, you are called to serve Him. And that service to Christ is going to necessarily include suffering for Him. But rest assured, do not worry, do not be fearful, because in suffering for righteousness' sake By the grace of God, we will be able to say every day was good when we were at captivity. God wants us to, number three, God wants us to realize he sees all and will execute justice in his time. The Bible tells us, vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord. In 1 Peter, which is really our clear book on this whole subject. In 1 Peter 3, verse 12, it says this, for the eyes of the Lord are righteous, and his ears are open to their prayers, but the face of the Lord is against those that do evil. We do not have to worry about retribution. We do not have to worry about trying to make things right in our world, about trying to uh uh deal with oppressors, deal no, God will do that in his time because he sees all and he knows all Our responsibility is to faith be faithful unto the end, to endure, to respond in faith to the to the things that God gives us as a testimony. to him by the grace of God. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and praise you for who you are. We thank you for Christ, and we thank you for the mission that we clearly see. And Father, we confess before you that when we think of Christianity, when we think of the Christian faith, we often think of all of the benefits that it affords us. And certainly it does. We have eternal life. We have a relationship with you. Father, you have commissioned us to live for you and to serve Christ. No matter what vocation we find ourselves in We are now sojourners and pilgrims in this world. Our true citizenship is in heaven. And we are now all on mission. Lord, would you remind us of this and teach us this? And help us, Lord, to, with the power of the Spirit of God and with the grace of God, would you help us to serve you faithfully in our world? And we'll look to you for strength that we do not have. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.