Let us pray together. Heavenly Father, we are grateful this morning for your goodness and your kindness. Father, toward us. The mercy that you've shown us, the grace and the love that you have bestowed upon us. And Father, as we come together this morning to sit under your word and your teaching, I pray for those, Lord, who are unable to be here this morning, those who are not feeling well Well, I pray, dear God, through your spirit, to work in them this morning and comfort them and encourage them. May they find their encouragement and their strength And Father, we ask that you would help us this morning to re move aside all those cares and concerns of the weak and all the distractions in our life. For this next hour upon your word, Father. And I pray that you would give us ears to hear and eyes to see and hearts to receive. That in all things your great name would be praised and honored and glorified Glorified in us as we leave this place today, being refreshed and renewed in your word. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. We're going to be in Matthew chapter twenty This morning, looking at verses 1 through 14. Matthew chapter 22, verses 1 through 14. And Jesus answered and spoke to them again by parables and said The kingdom of heaven is like a certain king who arranged a marriage for his son, and sent out servants to call those who were invited to the wedding, and they were not willing to come Again he set out other servants, saying, Tell those who are invited, See I have prepared my dinner, my oxen and fatted calf are killed. And all things are ready. Come to the wedding. But they made light of it, and went their ways, one to his own farm, the other to his own business And the rest seized his servants, treated them spitefully, and kill them. He was furious, and he sent out his armies, destroyed those murderers, and burned up their city. The wedding is ready, but those who were invited were not worthy. Therefore go into the highways, and as many as you find, invite to the wedding So those servants went out into the highways and gathered together all whom they found, both bad and good, and the wedding hall was filled with guests But when the king came in to see the guest, he saw a man there who did not have on wedding garments. So he said to him, Friend, how did you come in here without a wedding garment? And he was speechless. Then the king said to the servants, Bind him hand and foot, take him away, and cast him into the outer darkness. There will be weeping and gnashing of teeth For many are called, but few are chosen. And um this is about Josh, so any stepping out that could be dangerous. But anyway, um with Josh Mullins and um and we had uh a good time buying hot dogs and things like that for the uh for the uh uh thing on on Tuesday and uh but I also somehow came home with a box of frozen shrimp and a box of bacon. And uh it's dangerous going shopping with Josh. I came home And uh I mean so the both were very both are good. But anyway, so so uh I got this griddle a c Blackstone griddle a few weeks back Um my grill was not working properly and I decided to get a it's green, buddy. Um sorry, they're they're waving at me back back there But anyway, um so um I got how how many of y'all know what a black string grill is? Okay, like four of you could. You should go look it up after. Don't Google it now. Anyway, so um so I made this I I went to you know, cooking takes a lot of work I found, 'cause I'm not a cook and I'm like looking on YouTube and figuring out how to do all this and how to because now I have to justify it. Like now now I'm coming home my wife and my wife's like, what in the world are you gonna do with all this bacon and shrimp So I'm looking up recipes and trying to figure out how how to how to do this on this grill. And so yes last so I made um shrimp fried rice And uh and I made this big thing of it. I mean I made uh we got the rice and I got all the the I I I did it with bacon No, that's not normal, but anything's better with bacon. So I did it with bacon and shrimp, got and I filled the whole pretty much the whole griddle. It's a thirty six inch griddle, the whole thing with shrimp fried rice on the grill. And uh it it took a lot of effort, a lot of time. Uh and af and I got it all in a bowl and got everything ready and I can just imagine what I would feel like If I got all that together, sat it in front of my my family and they said, Ew, I don't want that. Now thankfully my kids are old enough to not do that kind of thing. And uh so they were very enthusiastic about it. And uh and I think enjoy it as well. But um but when you go to great expense and great effort to do something and you invite people for them to not want to come or for them to just refuse to come or for them to look down their nose at what I mean that is something that is you can imagine it being all all of you cooks out there, you can imagine what that would feel like. You go you go to go to great lengths to do something and your kids ch look turn your their nose down at it. Have you ever had that happen Dads, that's a discipline time out offense, more than time out offense. Definitely a lot more than timeout, but Anyway, so what Jesus is doing in this passage is actually trying to help people to understand Understand what it's like from his perspective when people reject his invitation or the father's invitation to be part of the kingdom. Now when you let's I just want to for a minute think about back when you were first saved. Many have had this testimony when they first came to Christ, that it was like a light bulb clicked on, everything made sense And they assumed that when they went out to tell others, everybody would just latch onto this, that of course this is the most wonderful thing ever, and they would just go for it and then And then they realized actually when they gave the gospel to people it didn't really work out that way. What Why do people not come to Christ? Why do people respond the way they do to the invitation of Jesus to be a part of the kingdom? And this passage is going to answer that. But it's not just going to answer it from the perspective of people, it's going to answer it from the perspective of God. And he's going to use an illustration that everybody's speaking to, the multitudes of people he's speaking to, along with the scribes and the Pharisees and You got a lot of people there during the the final week before his death, during uh uh the Passion Week, this is on Wednesday. He's speaking to all of these people and they're gonna immediately understand what a wedding feast is Wedding feast was not something that just happened, you know, we our weddings today happened for a few hours and you're done. They happened, they went on for days, sometimes weeks, and there was huge expense. That's the same as today And there was massive preparation. And on top of this, this passage says that it's actually the king putting on this feast for his son. Why is Jesus doing this? He is trying to help the multitude and the religious leaders understand from his perspective and from his father's perspective What exactly it looks like, and maybe even feels like, to have the various responses that you're going to see in the passage to this invitation. So we're going to look at the responses of Christ's kingdom invitation. And we're going to see three different responses. We're going to see rejection of the invitation in verses 1 through 7. Then we're going to see accepting the universal call, accepting the universal call. And then finally in verses 8 through 10, then we're going to finally see it coming in a certain manner, verses 11 through 14. rejecting the invitation 1 through 7, accepting the universal call, 8 through 10, and coming in a certain manner. So first we're going to see the rejecting of the invitation, verses chapter twenty-two, verses one through seven. who arranged a marriage for his son, and sent out his servants to call those who were invited to the wedding And they were not willing to come. Again he sent out other servants saying, Tell those who are invited, See I have prepared my dinner, my oxen and fatted cattle are killed, and all things are ready. come in the wedding. But they made lit light of it, and went their ways, one to his own farm, another to his business, and the rest seized his servants, treated them spitefully, and killed them When the king heard about it, he was furious, and he sent out his armies and destroyed these those murderers, burned up their city. The bridegroom, as we have already said, is clearly Jesus. He is he is the one that is depicted here. And we've seen this before in other passages. In Matthew chapter 9, verse 15, it says, Jesus said to them, Can friends of the bridegroom mourn as long as the bridegroom is with them? Jesus himself calls himself a bridegroom. In Matthew 25, 1, then the kingdom of heaven should be likened to ten virgins who took their lamps and went out to meet the bridegroom And John three twenty-nine, he who has has the bride is the bridegroom, the friend of the bridegroom who stands, hears him, rejoices greatly when the bridegroom's bo So Jesus in this passage is the bridegroom, the son of the king And we have this invitation. He sent out his servants to call those who were invited to the wedding. Now, the initial invitation It's really the nation of Israel. That's the initial invitation, the calling of those that were was the nation of Israel from the Old Testament. And we find In Scripture, many times in the Old Testament, they were called to be a great nation. In Genesis chapter 12, verse 2, I will make you a great nation, and I will bless you and make your name great, and you shall be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you, and I will curse him who curses you, and in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed. Hosea 11. 1, when Israel was a child I loved him and out of Egypt I called my son. Amos 3. 2, you only have known all of the family So we see that God calls Israel to Himself. He invites Israel into His kingdom. What is the response? Verse 3, they were not willing to come. They were simply unwilling to come. So, what is absolutely necessary in order to be part of the kingdom of God is, in a sense, of both the mind, the will, three things: the mind, the will, and the emotions. In other words, you can accept this invitation to the kingdom of God mentally, but if you don't accept it with your will then and with your emotions, then that is not true saving faith. And the problem that we have in this passage is actually not a problem of the mind. And some people that is the problem, the difficulty that they're having. is that they are they're not believing with their mind what is true. There is some sort of there is some sort sort of barrier in the way where they are thinking to themselves, well, um the death and resurrection of Christ is not verifiable or this isn't scientific or there's something mentally that is hanging them up. But folks, very often it's not, it's not, that's not the issue. More often, and really behind it all, is often the issue of the will, the issue of what the true desire really is And in this case, they were not willing. The problem was a problem of the will. In the Old Testament with Israel, the problem is the problem of the mind. I mean, you have Prophet after prophet, you've got God speaking to them in a in voices, you've got the the the Ten Commandments who are etched in stone. You have all kinds of verified ex Experiences that that the nation of Israel knew who God was. But the problem was still the will, and they were unwilling. And frankly, we have the same problem today, don't we? Why do people not come to Christ? Why would people not accept the things that are freely given by Christ, the eternal destiny, the assurance of heaven? Why would people not do that? Well, really, often it's really a problem of the will, the desire. But we see the patience of the king in this passage. I mean, you invite somebody to a feast, a wedding feast, and they say they're not willing to come, you know, usually what do you do? Fine, I'll go. Don't let the door slam on your back. I mean I mean that might be the the the result the the response that you might have if you somebody you know rebuffs your invitation to come That's not Jesus. That's not the Father. He he he asks them again. He invites them again. Notice what it says in verse 4 Tell those who are already invited. He tells his servants, go back out. Tell those who are already invited, see, I have prepared my dinner. My oxen and fatted cattle are killed. He's enticing them. He's saying, look, it's all ready for you. It's all prepared. Why don't you come to this feast? We frankly see the love of God in this passage. We see the mercy of God, the pursuit of God, the nation of Israel. And Jesus, in his earthly ministry, he entices people to come to him as well. Not with, you know, how you'll you'll have everything going right in your life if you come to me, or all you'll have all the wealth in the world if you come to me. Not with those temporal things But he does say things like Matthew 11, 28, Come to me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Or John fourteen twenty-six, peace, I 1427, peace I leave with you My peace I give to you. Not as the world gives to you, do I give to you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. I give you peace. Or John 10:10, the thief does not come except to steal and to kill and to destroy. I have come that you may have life and that more abundantly. Or John 15, 11, these things have I spoken to you, that my joy may remain in you, that your joy may be full. Christ comes and he explains that you can have rest and peace and abundant life and joy if you will come into my kingdom entices people to come This tells us something of the character of God. And what's the response, verse 5? They made light of it. The expense, the effort that he no doubt put into this wedding feast for his own son, the honor of being invited to this feast. They're indifferent. They make light of it. This is an interesting word. In 1 Timothy 4, verse 14, the word is translated neglect. Do not neglect the gift that is in you. In Hebrews 2, 3, it's the word escape. In Hebrews 8, 9, it's the word disregarded. And in 2 Peter 1. 12, it's the word negligent, to neglect, to escape, to disregard, to make light of. They made light of this. The king, the king invites them to a feast that he has prepared and he has gone to great lengths and great expense And they're making light of it. They are indifferent. They aren't willing. They don't care. They don't put the right level of priority on it. That's the problem. Why? What's keeping them from placing this high priority on the kingdom of God? Two things. One goes to his farm, the other to his business. They're preoccupied. They're preoccupied with their own life, with their own business. Now, I want to point out that it doesn't say here they're preoccupied with all kinds of evil things. It doesn't say here they're preoccupied with terrible things and all that they're just too engrossed in their sin to be able to realize the offer that's being made to them. No, they're they're preoccupied by their farm, by their livelihood. They're preoccupied by their business. I mean that's pretty much the only two options you had back then If you are a Jewish person in the first century, you've you're it's the grarian society, so either you're farming or you're helping to sell those things that are being farmed, or textiles, or those kind of you know. Well, that'd be farm too any, all those kind of things. And so they they don't see the priority, they don't, they're they're not willing, they're neglecting, they're making light of And it gets worse. Verses 6 through 7, then we find that it says that some of them are actually going to treat these servants whom the king has sent out with hostility. Now this is shocking. Anybody who's hearing this, the multitude that's hearing this, the religious leaders that are hearing this The idea that the king would invite them to a feast and not only be unwilling, not even consider it a great honor, not give it a great priority, but also get to the place where it is something that is. that they're actually putting to death the very service that are giving them the the opportunity and the offer and the invitation. They're putting them to death. This is shocking. And yet, do you know that's exactly what has happened throughout the history of the church and even the history of Israel? I mean think of it. What happened during the Babylonian captivity? You've got Israel being taken captive. What do you have in the first century, for example You've got people that are being put to death for preaching the gospel, for preaching Christ. Who are being stoned, who are being uh put in jail. And frankly, throughout church history, in m most of the time actually, throughout church history from the first century Till now. In most regions of the world, you have had some level of persecution. And you know who it's by, usually? It's not by who you would think. It's not usually by Satanists. It's not even usually by the secular, you know, secular eye secular people that are non-religious. Do you know more often than not, the people that have persecuted Christians, the servants, the messengers? It's really those who who are in false religions and organized religion. Those are the ones who've actually, for the most part, persecuted Christians. It's those who actually under the name of Christ persecute those who are really preaching Christ. So Jesus explains, this is the perspective of the king toward the invitation that the king is giving. Come join the bridegroom, Jesus. Now, what does Jesus do? Or what does the father, or what does the king rather do, the father of the king? Well, obviously he's going to punish them now. The king heard about it and was furious. We get that, right? I mean, can you imagine? It that would be infuriating. You send out an invitation and they kill the messenger. I mean you've you've heard the phrase don't shoot the messenger. They did. Literally. I mean maybe not with a gun, but they should they killed him And so Jesus does, or the king rather, at this point, he does destroy these murderers. And it says he burns up, they he burns up their city. Now there's some people try to try to analyze this too much and they sort of look at the city and they say, well how can people come from because there are going to be people that come from the city? And that's really not the point of this at all. The point is simply that you do finally have judgment upon these people. And you find the same thing over in the book of Revelation, for example, where you have you have those who are martyred for their faith. And then there is this promise that those who have put them to death will suffer the judgment of God. Judges 1 8 says, Now the children of Judah fought against Jerusalem and took Isaiah five, twenty-four through twenty-five show another another time where I'll just read it. It says, Therefore, as the fire devours the stubble and the flame consumes the chap, so their root will be as rottenness, and the blossom w will ascend like dust, because they are rejec they have rejected the law of the Lord of hosts. And despise the word of the Holy One of Israel. Therefore the anger of the Lord is aroused against his people. He has stretched out his hand against them and stricken them, and hit and the hills trembled. Their carcasses were as refuse in the midst of the streets, for all his anger is not turned away, but his hand is stretched out still. I am hearing s a ringing back here guys, the the feedback, everything I say is there's a ringing. If you guys just turn me down a little bit, that'll probably solve the problem. I've kinda waited, but I've uh it it started I I can't even raise my voice. Okay, much better. Thank you. I appreciate that. I don't know if you well could hear it, but I was I was having a hard time. Um so what's going on here? Well we see we see the patience of God and the justice of God We see that God is both patient and God is just, and that's something we need to understand about the character of God Genesis chapter six verse three says this My spirit shall not strive with man forever, for he is indeed flesh Yet his days shall be 120 years. There is a final time. God is extremely patient. He is extremely merciful. He is extremely loving, but there is a finality about the fact that he will ultimately punish evil. These people were unwilling, they were indifferent, they were apathetic, they were focused on their own livelihood. And then we see the enemy of Christianity is are these religious people. Now we move on in the story, and we now find that what the king does after all of this It's he is now going to he is going to set forth a universal invitation that is accepted. The accepting of the universal call we pick up in verse 8 And he said to his servants, The wedding is ready, but those who were invited were not worthy. Therefore go into the highways and many as you find, invite to the wedding. So those servants went out into the highways and gathered together all whom they found, bad and good, and the wedding hall was filled with guests. So Jesus says now that the these two invitations, these the the the the repeated invitations the enticement to come has all been rebuffed, it's all been rejected. And so now you have this universal call to everyone He says that the people that were initially invited are unworthy. He's really pointing out that the people that he is talking to who are ultimately going to reject him, even the multitudes, they're going to reject Jesus. When they find out he's not going to take the kingdom by force, they're going to reject him. They're going to say, crucify him days from now. And so they they don't accept the invitation, they are not worthy. The word is sometimes translated uh deserving or fitting. They're not worthy, they're not deserving, they are not fitting of the kingdom. Why? Because they did not accept the kingdom. They didn't accept the invitation. Now, why didn't they accept the invitation? Well, in Matthew chapter 18, verses 3 through 4, we find this: Assuredly I say to you, unless you are converted and become as little children, you will by no means enter the kingdom of heaven. Therefore, whoever humbles himself as little children is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven. What was the problem? These people were filled, they were not humble. They were not accepting of the invitation with grateful humility. They should have been grateful. They should have realized that this is the king, and we are honored to receive the invitation to his son's wedding. And yet they were not. And because they thought they were worthy, in fact, too worthy to even come, the irony is they weren't worthy at all. In Matthew chapter 3, verse 8, it says, Therefore bear fruits worthy of repentance. So the king says to the servants, Go out into the street corners. What is he talking about there? Go where the common people are. Go where the pe go go go the where the people that aren't even property owners, that don't that they're the lowest of society. Go to them. And and by the way, that's exactly what Jesus did, didn't he? He goes to the sinners and the tax collectors and the publicans, all those and the and the uh and all those kinds of people John chapter 3, verse 16, we know this well. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. So God, because of the rejection by Israel, he opens up his kingdom to all. There is this universal call to everyone, this offer to everyone. Second Peter chapter three verse nine says, The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some count slackness, but is long suffering toward us, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. You have this universal call of everyone. And it's indiscriminate. It doesn't matter whether you're good or whether you're bad. We see that here in the passage, both good, bad, and good. And this is consistent with Jesus' ministry, Matthew 1, verse 21. And she will bring forth a son and shall call his name Jesus, and he will save his people from what? From their sins. In Matthew nine Verses ten through eleven, now it happened as Jesus sat at the table in the house, that behold, many tax collectors and sinners came and sat down with him and his disciples And when the Pharisees saw it, they said to his disciples, Why does your teacher eat with tax collectors and sinners? He ate with them. Jesus said, I've come not to be served, but to serve and to give his life a ransom for many. And Luke 19, 10 says, He has come to seek and to save that which was lost. There is this offer and this invitation to all to come to Christ. And this offer and invitation is extended And he tells his disciples after his resurrection to go into all uh to go make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, Matthew 28. And even in the book of Revelation, we find at the very end of the Bible, you have this, verse 9, Revelation chapter 5, and they sang a new song. You are worthy to take the scroll and open its seals. Then you were slain and redeemed us to God by your blood out of every tribe and tongue and people and nation. And have made us kings and priests to our God, we shall reign on the earth. The fulfillment and the culmination that God has called of called people from every tribe and kindred and trust and nation. So the socially worthy became those who were unworthy in God's estimation. And those who were socially unworthy accepted humble with humble gratefulness the invitation to come, and the room was filled, the features The feast was filled with guests. But coming in the right way is important. So we see here finally in verses eleven through fourteen that as people came, there was one who came. And we see that he didn't come in the right way. He was missing a garment. It says, but when the king came in to see the guests, he saw a man there who did not have a wedding garment. Now Um we we don't exactly know what how far they went as far as w winning garments back then. Did they actually hand out particular garments back then four wedding feasts that they wore. That's entirely possible. That made and and and from the passage we We can infer certainly that the wedding garments were handed out by the king. He provided them. Because the response that we're going to see, or the lack of response that we're going to see from this person person. So that's surely the case. I thought the in it would be analogous to a wedding today, and weddings have become much more um much more casual in the last decade or so. But back when I was even back when I was married, which was, you know, almost twenty years ago, um which is But anyway, uh uh almost twenty years ago, I mean I wore a tux that everybody wore you know, the guys wore tuxes and the women girls wore fancy dresses and it would be really, really odd to show up at a wedding in blue jeans. That would be s that would you would feel very, very much out of place. I don't know about the day, but that's the way it was twenty years ago anyway And you would you would just feel really strange to be there. It would everybody you'd be you would feel conspicuous and people would be like, why didn't that person dress up? I mean, that would be the way it was. If you go back even to the first, even even back in revolutionary times, uh dress was extremely important, clothing was extremely important. There is a lot of detail that has been preserved of how George Washington ordered at great expense, very, very precise and specific all garments and clothing um that were it was sent to England and and everything was he he wanted everything particular way with parti parti particular expensive kinds of uh even in fact even even George Washington, even when he was fiscally in a in a bad situation, he was in debt very, very badly and and really financially financially in in in uh almost ruin a couple of times he still is ordering these extremely expensive clothes uh for his inauguration for example he was doing very badly at that point financially And uh he he he still got these very, very expensive clothes because you just had to have the right kind of clothing uh in order to present yourself in a way that is going to be acceptable and respected. by people. And that was certainly the case in the first century. In fact, clothing was really the status symbol in the first century. Think of a, you know Maybe a BMW or a fancy car is a status symbol today, or maybe a big house. Back then it was actually your clothing that was a status symbol. So this this person was out of place It's really, and so what is it talking about here? What is the illustration or the metaphor here? We get a clue as to what this is. In Isaiah 61 verse 10 it says this, I will greatly rejoice in the Lord. My soul shall be joyful in my God, for he hath clothed me. With the garments of salvation. He has covered me with the robe of righteousness. As a bridegroom decks himself with ornaments, and as a bride adorns herself with jewels. And so very likely what we're talking about here, it's not explicit in the passage, but very likely what we're talking about here is righteousness. Righteousness. Let me explain why. For example, I probably quoted this verse from Matthew more than any other verse so far in our study. Matthew chapter 5, verse 20 This is over and over and over again through the book of Matthew. He's trying to get this across. Jesus says, He says, unless your righteousness exceeds the righteousness of the scribes and the Pharisees, you will by no means enter the kingdom of God. heaven. You cannot enter the kingdom without the right kind of righteousness In Matthew chapter 7, verses 21 through 23. You remember that passage? It says, Not everyone says to be Lord, Lord, shall enter the kingdom of heaven, but he who does the will of my Father in heaven Many will say to me, In that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in your name, cast out demons in your name, and done many wonders in your name? And then I will declare to them, I never knew you depart from me The problem there, Matthew chapter seven, and we have seen over and over through the book of Matthew, he is constantly Pointing out that the religious leaders of the day were they were attempting to enter the kingdom of God with their own righteousness. Instead of the righteousness of God, the righteousness of Christ, self-righteousness was the problem. So this really illustrates the religious leader who is attempting to come into the kingdom and the king spots him. And says, you don't have the right kind of righteousness. Hebrews 12, verse 14 says, Pursue peace with all people and holiness without which no one will see the Lord. 2 Corinthians 5, verse 21, He has made him who knew no sin to be sin for us that we might become the righteousness of God in him. Romans four, twenty two through twenty-five. It is accounted to him for righteousness. Now it was not written for his sake alone, that it was imputed to him, but also for us. It shall be imputed to us who believe in him who is raised Jesus. our Lord from the dead and it delivered up because of our offenses and raised because of our justification. We must have We must be clothed with the righteousness of Christ in order to be in the kingdom of God. Now, when the king confronts them, and and he confronts them gently actually, he says, friend How do you come in here without a wedding a wedding garment? Everybody has a certain kind of clothing. They are intended to have that. How are you to come in here with a wedding gar without a wedding garment? And uh and how does he answer? He says it says he was speechless. He said nothing. Now, if he was supposed to bring his own wedding garment, Then he would have said, Well, I have a wedding garment on. Or if he was supposed to if they didn't uh uh uh you know he or or or he would have said, I didn't I don't have a wedding garment. But the issue was it was provided for him and he was speechless and he could say nothing. There was no excuse. There was no reason given. There was nothing. He could say nothing. And folks, that is exactly what's going to happen at the judgment. for the non-Christian. The non-Christian is going to stand before God one some someday and and he is going to And he is going to be judged by whether or not he has his own self-righteousness or Christ's righteousness. That's the two options. His righteousness or Christ's righteousness. And if he has his own self-righteousness, there is going to be nothing that he can say Because the offer has been extended. The invitation has been given. He stands before the Lord. There is nothing that he can say. As a result, I mean you have invitation after invitation given. You have the patience and the mercy And the and all of that given, and as a result you have justice. And this man does not put uh fails to put the righteousness of Christ on. Verse thirteen Then the king said to the servants, bind him hand and foot, take him away, and cast him into outer darkness, for there is weeping and now There is judgment. Now you might say to yourself, well that is so harsh, is it really? Aren't you glad that there is ultimately justice in the world? That ultimately Christ will judge. He would not be God if he did not judge. And so we can be actually thankful. This is, I think, a clear reference to hell, to a place called hell. It is a real place. It is someplace where people will go if they refuse to accept the invitation of the kingdom. And over and over in the book of Matthew, we have multiple times this is a warning to people. that they must accept Christ's righteousness for themselves. Matthew 8. 12, Matthew 13, 42, he says, I will cast them into the furnace of fire. There will be wailing and gnashing of teeth Over and over we find that this is a reality. Why? Why is that a reality? Because he says this, for many are called But few are chosen. Many are invited. You see the universal invitation of all people to come The offer of Christ, what Christ did on the cross, has the ability to save every soul. It is it is a universal offer that says few are chosen Now, what does it mean when it says chosen? Up till now, what we have seen so far is that in every the whole situation has been human response. So far what we've seen is we've got an imit we've got an initial invitation and they're unwilling. We've got enticement and another invitation and they're they don't they make light of it. Then you have all peop many, many people accept the universal call. Somebody tries to get in without the righteousness of Christ. He's identified Everything so far has been based upon the response of all of the people. But this word chosen, you can't look at that way. In Matthew chapter 24, verse 22, it's the word elect. Unless those days are shortened, no flesh shall be saved. For the elect's sake, those days will be shortened. Same thing again in Acts 24, 24. Again in Acts 24, 31. He will gather together his elect from the four winds. Romans 8:33 says this: Who shall bring a charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies. Colossians 3:12, therefore, as the elect of God, holy and beloved, put on tender mercies. Kindness, humility, meekness, long suffering. First Peter 29 says, And you are a chosen, same word, you are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, his own special people that you may proclaim. Ephesians 1 3 through 6 says this Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in heavenly places in Christ. Just as He chose us, He chose us, same word, in Him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before Him in love. having predestined us to the adoption of as sons by Jesus Christ to himself, according to the good pleasure of his will to the praise of the glory of his grace by which uh he made us accepted in the beloved. Now folks, you I a lot of people don't like they want to talk about the response of people But they don't want to talk about God's sovereign choice, God's sovereign election. Do you know what you have here? You have both. You've got man's response, man's responsibility, and God's Choice, God's selection. You have all three in this passage. So which is it? Is man responsible? Does man have the opportunity to respond? Or does God choose Whom he will. And the answer is yes. It's all of it. There is no way of getting around it. And it doesn't and let me uh I'll illustrate it this way. Um uh we all mo well most of us drive cars. And um if you're dri if you don't know the make and model of the car, if you don't know much about the make and model of a car, you might be able to guess at this. But if you're watching a car drive down the road Can you tell whether it's front wheel drive or three-wheel drive? It's just coming down the road, come down Wilhelm Avenue, you're pulling out. Can you tell just by watching the thing run, can you tell whether it's front wheel drive or wheel wheel drive. You can't. There is no way that you could tell. Now if you know the make and model of the car, you can make some estimations. You can kind of guess at it. If it's a pickup truck, it's either going to be real wheel drive or or or um Or four-wheel drive, but but just but just by looking at how the wheels turn, you can't tell Unless you're in snow and ice and you start spinning, and you can tell which which wheels spin and which wheels don't Or you put the thing up on lift and you hit the gas pedal and you see which wheels spin and which wheels don't. Now it's very uh uh it's not a perfect illustration because every illustration breaks down except the divine illustration. It's not a divine illustration, but it's the same thing when it comes to man's response and God's choice. You can't tell one from the other as far as our perspective. But the truth is the one that drives it. There is no way around this. The one that drives it is God's sovereign choice. There's no way around that. You see it all the way through Scripture. Who is the one who initiates everything? It's God. Who is the one who chooses It's God. And that should not frustrate us. That should not there is a paradox here. There is There is a uh it's just like the Trinity. You've got the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. The Father is God, but not the Son The Son is God, but not the Father, and not the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is God, but not the Son, but not God and not How is that possible that that each one has a distinct person but each one is God and there is only one God. You can't reconcile all that. And there's a sense in which you can't reconcile this evil You have to accept everything that the Bible believes on the matter. And where people get in trouble is when they don't take the whole counsel of God together. They don't see the whole thing together. And they would prefer to take one selected truth to the exclusion of the other. And the fact is, if someone says that man is not responsible because God is the one who chooses, they're in error. Or if God does if man does not have an invitation to respond because God is the one that chooses there in error. But if God if somebody says God uh man is man uh can respond and God does not is not involved in the choice, they are also in error. You must take all of what Scripture says together. And the truth of the matter is the Christians should see that The Christians should see that God is ruler and sovereign over all. And really, it's intended to be a blessing. It's like you go through a door, and when you go through the door, you see whosoever will shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. You walk through the door, and on the other side you see chosen before the foundation of the earth It's really both. And that is exactly how we need to understand it. And we need to understand, and I'll just say this. Because God has a universal call to everyone and is not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance, what's our responsibility? To tell everyone. Charles uh uh um uh Charles Spurgeon said it this way. He said, if I were to put a yellow st if God put a yellow stripe Down the back of every person that was going to come to Christ, I would just pull everybody's shirt off and witness the people to have you have a yellow stripe. But since he hasn't do done that, our responsibility is to tell everyone. And that is exactly what we ought to do. So in summarizing all of this, let's let's come up with let's understand three concluding applications. Number one The only worthy response to King Jesus' invitation to join his kingdom is undeserving grateful acceptance. The only worthy response to Christ's invitation to the kingdom is undeserving grateful acceptance. And I would just simply ask you this morning, have you come to the place in your life where you have accepted the invitation of the kingdom of God that is offered to all of us, offered to everyone. It is offered to you this morning. If you don't know Christ as your Lord and Savior, if you are not under his rule, if you're not You have the opportunity this morning to say in a way, I am undeserving, I am sinful, Christ died to pay the punishment for for my sin I can accept his righteousness, not my own, but his righteousness on uh on my behalf so that I can be I can be rightly related to God. I can be in the wedding feast. I can be in the king. Undeserving, grateful acceptance is the only worthy response. Number two, in God's sovereign plan, he extended a universal invitation to join his kingdom In God's sovereignty, he extends a universal invitation to join his kingdom. And number three, God's choice includes man's responsibility and man's response. You have to have all of it together. God's choice includes man's responsibility and man's response. So that, the point is simply this. Do you have the righteousness of Christ applied to you or not? And the answer is this. If you have in your mind and in your will and in your emotions, you've accepted those things by faith. You have understood your sin. You have understood that you are your sinner your sin separates you from God. And you've understood in your mind that Jesus Christ died to pay the punishment for your sin, to take him, he took your sin on himself, died for you, so that he could give you his righteousness And you understand that, and then by your will, you accept it by faith. Then you, the Bible says, you will be saved. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and thank you for this passage. Thank you for the perspecti perspective that we see. Your perspective on On the response to the invitation of the kingdom. Lord, may we, may this, if we know Christ as our Savior, may this motivate us to get out that fall To get out that invitation, that offer to all. And if there is anybody here this morning that doesn't know you as their Savior, they have not accepted the invitation to the kingdom. I pray today they would understand their sin and their need of a Savior. They would be saved today. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for Streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273 or email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.