So he's saying he says Jesus' goal as he presents himself as king, he offers the kingdom to Israel. And when he sets up his kingdom, what are we doing now? Do you remember in the Old Testament you have Elijah, he's on Mount Carmel with all the prophets of Baal, and what's interesting in that subject in that passage that often gets overlooked It says, verse thirty-seven, The Father Himself, who sent me, has testified of me. He uses this illustration, uses the same illustration in Luke chapter 6, verses 43 through 45. I have to confess. her dad and and uh father uh we do ask that uh again that you will comfort them uh as he has left this world. this morning to worship you in spirit and in truth. Amen. The character of Jesus toward nearly everyone is one of gentleness. For I'm meek and lonely of heart and gentle and lonely of heart. twenty through twenty five twenty-four, you have him actually pronouncing judgment on entire cities that have he's gone into and he's presented the gospel of the kingdom to them, and now they But I will say it'd be more tolerable for Tyran Sidon in the day of judgment than for you. We've seen Jesus, his invitation for all of us to come to him and those who are labor and are heavy laden, and he'll give us rest. one came out. time but basically in the story there are the there are the the story of Star Wars is really an interesting story. And it is true that you have this man who thinks he's going to fix everything and solve all the world's problems, and it's he's at the height of arrogance. It's criticized for that. He declares there's no middle ground. He says something similar in John chapter four, verse thirty-four. Behold, I say to you, lift up your eyes and look at the fields, for they are already white for harvest. is that the prophets of Baal are not, they think they're not rejecting Jehovah God. And what does he say in that passage? And if you do not have an exclusive relationship with God, if you are trusting other gods or other things, then you're against him. It's slandering something. Psalm 86, 5 says this, for you, Lord, are good and ready to forgive and abundant in mercy to all those who call upon you. and pardonable sin. Okay, what is up with the Holy Spirit? I mean that just makes sense that it's not just you verifying who you are. In the court of law, you have the same kind of thing. The second witness are actually the miracles, the works that Jesus did. By cast out demons by the Spirit of God. And do you remember in the book of Exodus that the lice that were the that was one of the one of the one of the plagues, the lice were sent out, and the the A couple places in Joel by Joel chapter 2. then he will never actually come to Christ. He keeps rejecting it and he keeps rejecting it, and finally God says, enough is enough. There's none that seeks after God. He's he's on the nation of Israel. And what you want is in your heart, and it spills out in what you say. Mm Sabbath and working on the Sabbath and performing miracles and hanging out with tax collectors and public and and sinners and all that. A fire, a world of iniquity. It's God. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. 625 through eight says, My soul waits silently for God alone, for my expectation is from Him. Trust in him at all times, you people. to you, Father, and pray for comfort there and strength for the family and also, Lord, wisdom as they have to make decisions and all concerning their family, Lord, and all that's going on at their home. and give them comfort. Treatment of the Pharisees, in some cases you find his treatment to actually be gentle, but there are certain times when he he finally lays the gavel down, he or he hammers it down rather. The condemning judgment of Christ as he sets himself up as judge. You've seen Star Wars or seen most of the Star okay, really most of you, okay. And the Senator Padme says, uh well the problem is that people don't agree, and he says they should be made to agree. And then you find later on, and I think it's the next episode or yeah, I think it is. Han Solo and before the not Han Solo, is that right? and pride in saying, if you're not for me, you're against me, we can rule the world and make it what we want to be, and all this kind of thing that he says. But when you have the God of the universe that says, I'm ruling the world and I'll make it what I want to be, it's totally right. them to Israel. introduces himself as king, the leaders of Israel reject him. And then he says, and he who does not gather with me scatters abroad. That both he who sows and he who reaps may rejoice together. One sows and another reaps. Just as it was true for the Pharisees, that if you are not for Christ, you are against Christ. In Romans 8:9, it says, But you are in the in the flesh, but you are not in the flesh, you are in the Spirit. But whoever speaks against the Holy Spirit, it will not be forgiven him, either in the age in this age or in the age to come. You've been reading and studying the word for a while. So the Bible likens the Word of God to both milk and meat. I actually as a whole think that's actually not true. in Christian circles for a very long time. But don't get frustrated with it. I'm struggling at night with this pa with this passage. Maybe I could lose my salvation. That suddenly if you say this the wrong way, then you're gonna end up losing your salvation or something, or God won't forgive you. It says this, but if I cast out demons by the Spirit of God, and by the way, did Jesus do that? So that the employer can at least in part, he might be doing other things as well with references, but he can then verify your qualifications with other people. Okay, now with that in mind, would you look at verse 31 of chapter 5? In a court of law, it's just not verified. He who is burning in the shining light lamp, and he is willing for a time to rejoice in his light. You've got the first witness, it's John the Baptist. and verified who Jesus was. Now, if you go back to Matthew chapter 13, I'm sorry, Matthew 12, go back to Matthew 12. the sorcerers, the magicians, they said, we can't duplicate this. And do you remember Pharaoh's response? to bring forth life, but they could not. Bub, Jesus says, you're done. you. So it could be talking about that, but let me just say this. become together a proper there is none who does good, no not one. verses 7 through 15, we have that have it. And our need for God, and also helps us to realize from the Word of God that Christ is the answer. Sin is no longer possible. So there's a sense in which it's an unpardonable sin because you can't go any further. So if the Spirit of God is working in your heart about something, don't reject it, particularly if it's about And you are realizing, even as I preach this message, you are realizing that the void is God, that you know God's working in your life, your Holy Spirit's working in your life. Kingdom. And he's telling them, you know your heart is evil because of what you have just said. We say we have then a heart problem. A speech problem, a problem with our tongue, we have a heart problem. which is not fitting, it's not appropriate, but rather giving thanks. Thus no spring yields both salt water and fresh. And it's the same way with us. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. It is called the Exchange. us and we just want to praise you this morning for who you are and what you have done on our behalf and Lord we are thankful that we can be here this morning That as we come to your word and as we study together and hear your word proclaimed, that our hearts and our minds would set aside all the cares of this world and help us to concentrate He only is my rock and my salvation. and that uh would not take long, but we ask for your guidance and direction and patience for uh Hisham and Rose and the family. But I say to you that every idle word men may speak, they will give an account of it in the day of judgment. And also today, and we've seen before, the role that Christ takes as one who is the just judge. He says to them, Woe to you, Korz, and woe to you, Besida, for if the mighty works for which you have done in you have been done entire in Sidon, they would have repented long ago of in sackcloth and ashes You don't find world peace. is a is a highly talented person that ends up turning to the dark side and becoming dark Darth Vader. If you're not for me, you are my enemy. Candidly. concentrate on this, but I think it will be very, very helpful for us as we go through it. And this is very important to understand the context of all this. You and I as Christians are continuing that gathering work now because there's going to be a day when he comes back is in the sun, has everlasting life, and he who does not believe the sun ha shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth in him Psalm 130, verses 3-4. Isaiah 118, come now, let us read them together, says the Lord, that your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow, though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool. What on earth does it mean that if you slander the Holy Spirit, it won't be forgiven? But the meat is going to be harder to chew. Okay with me on that? today. It says that those who blaspheme Christ, those who slander Christ, it will be forgiven him. Or the invitation of the gospel is no longer available for somebody. the invitation of the gospel to people. Well, a very important verse here, extremely critical verse here, is in Matthew chapter 12, verse 28. Arguably, if they would have accepted him as that, and this is hypothetical, because they didn't, obviously, and God knew that and all that, but if they would have accepted him, if Israel would have accepted him as Lord and God, you you would have had a totally different timeline. Okay, but so so realize what he's doing here. What did the Pharisees do? The Holy Spirit. If if you have a if you're uh if you're getting a new job and nobody knows you at this job and you're going for an interview or whatever And you have all these great qualifications that makes you competent for that job, makes you qualified for that job, but it's just you counting a bunch, it's just you. But what is usually at the bottom of the resume? That and he used witnesses. Now he's not saying, okay, if I say that I'm God, then it's not true. bear witness of me, that the Father has sent me. Verse 39, you search the scriptures. And I want us then to notice something else. But Pharaoh's heart grew hard, and he did not heed them, just as the Lord had said. Now think about it a little bit more, and let's just go a little farther. convicting you to do as an unbeliever, if you don't accept that, there's not going to be any further you can go. And then you are rejecting the Holy Spirit, the witness of the Holy Spirit. However, I would just say this. 20s that um his dad died of cancer and now he just died of a heart problem. for the fact that people are thirsty everywhere spiritually. Somebody feels that way. And what do they usually do? When you realize that what you're really thirsty for is God, that's the Holy Spirit. that brings forth fruit. It can hang on a vine and be rotten, but it doesn't come bring forth rotten fruit. We see this accusation. Satan. For out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth, what does the mouth do? Let it even be named among you as fitting for saints, neither and then you have those are the hard things, these are the other things, neither filthiness, nor foolish talking, nor coarse jesting. slow to speak and slow to wrath. So that you could be in right standing with God. We can tell what is in our heart by what comes out of our mouths. It's in our hearts, and we've got some work to do for allowing your word to wash our hearts. Anyone who speaks a word against the Son of Man, it will be forgiven him. How can you bring, how can you, being evil, speak good things? A good man out of a good treasure of his heart brings forth good things. For by your words you will be justified, and by your words you will be condemned. Or a group of people who were self-righteous, and of course he was always running into them, because there's a lot of them out there. Only Jesus, the God of the universe, can say that appropriately. I got the story wrong. Okay? that there is no neutral ground with Christ. Now, the very first thing that I want to point out to you about this passage is this, a phrase that often gets overlooked. gets skirted by to get to the main point of what it's saying here, and that is, it says, notice, every sin and blasphemy will be forgiven men. hitting my head. The offer of the gospel is available. signal to the nation of Israel and to the leaders of Israel. Okay, now it didn't happen that way. And that was the same when Jesus came to earth. You have sent to John there's your witness by the way. And where have we seen that before? And when these Pharisees said, you're the this final fifth witness, this final witness that was to verify who Christ really was, when they said, that's a beelzebub. as your ruler. It could mean that this applies then too. But there will be a time where there will be some that will rise up and Satan will be loose and he'll be able there'll be a final battle at the end of the end of the thousand years. They don't. After you die, the Bible says after that's the judgment, that's the final point of no return where you can no longer come to Christ. Salvation. And they were guarded in their words. In the day of judgment. long extended discussion about the fact that nobody can tame the tongue. Verse 5 of James 3, even so the tongue is a little member and boasts great things. Who have been made in the similitude of God. Jim Berg's book, Changed into His Image, the very first chapter, he talks about a teabag. Certainly, there's a very important application for us at the end of this message with regard to our hearts. And how we are instructed to look at our own hearts is by what we say, what spills out of our hearts. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. But we really would love to meet you in person. or email us at info at bbcofmd. Either make the tree good and his fruit good, or else make the tree bad and his fruit bad, for a tree is known by its fruit. And he really he really pronounces judgment. And they're having a conversation about the fact that the universe just doesn't work right. The work of the Holy Spirit, the power of the Holy Spirit through Jesus to cast out this demon, they attribute instead to Satan himself, to be Elzebub. You're born against him. But the blasphemy against the Holy Sp against the Spirit will not be forgiven, men. Well, we're going to take a few moments, but I want uh and and and really flesh this out. In other words, you can the Word of God is there for you to be able to read and get the basic milk of the Word from truth. Most of the Word of God is, if you just read it, but then that same word you can delve in deep and get to meet. Then just realize, don't get frustrated. There's something else going on here. Then the other one is another thing to note is this is not saying it's not saying that the offer Yes. Jesus is saying, the rule, my rule has come upon you if I have cast out demons. He is God. And now they have an opportunity to either accept or reject. But you have uh but you do not have his word abiding in you. But you are not willing to come to me that you may have life. Okay? to then application, which I think is very important to understand. And the way that the Father draws us to himself is using the Spirit of God. He will never come to Christ. My soul thirsts for you, my flesh longs for you. And Christ is going to say it again in Matthew 23, verse 33. You think your heart is good, but what's coming out of your mouth is bad. He says, your heart is the sea which tells you what you desire. It is an unruly evil full of deadly poison. And that's what we do, by the way. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. Well, at least one of the reasons is because it shows the range of the character of Christ. But it's important to realize that he will, because what we have in this world is a serious amount of injustice. He he uh performs miracles on the Sabbath and they criticize him for that. There's the three ways in which Jesus now is going to pronounce judgment. And if you are not with me, you're against me. He says, Neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none other name under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved. is to gather the harvest, to gather souls, lost souls, into his harvest to form his kingdom And so we are, the Bible says we are enmity with God. If the Lord is God, follow him. Every sin, every kind of sin, and blasphemy. But that is not what this is talking about. So you some people take this as, well, if you reject Christ, then obviously you won't be saved, and there you for it's uh it's not quite that simple. Okay? And he started speaking and couldn't hear and now he couldn't hear. At his baptism, some of you are saying it. So you have something here that can't be duplicated today in this sense. John chapter 16. in the lusts of their heart. And just died. So if you are here today and you have a void in your life, you have a hole, you are thirsty for something Now, as we then move, what is the remember I said in the very beginning that Jesus what he's doing here is he's pronouncing judgment on these Now why did he say brood of vipers? It wasn't controlled like they usually are. For every kind of beast and bird, of reptile, of creature of the sea is tamed and has been tamed by mankind, but no man can tame the tongue. Now, as much as we might enjoy and really appreciate the gentleness of Christ, and we should, on the other hand, we also need to learn to appreciate the judgment of Christ. And the fact is, the world world peace is a pipe dream. The heart of God is that He is made a way of forgiveness for every kind of sin. that um uh that there's some parts of the word of god that are milk and some parts of the word of god that are meat. What does that mean? But what was necessary in order to rule them? You have, everybody knows this, you have what's called a resume, right? The fifth witness is himself the Holy Spirit. in his direction. You know, kind of like I'm moving on. There will be a day that there is going to be a point of no return. It's a little looser application, but does the Holy Spirit work in our lives? Do we sometimes fill it with other things? So there's this group of offspring of snakes that are going after Jesus. It says something. Now, then he says this I say to you that every idle word men speak, they will give account of it. Do you know what our hearts cause us to do, our deceitful hearts? Don't we all? Everyone is born as an enemy of Christ. Are you resisting the witness of the Holy Spirit in your life? Father, I pray, Lord, that you would work in our lives to cause us to realize when something spills out of our heart our our mouths Now as you know most of us would prefer to think about the gentleness of Christ. But anyway, primarily it's a story about this this starts out as a boy named Anakin. Yeah, and then everybody's like, what? 1 John 1:7. And unfortunately many of them do today as well. So what would be the application for us here? Boy, I I I don't know what it is about this last couple last month or so, but or two months, I have been reminded of this over and over and over again, whether it's a football player Because there is no one on this earth that can be a just judge who can discern right from wrong, who can say, as Jesus says in this text, if you're not with me, you're against me It's also the blasphemy of the Holy Spirit. Now, in the text what we see here, he says, if you're not who is not with me is against me, he is referring to the full to these Pharisees. He will uh again have compassion on us and will subdue our iniquities. Now as you as you look at John chapter 5, I want to use I want to give you another illustration to help you sort of grasp what's going to go on here. But his primary purpose was actually it verified who he really was to people. In this age or the age to come, what does it mean that? What was the problem with these Pharisees? Who in the Old Testament was the serpent? He's a nice person. And the final time he says God gave them up to a reprobate mind. And the point that we should note about that is that the application is definitely clear. If the Holy Spirit is convicting you and you're being drawn to understand who God is and your need of Him, then boy, don't reject that. And it is actually normal at some time in your life when a calamity happens or you slow down a little bit, at some time in everybody's life they realize there's something missing in their life That they are wanting something, that there's they're unfulfilled, that they're thirsty for something. And they're and they're saying all these things, thinking, I've got a right heart in what I'm saying, and I want this. And neither do I. Now it actually is what you mean, according to the passage. There's no middle ground. And this man, this guy turns I'll never forget that line. And there are some of you that you've been saved for a long time. And I remember reading the passage in my reading my passage in my devotions and looking at it and going, wow. The Jews. Jesus didn't come in the way he isn't here the way he was there. But think also about this verse, Romans chapter 1, verses 24 through 28. Or my own father, or I just learned this week of a of a twenty uh twenty uh guy You only know what's in the teabag when you put the thing in hot water and what comes out of it. And then what comes out will be right. And we just thank you for him and pray, Father, that our ears and eyes would be open and our hearts willing to receive. Therefore, I say to you, every sin and blasphemy will be forgiven men. I'll just let you know at the at the at the very beginning of this. Also, God well, let me just quote the verses and you'll see what I mean. You're the brood of vipers. Our deceitful hearts cause us to think that our words it it's just what I said, but that's not what I know my heart. And Jesus then at this final at this final juncture he finally says, you've gone too far. And so it's important for us to understand that. Are we clear on that? And you know this because I just casted out demons and a very verifiable thing, the guy couldn't speak. Remember in Romans chapter 3, verses 10 through 12 it says this there is none righteous, no not one, there is none that understands, there is none that even seeks after God, they have all turned aside, they have all turned Verses 33 through uh 43 through 44. And I want to say this one final thing about this before moving on. It's just in a few short chapters, in chapters 11 and now in chapter 12, we have seen both the gentleness of Christ. So we see clearly there is an exclusive relationship with God of the veracity of Christ as Messiah to Israel, you could really do that and you'd be fine. We're not born naturally realizing the void is God. He says this, out of the abundance of your heart, your mouth speaks. So he says to these Pharisees, this is coming. And then he says this, and you can evaluate your heart by the what you value, what you treasure. We will begin by reading Psalm sixty-two, five through eight. We're going to be reading this morning from Matthew chapter twelve, and we are looking at verses thirty through thirty-seven. He who is not with me is against me, and he who does not gather with me scatters abroad. The world's always been at war. He's saying, I am introducing myself as the ruler. So, with all of that in mind, then let's move now to this second truth that we're going to see: that there is in this passage a point of no return In this case, if you're slander they're slandering God is who they're slandering. Not really understanding this blasphemy of the Holy Spirit, hearing about it, realizing that there might be some way that I can I can actually lose my salvation. Can't be duplicated today. As far as your relationship with God. But what if you realize the void is God? I have to find the filthiness in my heart that's coming from my lips. We thank you for the text that tells us if we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to claim us In our lips. And and there is somebody else who deals in absolutes, and that's God It's also, it is not this as well. The Pharisees said, hey, you're casting out demons. Let's bow our heads together and go to the Lord. And a healthy tree is going to bring forth healthy fruit. The fact is, what he's telling these Pharisees is that if you really want to know what's in your heart, you're deceiving yourself, Pharisees. Because your tongue is not tameable. Because there is a point of no return, certainly either at death, but possibly before. And it is true that we are to emulate the judge the gentleness of Christ, but what we don't find in the New Testament is the command or even the suggestion that we should emulate The f the Pharisees as the leaders of Israel are rejecting him. So, if that's the case, that God can forgive Christ because of what He's done on the cross and dying for every sin, can forgive every sin. So he did cast out demons by the Spirit of God, by the power of the Spirit of God. Father, we come to you and we thank you for this passage. And so I but I want I want to I want to try to uh so understand that. They are depraved. So is it possible this could be applying to us? Either make the tree good and its fruit good, or else make the tree bad and its fruit bad. And Lord, I pray that uh you would uh give the builders and the workers who are going to be doing the work accuracy and wisdom and be able to get everything back together for them. Okay, sorry. He still ministers to Jews, he still does, but he you see this change in direction. He's pronouncing judgment on them. You remember what Elijah says before he does that awesome miracle in front of them? And I keep thinking, am I saying this? Very important thing to identify and to understand. And God's offer of mercy is in effect preemptorily refused. How how is our heart? You have war after war after war after battle after battle after war after battle throughout the history of we are our world is in at war right now in Russia and Ukraine But as we know so far, how's that gone for him? I'm thirsty for something. There's none that searches after God. For these Pharisees. What is this unpardonable sin? He is the Messiah. Well they're looking to this, they're looking to their their vocation, they're looking to a hobby, they're looking to a person, they're looking to all these different things to fill the void. Does a spring send forth fresh water and bitter from the same opening? You remember that? And he is simply saying that either a tree, a rotten tree, is going to bring forth rotten fruit. The tongue is so set among our members that it defiles the whole body and sets on fire the course of nature and is set on fire of hell. He has said some nice things. Number three. And you begin to see Jesus going out and reaching out to the Gentiles and you begin to see a change And I'm struggling with it. He he nails them. There's no neutral ground with Christ. So why this? You have to have witnesses to a crime. Do you remember from last week? It's possible that in that, and we would never know this, no individual would never know this, but it's possible that also But what do we find here? They realized the crowds were around. You're born an enemy of Christ because you are born into sin. For if we walk in the light as he is in light, we have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanses us from all sin. Talk about the Old Testament. So there were lice on man and beast. We don't curse God as Christians, but we're pretty quick to curse men who are made in the image of God. Embrace that and realize that Jesus Christ died to pay for your sin, to remove them, and to give you his righteousness Realize it's been down in our hearts and confess it. Now I'm seeing some of you looking at oh now I better listen up because I thought that's what it was. They say crucify him. In that passage in Romans 1, it says three times, God gave them up. Like went to the ER and died. And the and the application and by the way, I think there's an application for a Christian as well. We would, instead of deceiving ourselves and thinking we're walking in the light when we're really walking in darkness, may we take what's been our hearts. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible Not uh so I you obviously know Star Wars, like all of you. So it is the witness of the Holy Spirit that causes us to be able to realize our sin. That's true, isn't it? Well, I'll tell you. His baptism, he says, this is my beloved son. By the way, notice James doesn't say, you bless God and you curse God. What and then uh that's pretty much all that goes on there because that pretty much stopped the dialogue uh after that. You're going to have to chew on it longer. Understand that this is just like, you know, you have to drink the milk before you can eat the meat. I I'll I'm not going to be dogmatic on that, but I think it's it it could be inferred in the text in Romans chapter one. And if you don't, then you're probably thinking it just doesn't matter that much. John the Baptist came to witness and to verify that Jesus is who he said he was. We are entirely depraved. When is that? The s the source, uh my source is the Holy Spirit. We don't know our hearts until we know what we say. I even remember as a as a teenager myself, a young teenager, not really understanding this The invitation of the gospel is available to you. The final witness is the scriptures themselves. I send you to reap for that for which you have been not labored. If you, Lord, shall mark iniquities, O Lord, who could stand? It is not a word formula that if you say these words, then suddenly you're going to lose your salvation or something like that. What happened? And do you remember what Obi-Wan says there? I actually think that all of the Word of God is both milk and or most of the Word of God is both milk and meat. So two, three things. It says there that when he comes, he will convict the world, remember, of sin and of righteousness and of judgment. The problem with the Pharisees was they had a heart problem. Pour out your heart before him. You'll find rest for your souls. Vipers were, he in saying this, he was actually mentioning he was saying that they are a group, a brood is an is a group of offspring of snakes Luke 6. And it spills out, and Jesus says, that's what's in your heart. And the way that you choke, you don't choke you avoid choking, is just to understand that if you find that this is hard to understand I'm looking for something. Remember again, Matthew 12, 28, very key verse to this. Pharaoh's response was this, I'll read it to you. Idle words? And if you need to know more about that, I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you are a child of God. He is my defense. Ralph Martin comments on this. Now, what else we have in this we in this in this passage, you may have noticed as Harry read it, is something that is an extremely controversial subject. It says this My food is to do the will of him who sent me, and to finish his work. We're gathering citizens for the kingdom. We would ask that you would uh give wisdom to them and uh in dealing with all the issues Now, with that in mind then, what is he talking about? Those kinds of things were going on there. You can't have the blasphemy of the Holy Spirit. We don't we can't look at our hearts and know what's in our hearts. And we ask that you be with Brother Jim as he brings your word and uh Father give him the uh abilities and uh far above his own. And it's going to require our attention, qu like require us to really Why does he say it this way? And on the resume, somebody who doesn't know you might look at the resume Okay, when did you when did the father the father uh testify of Jesus? For in them you think you have eternal life, and these are they that testify of me. And I think there probably is an application, but I'm very careful to not be dogmatic on this. What else ver verifies? And by the way, he's not done with Israel, but he was done for now. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. And this is probably not going to be real hard for you to grasp. They had to accept him for who he really was. He is Lord. Remember, he was born as a baby and he came to earth. He used references, as you will, witnesses to verify who he was to people. There is another who bears witness of me, and I know that that witness which uh he witnesses of me is true With it bless our God and Father, and with it we curse men. And Father, we remember those who are going through struggles and some who are not able to make it today. He's going to pronounce judge judgment as the just judge, and he's going to we're going to see three things. But if it fail, follow him. Number one, somebody rejects Christ, they can still accept Christ. Is there any application here at all for us? I'm searching for something. 45 says it this way: a good man out of the good treasure of his heart brings forth good, and an evil man out of the evil treasure of his heart brings forth evil, which is the same thing that's in the next verse, verse 35. What is he talking about, every idle word? No, there is no middle ground with Christ because his claim is Lord and God. There's going to be a day where you'll understand these kinds of things. And I'm making myself worried about the fact that maybe I'm saying it in my head because I'm thinking about it. And by the way, by God's plan, it happened that way so that he could extend he could continue to gather more in the harvest, including us, right? So so you've got a witness here. And what we ought to do, I'm not saying that there's going to be any c unpardonable sin for us, there's not for the believer, but I'm just simply saying that that it's just a an application for us to understand. It says this, verse 31. That's not what he's saying. We see that from the book of Exodus. Who witnessed the beginning of the church? Well, with the Romans in cooperation with the Romans. And if you haven't, you're gonna be a little lost for this illustration, but that's okay. There is, we are, John 3. And I'm and I realize it's blasphemy of the Holy Spirit. But this time it was as though it just spilled out. And we saw we've seen this before, for example, in Matthew chapter 11, verses 20. I heard that and we're like, actually that was quoted by he pretty much quoted Christ who said that here Now, the other thing to understand is it is very, really, is really true for us as well. Sometimes it's going to be hard to swallow. It is not just rejection of Christ. You have to have witnesses and alibis for somebody who has. Um no one, or verse 44 particularly, no one can come to me unless the Father who has sent me draws him. Human unresponsiveness, inevitability, leads to a state of moral insensibility and When you die, right? He says to them, brood of vipers. And what comes out in our words, the Bible says, out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaks. That's why you have to go to the heart. And I would encourage you if you are realizing today that there is a that there is a void in your heart, there's something missing in your life, and you're realizing in He says, he who is not with me is against me. Okay, so you have four witnesses in John, and here's what I would say. That's it. In Psalm twenty sixty-three, I think we get a real good indication of this in Psalm sixty three. We are depraved. So this is a you know this is not light stuff today. And I'm thinking about it. And you got to remember you have crowds of people there that Jesus is there and he is offering to rule them. Okay. I think perhaps. When we have a words problem, a s a a a sp And I would imagine some of us this day need to be cleansed. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. And then you have, on the other hand, you have Jesus who is pronouncing judgment. Number two, that there is a point of no return. References, right? Satan. And this is verified throughout the Old Testament, or throughout the New Testament, rather. It's somebody else. Now it's interesting that the Pharisees had talked with Jesus before about this. There's other people that have said that. Anyone who speaks a word against the Son of Man, it will be forgiven him. He is now going to identify the particular problem of the particular focal point of judgment, and that I'm sure you'll not be surprised by this. org. And those kinds of things we've seen so far. The idea of world peace is a is the is is something that is the humanity is never going to bring that Now, we said this last week. Right. And notice why he's, what is his, what does he say, what's the criteria? So because of what's coming out of your mouth is bad, that means your heart is bad too Not Han Solo. This is from the finger of God. And the magician said to the Pharaoh, This is the finger of God. The Spirit of God is the one who witnesses. You hear everybody saying that all the time. And now begins to pronounce judgment on them. With that in mind, would you then take your Bibles and turn to John chapter 5? Look at verse 36. I shall not be moved. He is saying to Israel, this crowd of people, and the leaders who are representing Israel, I'm offering the kingdom to you. He's simply saying it's not verified. Okay, so you have the first witness there. That's the final witness. Now, what then is Jesus talking about here? He eats with um wine members and tax collectors and he And what did they do? One other thing to consider. I w How do you know, how does someone know whether whether God, the Holy Spirit, is working in their lives as an unbeliever particularly Do we want this or want that or want this? Uh Anakin before he fin you know, actually he's turned to the dark side and he has this final lightsaber battle with What is blasphemy? Here is what I would say the application is for us. It says this, therefore God also gave them up to unclean them. All right. Certainly a lot of depth here, a lot of things to process. Heavenly Father, we come this morning with grateful and thankful hearts. He will cast all our sins into the depths of the sea. And number three, it's not God does not pull back because of something we do pull back the offer It was very clear. If he always rejects the witness of the Holy Spirit, which he must have, the Holy Spirit must be drawing him. And I've got to confess that before the Lord. We must turn and follow him and call others to do the same. May the Lord richly bless you. God is a refuge for us. You're doing it from the power of Satan. It's death. God is what we need, and He is all we need See how great the a forest, a little fire kindles, and the tongue is a So how's your heart? Say the same thing you say about it. If they do this, if somebody does this, that the awful offer or the invitation of the gospel is suddenly no longer available. But then he says this, in a dry and thirsty land where there is no water. But what I want to do in the very beginning of this, because there are you you know I look uh uh among this group of people And that this passage is not saying something different than that. You've got a couple other people that are verifying who you are as well and what you can do. Why didn't he go around doing miracles everywhere? He isn't presenting the kingdom the way he did to the nation of Israel. He says it this way. Proverbs 29, 1 says this, he who is often rebuked and hardened his neck, hardens his neck will suddenly be destroyed in that without remedy remedy. We're not going to do it on our own. If indeed the Spirit of God dwells in you, now if anyone does not have the Spirit of God, he is not his They slandered the Holy Spirit. A rotten tree doesn't bring forth good fruit. But whoever speaks against the Holy Spirit, it will not be forgiven him, either in this age or the age to come He is saying that his role as king at this point They think they're just adding another God, Baal, to Jehovah. Now the magicians, so work with the enchantments. The exception to that is when he came across someone who was self-righteous. Do you remember what Obi-Wan says there? Therefore I say to you, every sin and blasphemy will be forgiven men. That's who he is. He uses this illustration, and the illustration is of a tree. Who is it? Now some people think that In fact, do you realize who puts Jesus on the cross ultimately? There's going to be a thousand-year reign of Christ, and during that time there's going to be peace. When you die, there is no more there is a point of no return Our deceitful hearts cause us to think that our words don't really matter. We see, first of all, as we've already noted, If a person always rejects the witness of the Holy Spirit. Is that not true? One of the greatest illustrations that I did not come up with myself, it's actually from He is the only one who can do that and knows when to do that. If we realize our need for God is because God has drawn us. For out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaks. Who was he? He's the final witness to verify who Jesus is. I got nothing, there's no more witnesses. You can't have, it's not, the Holy Spirit isn't witnessing And in James chapter 3, do you remember that passage? Can a fig tree, my brethren, uh bear olives or grape f grapevine bear figs In fact, you start out, you are born against Christ. That's witness number two. He is implying here, you are, you actually are all being used as serpent. And finally, while only God can see the heart, Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. The whole universe doesn't work right. Blasphemy is speaking evil. And as I'm thinking about it, these words keep They rejected. You have sent to John, and he has borne witness uh to the truth. You say, okay, this can't be duplicated. Does he make us thirsty for for more of himself? The fact is, what we found is that as he That's what we're doing. 36 says it this way, he who believes It's harder to chew. Your source is Satan. And an evil man out of an evil treasure brings forth evil things. And here's what I remember. But I have a greater witness than John's, for the works which the Father has given me to finish, the the very works that I do. God gave them up. So that's what he's saying. It could mean that when Christ mediates his kingdom in a thousand years Is it possible that someone could have the prompting of the Holy Spirit, the work, the conviction of the Holy Spirit, and he keeps rejecting and For in the saying is true. Why do you have references Your desires, what you want, is in your heart. You look through the history of the world and you do not find peace. You cannot have, you cannot just think, well, Jesus is okay. His heart grew hard to that witness. Does anybody seek for God on their own? We're not going to realize it on our own. They reject him as the king. The book of Matthew is such a wonderful book because How many of you of all I don't usually use movie illustrations, but I'm going to today. There's uh uh six episodes total uh different movies that have started I think the nineteen seventies the first You there's no guarantee The final witness of John is the scriptures themselves And as a rule, uh as you go through the New Testament, you find, especially the gospels, you find I'm introducing myself as the king. We are born separated from God. You've been a Christian for a long time. What's he talking about? And who is he? He says this: if I bear witness of myself, my witness is not true. The verse is a solemn warning against persistence. I'm just not going to be the world. He's talking about the word idol means insignificant. Unless it's labeled, you don't know what's in the teabag by looking at the teabag. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. Obi Wan, not Han Solo Don't be frustrated by that. There are four wit of the five witnesses are in this passage. And you're rejecting that or you're attributing it to s to Satan or attributing it to something something evil in your heart or whatever it is, you do that. And by the way, life is not guaranteed for a day. And so far, if you feel that way, that doesn't mean God's working in your life. Lots to think about and pray about. In God is my salvation and my glory. Um so he's always running into the Pharisees and you find his treatment. Now So in it, you could just stop there and say, case closed. In other words, you've got are when it tells me something about my heart, and then I have to repent. Remember from last week as well. Uh and you have neither heard his voice at any time, nor seen his form Okay, so publicly, he also did a transfiguration, but he did it, he did it in baptism, as baptism. It says, But if I cast out demons by the Spirit of God, surely the kingdom of God has come upon you. God gave them up. It speaks. That's when you know what's in the teabag. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this We hope to see you soon He couldn't, you know, had Now I'm moving into application. I think it's possible, and I'm very careful about this, certainly there will be a point of no return. When you realize the void in your life is God, You can evaluate your heart by your words. You'll go watch it some And in episode two, I believe, he's having this conversation with Padme, the Senator Padme at the time. See, I was just testing you. And what Jesus is doing here in this passage is he is saying, he is offering the kingdom of God. Others have labored, and you have entered into their labor. He says, How long will you falter between two opinions? They say crucify him. And Jesus is going to nail them. James chapter 1, verse 19. It says, every sin and blasphemy will be forgiven. They're not even sure what it is. Right? No, he doesn't say that. We've seen the gentleness of Jesus. But the people answered him not a word. Did you see that? When did that happen? What does Luke 11 call the Spirit? And so if you say I struggle with controlling my tongue join the club by the way. Three things for us finally to just wrap all of this up. We ask in Jesus' name. I would actually Just like a child who can't chew the meat well. In John chapter 16, Because you don't figure that out on your own. And they were deceiving themselves into thinking that they didn't have a heart problem. And we know when our hearts are evil by what spills out, by what It's an It sort of gets s Do you get the idea that God's desire for people who will accept it is forgiveness for them? If I do that, then what does he say? Okay, that's first one. They had to if they would accept him as that You have to have to verify things, you need witnesses. Look down, you see witness number three. You are a brood of vipers. And all that kind of thing. And then what we say tells us what's in our hearts. And I have to have God Christ clean my heart. For there is a forgiveness with you that you may be for feared. That's what he says to them. The Holy Spirit. They don't accept what the Holy Spirit is is Everywhere people are thirsty. And he's going to come back and he's going to rule he's going to he's going to rule in Jerusalem and uh later on in in the thousand year You can do both. I want to start off then, what is this unpartable sin? And now You don't have to worry about this. Say, well the Bible says let a man examine himself. You either realize your tongue is untamable, or you realize that it doesn't you or you think it doesn't matter what you say. The criteria that you say in your word for how you look at the heart And Anakin He says, I think the system is broken, it doesn't work, people don't And he who reaps receives wages, and gathers fruit for eternal life And that's what Jesus is saying here. It is not just, okay, you rejected Christ. For a tree is known by its fruit. When he presented himself as God, he understood His primary purpose was actually not to meet the needs of the people, although that certainly was part of it. You will not do that naturally. Like if I said I hated the Lord or something like that, that that I could lose my I thought I could lose Just look up at 28 for a moment. And he is turning to the dark side. As the just judge, he is now going to declare judgment. It's slandering. Remember that Number one, people today do require the drawing of the Holy Spirit. And what God is really saying is, you need more of me? He said, You bless God and you curse men. But you have a second witness. You can no longer accept that gift of eternal life. And what is he saying? He said you brood of vipers. And finally, this final rejection that we learned last week is when they attribute Ephesians chapter five, verse thirty four uh three and four say, But fornication, all uncleanness or covetousness Do you not say there is still four months, and then comes the harvest Through the gospel of the kingdom. And really, where was the power from? He is saying, okay, I am no longer offering the kingdom to you Good morning. He is also gathering people for his harvest. It is this final witness No, you don't But the blasphemy against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven men. And I'm glad to explain it to you. If I just bear witness to myself, then it's not verified This is the verification. You have rejected me. If God is working in your life to come to Christ, you better come to Christ. He got married three months ago. What comes out of our mouths tells us what's in our heart. And there are others of you, honestly, that this is going to be harder. Remember Acts chapter 2, quoting from Joel chapter Christ, there's no middle ground with Christ. They have rejected Jesus as Messiah. And a good tree doesn't bring forth rotten fruit, usually. He talked to them about that the they talked about him about that before He does miracles and they reject him. Number one I remember at night. Number two, it's not a word formula. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Um Obi-Wan. Micah 7. A good man out of the good treasure of his heart bring forth good. So then, my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear, to listen. Yes. That's what blasphemy is. Please come and talk with me. Let's pray together. But it does say If you're not for Christ, you're against him. And then finally, that the heart must be evaluated by the fruit it produces Did you know that? They know there's a void, they're filling the void with this or that or this or that or this or that. It's actually the father himself. In other words, this was intended to It says this, O God, you are my God. So uh so then John the Baptist, by the way, told him the same thing back in Matthew chapter 3, verse 7, brood of vipers. In James chapter 3, you've got this And we pray these things in Christ's name. And Father, we lift up the others too are not here this morning and just ask He said only a Sith deals in absolutes. I'm moving from interpretation I pray that as Christians Matthew twelve, thirty through thirty-seven. Okay, it's not talking about that. I mentioned it last week that this is going to be a critical verse. And Father, we want to lift up uh Yvonne and her family The rock of my strength and my refuge is in God. 19. I'll never forget it. He says, look at what it says. They didn't say a word. Surely the kingdom of God has come upon you. Yeah, we've got to examine ourselves. You think what's in your heart Father, you are so good to us. John chapter 5. I thank also uh brother Hisham and Rose In fact, if you look at the passage, look at what it says. Don't be deceived in thinking that our words don't matter. And Come to me afterwards with questions, that kind of thing. Not if you read the text. He's uh goes to Pensac goes to Pensacola You have clearly rejected me as your king. Today. What is he saying here? Well, who's the snake? Now I'm drawing the line. And that is a metaphor Yet I do not receive testimony from man, but I say these things that you may be saved. I just want to emphasize this before we get into the rest of it. And sometimes, if they're not careful, they'll choke. This is the witness of God. How many of you ever uh uh watched the uh the Star Wars? I'm I'm stand I'm awake at night. Do you remember? And then he says to his disciples, go keep gathering. And I'll just mention this that this has been something that has been a problem. But how do you do that? Notice what he says here, verse 33. Number one Obi he says to Obi-Wan, he says Give him clarity Brood of vipers And you'll see that in a few moments. John 6 says this as well. Take my yoke upon you, he says, and learn of me. Early will I seek thee, I seek you. He's just a good teacher. Let me just relieve your you. He calls it the finger of God. I'm glad to explain it with you It's here, take it. You do that by what comes out in your word. It's called the unpardonable sin. Amen. Did you catch that? As long as you are living. Ah, it's just what I say, but it's not really what I mean. He loved people and he wanted to meet I don't want you choking. It's the heart. And the fact is Every sin. How many of you