Let's go to the Lord in prayer together. Father, we are so grateful and so thankful to you. Father, we praise you this morning because of who you are. You are the one true living God, the creator and sustainer of all light. You are all powerful, almighty, all-wise and all-knowing. And you are sovereign over all of your creation. And in your greatness, Father, you have reached down to love us and create us in your image. And we're thankful this morning that because of the fall in the garden, you have provided a way for us to be reconciled to you. Father, we're so thankful and so grateful this morning for the wonderful grace you bestow upon us Us, the mercy you've shown us this week, the patience that you have with us. And Father, most of all, for your Holy Spirit and your word directing our paths. And I would pray this morning as we come to your word, Father. Father, help us to set aside all those cares and concerns of this week. Help us to concentrate upon your word this morning and allow your spirit to work in our hearts and may you Father, may you uh make us to understand it and know it and know you and that in this Lord, as we go out today, we will be changed More and more into your image from being under your word this morning and what you teach us. Help us to do all things for your praise and for your glory, and we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. This morning we will be in Matthew 22, verses 15 through 40. Matthew 22, verses 15 through 40. forty. Then the Pharisees went and plotted how they might entangle him in his talk. And they sent to him their disciples with the Herodians. Teacher, we know that you are true and teach the way of God in truth. Nor do you care about anyone, or do you not regard the person of God Men. Tell us therefore, what do you think? Is it lawful to pay taxes to Caesar or not? But Jesus perceived their wickedness. And he said, Why do you test me? You hypocrites, show me the tax money. And they brought it a denarius to him. And he said to them, Whose image and inscription is this? And they said to him, Caesar's And he said to them, Render, therefore, to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are Caesar's And when they heard these words, they marveled and left him and went their way. Saying, Teacher, Moses said that if a man dies, having no children, his brother shall marry his wife and raise up offspring for his brother. Now there were with us seven brothers. The first died after he had married, and having no offspring, left his wife to his brother, and likewise the second Therefore, in the resurrection, whose wife of the seventh will she And Jesus answered and said to them, You are mistaken, and not knowing the scriptures, nor the power of God. For in the resurrection they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like angels of God in heaven. But concerning the resurrection of the dead, have you not re What was spoken to you by God, saying, I am the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob? God is not the God of the dead And when the multitudes heard this, they were astonished at his teaching. He had silenced the Sadducees, they gathered together. Then one of them, a lawyer, asked him a question, testing him and saying Teacher, which is the great commandment in the law? And Jesus said to him, You shall love the Lord your God With all of your heart and with all of your soul and with all of your mind. And this is the first and great commandment. And the second is like it: you shall love your neighbor as yourself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets. Kids often say things that are funny and cute. For example, one one uh a child was asked, what will you do on a Another child was asked, when is it okay to kiss someone? Rich. Kurt H. seven said, the law says you have to be eighteen, so I wouldn't want to mess with that. If you kiss someone, then you should marry them and have kids with them. It's the right thing to do. Another question was asked, is it better to be single or married? Uh uh Anita, age nine, said, it's better for girls to be single, but not boys. Boy boys need someone to clean up after them. Uh yeah, and the men say amen to that, right? Um another another question was asked, how would you make a marriage work? Uh uh a boy said, tell your wife she looks pretty even if she looks like a truck. These are some of the kinds of things uh that that children say because their scope of the world is is limited. Their scope of the world is very small. They're thinking, they're processing things, and they're taking things in, but their scope of the world is quite limited and quite small. And the truth is the problems and the issues Issues of life that we experience today, often the questions that we have are because the scope of the world and the scope of who God is is out of the actually too small. It's too it's not large enough. And so we have questions, we have problems, we have issues because of that. In fact, some of the problems that we have in our society are things like questions like, what is the meaning of life? Now frankly, every Christian should know what the meaning of life is. It's very clear in Scripture, but for the world at large, the meaning of life is a major question. Or why does God allow others to suffer? Another question that people ask often in our world. Or why does Jesus have a good idea? Jesus have have to be the only way? Why can't there be multiple ways? All of these are questions that the world asks that they seem to not have answered answers to their struggles that they have and really question even the the justice of God, the goodness of God, the nature of God, or whether there is a God at all or not The problems that we face in our world, the questions that we face, whether it's in our culture or the culture that Jesus found himself in our All of these questions, the problem is that our view of God is not large enough. It's not Expansive enough. And the way that G the these there's going to be Pharisees that are coming today and Herodians and Samaritan or uh uh Sadducees rather, and they are all coming to Jesus And they're going to be asking questions. And they are asking questions really to trip him up. They're trying, he is very popular with the crowds because of the miracles that he's done and the teachings that he's done. Done. And they can't, they are threatened, their leadership has been threatened. So they want to trip him up and and cause him to lose face among the multitudes that are around him. But they use cultural questions that really the culture is wrestling with to ask the question uh to to pose to Jesus. And there are often, as we go through this, different sides to how people answer the questions. The questions that we're going to be looking at this morning We're going to see Christ solves these dilemmas by calling people to expand their thinking about their role, about God, about their relationship to God. So how does he call them to expand their thinking? There are three answer three questions we're going to be looking at. One, the question of required giving. Second, the request, and by the way, that's that's an that's an uh an oxymoron purpose. Um the question of eternal existence and the question of God's expectations. The question of required giving, the question of eternal existence and the question of God's expectations. We're first going to look in verses fifteen through twenty-two at the question of required giving. And we pick up here verse fifteen and it says, and the Pharisees went and plotted how they might entice And they sent to him wit their disciples with the Herodians, saying, Teacher, we know that you are are true and uh that you are true and teach the way of God and truth. Nor do you care about any one, for you do not regard the person of men. Tell us therefore what you think is it lawful to pay taxes to Caesar or Or not. The question that they are asking is a loaded question. And the Pharisees are going to use people uh that are really really care about this particular question and that is the Herodians The word entangle is sometimes uh translated a little bit differently. In Luke 21, 34, for example, it says, but take heed to yourselves lest your hearts be weighed down with carousing and drunkenness. and cares of this life. So it's the word way down. And the word first in 1 Timothy 3, verse 7, it's the word They're trying to entangle him, trap him, weigh him down. They're trying to snare him. And these Herodians are people that are they're sympathetic and they are loyal to Herod. Now, of course, you may remember that Herod was a puppet king of Israel. There were different Herods, actually. Tiberius Herod was the Herod at this time. Herod Tiberius. They're different Herod Herods that that were appointed by the Roman Empire to be the king of Israel in that region. So we would call them sort of a puppet king. The the Herod none of the Herods were ever really accepted as king by the nation of Israel, and with the Herod all probably all of the Herods had great angst about that, but there were a group of Jewish people that did. They were loyal to Herod as the king, and they were called Herodians. There was another major group among the Jewish people called the Zealots, and they were any But loyal to anybody in the Roman Empire or anybody that was uh appointed by the Roman Empire. And so you have these two groups. You've got the zealots on one hand And the Herodians on the other. The Zealots were rebels. They wanted to rebel against the Roman Empire, overturn the Roman Empire, and very likely they were not they were not sympathetic to paying taxes either. to the Roman Empire. On the other hand, the Herodians v may have even have benefited from uh their loyalty financially to uh to the they may have benefited to to being loyal to Herod. And so they they were proponents of paying taxes to Caesar. Of course um you know I said Herod Tiberius, I meant Caesar Tiberius Caesar, not Herod that I got that a little confused there. Uh it was Tiberius Caesar during during this time. Um of course uh Caesar was the the emperor of the of Rome and they were paying taxes uh to him. Now it's interesting in the uh it's interesting in the context here. In verse 19 it says, and when they and and They sent to them their disciples with Herodians, saying, Teacher, we know that you are true and teach the way of God and truth, nor do you care about anyone, for you do not regard the person of men. What were they saying when they said you don't regard the person of men, you don't care about anyone? Well, they were actually saying a couple of things. One, they were saying that they're trying to sort of butter him up by saying They also were saying that you don't, one translation puts it this way, you don't care about anyone's opinion, for you are not swayed by appearances. Another translation says, you're not you don't favor any group or and you're there's you d you're not you you don't You're not given to partiality. Now what they're doing is they're setting him up for failure. They're wanting him, they're setting him up for this question because and by saying, well we know that you're not partial to one group or another. And so he wants they want to get him taught in turning him against either the Herodians or very likely the zealots as they come to Jesus and ask this question. Jesus is going to turn the whole thing on his head, as you see in a moment. Now the question in verse seventeen is, Tell us therefore, what do you think? Is it lawful to pay taxes to Caesar? The Greek word for pay is the word give there. Is it lawful to give taxes to Caesar or not? Keep that in mind that that's what the word means there. We're going to see another variation of the word later on. And and that is the question that is posed, and you can see why this becomes a controversial question. Controversial question. And by the way, the taxes leveled against the people were extreme. It's estimated that probably fifty to fifty-five percent of the income that these folks brought in, that Israel brought in, were taxed. And they were taxed without representation. Our country was sort of found Taxation without representation. Well, they were definitely taxed without representation. And they desired to to To trap me, and he identifies them as hypocrites. They weren't asking with a sincere motive. They didn't want to really know the answer. And so they're asking with great hypocrisy. Jesus calls them out on it. And then he says this bring so brought they brought uh bring me the tax money. So they brought him a denarius, and he said to them, Whose image is inscribed on this? And they said to him, Caesar's. And he said to them, Render therefore to see Caesar the things that Now this is an i really interesting what he does, because now he is going to turn the tables and in the in the Answer to his question to their question, he is now going to to bring up two two issues. The issue of giving to Caesar versus the issue of the new episode That really wasn't their original question. It was really about giving to Caesar, but now he brings up two questions, or he he brings up uh a different contrast between giving to Caesar and giving Giving to God. And he uses the word render here. James and King James translate that quite well. Render, they're there to render what is already theirs. In other words, render to Caesar what is already his And the argument that Jesus makes is a very interesting one. He says, who is inscribed on the coinage? Who is inscribed on this money? Now that is an interesting one for a reason that we're going to see in Just a few moments, but I want to say at the outset of this that we then begin to understand what Christ is doing here. He is not going to He is not going to say that even though the Roman Empire is a corrupt empire They certainly promote sin and condone sin and uh are involved in all kinds of sin. If you look at the Roman Empire emperors throughout the years, you see all kinds of every kind of Sin imaginable and and and yet he is going to say you ought to pay unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's. Now the apostles later on are going to uh further flesh this out. And they're going to say that we are, as Christians, to submit to the government insofar as we are able and to also be able to submit to God. In Romans chapter 13, verse 1, it says, Let every soul be subject to governing authorities. For there is no authority except for God, and the authorities that exist are appointed by God. Therefore, whoever resists the authority resists the ordinance of God, and those who resist will bring judgment on themselves. For rulers are not a terror to good works, but to evil. Do you want to be unafraid of the authority? Do what is good, and you will have praise from the same. For he is God's minister to you. But if you do evil, be afraid, for he does not be uh bear the sword in vain. For he is God's minister sake. For because of this you also pay taxes, for they are God's ministers, attending continually to this very thing. Render therefore to all their due, taxes to whom taxes are due to We see from Romans chapter thirteen that God says in no uncertain terms That it is the responsibility of a Christian to pay his taxes. Now, I think most of us probably know that, but it is important to be reminded of this truth. Truth. In first Peter chapter two, verses thirteen through seventeen it says, Therefore submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake. We're doing it as unto him, whether to the king as supreme, or governors, as to those who set by him. for the punishment of evildoers, and for the praise of those who do the same. For this is the will of God that by doing good you may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men. As free, yet not using liberty as a cloak for vice, but bond servants of God, honor all people, love the brotherhood, fear God, honor the king. Now it is very easy for us folks because we are taxed at pretty high rates as well, aren't we not? And certainly we Um and uh and certainly as a result of that um we we do have a uh way of uh Uh we have a vote and we have a way of uh having a voice in that decision, uh way the way our countr our country is is set up. But we have to be very careful, even a temptation is to sort of skirt the system to go around if we can do things to go around paying taxes, if we can kinda go under the table, if we can do those kinds of things things, then then it's there's a temptation to do that. Some of you know that I have a a side business, a sort of a side hustle of of selling uh retail uh mattress retail And sometimes people will say sort of a wink wink with a nod, Would you prefer cash? They kinda wink at me. Um or they don't exactly wink, but But they you know sort of I know why they're asking the question. And I actually very honestly say to them, uh no, it doesn't matter to me. Either way. Uh if you want to do Venmo, Zell, cache And some people look at me like I am stupid. I mean really, they look at me like, well that's dumb. Why are you doing that Okay. If I give you cash, you can totally get away with this kind of a thing. But but the reason folks is even though I definitely could get away with it, um I I my conscience would not allow me to do it Jesus established that. And the other thing that Jesus begins to establish then is that his goal here during this Passion Week, if we have met as we have mentioned before, he's he's it Tuesday or Thursday of the Passion Week His goal obviously is not to overthrow the Roman Empire. He's going to set up his kingdom, but he's not going to do it through overthrowing the Roman kingdom. And so we they begin to see, the people begin to see this and and um and by his answer that he is giving here. as well. But there's something much, much more important here that we need to s see, and that is what he says about giving to God the things that are God. Render therefore to Caesar the things That are Caesar's, but render to God the things that are God's. Now your mind might go to tithing And as convenient as it could be for me to sort preach on tithing, that's actually not what the passage I mean by application you could make that application, but that's actually not the primary point of the passage. the passage here. He says, render therefore the things that are uh the the the things that are Caesar's to Caesar, and render to God the things that are God. And remember what he said is how you know what is Caesar. The inscription of the image on the money. That's how you know what is Caesar's. Well, then how do you know what is God's? What is in the image of God? We are, aren't we? All people are in the image of God. And so what is God what is Jesus actually implying here? That we are all His. That changes the perspective entirely. That is something I think that these religious leaders put together. It's not apparent from the past, but I think that's what they I mean it's not explicit in the past passage, but I think they probably realized what was going on. That's why they stu they marveled and stopped what they're saying. That God render therefore the things that are God's. What is God's? It's All God's everything that God has made is his. In fact, the Bible says the heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament shows Psalm twenty four verse one says, The earth is the Lord's and the fullness of thereof, the world and those that dwell therein. What is God's? It's all God's. I am God's, you are God's, and the earth is owned by God. Everything is. Render it that way. Well, that brings an entirely different perspective on everything, doesn't it? It's not a matter of, well, I own property and therefore I need to figure out what my responsibility is to give to Caesar. No, no. We start from the position of God owns it all. And we are stewards of what God has given us to steward for him. Render therefore to God the things that are God's, and it's all God's Do you see how that would expand the perspective of the people listening? Because they were not thinking, the zealots weren't thinking that way. And the Herodians weren't thinking that way. But you know what happens when you begin to say it's all God's? Everything I own is God's. I am God, I am possessed by God, I am owned by God, I am a steward of what God gives me to use. for his purposes when you begin to see things that way and God says pay your taxes well you're paying God's taxes for him So to speak. It's God's. It's all God's. It's His. It's not yours. It's not mine. It's ought. It's His to steward the way that He wants us to steward Stewart. And frankly, as we begin to think that way about our finances and think that way about our whole lives, it changes everything. Now God is providing for me. He will take care of me, I will serve him faithfully, I will do what he wants me to do because it's all his. It almost takes away the whole question, the whole angst about getting paying taxes When we simply say, okay, Lord, what do you want me to do with your money? Sometimes we struggle with some of the things that we have to pay, some of the things that we have to Have to render. And the truth is we would not struggle so much if we just had the perspective that God that it is all owned by God Well, this trap that the people that the uh religious leaders and the Rodians set for Jesus was foiled. By Jesus. They marveled at what he said. It doesn't mean they believed, by the way. It says they marveled and left him and went their way. I mean they just had nothing else to say. say at this point. It wasn't like what Jesus said they were a he was they were able to take and pit um pit what he said against the Herodians because he sided with the zealots And it wasn't like he could they could pin him you know the that wouldn't didn't work. He didn't essentially take sides. He said it is all the Lord's. So the Pharisees decide that they're going to conscript some other people. And these people are are known to be uh sort of enemies of the Pharisees, not I don't know about hostile enemies, but some Certainly uh uh uh opposing uh them, but there's a sense in which the enemy of my enemy is my friend, and they're desperate, and so they they they collude with the with the Sadducees They get together with the Sadducees and the Sadducees are going to ask Jesus a question that the Pharisees wouldn't want to ask because the Pharisees um don't believe the same way as the Sadducees do, and we'll see that in the passage. The point, the real issue is going to be a question of eternal existence, and we'll see that in a few moments, but we pick up in verse 23, and it's It says, and the same day the Sadducees who say there is no resurrection of the dead is what he's talking about. There is no resurrection, came to him and asked him saying, Teacher, Moses said that if a man dies having no children, his brother shall marry his wife and raise up offspring for his brother. Now there were with us seven brothers The first died after he had bare uh died after he had married, and having no offspring left his wife to his brother. Likewise a second also, and the third Eva did the Even to the seventh. Last of all the woman died also. Therefore, in the resurrection, whose wife of the seven will she be? For they all had her So the Sadducees don't believe in the resurrection. They don't believe that once God's people die, that they are going to rise from that death. And we're going to get into that a little bit. It's probably because they did not really believe uh that they they emphasized uh the Pentateuch and maybe exclusively emphasized emphasize the first five books of the Bible. And the resurrection teaching is found in the prophets. In Isaiah 26 verse 19 for For example, it says the dead shall live together with my dead body, they shall arise. Daniel twelve two says, and many of those who sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake some to everlasting life, some to shame and everlasting contempt. Job nineteen also teaches the resurrection. And so the Sadducees didn't believe this at all. But there's something important to understand in order to really understand It wasn't a matter of them not just believing the bodily in the bodily resurrection of people. They didn't really believe in its Eternal existence at all. We find that in Acts 23, verse 8. For the Sadducees say there is no resurrection and no angel or spirit, but the Pharisees confess both. The Sadducees were people that had a problem with the idea of the afterlife, probably because they couldn't see how it was going to work together. And so they brought this issue which was actually taught in the Pentateuch, in the first five books of the Old Testament. As an evidence that there really is no resurrection at all. So, what are they bringing up? They're bringing up what is called the Leverett marriage. And they say to this teacher, they bring up what they say is a real situation. It's questionable whether it's a real situation or one that they brought up that was hypothetical. But either way, that's not the point. Phase one was the teacher we see here, you have this uh man who dies, has no husband, he's married, his brother married And by the way, I should sort of set up the lever of marriage to understand this. In the Old Testament, when when the Israel state was set up during the Abrahamic covenant and the Pass Palestinian Palestinian Covenant as well. When those were set up, the land was a critical issue in the Abrahamic covenant. And each tribe, as you know, w was designated a certain amount and certain uh uh borders of land uh centered on of course the the tabernacle at the time And within those land designations there were clans and they were given land within those clans, or you know families we call uh the scripture calls them, but uh larger than just a nuclear. their family clans, and that was their inheritance. Those land areas were and were were passed down from one to one generation to the next to the next X and X, so that they could carry on the family line. And part of the reason for the allowance of the lever at marriage was so that a the family line could be carried on and so that the inheritance could continue. Now by the first century, as far as we know, that this practice of the Leverett marriage um At least it's it's debatable, but it seems like it's not really practiced very often at all, if i if at all, because the person had the b had the ability to be able to to turn down uh that that whole idea as we actually see in the book of Ruth, the closest kinsman did turn it down. And that brings up another thing. I won't take the time to read those, but you can read them later. But basically, well, uh actually I will read them because i I I should. Deuteronomy twenty five, verse five says, If brothers dwell together And one of them dies and has no n no son, the widow of a dead man shall not be married to a stranger outside the family. His husband's brother shall go into her, take her as wife, and perform the duties of the husband's brother to her, and it shall be that the firstborn son, which shall which she bears, will succeed We find an example of this in the book of Ruth. You'll remember the story of the book of Ruth, Ruth, Boaz, and Ruth. And Ruth, of course, her husband had died, and I won't get into the entire story, but basically in Ruth chapter 4, verses 1 through 22, you have this man Boaz, who is interested in performing this leveret marriage because he is Is is he is a kinsman. There's somebody closer to him that has the right to be able to take the land We find in verse 4 of Ruth 4 that says and I thought it thought to inform you, this is Boaz talking. I thought to inform you, saying, Buy it back in the presence of the inhabitants of the elders of my people. If you will redeem it, redeem it, talking about the land. But if you will not redeem it, then tell me that I may know, for there is no one but you to redeem it And Boaz said, And the clo close relative said, I cannot redeem it for myself. Suddenly oh Oh I I I don't know, but I may think I just think to myself he goes, Oh, my wife is not gonna go for that. Either way, maybe Maybe he did, maybe he didn't. But either way, uh verse five says, Then the bo Boaz said, uh uh uh and the close relative said, I cannot redeem it for myself. Verse six And for my s uh lest I ruin my own inheritance. You redeem my right of redemption for yourself, for I cannot redeem it. Uh the uh they sealed the contract by one giving the other a sandal, um which is an interesting way. I just find that also kind of comical. But anyway, and so Boaz is able to become the kidsman redeemer of Ruth. Now I I just want to say up front that in the new covenant that was all done away with. But you have this issue here that the Sadducees brought up. And here's the issue. They say, okay, well in the resurrection if there is a resurrection, in the resurrection, if you have a man who has married different women and uh and uh you know uh w how does this work I'm just summarizing it but how does this work in heaven? They're trying to trip Jesus up again. They're trying to trap him. Now the Sadducees very likely are trying to make the argument that there is no resurrection Where the Pharisees really just want to trip Jesus up so that he r he loses his uh his popularity with the people. So how does Jesus deal with this? Notice how he deals with this. This is great. He says, first of all, number one, for the for in the resurrection, they neither marry nor are given to marriage. important. He's gonna say, you are mistaken, number one. The whole thing's wrong, he says. You're mistaken. He says, you do not know the scriptures, number one Nor the power of God. That's the issue. The real issue is you do not know the scriptures. and you do not know the power of God. That's the problem. We're going to get to that, the root problem more, but notice that he says But concerning the resurrection of the dead, you have not read what you uh what was spoken to you by uh by God saying, I am the I am the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. Christ is drawing an implication of the So what's going on here? He says there is no marriage in heaven. He says they neither marry nor give into marriage, but are like the angels of God in heaven. There is no marriage in heaven They're like the angels of God that are in heaven. They don't marry, and so there's no marriage in heaven whatsoever. Now, that's by the way, so it that that is that is the case. We need to just sort of establish that It is until death do us part. I hear sometimes even pastors say things like, Well, I sure hope there's marriage in heaven. Well, there's not. It doesn't matter what you hope, there's not marriage in heaven between us. uh man and a woman. There's a the you know of course the marriage between Christ and his bride, but there is not marriage in heaven. Some people are like, man, it's good I got my light at the end of the tunnel That's sort of a joke, but not entirely. Um but but but truthfully um that is the case. And so we need to understand that at the very beginning. There's no Christ teaches that. Notice what he then then says, he says I am the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, the God of Jacob. He quotes a s a passage I am the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Now, how does Jesus use this passage? He points This out. He says, it's not I was the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. It is I am the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Well, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob What are they? They're dead Right? And he says, I am present tense, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. So what Jesus does here is he infers from a statement of scripture Scripture, he sees the implication, he shows the implication that no there has to be, I'll show you from your own Pentateuch. from your own five books of the Bible that there is a resurrection because God is presently the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Now, I just want to note something about this that I think is helpful for us. You know, it is important as we read Scripture, as we see Scripture, and as we study Scripture, to note To note the implications. Much of that, as we study scripture, much of understanding the implications of a text comes down We begin to think about it, me memorize it, think about it, and meditate on it, go over and over and over in our mind, and we begin to see the implications of the passage. I never remember I always remember something I learned actually from John MacArthur who said preach the implications of Scripture. And that is a very, very helpful, very important thing to do. We need to see the implications. And that's what Jesus does. Here. He expresses an implication of Scripture. And he points out that in order for God to be present-tense, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, they've got to exist. Now, that doesn't deal with the specific problem of a bodily resurrection, but understand this that the Sadducees were really dealing with the question of eternal existence as a whole. And that is how Jesus answers the question. I want to re again return to this whole idea of the real root problem, and that is this. Knowing the word, he says. He says, You do not know the word, and you do not know the power of God. That's the problem. Do you know what the Sadducees were guilty of? They were guilty of having a question that in their mind they could not see any human answer to the question And then they come up with a doctrine based upon a question that they themselves couldn't answer. And you know that is a very dangerous thing to do. Instead of respecting and honoring what Scripture is revealed and where the question should stand as a question They begin to come up with a different doctrine that is not scriptural. Now, folks, there's a lot we can learn from this. We can learn very importantly this simple truth that when there is a question about God, His ways, His Word, His the circumstances, Of life, the problems that we run into, we need to understand that the problem is we either do not understand what the Word of God says or we are not taking into account the expansive power of God. The problem is we are not, we we our God is not big enough in our minds. It's like take the Trinity. The problem of the Trinity. The Bible clearly teaches the Trinity. You see God the Father, God the Son, and God the Spirit all there. I remember when my um daughter was my my oldest daughter was seven I think about like seven, eight years old. She said to me, Dad, we were driving home from church one day and she he said she said, uh, Dad, I do not like it when when they teach on the Trinity. in church. I do not like it. I don't know. Do you remember this, Caitlin? Yeah. I don't like it. And I was like, that's a weird thing to not like. What's the problem? And I said, why is that, Caitlyn? She goes, it makes my head hurt. And do you know what? That's ex doesn't it? It actually makes adults' heads hurt too, actually. Uh it is it is hard to understand How can Jesus be completely God and the Father be completely God and the and the Holy Spirit be completely God and they are completely distinct Distinct from each other, and yet there is only one God. That does not compute. There's this question, how do you put that together? You can't logically put it together. And so what do you do? You say, God is Greater than I am. His ways are greater than me. His thinking is greater than me. I am left with a question where I simply say I believe what God says. The sovereignty of God and the free will of man. Instead of saying, I've got this entirely figured out, I've got this entirely settled and got it all in a system Why won't we simply believe all of what God says and say, okay, there's a mystery here. There's a there's a There's a paradox here. Why would God command people to repent when then God is sovereign and it's chosen before the foundation of the world? There's a paradox here. Well it just must be uh uh there there just must be something wrong either with the Bible, with with with uh m the doctrine or w try to do you know, theological gymnastics to go one side or the other? No, wait a minute. How about we say God's bigger than we are? How about we say God's mind is His ways are not our ways. His thoughts are not our thoughts. They are higher than our thoughts. So the problems we have, the questions we have, we have to come to this ultimate conclusion. That God is greater than we are, and there are going to be questions, and we have to trust in the Lord with all of our heart and lean not on our own understanding. In all of our ways, acknowledge him, and he'll direct our path It could be something as simple, you know, those are sort of big theological things. How about something as simple as this? I'm going to give you one. I still, you know, of course most of you know that my dad died of cancer last year. I s we were we were planning a trip out west. He loved going out west He went all over the uh he he he would he took many trips out west, Yellowstone and uh the the Grand Tetons and he went all over the place on many different occasions took a Many, many pictures, and he really wanted to take me and the rest of my family with him to show all these places that he had seen before. And we were we were gearing up to go the the the the actually the flight the the the aircraft plane tickets were were bought and uh we were getting all ready, we're talking all about it, where we would go, what we would do, and all those kind of things. And he gets diagnosed with cancer and we can't go. And I have to ask and I did ask the Lord, I'm like, Lord, couldn't you have waited a little while? Like like could you just put couldn't you have put off the cancer a little bit So we can at least done I know your ways are not my ways, but I don't get this, Lord. I still don't get it. I mean it's a very simple thing, but I don't get it. But you know what I have to you know what I have to conclude? God is I'm not going to understand everything. I may never understand certain things this side of heaven. And that's why faith is that way. Faith is the substance of faith. things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. You're not going to figure it all out. We have to choose to say, okay, when there is a question I can't answer, the problem is God And there's a sense in which we can be in awe of who God is when we come up to these questions that we can't answer. answer instead of questioning the character of God or questioning the ways of or uh you know questioning in a in a skeptical sense the the character of God We actually are able to worship God because of these questions. We need to understand this. And and And remember this. This response that Jesus gave caused them again to be in astonishment, Scripture said. But not heart-changing belief. They keep being amazed by what he says and the wisdom that he says, but you don't see a heart change though Now, you have the Herodians and you have the Sadducees. They both come to Jesus. They both tried to trip him up. They both have been they both have failed at doing so. Their mouths are stopped. They go off almost. You know, with their you know, tail between their legs and you know, and but they get together and now there's a bit of a change here. And one commentary ill illustrated this way I thought it was helpful illustration he he illustrated like if you have an ordination council and and the person who is being ordained does r is doing really well at some point sometimes what happens in ordination Council is they start asking questions that they can't even answer themselves. And just because they want to see if the person has any idea about that or not. And so it's kind of this way, they're they're starting off skeptical, but now there is this one particular lawyer that it appears from what I can tell that although they're fine if he gets tripped up, I mean that's the goal He also has a pretty sincere question here, I think, as well, that he wants to see answered. Would you pick up here in Matthew 22, verse 15? Verse thirty four it says, And when the Pharisees heard that he had silenced the Sadducees, they gathered together. Then one of them, a lawyer, asked him a question Testing him and saying, Teacher, which is the great commandment in the law? Jesus said to him, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like it, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. On these two commandments So this lawyer he comes. Um he asks this question. This also was a bit of a debate, very likely, among different people, uh different groups. What there was lots of discussion uh among rabbis and among religious leaders on what commandments held greater weight than others. There were light commandments, there were heavy commandments, there were And there was a lot of debate over those different commandments. Um there are actually rabbinical writings, Issachar 6 actually gives a particular rabbinical writing of of um of the the uh sort of a negative version of the golden rule being a prominent command it's it's weighted heavy and it actually is the whole law and then you you have uh the the maquilta that that name something else but basically um and then there are actually other places that say no all commands are equal. So maybe the major debate was okay on one hand you have some commands that are more important than others, the other side you have equal everybody every command is completely Well the truth of the matter is if you read all six hundred and thirteen commandments, and I'm sure you haven't done that lately, but if you have, if you do, they can't all be equally weighted. Some of them are extremely important, and some of them are So Jesus answers this question and again he's answering it to help them understand That their relationship to God must be expanded. Again, this is the issue. The issue is an expansion of their mindset. an expansion of their relationship with the Lord. Because the issue here, he quotes from Deuteronomy chapter um chapter 12 Well actually I'm sorry. Deuteronomy chapter six verse five it says, And you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your strength. What's he saying? He's saying you've got to love God with everything, with all of you. Now notice the continuity. He's already said you've got to give all of yourself to God because it's all yours And your problem is that your power, you don't see God as great as you you should see him. don't see the power of God. And now he's saying he's saying the you've got to you've got to love God with everything. Your heart, your soul, your mind, your understanding, your strength. And then he says there's a second commandment as well. You need to love your neighbor as yourself. And this is found in Luke in Leviticus chapter 19, verse 18. Shall not take vengeance, nor bear any grudge against the children of your of people, for you shall love your neighbor as yourself, I am the Lord. The greatest commandment is give yourself to God, but how do you show that you're giving yourself to God? Giving yourself to God by giving yourself to others. First John 4 20 says it this way. And so uh the lawyer's response is you know he's I hear Usually I think is going on. He he knows the word. He knows the Old Testament. He understands things things like Deuteronomy chapter ten verse twelve that says, And now Israel, what does the Lord God what is your God require of you but to fear the Lord your God, to walk in all his ways, and to love him, to serve the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul. He knows the Old Testament and he hears what Jesus says and he sort of starts to put things together. Jesus in the Mark uh parallel passage in chapter twelve verse thirty two. It says this. So the scribe said to him, Well said, teacher. You have spoken the truth, for there is one God, and there is no other but he. He sort of put it together. He says, Yes, there is one God, there's no other but he, and to love him with all your heart and with all the understanding, with all the soul, and with all the strength and to love one's neighbor as oneself is more than all of the whole burnt offerings and sacrifices. The Bible's the Old Testament says that And when Jesus saw, he answered wisely, he said, You are not far from the kingdom of God. But after that no one dared question him. And it does and I won't have the time to look at it, but in 1 Samuel chapter 5, verse 22, Isaiah 1, 11 through 18, and Isaiah 43, Hosea 6:6, Amos 5, 21, Micah 6 All talk about how to love God and to serve God with your whole being is more important and more valuable and more desirable than burnt sacrament. So he puts all of this together and he he recognizes that what Jesus is saying is absolutely right. And Jesus says, okay, you're not far from the kingdom. And true truly he is not. Because we find the same thing reiterated in First Corinthians So the apostles pick up on what Jesus is saying in in the Gospels, and Paul says, though I speak with a tongues of men, Understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and though I have all faith that I could rip remove mountains and have not love, I am nothing. And though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned, but have not love, it profits me nothing. Do you see what that passage says? It means it is possible to serve, to give, to sacrifice without love. And it is worth Nothing. So that how what is Jesus saying here? He is saying that if you really want to follow the will of God, if you really want to be obedient to the law of God, the word of God, then you that then the criteria is you must do it out of love for God. And frankly, all of us realize that we don't have it in us naturally. In fact, I think that's part of why Jesus says it this way. Because there is a realization that that we are not a source of love. God is the source of love, and we are responder to that source of love as we reflect his love back to him. We love him because he first loved us. So, in order for us to love him, we must understand his love for us. How do you know his love for us? God commends his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. This lends itself directly to the reality of the love expressed in the cross. And the only way that somebody can genuinely love God with all of their heart, soul, and mind, and strength And love their neighbors their self is if they first receive the love of God through the work that Christ did on the cross for them. So, how do we summarize all of what we said? We said a lot. This is a large passage, and we've gone through a lot of things. Let's understand some very basic things that we need to Number one, everything belongs to God, so we must give it all to him. We must give it all to Him. Number two, an unanswered question about God should not cause us to question the existence of God But should cause us to realize that he is far greater than we will ever be. That's kind of a long statement. Questions about God, His ways, His truth, the Bible, those circumstances, the world should not cause us to question the existence of God. of God or even the character of God, it should cause us to realize He is far greater than we will ever be, and it ought to cause us to respond in worship to Him. And number three, we must evaluate our obedience to the will of God by our wholehearted love for God and love for others. Do you love God and love others? You are not obedient to God. I am not obedient to God if I do not love the Lord and I do not love others. And by the way, remember what First John tells us, you can't say, Well, I love God, I just have a problem with others. That doesn't work. Because the very nature of love is that we give to those who need something And God needs nothing. And so the only way that we're going to express love to God is by meeting the needs of others. So it's important to realize that those two things go together. Our obedience to God must be based upon our love. For God. And if you are here listening this morning and you say, Well, I don't know if I've ever really experienced the love of God I don't know if I've really understood that Christ died to pay the punishment for my sin as A expression of love so that I could be rightly related to him. I see God, I have confusion about who God is, I have questions about who God is or the existence of God. I just I don't think I I don't know if I'm related to God. Look, come and talk with me at the service or somebody that you're comfortable with. Let us help you. Let's help you with the Bible. Remember that what Jesus said was to these folks, he says, you don't Don't the problem is you don't have an understanding of the Word of God and the power of God. You get that through understanding the Word of God and knowing it. And we'd be glad to take a Bible and help you know more about the Word of God says, about who He is, His love for you Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you this morning and we thank you. We thank you for your truth. Thank you for your word. We thank you that you are a great God. We thank you that even though we are going to have unanswered questions in the There is no doubt about it. The more we think through things, there is a sense in which there is we're going to come up against questions we just don't understand. Understand. I pray, Lord, that in those times you would help us to simply trust you, to trust you with all of our heart, and to not lean on our own And Lord, we confess before you this morning that very very often um we ha we we are in danger of of questioning your ways and attributing wrong character to you or not content with uh understanding you give us from your word. We We don't understand and so we don't trust you. It is so we're so inclined as human beings to only trust what we understand. And yet you call us to trust what we can't understand That is you. But we thank you for your word. It is so clear and revealed so well so that we can trust it. And thereby trust you as well. Help us to do that. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community here at BBC. You'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service For singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you Know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this house. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. Hope to see you soon