And the word says, Righteous are you, O Lord, and upright are your judgments. Your testimonies which you have commanded are righteous and very faithful. My zeal has consumed me, because my enemies have forgotten your words. Your word is very pure, therefore your servant loves it. I am small and despised, yet I do not forget your precepts. Your righteousness is an everlasting righteousness, and your law is truth. Trouble and anguish have overtaken me, yet your commandments are my delights. The righteousness of your testimonies is everlasting. Give me understanding, and I shall live Let's go to the Lord in prayer together. Father, we're so thankful and so grateful, even this morning, for your word. The truth is, without your word, we would be lost. We would be without direction, without truth. And we give you Such thanks for it. We recognize that your truth and your commands, your precepts, your statutes, they are all right and right. Often, Lord, we we take your word for granted. Often, Lord, we don't believe what you say And we don't delight in your word. And so, Lord, as we consider even this psalm, this portion of this psalm, may your word be elevated in our hearts May your truth have supreme place in our hearts. And Lord, we ask that you would help us to be wary and vigilant of anything that would try to supplant. Your truth in our minds. May we not accept lesser falsehoods. May we not accept lies. May we see them for what they truly are. And recognize and elevate your word above everything, for even you say you elevate your word above your very name. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Heavenly Father, we are so grateful this morning for your goodness and your kindness to us, Father. Your mercy you show us is new every day And Father, the grace that you bestow upon us and how you provide so richly for us, we can only come with grateful and thankful hearts, and we praise you, Father. your goodness and your kindness and for who you are. And I pray this morning that as you uh as we come together, Father, we pray that you will reveal your truth to us Help us to set aside all the cares and thoughts of this week and help us to concentrate upon your word this morning. And Father, I pray that those who are listening and and unable to be here this morning. We would ask that you would also be working through the um streaming ministry uh to reach those father who are unable to be We pray that you will bless them, Father, with your word and give them understanding. And Father, we are grateful this morning and thankful that you have provided this place for us and help us with us. Lord, to be attentive to your word. May your spirit be working mightily in us. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. We are going to be reading this morning from Isaiah chapter 44, and we are going to be looking at verses 1 through 20. Isaiah 44, verses 1 through 20. You hear me now, O Jacob, my servant, and Israel, whom I have chosen. Thus says the Lord who made you and formed you from the womb, who will help you Fear not, O Jacob, my servant, and you, Jeshua, whom I have chosen, I will pour water on him who is thirsty. And floods on the dry ground. I will pour my spirit on your descendants, and my blessings on your offspring. They will spring up among the grass, like willows by the water courses. Only will I will say, one will say, I am the Lord's, another will call him Self by the name of Jacob. Another will write with his hand the Lord's and name himself by the name of Israel. Thus says the Lord, the King of Israel, and his Redeemer. The Lord of hosts. I am the first, I am the last. Besides me, there is no God. And who proclaim as I do? Then let him declare it and set it in order for me, since I appointed the ancient people, and the things that are coming and shall come And let them show these to them. Do not fear nor be afraid. Have I told you From that time and declared it, you are my witnesses. And there is a God, is there a God besides me? Indeed, there is no other rock. I know not one. Those who make an image, all of them are useless. And their precious things shall not profit. They are their own witnesses. They neither see nor know that they may be ashamed. Who would form a God or mold an image that profits him nothing? Surely all his companions would be ashamed And the workmen, they are mere men. Let them all be gathered together. Let them stand up. Yet they shall fear. They shall be ashamed together. The blacksmith with the tongs works on the coals, fashions it with hammers, and works it with his own strength. in of his arms. Even so he is hungry, and his strength fails. He drinks no water and is faint The craftsman stretches out his rule and marks one out of with chalk and fashions it with a plane He marks it out with a compass, and makes it like the figure of a man, according to the beauty of a man, that it may remain in the house. He cuts down cedars for himself and takes the cypress and the oak. He secures it for himself among the trees of the forest. He plants a pine, and the rain nourishes it. Then it shall be for a man to burn. For he will take some of it and warm himself. Yes, he kindles it and bakes bread. Indeed, he makes a god and worships it. He makes it a carved image and falls down to it. He burns half of it in the fire. With this half he eats meat. He roasts in a roast and is satisfied. He even warms himself and says, Ah, I am warm. I have seen the fire. The rest of it he makes into a god, his carved image. He falls down before it and worships it. Prays to it and says, Deliver me, for you are my God. They do not know nor understand, for he has shut their eyes so that they cannot see And no one considers his heart, nor is there knowledge, nor understanding to say, I have burned half of it in the fire. Fire. Yes, I have also baked bread on its coals. I have roasted meat and eaten it. And shall I make the rest of it an abomination Shall I fall down before a block of wood? He feeds on ashes. A deceived heart has turned him aside. And he cannot deliver his soul, nor say, Is there not a lie in my right hand? clearly laid out is the struggle that the people of Israel are have are going through during the time of Christ's and the time of the first century there. And uh it they were a people that were burdened, greatly burdened and heavy laden by uh by the Pharisees and all of the rabbinical additional rabbinical interpret strict interpretations of the law and the Roman Empire, they were just be burdened down and heavy laden. And if you recall two weeks ago We uh covered that verse, that couple verses, wonderful verses, where Christ says, Come unto me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. But how did Israel get to that place where they were so burdened not only by their own people, the leaders of Israel, but also by the Roman Empire? How did From a spiritual point of view, how do they get to that place? And I think some of that can be answered by looking at this text in Isaiah 44. Because this is a v Isaiah is written during a very pivotal time. It prophesies the fact that Israel would go into uh into moments but I want to begin this way. I want to ask this question on a very you know practical and personal level. Have you have you ever felt just in your life, maybe you felt this in the last couple of weeks or Um maybe not, but uh certainly you felt this at one time in your life or another where you feel like the Lord isn't really helping you the way you think he should should. Or you don't really exp aren't really experiencing the Lord's help in the way that you you would like to, or maybe the way potentially you think you could The other question that I think really goes along with that actually is do you ever find yourself unmotivated to serve the Lord? Do you ever find yourself unmotivated to serve the Lord? Lord. And often those two if you answer the question the affirmatively the first one, if you answer yes, I I feel like sometimes God isn't helping the me the way that I would like to be helped or Or feel like he I should be helped. If you're answering that question yes, then you may very well be answering the next question. I do not feel very motivated to serve the Lord. Maybe you just in your own what you can tell, you feel tired, or you feel drained, or you're stressed out, or you're worried, or there's fear, or there's anxiety, or there's so much pressure, or whatever it is. And so for that reason, I think it's really helpful to come back to a passage that really it actually starts in Isaiah 40 and goes through 45 or so. Really, a section of Scripture that deals with God's promise to the nation of Israel, but certainly extend to extend to us, and we'll see that in the New Testament, of God's promise to help his people. But there is, as we read, as as Harry read, there is some some hindrances to experiencing that help. Perhaps you've heard it said, uh story, uh this is not new with me. or original with me, but a story where a dad a dad was sitting at the breakfast table reading the newspaper. He's reading the newspaper and his teenage daughter walks in and And wants to engage her dad, so she says, Dad, what do you think the biggest problem in the world is? Apathy, ignorance, or apathy? And he replies, I don't know, and I don't care. The truth of the matter is we have problems a lot when it comes to the issue of apathy. Even within Christianity, there is an there it's so easy to get into a place where we're not serving the Lord with all of our hearts. We're not serving the Lord with the kind of help that God wants to give us. In this passage We have here a text that promises for Israel, even as they go, they anticipate going into captivity. They the Lord promises help for Israel. And we're going to see that as we pick up in the passage. But the question that we need to ask today and answer today as well is how can we make sure that we are getting as Christians, as God's people, a full measure of his help? We're going to see in verses 1 through 5 by is, first of all, by understanding the unique help that God offers. And then we're going to see in verses 6 through 20 the what the understanding we're going to understand what hinders God's health. There is something that very much hinders the health of God. God. We're going to see what help God really offers. Then we're going to see what hinders God's help. And then finally we're going to turn to the New Testament and we're going to see the means by which God helps us. How does he help us? What's the way, the path for us to get to the help of God? First of all, then we see how we can understand the help that God offers. We pick up here in verse one. of this passage. And it says, Yet hear me now, O Jacob, my servant, and Israel, whom I have chosen. Thus says the Lord who made you and formed you from the womb, who will help you? Fear not, O Jacob, my servant, and you Jeshuran, whom I have chosen, for I will pour water on him who is thirsty. And floods on the dry ground, I will pour my spirit on your descendants and my blessing on your offspring. What is the nature of the help that God offers to the nation of Israel in this passage? And really, that help is extended to us as well. In Isaiah 41, just a few chapters back, in verse 13 it says this, For the Lord thy God will hold thy right hand saying unto thee, Fear not, for I will help thee. Fear not, thou worm Jacob, and ye men of Israel, I will help thee saith the Lord, and thy Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel. It's actually a prophecy of Jesus coming as well. But in that passage, you have twice In two verses, the emphasis on the promise of help for God's people. What does this help include? Well, in Isaiah 40, verses 1 through 2, it says this: Comfort ye my people, Seth your God. God offers comfort to his people. And he calls them not to fear. We've already read several times that God's people are not to fear. Why? Because of the help that they will receive from and can receive from the Lord. There is a clear connection between help and strength in Isaiah 41. 10 If you look there, Isaiah 41, 10, it says this, fear thou not, for I am with thee. Be not dismayed, for I am your God. And what does he say there? I will what? I will strengthen you. I will what? I will help you. So the kind of help that God offers to his people is strength. You ever feel weak? I mean, think of the New Testament. Think of Jesus saying, Come unto me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, I'll give you rest. Do you ever feel a weakness So what is this strengthening that God offers? Look at Isaiah 40, verse 29, for a minute. Isaiah 40, verse 29. You should be closer there. Isaiah 40, verse 29, and it says this, he gives power to the weak, and to those who have no might, he increases strength. Even the youth shall faint and be weary, and the young men shall utterly fall, but those who wait on the Lord shall renew their strength They shall mount up with wings and eat like eagles. They shall run and not be weary. They shall walk and not faint Keep silence before me, O coastlands, and let the people renew their strength. Let them come near, then let them speak. Let us come near together for judgment. He says to the weak, I'll give you strength. He says to those who are weak, I'll give you power. Paul says something similar in 2 Corinthians 12, verse 9. He says this, My grace is sufficient for you, for my strength is what? Made perfect in weakness. Therefore, most gladly will I rather boast in my infirmities, that the power of Christ may rest upon me. And we find then if you'll go over to Isaiah 43, hopefully this is we're doing a lot of flipping, but it's right in the same areas here. So Isaiah 43 verse 1. You're then going to see the source of the strength of God here, the source of the strength which is the help, the source of strength. Verse 1. But now thus saith the Lord that created thee, O Jacob, and he that formed thee, O Israel, fear not, for I redeemed thee. I have called thee by thy name. Thou art mine He's pointing out the position that they have. Then thou when thou passest through the waters, I will be with thee. And when thou went and through the rivers thou shalt not overflow thee. When thou walkest through the fire thou shalt not be burned, neither shall the flame kindle upon thee, for I am the Lord thy God, the holy one of Israel, thy Savior, I gave Egypt for the ransom Ethiopia and Seba for thee. The strength comes from the presence of God. And that is a another theme that you see running throughout the in the entire Old Testament, particularly when God wants to be with his people. You think of the book of Exodus, for example, as he brings them out of the uh of captivity and brings them into the promised land and during the entire process he is with them in the pillar of fire and the cloud and he's he sets uh the the eye the the the The entire concept of the tabernacle in the temple is to is to house the very presence of God. There is an association with the strength of God and the presence of God. of God. God says, I'll strengthen you because I will be with you. Now, here's the question. What kind of strength is God talking about? What kind of strength does he promise his people? Is he saying that if you, you know, just understand I'm going to promise you that you are going to be able to bench press 200 pounds with no problem? Is that what he's saying? You're gonna be able to get you're gonna be able to pump some iron. Is that what he's saying there? Is he saying you're gonna be able to run a marathon? I'm gonna get strengthen you to be able to run a marathon. Is that what he's saying? Is he talking here about physical strength? And the answer is obviously not. He's not talking here about physical strength. So what is he talking about? Well he says he will give power to who? To the faint And to them that have no might he increases strength. It's similar to what it says in Galatians 6, verse 9, when it says, Let us not be what? Weary in well doing. For in due season we shall reap if we what faint not. You know the strength he's talking about? I'd like to say it this way: he's talking about motivation. He is talking about spiritual motivation for service. It is easy to be weary in well-doing, is it not? And it is, but he says, you'll reap if you faint. Now he's not talking there about physical fainting. He's pointing out that when there is that we should, that the God can strengthen us in times when we fail in our own motivation. There is help for us, there is strength for us That is something that God offers his people. We're going to see that more clearly in the New Testament in a few moments In Philippians chapter 2, verse 13, I'll remind us of this. It says, For it is God who works in us both to will and to do for his good pleasure. God works within us. The ability, the motivation to be able to serve Him. Now, we see the extent of God's help in verses 3 through 4. He says, I'll pour water. on him who is thirsty. I'm going to overwhelm you with help. Floods upon the dry ground. There's going to be no uh limitations to my help. There's not going to be a shortage of help. I'm going to help you. I'm going to strengthen you. He says, my spirit will be upon your seed. It's not just going to be you, it's going to be your offspring. It's going to be your children and your children's children. He says, I'm going to bless your offspring in verses 4 and 5. There is going to be help for you. And he reminds them, why? Because of it of their identity. Verse five, one will say, I am the Lord's, and another will call himself by the name of Jacob, and another will write it in it write it with his hand, the Lord's And name himself by the name of Israel. All of these are pointing, various ways of pointing to the fact that they are God. You are mine, and you will be able to call yourself mine because of who you are And because of who you are, not because of what you've done, but because of who you are, you will have my strength and you will have my help. And then he says this. He moves in and he says, but remember, there's none like me. There is no one else like me. The implication I think here is there's no one else that can help you like I can help you, very candidly. It's part of what he's saying, not all of what he's saying. Would you look notice look at what it pick up what it says here? Verse 6. Thus says the Lord, the King of Israel, and his Redeemer, the Lord of hosts. I am the first and am the last. Beside me there is no God. Who can proclaim as I do? Then let him declare it and set it in order for me. Since I appointed the ancient people, and the things that are coming and shall come, the the Babylonian captivity, all those things that are coming shall come, let them show these to them. Do not fear, nor be afraid. Have I not told you from that time and declare it? You are my witnesses. Is there a God beside me? Indeed, there is no other rock. I know not one I don't think there's any way to be more emphatic about God being supremely sufficient and only sufficient for them, and that they're and he is unique. If I say completely unique, Jeff will remind me that unique is binary, so I can't say completely unique. He's unique. Jeff's like, yeah, exactly. God is unique. Now the question then becomes, why wouldn't I get God's help? Like I don't feel like that. I don't feel like I have that level of help. I don't feel like I'm strengthened and ready to serve the Lord with all of my heart. It's not that I don't have some level of want to, a desire. If you're a Christian, you desire to please the Lord. There's at least something within you that desires to please the Lord. But you're sort of going, I don't think I have that kind of strength. I'm tired. I'm weary. Well it's possible that you just need sleep. I mean that's possible. Joy texted me uh some sometime last night said she's gonna be there at two two o'clock in the morning Uh she said, I don't know what the piano will sound like tomorrow morning. Uh it's gonna sound a little crazy. And I said, Well I could take your place and then it would really sound crazy. Sometimes you just need sleep. But on the other hand, that's not really that's not the only thing we need. You can be felt fully rested and just have loss of motivation and serving the Lord. Why? Look at the passage. He now moves into an extended discussion and a warning to them. Now I find it interesting that he's going to warn them about these things because, first of all, he warns them that the problem that Israel has had so far has been idolatry. It's why they're in the mess that they're in. They've uh split in the king two kingdoms by now, and they're both going to be taken over by Assyria and Babylonia, or b Babylon. And and and they're in a mess because of and what's going to happen as they go into the into captivity is all of the things that they value are going to be stripped away from them. But there's going to be new idols in the land that they're going to, number one. And number two, as we're going to find out, idolatry is not only a physical thing. So the implication here is that there is something that you can give your strength to. That will keep you from having God's strength. Look at what it says here, verse 9. Those who make an image, all of them are useless. And their precious things shall not profit. They are their own witnesses, and neither see nor know that they may be ashamed. Who would form a god or mold an image that profits him nothing? Surely all his companions would be ashamed, and the workmen they are mere men Let them all be gathered together, let them stand up, yet they shall fear, they shall be ashamed together. What is he talking about here? Well, now he moves in into a rather extended discussion about the issue of idolatry. And he says in verse 9 that building Gods out of wood is useless. You make an image, and all of them are useless, he says. They don't profit anything. But he doesn't, he be he goes on to explain why that's the case. He says, He says, first of all, they weaken rather than strengthen. Look at verse 11. Surely all his companions shall be ashamed, and the workmen they are mere men. Let them all be gathered together, let them stand up, yet they shall fear They shall be ashamed together. The blacksmith with the tongs works one one in the coals fashions with hammers and works in the strength of his arms. Even so, he is hungry and his strength fails, his drink, he drinks no water and is faint. The description is of a blacksmith who's building something out of iron. You have wood here sometimes it's being talked about and sometimes it's iron in this case a blacksmith is forming an idol from iron and he says it's useless, the product is useless, and yet the strength, it just takes the strength out of a man and doesn't replenish it with anything. The illustration is you're working hard for futility and nothing. It's useless. And it's going to sap your strength. It's going to take your motivation from you. And that is the nature of idolatry. It removes your motivation. It sacks your strength. It takes your motivation. It's a gross illustration, but it's appropriate. It's like a tapeworm that takes all the nutrients from you so that you can't get what you need. That is the nature of idolatry. In verses 13 through 16, it says, idols are foolish, for the same, the same idol that you, the same wood that you Put in the fire, half of it you put in the fire to burn, and the other half you form this thing that's from that's made usually that resembles some form of a person Sort of ironic that it says in Genesis that man is made in the image of God, and then man makes idols in the image of man. And so he says, it's a it's a foolish thing to make these idols. We were going to the uh uh my dad and I went on Friday to the to the uh Museum of the Bible. And on the fourth floor, uh they have all kinds of manuscripts, Bible manuscripts, but they also have other archaeological findings of other writings, these cylinders and other things that's really cool. And and writings about ancient writings about kings. And the funny thing about kings is are these, you know, the the foreign kings There are a couple of things that you'll notice about them if you read them. Number one, they exaggerate. So they'll say, we wiped out Israel completely. Which they didn't, but they'll say that, then they'll credit themselves, Isiris wiped out Israel completely or whatever. And then that's not exactly what it said on that one, but anyway. And then they'll attribute, they'll say, praise be to whatever God. Like they put it all together. They're great with sharing the credit with God, and yet then somehow that gives them the ability to take on the credit for themselves. God says there is none other like me. He does not share glory. And then we see verses 17 through 20 that those who follow idolatry are clearly they are both helpless and they are deceived. And we're not going through this passage carefully exegetically. We're just trying to get the general gist of the passage to help us understand what's going on here. But pick up in verse 17, it says, and the rest of of it he makes into a God, his carved image He falls down before it and worships it, prays to it, and says, Deliver me, for you are my God. He creates the thing and says, Deliver me. They do not know nor understand, for he has shut their eyes so that they cannot see, and their hearts so that they cannot understand. And no one considers his heart, nor is there knowledge nor understanding to say, I have burned half of it. in the fire, yet I have also baked bread on on its coals, I have roasted meat and eaten eaten it, and shall I make the rest of it an abomination? Shall I fall down before a block of wood? He feeds on ashes, and a deceived heart has turned him aside, and he cannot deliver his soul. Nor say, is there not a lie in my right hand? He is deceived. The idol has deceived him. Now, now Israel, we're going to fast forward for a few minutes, and we're now going to move and Just thinking about Israel, and we're gonna move and now they're in exile. They're in uh in Babylonian captivity now, during that seventy year. And there's a particular prophet, Ezekiel. And we're going to go take your Bibles and turn there at Ezekiel chapter 14. We're going to fast forward and I'm going to point out as you're going to Ezekiel 14 That they've le that that all the idols, very likely, anyway, that all the things that Israel loved was pulled away from them. They're now in a new land And yet, the problem of idolatry persists. Look at verse 14, or chapter 14, rather, and pick up in verse 1 of Ezekiel 14. And some of the elders of Israel came to me and said before me, and the word of the Lord came to me, saying, Son of man, these men have set up set up their idols. Where is it where did they set them up this time? in their hearts and put them and put before them that which causes them to stumble into iniquity. Should I t let myself be inquired of at all by them? Therefore, speak to them and say to them, Thus says the Lord God, every one of the house of Israel who sets up his idol in his heart and puts before him what causes him to stumble into iniquity, and then comes to the prophet, I the Lord will answer him who comes according to the multitude of his idols. that I may seize the house of Israel by their heart, because they are all estranged from me by their idols. Therefore say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord God, repent, turn away from your idols, and turn your faces away from all of your abominations. For any one of the house of Israel, or of the strangers who dwell in Israel, who separates himself from me and sets up his idols in his heart, puts before him what causes him to stumble into iniquity. Then comes to a prophet to inquire of him concerning me. I, the Lord, will answer him by myself. I will set my face against that man, and make him a sign and a proverb, and will cut him off from the midst of my people. Then you shall know that I am the Lord. So the problem did persist because really idolatry is not just a problem of an external practice. The real problem of idolatry is a heart problem. So they made idols of their hearts. I want to pause for a minute and just and just make and bridge a gap between the context that's there in our modern-day, present-day Western 21st century context Even now in much of the world you you have rel a religious sus religious societies. Back then it was entirely religious. The idea of secularism, I I think did not exist back then. That would be my guess. I've never seen anything that indicates that anybody was just secular And even in our world today, you go to many, most, maybe most places around the world, and still today it is very, very religious. And of course, if you go to most places around the world, the religious nature of it is that there are idols. You go to Asia where Pastor Matt's from and or not from, he's from here. But anyway, uh I was a missionary there. And there's idols everywhere, like literally physical idols all over the place, different temples you can go into. Now that's foreign to us and we go, well, we don't have that problem. You know, we're too sophisticated for that. We we we don't have idols, you know, you don't stop by the local temple and you know And uh you know on the during the day. Now there's actually some people in our country in our country that do, but but you know, usually that's not our typical our typical way to our morning commute, you know, a stop by the local temple. But can a secular culture, who is which is basically a non-religious culture, and of course we're not totally a non-religious culture, but we're becoming much more and more secularized, where Basically, there's not a belief in God, or there is an apathy. They don't care if there is a God or not, or whatever. In a secularized culture, who is the idol? Self. Self is the idol in a secularized culture. Because now I'm doing everything for myself. I'm hopefully improving society with my s by myself, you know, as my as a self to improve it. Everything now becomes self becomes the idol. Now, in a secularized culture where self is the idol, how do we worship ourselves? How do we worship ourselves in a secularized culture? That is a valid question. Well, let's look at what it says in Scripture to see how that works. Would you take your Bibles now and turn to the New Testament? And I'd like you to take your Bibles and turn to Colossians chapter 3. Now, this is still a religious culture, but I think we're going to more easily see what's going on when we turn to Colossians chapter 3 here. In Colossians chapter 3, verses 1 through 5 it says this: if then you were raised with Christ, seek those things which are above, seek those things which are above. Where Christ is, sitting on the right hand of God. Set your mind or your affection. Set your mind on things above, not on things on the earth For you died. And your life, this is a description of a Christian, your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ, who is our life, appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. Therefore, put the death put to death your members which are on the earth, fornication, uncleanness, passion, evil desire. Notice what it says. And covetousness, what does it say about covetousness there? And covetousness, which is idolatry. It equates covetousness to idolatry. Now, let me ask you a question. In a secularized culture, is there covetousness? Everybody covers yeah, absolutely. Covetousness is wanting what God has not provided for you. And pursuing what God has not provided for you. That's covetousness. And covetousness is rampant in our culture. How is self worshipped in a secular culture by trying to appease self, by trying to please self. Now this is extremely insidious for Two reasons. It's actually, in some ways, more difficult to get somebody off of the idolatry of self than the idolatry of an idol. And here's why. Two reasons. One, uh C. S. Lewis points this out. He points out this, that we actually is actually made in the image of God. So when someone worships self, it is the closest thing in this world to worshiping God, but of course it's still a counterfeit. And so when someone worships self and they begin to self-improve and they begin to see themselves as their own solver of their problems, They begin to worship self in such way, it's a really hard thing to get them off of their set themselves because self is in the image of God, and there are there are things that we can at least emulate, characteristics that we can emulate true of God. For example, someone can be worshiping self and be a very charitable person. Right? Somebody can be worshiping self and be a really good person. Somebody can be worshiping self and be a really moral person, can be a really honorable person. Uh something can be worshiping itself and that can happen and you can be look like a Christian, frankly But ultimately, you're still worshiping self. So that's one reason it's difficult. There's another reason that this is difficult. This particular idolatry is is is really unusually difficult. He makes a distinction, C. S. Lewis does in his book on four loves, which I recommend. Uh he makes a distinction between between give love, giving love, and need love, gift love and need love. And he points this out. Both are truly love. But there is a difference between gift love and need love. And he says this, God does not have need love. Is that true? Sure. God is all-sufficient. He doesn't need anything. Does God have gift love? Absolutely. He gave his own son to die for us. He loves by gifting, but he can't, he doesn't love by needing because he doesn't need love. He doesn't need anything. Human beings are totally different. And need love isn't wrong. For example, nobody says that a uh for a uh for example a uh little boy Nobody says the little boy goes into uh goes uh uh you know feels alarmed or scared or gets hurt and runs to his mom f for for hu for a hug To be embraced, to feel secure. Nobody looks at that little boy and says, what is wrong with that boy? He's just being selfish. Right? Nobody says that right. Why? Because it's genuine love, but it is need love. And that is what we all start off with when it comes to God. We all need have we have no gift love. We have nothing in ourselves to bring to God But we all have need love in the sense that we need him, right? But here's the problem: when you have need love, It's very easy for that to cross over into selfishness. For example, a little boy loves his mom. He has need love. He can't doesn't have a lot to give to his mom, but he need has need love and he goes to his mom, wants hugs from his mom. But what if he gets jealous because his brother or sister is getting more affection than he does? Okay, well now that's moved into selfishness. Now that is crossed over from need love to selfishness. And when we cross over from need love into selfishness, then what happens is We're worshiping self. And it's not wrong to have need love and to allow God. We want God to fill our needs and we want to look to Him for provision. But when we look to ourselves to pursue things that are not really needs, we are on our way, on a path to idolatry. And the idolatry just looks different. It's covetousness, which the New Testament says is idolatry. And now we see the connection. So What do we do about this? How does this all work? I want us to notice this. Actually take your Bibles and turn there. Look turn to Hebrews chapter 13. And while you're there, I want to point this out that this covetous, this issue of covetousness is a very significant theme in the Bible. In fact, in Romans chapter 7, verses 7 through 8, I won't take the time to read that, but Paul says I didn't know the law. I didn't know I was guilty of the law until I realized my own covetousness. I realized I wanted something outside of what God wanted for me. And I saw the law, I saw it says thou shalt not covet, and I was convicted. That's my very, very loose paraphrase. Now, with that in mind, if you go to Hebrews chapter 13 and pick up in verse 4, it says this, let your conduct or your lifestyle Let your lifestyle, your conduct be without, there's our word again. You catch this? Let your conduct be without covetousness. Why? Well, be content. That's the opposite of couples, we'll talk about that in a minute. Be content with such things as you have. By the way, that helps us define what covetousness is. Covetousness is not being content with such things as God has provided. These two things are opposite of each other. But he himself has said, I will never leave you, nor forsake you. Does that sound familiar? I mean that doesn't sound like Isaiah 40 through 45, 46. So we may boldly say the Lord is what? My helper. I will not fear. What can man do to me? Do you know why, folks, brothers and sisters in Christ, do you know why we sometimes do not get the help that we need? We don't have the motivation to serve the Lord. It's because we are so covetous. And we're all guilty of it from time to time. And the more covetous we are, the more we are serving self, the more we are feeding ourselves, the more we are worshiping ourselves. The less motivation we are going to have to serve God and to live for Him. Why is it that we don't experience the help? Well, sometimes there's some sort of physical reason, or we're just feeling down, or it's just a feeling. It's not a belief. Not a actual belief that I'm not getting the help of that. It's just a feeling. But if that feeling stays and it becomes if that's if we build on that feeling and it becomes a belief that God just isn't helping me the way He should or the way I want Him to. Well then we need to go back and say, well, what's going on in my life? Maybe the problem is there's covetousness. He says in this passage, the helper he never abandons, he alleviates fear, and he instills confidence. I mean boldly say the Lord is my helper. So what is covetousness? Well, it's a desire for more. It's a desire for more wealth or popularity or physical pleasure or comfort or power or influence or ease or you you name it. And it's not as though w so the pursuit is not about pursuing God and then he gives me what he believes I should have. It's about pursuing more of something outside of what God has provided for me. And candidly, it takes real discernment and real honesty, self-honesty, if you will, sort of transparency in ourselves to to really consider whether or not my pursuits are self-interested Or they are as a response to the providence of God, to his providing for me It certainly takes wisdom and discernment to do that. But let me ask you this question. How do you know when covetousness is getting a hold of you? I'd like to give suggest three indicators of this, three life indicators of covetousness. Number one When we feel or believe that God alone is not sufficient. Now the reason I say feel or believe is because That belief is not based upon ever based upon God's word. It's not based upon truth. It's based upon what we feel. And it's a very scary and dangerous thing when a feeling becomes a belief, when we base our beliefs on our feelings. Don't ever base your belief on a feeling. But we know covetousness is life indicators when we feel or believe that God alone is not sufficient. Number two, when we pursue what God has not provided. When we pursue what God has not provided And our conscience will tell us sometimes. Our conscience will, you know, the Spirit of God working in the Word of God, if we're in the Word of God, and we'll we'll know sometimes that this is we're we're going beyond what God has really provided. We pursue what God has not provided. Number three, when the blessing of God replaces the God of the blessing. When the blessing of God replaces the God of the blessing. Friend, have you ever been so blessed by God and recognized it and been so grateful for the blessing of God and just reveled in the blessing of God? And before you know it, you look at that blessing. And that blessing has become the God. C. S. Lewis in the same book. He often he also makes a distinction between the between two kinds of desires, both good in their place, but bad out of place. He says there's a difference between There's the difference between need and um need kind of desire and an appreciation desire, and need desire and appreciation desire. Both of them have their place, but he says, for example, a cup of cold water. You go to a you y y have you ever been so thirsty? And just parched, maybe worked hard, worked out, whatever. And you go and you and you drink a cup of cold water, and it's just so satisfying. Well, what is that? Is that well I just really appreciate water. It's not. It's a desire from need. You were thirsty and you needed water. On the other hand, if you're going for a bottle of coke or he uses wine or coffee or those kinds of things Sometimes those kinds of things, that's appreciation. You may appreciate those things, but it's not need. Accept that is the truth sometimes. We confuse the two physically. We get thirsty and we think I'm thirsty so I need some Coca-Cola. You ever had that? If you drink enough Coca-Cola and you don't drink water, you'll get thirsty and you'll want Coca-Cola, not water. And you don't need Coca-Cola, you need water. Right? You health you health people out there saying, preach it. But the truth is we do the same thing in our lives as Christians. We do the same. We have we have needs to And we see those needs met by God, and very frankly, we have such a benevolent God that God blesses us with things that even we appreciate, that we don't need. But when we make the connection and we say in our minds or just even subconsciously that that need is now When that that need is now something that I I uh that want, that that uh thing I appreciate that God's provided is now something I need and we've made the switch and now It's a need. We are on our way to a place of covetousness. And covetousness is idolatry. And idolatry and covetousness will do what, folks? It will keep us from really experiencing the motivation and the help from God that God offers us. That is why the key to all of this then is contentment. Before we turn there, we look at contentment for a few moments, I want to mention this finally. And that is when it comes to the issue of covetousness, there are two root problems. The one root problem is pride, right? We talked about selfishness already. That's the other one. Selfishness is a root problem. It's a misunderstanding of our design. It's taking our needs, making our wants, our needs, and then pursuing them as a course of selfishness. But pride is the other one where I say to myself that I deserve more Why do I have covetousness? Because I'm not content with I with what I have because I deserve more. And do you know do you know the the remedy for that is just to realize how bad of a sinner how we really are, sinners as we are. Because the truth of the matter is, and I've said it before, and I'll say it again, I'm sure, what we really all deserve is hell. And anything above that is grace. It's absolutely right when I talk to somebody and they and I say, how are you doing? And they say, better than I deserve Now sometimes I kind of like to know actually how they're feeling, and so I need to be more specific, but but certainly better than I deserve is absolutely true, isn't it? Because what we all deserve is a place in hell separated from God for all of eternity. And if that's our baseline, it really humbles us really fast, doesn't it? So, pride and selfishness are the two root causes of covetousness, which then causes problems with our motivation to serve the Lord. But then also, I want to put this into the positive light, and that is this. And scripture does this. God wants us to learn to be content. In Philippians chapter 4, verse 11, it says this, not that I speak in regard to need. Remember? Remember we We made that connection of need and want and those connections. Now Paul says I'm not speaking in regard to need, he was thanking them for a gift that he they had given him. For I have learned in whatever state I am to be content. What does he mean? I know how to be abase and I know how to bound. Everywhere and all things I have learned both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer need. I can do all things through Christ who strengthens Did you catch that? Who strengthens me. There is an inseparable link between the strengthening of God and contentedness in God, in Christ. 1 Timothy 6, verses 6 through 10 says this: now godliness with contentment is great gain. For we brought nothing into this world, and it is certain we can carry nothing out. And having food and clothing with these we should be content. But those who desire to be rich fall into temptation and a snare, and into many foolish and harmful lusts which drown men in destruction and perdition for the love of money is the root of all kinds of evil for which some have strayed from the faith in their greediness and pierced themselves through with many sorrows. Now, how do we how is it that we learn to be content? Paul says this is something that I've learned. That we don't we don't get this right at salvation. We can understand mentally that I am in Christ. We can understand that my position is in Christ when we come to Christ. But we can understand that Christ is all-sufficient, but this is something that moves from the head to the heart, that I realize by experience and really believe in my heart that Christ is all-sufficient in my life. And Paul says, this is something that is learned. And I want to suggest to you that the way that this is learned is to go back to what Christ said. And he said this, Matthew chapter 11, verses 23-28. Come to me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. My yoke is easy, and my burden is light. There are let's let's go ahead and wrap this up three things that we can learn from this. Number one, God desires to motivate and strengthen us with His presence. He desires to do that. We saw from Isaiah that this is something that he wants to do benevolently. He wants us to have confidence in his help. His presence. Number two, idolatry and covetousness will sap us of God's sustaining help and strength. Idolatry and covetousness will sap us from God's sustaining help and strength. Finally, and this is the key: the key to receiving God's help. Is learning contentment with three things. Pursuit in Christ alone. Not sure that's worded the way I wanted to. Contentment with pursuit in Christ, responsibility from Christ, and provision of Christ. There should be a preposition. Pursuit in Christ, provision from Christ, and res uh responsibility from Christ as well. All three things. Pursuit in Christ alone, who he is, what he's done for us, provision And responsibility. Are you gaining, look, when you think of all your responsibilities in life, and many of you have many, many different areas of responsibility, are they all in pursuit of Christ? Are they all are you taking on Christ's yoke? You are take- it's not that we've talked about this before, it's not that that means you just Put your feet up and don't do whatever and let Christ do all or let go and let God. That's not what we're talking about. But are you taking on the responsibilities that Christ wants you to take on? Are you pursuing Christ alone and everything else comes under that umbrella? My family comes under that. My my uh My vocation comes with that. My ministry and church. All of those things come under pursuing Christ. I'm doing all these other things because I'm pursuing Christ. And I am I looking to Christ alone for my provision. And when I'm doing all of that, and I've learned that, I've learned how to be abase and how to abound. Which, by the way, sometimes be abounding is harder than being abased spiritually. Then Paul, we could say with Paul, I have learned to be content. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and I confess before you that this is something that I need all the time. And I sup I would suppose that if I need it we all do. I think we're all in the same boat with we have this flesh of ours that we certainly have the if we know you as our Savior, we have the spirit uh and we desire to follow after you and to please you, but we have this flesh that that just uh moves toward covetousness. Lord, I pray this morning that you would convict us where we need conviction and cause our minds and our thoughts and our hearts to turn to you you so that we can receive we can we can learn with Paul to be content. And we look to you for our strengthening, for our motivation to serve you with all of our hearts. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.