He's going to say, Look, let your yes be yes and your no be no. So even Jesus, even God to his people made vows. And you have the same kinds of things in Exodus and Leviticus in the Old Testament, where you have this, it's called Lexalionus, it's equal punishment for equal crime. But I don't know if I'm as ready as I ought to be. Now it says very clearly that that is the case, but then in Deuteronomy verses chapter twenty-three verses three through six. Do you remember who was our example when he prayed for his enemies? And you and I ought to do the same. I've sinned, you've sinned, we have all separated from God, and we are an offense against God because of our sin. And if you're here this morning and you're really not sure where you stand with God, understand there's nobody in this room that's any better than anybody else. We accomplish this through corporate worship on Sunday mornings, through adult Bible studies where we learn God's Word and how to effectively apply it to our lives, and through our discipleship home groups that meet in various locations throughout the region. Join us for a worship service, a small group for Bible study. And you're no be no. I gotta be a good person, I've got to do all the good things that I that I I gotta do all this. And to help build up others in the faith the way that they've helped build me up. And rose from the grave three days later. And we hear from your word preached, Lord, I pray that we would worship you in spirit and in truth this morning. Now let me ask you a question. And that's exclusive. If you were not a Jew, if you were a Gentile, or you were a Roman or anything else, if you were a tax collector, or anything else like that, you you would be it w they were they were just being they had a mean-spiritedness and unkindness toward each other, to toward others. Uh what was the problem? So let's begin by looking at the fact that we are to treat others with integrity. You have heard that it was said to those of old, you shall not swear falsely by uh but shall perform your oaths to the Lord. Because I say to you, do not swear at all, neither by heaven, for it is God's throne, nor by the earth, for it is the foot his footstool. And certainly if you swear by the Lord's name, and then you don't do what you said you were going to do, you are taking his name in vain. The text is not saying that you can't swear on a Bible in a court of law or something like that. It's not saying and it's also just for specific communication, writing making sure it's clear what you're promising. Is he is saying, don't swear by something with the intention to deceive. It should not be said of us in our testimonies before the world, our interactions with each other, that we were somehow deceptive in how we communicated, that we are somehow evasive when it comes to the truth. Now, the truth is you can't always say everything that you know. And if we say we're going to do something, we ought to do it. to try to get them to will you promise? with the opposite sex. Now what he is referring to when Jesus quotes this another verbal saying from the religious leaders, an eye for an eye and a tooth for a truth tooth. And those who remain shall hear and fear, and hereafter they shall not again commit such evil among you. It wasn't so that everybody else could just any time, eye for an eye, tooth for a tooth. then they would have then been able to realize that that wasn't the individual's responsibility, instead, that was the government's responsibility. But what he's going to do is some of this is going to be a bit of a hyperbole, and you're going to see that. That isn't really the point. They have a benevolent attitude. Although the Bible certainly says love your neighbor, nowhere in the Bible does it combine the idea of loving your neighbor and hating your enemy. That nobody was able, you know, it wasn't like Israel was able to literally take up a copy of the Old Testament and read it. These are critical errors that they made in understanding what was happening here. God helps them that help themselves. Where we thought that we could we could rationalize certain things because the Bible had it, and there are actually blights on our country because of it. He says, first of all, love your enemies, do good to them. If he is thirsty, give him a drink, for in so doing you shall heap coals of fire on his head. For now our salvation is nearer than when we first believed. We get rain and we're like, oh no. And we ought to do that as well. And God says this to everyone. I'd be glad, I'll stop whatever I'm doing, and I'll be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure how to have a relationship with God, how to know that you have your sins taken care of on the cross and you have Jesus' righteousness on you. and integrity, he's not evasive in his language, he doesn't twist the truth to fit his own agenda. and love them and want what is best for them. They are given a sense of purpose and meaning in life. I I'd had some some spiritual struggles in my own life that have sort of turned around night and day, just just having come here. My soul longs, yes, even faints for the cords of the Lord, my heart and my flesh cry out for the living God. Even the sparrow has found a home, and the swallow a nest for herself, where she may lay her young, even your altars, O Lord of hosts, my King and my God. that David had. Blessed are those who dwell in your house. And Lord, we confess before you that we don't always have the attitude of a psalmist in this passage where we just love to be in your tabernacle, we love to be in your presence. Before we begin our day, or maybe at the end of our day, or sometime, if not more than once, may we come before you and worship in your presence. But I say to you, do not swear at all, neither by heaven, for it is God's throne, nor by the earth, for it is his footstool, nor by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great king. But whoever slaps you on your right cheek, turn the other to him also. And whoever compels you to go one mile, go with him too. Bless those who curse you, do good to those who hate you, and pray for those who spitefully use you and persecute you. Do not even the tax collectors do so? Nor shall you swear by your head, because you cannot make one hair white or black. It used to be that Christians were viewed positively. that would support how they were behaving in a mean-spirited way, and actually they were misusing the Bible in the process. And he is pointing out to his disciples that Christ followers need to have a Christ-like attitude toward others. And the way that God intends for us to treat people. nor by Jerusalem for it is the city of the great king, nor shall you swear by your head, because you cannot make one hair white or black But let your yes be yes and your no be no, for whatever is more than these is from the evil one. They had read from the Old Testament, the religious leaders of the day had read from the Old Testament about the issue of making oaths or swearing by something. In Leviticus 19, 12 it says, And you shall not swear by my name falsely, nor shall you profane it the name of your God, and there are many other places in Scripture Where it says in Exodus and Numbers and Deuteronomy and Leviticus, it says all over the place to make sure that you don't swear by the Lord and then and then not do what you said you were going to do. It was absolutely prohibited entirely. For example, you could if you swear by God's name, if you swore by God's name, that would be binding. People began to use non-binding O's and swear in a non-binding way, really with the intention of deceiving. To follow up on what we just said so that you're we're clear on it. For when God made a promise to Abraham, because he could not b because he could swear by no one greater, he swore by himself, saying, Surely blessed I blessing I will bless you, and multiplying I will multiply you Somebody asks you a question and you can't say, it's really simple. Or I'm not at liberty to say, or I can't say. and does not change. I don't know if I've ever asked anybody to make a vow of a of any kind. An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth. If anyone wants to sue you and take away your tunic, let him have your cloak also. And it's a it's generally a pretty good principle overall. In other words, the Jewish government, which is responsible for punishment of evildoers, they were the ones who were to apply this. It was intended to have this eye for an eye thing. that they weren't supposed to apply this eye for an eye. Proverbs 24, 29. Leviticus 19, 18 says, You shall not take vengeance, nor bear any grudge against the children of your people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself. Is Jesus actually saying that you should walk go around in a loincloth? basically require a Jewish person to carry their luggage or carry their gear for them for one mile. uh that they couldn't do it for more than one mile. That you ought to be generous in doing that and not to charge them interest and usury and those kinds of things. If you look back at your last six months or a year, do you look back and in your spirit you want to retaliate? And to execute our own justice on others. And giving that some thought. So not only we are we to treat each other's with mercy, but we are to treat others with sacrificial love. Treating others with sat sacrificial love. I am the Lord. It says in certain places that God loves the wicked, and there are other places that it says God hates the wicked in the Old Testament. But so that they could remain pure before the Lord and not be influenced by these idolaters. They didn't consider why was God writing this? So th uh those of the oh finally they depended on tradition for their interpretation rather than scripture itself. You won't be able to apply the Bible the right way. Probably what he had in mind was those who were going to persecute or those who were persecuting uh uh followers of Christ. Opposing us on any level, we're to love them and pray for them, we're to do good to them, we're to bless them. Verse ten of that passage says, Love does no harm to neighbor, therefore love is the fulfillment of the law. He says, if you only love people that love you, what thank or reward, the word reward there is grace. What grace have you? What grace is that? This is speaking of the common grace of God. Yes, he does. And on the other hand, you've got some people that are suffering and having a hard time, and they seem to be really good people. For the Lord your God is holy. He can give us his righteousness. Jesus and what he did on the cross to pay the punishment for your sin. I gotta get back at the other person or don't mess with me because I'm gonna, you know, make make you pay. Maybe there's somebody that the Lord has brought to your mind that in your mind is an enemy. I need you in this. Help me to pray for my enemies and do good to them and overcome evil with good. Before you even drive into our parking lot, we'd like to give you an idea of what to expect on your first visit to Bethel Baptist Church Close to the front doors. Teachers and nursery workers will be available to introduce themselves and assist you in signing your children in and out of their classrooms. But we all have one thing in common. Uh this this is the place for them. We thank you that you have provided a way for us to be in your presence. Lord, we confess before you that we neglect our personal worship. And Lord, we've been given the opportunity to do just that. And that you would be preeminent in all things in our lives. As we live our days on this planet, we pray now, Lord, that you would give us great help and insight into your word. You would use your spirit to challenge and uplift and convict so that we can be grown more and more into the image of your Son. wrong in how they are living. And now it is generally accepted among many people that study culture and things that the the Western culture now views Christianity negatively. Another reason is that Christianity is exclusive in the sense that that Christ says, I am the way, the truth and life, and no man comes to the Father but by me. not regarding other verses and not comparing scripture with scripture and not not they were they were doing all kinds of things like that so that they were actually using the Bible in a way and the Western world particularly in our country view us the wrong way, might it be sometimes our fault? And we're going to see all of this in this passage. Christ's followers need to have a Christ-like attitude toward others. And then we're going to see that it includes treating others with mercy. And the Bible has a lot to say about this. Where you could swear by certain things and it'd be fine. But then they don't do it. details down, then sometimes you might forget a two years from now what you promised you would do. That's not the point of the passage either. And I have I I think frankly, very likely we have all experienced this from some one time or another, even when Christians have been evasive in their in in what they're saying. uh when you really can't say or really shouldn't say. That wouldn't work too well. The one was to my wife. Then promises really are generally not necessary. Give to him who asks you, and from him who wants to borrow from you, do not turn away It is found in the Bible. This general principle of if it happen if you do it, then it's going to happen to you is a general principle in Scripture. It was not scriptural for people to take vengeance on their own selves. Now what he then does is he gives four illustrations for people to understand what this means on a practical level. three s three layers of clothing generally. property and those kinds of things. It's not the attitude of a follower of Christ. And there was a Roman law that said that a Roman soldier was able to at any time they could um they could ask or they could But they what did Jesus say? But they're they're going to groan the entire time. That God will sustain us and give us strength, and He will always be faithful to us. in this text that help us to understand the point. Because the natural thing when someone wrongs you is to wrong them back. And I have to be honest with you, I mean if if it's a friend or one of you or somebody I know or a family member or something, then I I think I'd probably be pretty ready to the law read sometimes, and in other times they were listening just to rabbinical teachings and summaries of what it said in the Old Testament But I say to you, love your enemies. anger or animosity. Love your neighbor as yourself. What this really helps us to understand is why it's so important to be very careful as you read and study the Bible. Take these the the scriptures and understand them. And they saying that they should hate as God does. Sort of assuming that j that that we could be have the same thing do the same thing God does, and yet there's nowhere in Scripture that commands us to hate our enemy Bless them, pray for them. It then goes through a list of commands, many of the ten commandments, and he says that you are fulfilling those. He prayed to his father, and what did he say? He prayed. The Bible says that He provides for the just and the unjust. That God gives to all people through his creation because he loves everyone, including his enemies. This was a quote from a place in Leviticus, which said this, speak to all the congregation of the children of Israel and say, you shall be holy. Just as your Father in heaven is perfect, you'll be perfect. You have to have not just external righteousness, you have to have internal righteousness. that he truly could pay your for your sin. Now you said, well, I don't have to do that, right? For others who we know we're saved, but we look at this passage and we see how difficult it is to consistently apply, may we respond in dependency, looking to you and saying, Lord, help me with this. Coffee area and the specific ministries and classes available for you and your family. spiritually immature through hearing God's word, preached, studying God's word, and continuing Additionally, there are one-on-one and couple-to-couple counseling and discipleship opportunities. My family is involved in the church. continuing to deepen my walk with Christ and and grow in my relationship with Him and even getting involved in the ministry I'm looking forward to uh being able to help out and Father, we pray that you would give us a heart of the psalmist who loves to be in your presence daily. For if you love those who love you, what reward have you? Now, part of that, no doubt, folks, is due to the fact that Satan does not the devil does not want the world to view Satan's po uh Christians rather positively. To the exclusion of others. If you swore by Israel toward no, if you swore toward Israel, it is binding. Now is that not confusing? And that's what they're doing, but these are full-grown adults doing this. made vows, didn't he? Contracts are really helpful. Generally, there is no need, there should be no need to swear at all. If you're a follower of Christ, you ought to be living by integrity. of of keeping our word even when something else comes up that we would rather do. with integrity. He's going to uh in fact let me just mention this by the way, that it actually what is said in Deuteronomy 19, 15 through 21 and mercy in their responses toward people. Doesn't mean we're not a victim of harm from somebody else, but we are not overall a victim. general generosity that we're supposed to have. Now what is Jesus talking about here when he uses this phrase? Our duty and our joy to understand the scriptures. And he makes an appeal uh to the Gentiles as well. In Matthew 5 here, a final statement in this chapter, and it says this, verse 48. Not of works, lest any man should boast. Uh genuinely we have a real unity in the faith because we believe in that objective truth in the scriptures You know, reading in the Bible is helping me to grow spiritually. Our children's ministries are extremely important to us. To guide, to cheer, to encourage, to provide conviction of sin But we see that your presence is promised as well through your Holy Spirit Any of our faults without any wickedness from inside or outside, it will be non-existent and there will just be material possessions and the the presence of other relationships. That you may be sons of your Father in heaven. Matters. And this was affecting the perception of the Gentiles or the Romans toward the Jews. Essentially you are swearing by him. It's kind of like uh somebody, you know, little I I I hope we're not doing this as adults, but you remember as kids you say you're gonna do something and you put your hand behind your your back and you cross your fingers? And so he uh he explains that. Or you need to make a vow that you'll go to church every Sunday. Actually I actually I was actually telling telling my kids the other day that some of this kind of thing goes on in the in in col uh among college students. And uh they'll want to go to certain pe go to dinner with certain people. And that kind of a thing, which means you just don't plug people's eyes out, and that would be the best way to not have that happen to you So although although the Bible told them that there were that the government was supposed to apply punishment in certain situations to punish crime, that was scriptural. Right? But they also failed to see what Scripture said in other places. You're not a victim. Now uh and even if they come and want to loan want to lend to you or uh uh uh get a take a loan out from you And are we ready to give to those in need? that we should not have a retaliatory spirit toward others. This is how, this is this beatitude that we discussed before, this is how this is carried out. Love your neighbor and hate your enemy. In fact, Leviticus 19, verses 16 through 18 says this. It talks about uh a a way that we are to separate from our enemy. So does God love everyone? You've got to look at the context of Scripture. And we need to be careful that we understand by actually looking at what the Bible says and taking what the Bible says and understanding what the Bible says, because if you do not interpret the Bible the right way Be ready to love them. Why? Because that's your natural person. But Jesus Christ died and took our sin on himself so that when then And if you're not sure how to do that, you're not sure whether or not you are a child of God, whether you're a follower of Christ, you're not really sure about that, please come and talk to me after the service. And that means that as a follower of Christ, what does a follower of Christ look like? Number two, are you willing to treat others mercifully? more faithful. just so uh great in terms of their unity and their activeness and involvement in the church. If they want to grow spiritually, if they're ready to take the the next steps in their spiritual walk with God in their Christian life Of our future that we have in you. And that blessed are those who thirst and hunger for righteousness, for we will be filled. We thank you for that. The truth is that during this time in the first century, uh when Jesus was speaking to these people, uh Israel had gotten, let me put it this way, mean They were just mean. Uh that is something that is very we ought to take extremely seriously. And Jesus says, no, no, that is not the follower of Christ's role. That your goal in law is not to go after the other person. If the Jew if the Jewish people view themselves as a victim, they're going to carry that one mile and they're going to gr groan the entire way doing it. In this case, what Jesus says essentially is they're wrong. This is very interesting because that was how the religious leaders summarized certain statements in the Old Testament. Because they spoke it in such a way with the authority of Scripture where they actually added to Scripture. That in the Old Testament, they saw that there was a misunderstanding of the character of God. As he went up on that cross, and they put those nails in his hands, and he bled and died. And then finally, um that so those are the three arguments that he makes. Number three, do you love others sacrificially? That's what an enemy is. As a young mom I have two small kids and so I am very much looking forward to seeing them grow up in this church where I know there are gonna be people who care about them And um it just draws us together as a family. as we saw this morning, is depicted in Revelation 21, where we will have your presence In a way in which we've never experienced before. You, all of you that we could have ever asked for. lesser presences, uh the presence of wealth or the presence of Allow these inferior things to supplant your rightful place in our hearts You have heard that it was said, an eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth. And twist truths a certain way to your own advantage. Uh I I I really that is unwise. The phrase eye for an eye and tooth for a tooth is found in the Bible. It's not to be Israelites that were to apply this. That doesn't mean that it's not appropriate to to use the law of the land, to use the court in order to get appropriate compensation for harm and loss of Now, there's a lot of actual rules in Scripture about that and how that's all supposed to work together. That was God's intention in the Old Testament, for you to love your enemy. Is that is how we are to treat people who are mistreating us, whom we view as enemies, who are a In Romans chapter 13, verses 8 through 14, it says this: O no one anything except to love one another. Do good to them, bless them, pray for those who mistreat you. So he loves everyone. The Bible says, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. And you go through all of these and you go and you say to yourself, well, I don't want to be merciful. When Jesus is teaching these things, he is hitting on our flesh. And Romans 3:23 says, For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God, every one of us. To take our punishment on himself. And if you're coming to the conclusion, you say, no, you're right, I I I can't do this, then turn to Christ and trust in Are you resolved to treat others with integrity? And to please him. Father, we come to you and we look at these clarifications that Christ made and we realize that we cannot do this on our own. In taking their sin and giving your righteousness to them, so they may be saved. Uh it has been said by you know the general consensus is that in our country, it used to be in particular and even in the Western world in general And by Jesus' day, this has gotten twisted around where Jewish people are taking it on themselves to retaliate. And Jesus says, if you give them if they sue you for your cloak, give them your tunic also. In our lives when we do that. The presence that is promised to us from Christ, who said that he will be with us until the end of the age. You have heard it that it was said, you shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy. Instead, you're merciful toward them. You shall not take vengeance, nor bear any grudge against the children of your people. So that was so instead they combined these two ideas, and really what they did was they could they twisted scripture. If we're honest with ourselves, you've thought of somebody in your past, in the last six months, year, two years, five years, ten years, somebody who wronged you and you still want to get back at them. And Jesus died and shed his blood on the cross to take your sin away. For by grace are you saved through faith. You can know that today. Love them. There may be some here today who don't know you as their Lord and Savior. But instead would see ourselves diminished, very small, in view of the greatness of who you are. Do you ever think that Christians are perceived by the world as mean spirited? But you need to you need to you need to be merciful. Now that's sort of an interesting thing that it says there. Because Christ has provided all that we need. Uh there was a faulty the th this um um To do what is actually supernatural, to do what Christ did when he came to the cross. That's what it's calling for here. Pray these things in Christ's name. We thank you that you have chosen to exalt your name and proclaim your name throughout the earth. To those who belong to you, who have trusted in Christ as your Savior, as their Savior, we have the Holy Spirit residing in us. And these zealots would try to rise up against the Roman Empire. This was not intended to be a a actual literal thing that if somebody hits you that you net you actually need to turn the other cheek and point to and say, go ahead, hit me here too. But the point that God wants to make to his people, and what they did wrongly, was they didn't look at the whole council of God on things. Be careful with the word of God and interpret it in the right way. Are we completely separate from sin? How about how about uh mercy? Let me ask you this question. Psalm 15, 4 says this, in whose eyes a vile person is despised, but he honors those who fear the Lord, he swears to his own hurt. The word anger, as we know, means hatred. And as we worship you this morning, I pray that it truly would be pleasing in your sight as we sing truths from your from uh from that are reflected in your word. We thank you, Lord, that the presence of the Spirit really is the guarantee Are we merciful with others? It certainly included the Gentiles, but it wasn't only the Gentiles. And if you're saying to yourself, okay, I get it, I can't do it. And cr as followers of Christ, we would be um God would be pleased if we got rid of that spirit. They'll have somebody who goes on a date and then oh the other person they really like break and they'll break it off to go to the other. We are to not hold grudges against people. That's something that we need to need to think about and need to consider. You shall not hate your brother in your heart. He's going to give us why. We do what we most want to do. You ever wonder, you ever think to yourself, man, why that person is so mean and evil and uh and yet he seems to be doing really great To be in the midst of the congregation, but also on a daily basis, that we would come before you in the morning and be in your presence and worship at your feet. We should not swear to our own hurt. Secondly, in verses thirty-eight through forty five forty-two, we need to treat people with mercy. But to want to execute more and to get and somebody sues you and you want to actually clean their clock and get everything out there That kind of attitude is not the attitude of a Christian He can give you his righteousness. Stop having a deceitful attitude and trying to have uh be evasive in your conversation and and what you say and So be careful. Reading from today's text, we will be uh starting in verse 33 and going to the end of the chapter. If you're parents, you know that. Jesus did exactly what he preached. Except that God also loved us, loves us. Lord, may all of this, as we look at this, result in a crying out to you, a dependency on you to do what we cannot do for ourselves. It is our privilege to have you visit us and we want you to feel at home while you're here. Why had they become the way they had become? Our yes needs to be yes, and our no needs to be no. It doesn't mean that. That was in that's in the Old Testament. Uh rain is actually it's still important for us. Since I uh started coming to Bethel, I noticed that my walk with the Lord became more serious. Your how you treat others actually affects your relationship with God. We ought to be people of commitment. The point is that it's a general attitude that you have that when somebody harms you, you you should not have the attitude that I've got to get them back Jesus was correcting their understanding of God. An enemy is someone who's opposing you. The church has impacted my walk with the Lord in terms that my faith became real. Let's go to the Lord in prayer together. Lord, I pray that we would live in light of these truths. You have the Abrahamic covenant for which is an example of a vow. Am I just ready? I mean that's really the conclusion that you had you had to come from this. Well can you promise? The purpose was Israel was to separate from uh from Ammonites and the Moabites so that they weren't influenced by them. So Jesus in this portion of the Sermon on the Mount is dealing with Israel about the three, he's clarifying three things that they've really gotten. And so sometimes people view Christians in the wrong way because of that. The general principle is that we are to be merciful to people. The Bible says these things are written that you may know that you have eternal life to believe in the name of the Son of God. And I pray, Lord, that if there is anyone in our midst this morning that doesn't know you as their Lord and Savior, I pray today that they would understand their sin and their need of a Savior and they would be saved. You know why contracts are helpful? Do not say, I will do him just as he has done to me. What reward have you? God's it appeals to God's nature here. So what does Jesus say? The next illustration is interesting what Jesus does here. He shows that all the time by the sun coming down on everybody, by the rain coming on down on everybody, by people prospering, even when they're evil. Because Jesus did it for me. Again, you have heard that it was said to those of old, You shall not swear falsely, but shall perform your oaths to the Lord. Jesus said carry it two miles. Did you know that as a follower of Christ, we're never victims? Remember what we learned back just a few verses back when Jesus said, blessed are the what? We sincerely desire to help people grow in the relationship with the Lord, with their families, and with one another. This is going to be an example of misusing the Bible, of not using the Bible in the right way, and you'll see this in a minute. That's certainly a appropriate and the appropriate way to do it is through the it is through the courts. He says even the tax collectors do that, the public do that, the sinners do that. Now, let me pause and ask the question: are you and I holy? You don't need it to be connected with him. Give me this spirit. We have found a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. But what he a couple of things we need to understand about this passage, what Jesus is not saying, first of all, he's not saying that no one can make an oath under any circumstances. And we pick up in Matthew 5, 34 through 38, it says this: You have heard that it was said, You shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy. Is that in the Bible? We don't want this. Stop swearing, he says. They it was actually intended to keep them from from from abusing their their status as as uh superior to the Jewish people. Yes. What they actually were guilty of doing was adding to Scripture here My children are growing in the church. There was some mean-spiritedness about them. Did you know that is we're going to find this in the passage? And that's what's going on here. The point is that we need to be very careful to be truthful, honest people as followers of Christ. Bless those who curse you. He's actually going to appeal to God's very nature. I'm oppressed. When people treat you the wrong way, instead love them. That is what God calls us to do as His followers. Uh they had the t they had the the loincloth, and they had the the tunic over top, and then they had the cloak over top of that. If somebody comes to you and asks of you, you're supposed to be generous with them. I have something I need to think about, something I need to pray about more. No, no, wait a minute. 1 Corinthians 15, 3 and 4, Christ died for our sin according to the scriptures, and that he was buried, and then he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. Therefore, you shall be perfect, just as your Father in heaven is perfect. We're going to look at this today. You've got to understand how Scripture compares with Scripture. Even in the Ten Commandments, it actually says to not take the Lord's name in vain. But I say uh but I tell you not to resist an evil person. And frankly, we believe what we most want to believe. Do we do this in our society? They will still be praising you. Do you think Christians are ever seen that way? Somebody asks me, somebody has a need, am I ready to give to those in need? And in 1 Peter, later on, it says the same thing: Be holy, for I am holy. Amen. Uh I can't think of too many others that I've made in my life, and I don't intend to make a lot. And they and they left off the as yourself. There's a sin nature inside of you that wants to get back because you've been wronged. That's what we need. See, here's the thing. And we ought to be people of integrity that way. This was intended for the government so that the people wouldn't retaliate. So what you shouldn't be doing from this passage is saying, okay, I better clean up my life It's a body of believers that is striving together to serve the Lord. Okay? I'm sorry I'm not able to say. Does God hate or is he angry at the wicked? Do you want to know whether or not God loves everyone? Is it because maybe we've gotten our we have emphasized certain portions of scripture So he gives actually four commands here. Sometimes kids aren't ready for certain things, and there's all kinds of other examples of that. If we say we're going to do something, we ought to do it, realizing that our testimony is at stake. Number three, they interpreted scripture without considering the purpose of the text. And there's some that would make the argument that what meaning here is mature, but folks, it's quoting from an Old Testament verse that says holy. Help me identify when I don't have these attitudes that I'm supposed to have. For he makes his sun rise on the evil and on the good, and sends rain on the just and unjust. Even if you weren't a Christian, you viewed them positively. We have a lot of young families with children, and we believe in the importance of teaching truth to the next generation. Psalm eighty-four. Well part of it was because they were not viewing the Bible in the right way. But so so it's not as though we can't we have to literally tell everything we know all the time. The next one is a Roman custom that was, of course you know that they were under Roman rule back then in Israel. What was the purpose of the text? It's nowhere in the Bible. When that same person belongs to a loving community where God's word is taught, they will grow in their relationship with the Lord, and their life grows in purpose and meaning. Bethel Baptist Church is a growing loving family community. Let us be a blessing to you and your family. Essentially what Jesus says is, if you swear by the things that God made Answer, no. Or are we ready to exact exact justice? You shall surely rebuke your neighbor and not bear sin because of him. God wants us to be very careful about this in loving our neighbor and loving our enemy as well. And they'll commit to go to dinner with certain people unless that other friend over there wants to go to dinner and they'll break off their commitment and go somewhere else. I'm going to do this. That one day, as Enrique taught this morning, we look forward to a day where we are going to have heaven as our inheritance But Jesus also died for the wicked. Uh we just don't recognize it as well. And and he rose from the grave three days later, showing Why don't we want this, folks? Give to him who asks you, and from him who wants to borrow from you, do not turn away. Stop doing all that. He swore to his people. Because we have bad memories. In fact, Deuteronomy 15, 7 through 11 is very clear about that. And generally speaking, brothers and sisters in Christ, it is very important for us to remember Stop swearing by everything and just let your yes be yes All of those are upfront and honest, and if somebody keeps prying, then actually they're the ones with the problem, in many cases anyway. Why do you need promises? I don't think it was ever intended to be without exception. What is that talking about? You've got to have righteousness everywhere. Do not even the tax collectors do the same? So, what we're what he's really going to point out here is this: that Christ, of course, remember, he's talking to his disciples. We're going to see, first of all, that we are that this includes treating others with integrity And finally, we're going to see that it includes treating others with sacrificial love. And let me make another application. You have heard this said, you shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy. Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. He prayed we would do He prayed for His enemies. And all of us from one time or another have those kinds of folks in our lives. There should be no need to promise this or swear by this all the time. Somebody asks you to do something, you say, yeah, sure, with no intention of not doing it. Number two, they ignored the context and other texts. He can apply his righteousness to you. And that not of yourselves. You don't need it to be in the right relationship with him and you're standing with him, but you but you want to please him. Romans 12, verses 12, 20 through 21 say, therefore, if your enemy is hungry, if your enemy is hungry, feed him. The Bible says the wages of sin is death. If anyone wants to sue you and take away your tunic, let him have your cloak also. First of all, they omitted from Scripture and added to Scripture. Be perfect as I am perfect. No, that's not the point. And also we need to be people that have the integrity Do good to those who hate you, and pray for those who spitefully use you and persecute you. The Bible says to search them out, but we need to really be very careful with the Word of God. It's good to have that kind of thing. You need to have the spirit of mercy. Are we merciful? I pray today you would work in their hearts to help them to understand the gift that you offer. And just in general, there was sort of this mean-spiritedness, particularly if you were not one of them And you could and it wouldn't be binding. First of all, the first illustration is turn the other cheek. It says that God was talking about here, it rains on the just and the unjust. So how did the Pharisees and how did the religious leaders of Jesus' day deal with this? But there's a very easy way to deal with that. And there are entire societies and even our own country that during certain times in our country That's exactly what they were doing. That wasn't supposed to do what they were supposed to do. I'll tell you something else that was happening. The Bible does say that He is in Psalm 711 that He is angry with the wicked every day. So being new members here, I'm most looking forward to uh We find that in verses in chapter 5, verses 33 through 37. It was the government that was to apply this. But Jesus says: if you're a follower of me, you don't wrong them back. And we thank you, Lord, that that future No, no. If they would have taken, if they would have seen what Scripture said in other places I have to do this. He reigns on the back then rain was a big deal. I certainly can't do it perfectly. And the ministry and the love of the people of the church is helping my children and my family to stay faithful to the Lord. And they're deceiving people by this kind of sleight of hand with your words, yeah, I'll do it. We all broke that during COVID, didn't we? Are we ready to do that? Love begins at home. Once you have accepted the righteousness of Jesus, then you want to please him. It's somebody that that's opposing you, that's going against you, that's making it hard for you. But let your yes be yes, and your no be no. And the Bible tells us that we cannot do that in our own. We thank you, Lord, for the promise that that those who are pure in heart will one day see God. Or I'm I'm I shouldn't say. That is not what a follower of Christ does There are some preachers that will do that. There are very, very few vows that I've made. He says that if somebody sues you for your tunic, give them your cloak also. Okay, that's not what he's saying. You can go put those three up there for just a second here, uh Tony, all three of them. We sometimes and sometimes we neglect our corporate worship Let's pray together. But if you swear by Israel, it's not binding. Stop making oaths these these ways. And whoever compels you to go one mile, go with him too. That is not the disciples' role to retaliate against people who wrong you. Proverbs 2022 says this: Do not say, I will recompense evil. And they wanted to believe that they had a scriptural basis for taking out their own justice on somebody. Even your enemies Bethel is a place for someone Well, uh the the all the the the at this point the garb that they had, the clothing that they had, they had basically uh Why? Do you have that kind of spirit? We thank you, Lord, this morning as well for your presence. But I tell you not to resist an evil person For example, Deuteronomy 19, 20 through 21 says Actually, in Luke it says it one way, and Matthew it says it the other way, it reverses. If I'm as ready as I I ought to be, if a stranger just comes up to me and and has a need, if I am ready just to fill that need. In Hebrews chapter 6 verses 13 through 14 it says So it's not saying that you can't have contracts. In fact, it was exactly that was too So let's look at what it says here. You should be perfect. He looks like one who treats others with honesty. Of course, God always keeps his vows. And we should not bind somebody's conscience. Because what Jesus now is going to move, and he is going to hit that dead-on with the next principle. And you can't do it yourself. We genuinely desire to help you grow spiritually any way you possibly can. Lord, I pray that we would not Now a couple of things that we need to understand. If we're generally people that do we we say what we do and we do what we say. Probably, most likely, what Matthew had in mind as he penned these words down from the lips of Jesus How about loving your enemies? Bethel Baptist Church is a family made up of people from very different backgrounds and from every age group. How lovely is your tabernacle, O Lord of hosts! And that means that we are going to have to treat people. Sometimes it's like uh I mean even sometimes I'll it just in interactions with people I'll say, hey, let me shoot you an email Somebody says, well if that's the case, I just won't say I'm ever going to do anything. They saw that it said things about God hating the wicked, and it does. Finally, we have We don't want this because we're sinful. The point is you can't do it without Christ. We also understand that looking for a church to attend can be unsettling. And his point is primarily going to be that your interactions with others, your how you treat others. That kind of stuff is stuff that's that hap but you know what we full grown adults do that kind of thing sometimes. And this is exactly what was happening. And instead they added hate your enemy. And do this knowing the time that now is high high time to awake out of sleep Jesus himself. But I mean that's how crops grew. We may actually have good intentions with bad memories, and if you don't write things down, if you don't write I have no choice. And we pray these things in Christ's name. And then finally this You shall love your neighbor as yourself, I am the Lord. You know why we're never victims? And so we have these illustrations that God gives, or that Jesus gives here. Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. Do you have a spirit of vengeance, of of And Lord, that is through the work of Jesus Christ as he died to pay the punishment for our sins on the cross. I will render to the man according to his work. I want to get back at the guy. Be righteous as I am righteous. It is the gift of God. When I first came to Bethel I was a babe of Christ. Father, truly, your name is glorious. We're going to experience those things. One of the things that was happening, of course, they were under the Roman Empire, but they had zealots According to the Bible? We are ready to assist you in understanding your needs and locating facilities such as the nursery The presence of Almighty God without any sin as a barrier, without Jesus begins to deal with a particular problem. Your eyes shall not pity. Do you have that? You've got to understand, and it is our That's not in the Bible. Everybody, people, that's a natural thing to do. Are we resolved to treat others with integrity, even when it might mean that it's going to be a loss for us? That's not bad. Because in the heart of a person who is in their mind being if they if you view yourself as a victim And there is a sense in which really we are never a victim. You can find these if you want to write them down in Exodus 22-25 and Leviticus 25-37 and Deuteronomy 15-7 through 11. Number four, they made a logical leap Now what does that mean? The Bible says, if you offend in one point, you're guilty of all, the Bible says. That we would then be able to magnify and glorify your name even more and more. And it ought to mark us as followers of Christ. In fact, Do we even go so far as to think that there are certain things in the Bible that were never in the Bible The Bible says, pray for them. He's pointing. Literally, they would, if you plucked somebody's eye out, your eye would be plucked out. You shall not go about as a tailbearer among your people. So Jesus corrects this. Father, we praise you and thank you for you are a holy, righteous God. A follower of Christ has the spirit of mercy, has a forgiving attitude. Are you resolved to treating others with integrity? But folks, is it not possible that some of why the world I'm a victim. And the purpose was not And because God loves us, He sent His own Son. And you could swear by other things and it would be binding. And The merciful. The other thing that was likely happening was that the This has to be taken carefully. His point is that you should show mercy And it actually was intended to stipulate They were listening They depended on tradition of scripture rather than interpretation. It's not to get retribution. He says, first of all, love your enemies. The only thing you can do is depend upon Jesus to do it for you. It's not talking about those kinds of things. I was thinking about that. Let's pray together. And to not be overcome by evil. And if you greet your brethren only, what do you do more than others? But if you swore by the earth, it's not binding. It says in that pat in this passage, picking up in verse thirty-eight, you have heard that it was said Not interest in every case, but not to not to run the risk of usury. I don't want to love my enemies that they would be my enemies anymore. And then And I pray, Lord And then a few years back it turned neutral. I I hope you notice this, that when I preach at the end of my preaching, We won't take the time to turn there now, but in that passage That was the intent. Now we God, in his glory, is absolutely perfect. Yes. We hope that we've been able to show you a small glimpse of what Bethel is like. But I say to you, love your enemies. That the follower of Christ is to be one who's different. And they were make Jesus says this is the attitude of a follower of Christ. He appealed to our future reward We should be seeing our sin through this. After arriving at Bessel, feel free to park at one of our guest parking spaces. It was the Jewish government. Instead, they were supposed to allow for pity They're going to have to do it, it's required. And he is going to explain why this is so important. He's going to appeal to the nature of God. They'll they have their social groups For whoever slaps you on your right cheek, turn the other to him also Have you ever experienced that before? There are critical errors that he's making, and I I I I asked Pat to put these up on the screen. That's how they ate. Because what began to happen as they had these binding things and non-binding things and all this Help me to make right choices. They saw these Jewish people as being mean-spirited. In a sense, we're never victims. That's eternal separation from God. Now Christ is going to correct this. And Jesus says, no, carry it an extra mile. We are to love people, which we're going to see in just a moment. That when people persecute you We're separated from him, and we're on our way to a place called hell. When a person discovers how to have a genuine relationship with God You need to make a vow that you'll never play video games again. And they had twisted it and turned it. There's these phrases that we think are in the Bible, but they're not in the Bible anywhere Can God love and hate at the same time? How does that happen? Often, Lord, our attention is captured by If you love people that only love you, what reward is that? That is not the spirit of Christ. Life shall be let for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Remember, I've said this before, but remember Jesus said earlier, your righteousness better exceed the righteousness of the Pharisees. Amen. They were taking verses out of context and using them for their own purposes and Just be honest enough to say, okay, yes, I I do know the answer, but I shouldn't say He always keeps his promises. Are you and I perfect? But what we say should be true And we followed Jesus' spirit, which was merciful. Not only that So first of all, we need to treat other people with That's why we we don't want this. As we continue in Matthew 5, we ask that Those kinds of things. There's just some of us in this room that completely depend upon Jesus to save us. He says, love your enemies. Does God allow rain to fall on both sin on both the just and the unjust? They omitted They omitted and they added to Scripture. It says again. But either way, if what they sue you for one, take the other also. Jesus says that's not the character of a follower of Christ. That was the reason behind what it was saying, what they were saying here For he who loves one another has fulfilled the law. Don't say that. I am the Lord. And I'm sure you've you've heard of that idea of turning the other cheek You can't just come up with a verse and say, okay, well now I got a verse for what I want to do. How do you explain all this? This happens a lot with uh teenagers and college students. That's why Jesus says, I'm telling you, love your enemy. Three final questions. It's not saying that it's wrong to have a contract with somebody But what's the problem? We can't. Pray for them. Our focus is on making and building disciples for God's glory. You know why? Therefore you shall be perfect If they sue you, well then you need to counter-sue and take them for everything they're worth They could be put in jail if they didn't. You can't find it in the Bible in the Old Testament. Well, who is their enemy? God loves everyone, and there's this thing called common grace. For whatever is more than these is from the evil one. What he is calling followers of Christ to is to do what is unnatural. The the church family here is And God wanted evil people to eat and good people to eat. The Bible says by faith alone. What he is saying That should not happen for a Christian. There is only one way to God according to the Bible and according to what Christ said. Uh I was Read along with me if you will. He doesn't want that. Why? They didn't look at all of what the Bible said about things. That's what he's saying in this passage. Wait for the Lord and he will save you. The reason was not to have some sort of animosity against them. Because for the Christian, if you say you're going to do something, you ought to do it. Don't do that. And then they and why do they do this? We must carefully So that's part of the reason. Well, they came up with a quite an interesting system. And he's going to give some examples of this. May we have that heart Number one. Do good to them. The problem is who is supposed to apply it. Apparently, yes. And so that's important to understand. It's the word caris, it's a cognitive caris, it's grace. Or they'll do that with We pray in Jesus' name. In fact, we find that God himself But not only that That is going to be real problematic. Do good to them. But we'd love to meet you personally. Well, a couple of reasons. Can you and I? That's why. Actually, number one, because you want to. Amen. I'm not sure we can.