Good morning. Before we do the reading this morning, let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we are so grateful this morning for your goodness and your kindness. Thank you for the many blessings that you bestow upon us, and we just praise you this morning for who you are. You are the one true living God, the creator and sustainer of all And we thank you and praise you for Jesus Christ and what He has done at the cross on our behalf, giving us this privilege and joy this morning to be able to come before your throne and give you praise and honor and glory. And Father, we are remembering this morning those who are unable to be out with us today, those who are having health issues, and those who may be traveling, Lord. And uh we just pray for your good hand to please continue to be upon them, encourage them, Lord, and we ask for your hedge of protection around them from any harm or accidents. And pray that Father you will encourage them today through your word. And as we come to this time when we listen and sit under your teaching, I pray, Father, that you would prepare each of our hearts, Lord. In our minds and our thoughts. Help us, Lord, to focus on you this morning and set aside all the cares and all the concerns that we've had all week and help us to To take this time. I pray for your spirit to just draw us and encourage us and give us the ability to learn and understand your word and also give us a desire to be obedient. to your will for your glory and for your praise, we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. We are going to be in Acts chapter 18 this morning. morning and we're going to be looking at verses one through ten. Acts chapter eighteen, verses one through ten. Harry, should we ask Oh, you changed it. Oh, is that what it was? I don't know how I got acts eighteen. Okay. I made a mistake. It is now Acts 19. One through ten. Okay. I probably didn't have my glasses on when I was reading the uh bulletin, so forgive me for that. Okay, so here we are in Acts chapter nineteen, one through ten. And it happened, while Apollos was at Corinth, that Paul, having passed through the upper regions, came to Ephesus. And finding some disciples, he said to them, Did you receive the Holy Spirit when you believed? And they said to him, We have not so much as heard whether there is a Holy Spirit And he said to them, Into what then were you baptized? And they said, Into John's baptism. Then Paul said, John indeed baptized with a baptism of repentance saying to the people that they should believe on him who would come after him, that is on Christ Jesus. And when they heard this, they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. And when Paul had laid hands on them, the Holy Spirit came upon them, and they spoke with tongues and prophesied. Now the men were about twelve in all, and he went into the synagogue and spoke boldly for three months, reasoning and persuading and concerning the things of the kingdom of God. But when some were hardened and did not believe, but spoke evil of the way, before the multitude He departed from them and withdrew the disciples, reasoning daily in the school of Tyranius. And this continued for two years. So that all who dwelt in Asia heard the word and the Lord Jesus, both Jews and Greeks. Good morning. Let's stay in Acts chapter 19. It's good to be with you all again. My name is Matthew Conrad, and I've been serving the Lord in Asia for the last twelve years. We're transitioning to a new ministry in the Middle East with National Theological College and Graduate School. I had a chance this morning during Sunday school to explain about that transition. And uh If you have any questions, I'd love to talk to you after the service. But right now, we're going to get straight here to the Word of God, Acts chapter 19. In Acts chapter 19, we see a lot of success. You know, I like success. Success is cool. I like reaching a goal. I like winning a basketball game. I like getting the trophy. I like reaching the summit of a mountain. Are they graduating? Are they getting a good job? I like getting a raise. In ministry, I like to see fruit. I like to see people come to Christ. I like see young believers grow in the Lord and go on to serve Him. I have no greater joy than to see that my children walk in truth. I like seeing churches planted. I like seeing pastors trained. I like seeing fruit from my labor. And so did the Apostle Paul. As we come to Acts chapter 19, he's beginning his third missionary journey, and it begins very successfully. Paul first went, and you see little lines there on the map. He starts out in Antioch of Syria. That's his home church there, sent out from there He went across his hometown, the the the home region of Cilicia, you see there in the purple. Then he enters Galatia, that uh teal kind of colored there on the map. And of course he had been there before in his first missionary journey. He had started churches in Lystra, Derby, and another city called Antioch of Pisidia. And uh uh he went and visited those, reminding of God's work that yeah, a lot of things went wrong, but a lot of things went right too, and there were churches now in that region. Some of the people that travel with him, including Timothy, came from that region. He had trained him in ministry, and now he was serving also as a missionary, too. Then he comes to Ephesus. And in Ephesus, we're going to see more success possibly than any other place that the Apostle Paul ever went. He had promised to come to Ephesus. At the end of his second missionary journey, he was coming back from from Greece. He had been in Corinth and a couple other cities. And on his way back he stopped in Ephesus. And if you look back in Acts chapter 18, Harry, Harry, we're going to get there. I knew it. Acts chapter 18. And if you look in verse 19, it says there, and he came to Ephesus and left them there. Who do you leave there? Look back in the previous verse Aquila and Priscilla, a couple that had come with them there. He says he went to Ephesus and left them there, but he himself entered the synagogue and reasoned with the Jews. When they asked him to stay a little longer time with them, he did not consent, but took leave of them, saying, I must by all means keep this coming feast in Jerusalem, but I will return again to you, God willing. And he kept his promise First place, first new place he went on his third missionary journey was kind of making a beeline there, right to Ephesus. Ephesus is in that pink area there. The map's a little bit small. So in that pink area there, Asia Minor, it's the Roman province of Asia. In fact, on our passage today, when it talks about Asia, it's not talking about the region where I've been for the last 12 years. It's talking about Western Turkey, the Roman province of Asia. And uh so he went there and began his ministry like he always did. Now he had been it looks like only one Sabbath day on his second missionary journey as he was just passing through. But now He comes right back there. And in fact, while he was in gone, God's work had already begun in Ephesus. You have Aquila and Priscilla who were there, and there was this guy named Apollos. At the end of Acts chapter 18, we see this little short story about this guy, Apollos, a Jewish man who had been born in Alexander, Egypt. And he came to Ephesus and he started preaching right after Paul had been there. And he was enthusiastic, and he was eloquent, and he was gathering people to hear him, and he was missing some very important information. Aquila and Priscilla came to hear him preach and they're like, oh, ooh, something very important is missing. He doesn't have anything there about Jesus Christ. He had never heard of Jesus Christ. He I guess maybe he had been in in in in Israel during the time of the ministry of John the Baptist. Either that or someone had brought the the news to him that the prophets that God had promised to prepare the way, John the Baptist was there. He was preaching repentance. And Apollos believed the message that he heard. And he with great enthusiasm went wherever he went. He was preaching, telling the Jews. The forerunner is here. Be baptized, repent. But all he knew was what John the Baptist taught. Well Aquillon Priscilla said, Hey, come on over here. We've got to talk a little more. John the Baptist, he's preparing the way for someone else. For Jesus Christ. And Jesus Christ came. The Messiah that God promised came. He lived a perfect life. Because he's God, God in the flesh. God became man, he dwelt among us. But then his enemies took him, they nailed him to a cross, which he allowed, because he had come to die for our sin. Die and shed his blood for us. Three days later, though, he rose again. He proved his power, proved that he was God, proved that he was the Savior. Paul has heard all this. He believed it. And he went out and started preaching again. But I don't know what the reason was. He didn't stay long in Ephesus. He actually went to Corinth. Maybe Priscilla and Aquila Encourage them, hey, there's no church here. You are young in your faith. Hey, go to this we we got a church over there in Corinth. Why don't you go over there? But anyway, he goes over there and very soon he's preaching the gospel. If you look there at the end of Acts chapter 18 We see that see it says there, verse 26. So he began to speak boldly in the synagogue. When Aquila and Priscilla heard him, they took him aside and explained to him the way of God more accurately. And when he had desired to cross to Achaia, that's Greece, the brethren wrote, exhorting the disciples to receive him. And when he arrived, he greatly helped those who believed through grace. And so here's this guy. God's preparing the way already. This this influential guy gets saved. And then Paul comes back at the first stop in his first new stop in his third missionary journey. And it says in Acts 19, 1, and it happened while Apollos was at Corinth, that Paul, having passed through the upper regions, came to Ephesus. And finding some disciples, he said to them, Did you receive the Holy Spirit when you believed? Hey, he went to the went to the went to the synagogue there. He starts chatting with you. people and he realized oh these are Jews who are following the one true God who created the world. He they not only that they were saying things that were very familiar that that that Paul knew of. And so he says oh have you received the the Holy Spirit? And they said Said to him, We didn't know there was the Holy Spirit. You said you were baptized, right? Yeah, we were baptized into what baptism? Oh, we were there in in Israel. John uh John the Baptist baptized us. Oh Look at verse 4. Then Paul said, John indeed baptized with baptism of repentance, saying to the people that they should believe on him who would come after him. That is On Christ. And then he preached Christ to them. And they've been totally prepared. Paul is going to see some great success here in Ephesus. And it all started Started with the preparation that God did ahead of time, with his quick stop and dropping off to Quilla and Priscilla to stay there in Ephesus, and then Apollos getting saved, and then these twelve men here in the synagogue who had believed like Apollos had believed what what they had heard from John the Baptist. And now all Paul had to do was say, Oh yeah, you're doing great. Here's a little more important information. They lived in a transition time where there was new revelation coming. Jesus Himself, as Hebrews chapter 1 says, in these last times. God revealed himself through his son. There were prophets, but now Jesus came. His son came. And they heard this new revelation. And they believed. And the moment they believed, God confirmed that their belief was correct because they spoke in tongues. He asked the question, have you received The Holy Spirit, they said, we don't know if there's a Holy Spirit. They believed in Jesus Christ. They received the Holy Spirit. And this transition period, God used tongues, this miraculous gift of languages, to confirm to Jewish people that this new revelation Was correct. We only see actually tongues three times in the uh in the book of Acts. We see it at Pentecost. God was doing something new there. He was giving new revelation through the apostles as they preached at Pentecost And so God gave them this sign of tongues where they spoke actual languages. People from all over the world had come, Jewish from Jewish people from all over the world had come at the feast of Pentecost to uh to uh uh to to celebrate this this feast. And these Jewish people, they some of them didn't speak Hebrew, didn't speak Greek. They spoke other languages of other cities where they lived. But the po Peter and the other de apostles got up and they spoke And they understood the other languages. They spoke in tongues, spoke these different languages. And it's confirmed to the Jews that, yes, the message that Peter and the other apostles were preaching, this is from God. Peter pointed back to the book of Joel where it talked about prop young men and and women paw prophesying in the end times Only happens three times though. In Pentecost. Happens again when the Gentile, the first Gentile comes to Christ, Cornelius in Acts chapter 10. And it was there to prove to the Jews that were watching that yes, this is genuine. Gentiles also can receive The gift of the Holy Spirit through belief in Jesus Christ. And now, this is the last time in the book of Acts, Acts chapter 19, where you've got these Jewish believers, 12 men, who had believed the message of John the Baptist And they got saved. Is there really a Holy Spirit? Yes, there is. And they had and they spoke in tongues. After this, we don't see it. Well, here's Paul. He's having great success. But God had clearly prepared the way for this success. I've seen this as I've served the Lord in Asia. I've seen it here in the U. S. too. I think most recently I told the story uh two weeks ago when I spoke on Sunday evening. Uh I was I was in in Asia over the summer, and I was preaching at the church plant there, and a young man came. Actually a young man was brought by his friend who I had been discipling. He stepped in a little bit late to the service, and I was preaching, and of course, I preached the gospel, especially emphasized it there at the end of the sermon because I didn't know if this young man So after the service I went and started chatting with him, and I knew my time was going to be short, so uh I spoke with him rather rather directly and asked, Hey, are you are you are you a Christian? He said, yes. So do you know for sure if you die today you go to heaven? He said, Yes. Well, if you would die today and stand before God and he asks you, Why should I let you into heaven? What what would you say? And he said Said, well, I believe in Jesus and I'm doing my best and oh. He understood a lot about Jesus. He uh he knew he was a sinner He knew he couldn't save himself. He knew about Jesus' death, burial, and resurrection, but he did not know that salvation was by grace through faith alone. Ephesians 2, 8 and 9 is very clear. For by grace are you saved through faith, and that not of yourself it's a gift of God, not of worse, lest any man should boast. He didn't know this. But when I shared that truth with him, God had totally prepared him. He immediately heard the truth. And right there after the service, he believed In Christ as his Savior. God prepared the way. This wasn't me doing a whole lot of work. This wasn't me planting seeds and watering the seeds and waiting and hoping and praying. No, he walked in. He was ready to believe. He only needed To hear that last bit, kind of like Paul, Aquila and Priscilla with Apollos, or Paul with these 12 men in Ephesus. He came, he preached, they knew a whole lot already, and then, oh, they're missing this very important key information. They took that next step, put their trust in Christ alone, and were saved. Paul saw great success in Ephesus, and he knew where that came from It came because of what God had done preparing the way. In your life, in your salvation. Do you have a similar testimony? Not too many people, the very first time they hear the gospel, they whoo immediately they get salvation. Usually they gotta think about it a while. Usually God uses many different people, many different places, many different circumstances to help us to see that we need Christ. To help us to realize and to admit that I I am kind of messed up. I am a sinner. I mean the Bible says it very clearly. For all have sinned come short of the glory of God. But a lot of times we don't want to admit that. We're like, no, I'm pretty good. And we start doing the comparing game, you know. Uh yeah, I've I've made some mistakes in my life, but you know, I'm not as bad as that guy. truth into our life, bringing people uh with bringing the truth to us, then finally we come to Christ. God prepares the way In our daily life, we also see this. God prepares, think about where you work. We do a lot of hard work. A lot of people go to college, study, then get a job in that field. There's a lot of people who actually go to college study and get a job in a completely different field. But we can see the hand of God working in our lives, leading step by step by step. Any success that we see today, it comes because of God working in our lives Yes, we should be good stewards with the opportunities he gives us, with the talents and abilities he gives us. We should work hard. The book of Proverbs is full of all sorts of illustrations and explanations about the benefits, the blessings. That comes from working hard. But ultimately, in our lives, any success we have comes from God. Especially if we talk about ministry and serving and reaching out to other people. Any success we have, any fruit we see, it comes from God. 1 Corinthians 4 7, the Apostle Paul puts it this way. Interestingly, the Apostle Paul wrote the book of 1 Corinthians during his time here in Ephesus. Maybe as he's seeing the success, he needs to remind himself, as he's writing to the Corinthians. He says, For who makes you to differ from another? And what do you have that you did not receive? Now if you did indeed Why do you boast as if you had not received it? Any success we have comes from As we see the Apostle Paul working here at Ephesus, and here at the very beginning of his third missionary journey, why did he see success? Well, first of all, because God prepared the way. But secondly, let's look at look a little farther here. Look at verse 8. And he went into the synagogue and spoke boldly for three months. Now this was nothing new. He always did this. God gave him a plan, and the plan was to go to major cities, go to the synagogue where people were most likely to be prepared ahead of time to hear the gospel, preach the gospel to them, and then branch out and preach the gospel to And that's exactly what he's doing here. Here he is for three months in the synagogue. What's he doing? Reasoning and persuading concerning the things of the Kingdom of God. Just the same things that Jesus did after his ascension, just the same things as the gospel message. How do you enter the kingdom of God? You must be born again. How do you be born again? Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and you will be saved. There's no other way. So he's preaching and reasoning these things, persuading the Jews to come. Verse 9: But when some were hardened, so some believed, but some were hardened and did not believe, but spoke evil of the way. Early in the book of Acts, Christianity was called the way. And before he they spoke evil of the way before the multitude. He departed from them and withdrew the disciples. So look at that. He's got disciples. People came to Christ through his ministry there. He's seeing success. So he departed from them withdrew the disciples, reasoning daily in the school of Tyrannus. Now we don't know too much about the school of Tyrannos. Well we see it here on the page. It's a school, and apparently a guy named Tyrannus taught there, either before previously or I don't know, could maybe it could be Tyrannis Memorial School. I I I I I really don't know who was at that time. Training those who had come to Christ. And that's what he did. He says, for a space of two years, this continued for two years, so that all who dwell in Asia heard the word of the Lord Jesus, both Jews and Greeks. Wait a minute. Read that again. All who dwelt in Asia? Remember, we're talking Western Turkey, but still a big region. Paul, he comes to Ephesus. He's got three months there in the synagogue, then he's got to move on to the school of Tyrannis. Now two years, what's he doing there in the school of Tyrannis? He's teaching daily. That means he's not going and planting churches in the region. And yet, even though he's not traveling around the region, what happened? The word of the Lord Jesus, all who dwell in Asia heard the word of the Lord Jesus, both Jews and Greeks. Jews and Gentiles. How did they hear? Well, those guys he was teaching. Every day there. In the school of Tyrannus. He was teaching them, training them. And they went and taught other people. There was a guy named Paphras. He came from the city of Colossae It's very likely he was in these training sessions, and not long after this, he goes back to his hometown, Colossae, and the neighboring towns of Laodicea and Hieropolis. And he planted churches. In Ephesus we see Paul's the plan that God had given to the Apostle Paul. In other in other places we can't really see his plan, because Paul's whatever plan Paul Paul's plan was, it got shortened really quickly. You look at the first missionary journey especially. He'd be in the city for, you know, a couple of days, maybe a couple of weeks. He'd preach the gospel. Some people will say if he started Gets started the church and then persecution comes and he gets kicked out. Or in one case, persecution comes and gets stoned, and they think he's dead, and it's really time to move on when that happens And so he's got to keep moving, moving, moving. We can't really see what's his plan. We know he goes to the synagogue, that's where he starts. But now in Ephesus, nobody's kicking him out. And so what does he do? He begins training leaders and sending them out. Ephesus became the hub for training and sending out leaders, multiplying disciples first, then leaders. We see his training of leaders uh in Acts chapter twenty. In Acts chapter twenty he's he's left he's left Ephesus for a while. This is probably about three years after he got there He went, ministers some other places, goes to Toaz, guys falls out the window. And that story, you know, that one. And then um and then finally he swings back at the end of this journey. He's gonna head back to Jerusalem And he stops in Militus sent for the elders of the church at Ephesus. Who were these elders? These are the guys he was training those two years In the school of Tyrannus. Some stayed there ministry at Ephesus, but many went out and planted churches. Churches multiplied. There's a couple of different ways you can do churches. Planting. There's the addition model. This is kind of what we were doing with Hope Baptist Church and Faith Baptist Church, the two churches we were involved in in Asia. Missionary comes, plants the church, passes that church, stays there for many, many years. That's excellent. I love to see that. But then there's other models, and this is more what we did with Panda Project, and now as we do with a National Theological College and Graduate School. There we go, I got my got my same cartoon head there. That's great. I'd love iPhones. And then, you know, but instead of directly planting the church themselves, you see this is what Paul was doing. He's training men Training these guys who will do what? They'll go to other cities in the region and plant more churches. Instead of just being an addition model, addition is Great. But multiplication, hey, that's even better. They're going and teaching others also. I mentioned this verse this morning in Sunday school. Uh in 2 Timothy chapter 2, verse 2, Paul told Timothy, The things you have heard of me among many witnesses The same commit to faithful men who shall be able to teach others also. And that's what's happening here. It's happening in our work in Asia, through National Theological College and Graduate School, it's happening in Uganda, it's happening in Egypt. Egypt, it's happening in Lebanon and in Jordan. And hopefully it's happened in many other places in the world. There's a pattern we see from the Apostle Paul here in this passage of people going. Teaching. And then they going and taking what they've learned and teaching others also. This is how God loves it Led. God opened doors for the Apostle Paul. He didn't kick down, get kicked out. So he began teaching others also. And God opened doors. Hey, the synagogue door closed? Well, school of Tyrannus. Well, I I can stay here for a while. Hey, let's train some men and let's see what God will do. Well, this is what God did. Take a look at this map. A little bit small again there. But we have here we have a close-up picture of the Roman province of Asia. If we look carefully here, we've got Ephesus. Let's see if the oh this thing's great. There you go. Ephesus, red star, right there. I really wanted to try this. out. There we got that there. And then remember I mentioned Epaphras. He was from Colossae. He planted that church in Colossae. We see him mentioned at the end in uh Colossians chapter uh Colossians chapter four verse thirteen. Oh, I did something wrong. There we go. And uh uh then he went to Laodicea and Hieropolis. We see in church history other churches here possibly started during this time, a church in Trilus, a church in uh Magnesis. And then of course in Revelation chapter 2 and 3, there's a message to seven churches. What church is the first church mentioned there? Do you anybody remember? The church at Ephesus, where it all began. And then they went out. And we have these other churches there, Pergamum, Thyatire, Sardis, Philadelphia, Smyrna, Laodicea. Well, there we mention it again. How do these churches multiply? Paul didn't go to these places. It's even mentioned, I think, in Colossians, that he didn't go there. How do these churches get planted? Paul trained them, trained men, and they went and planted churches. God guided his planning. God gave them a space of time where that plan could develop. And where fruit could come. And so so it says here, so that all who dwell in Asia heard the word of the Lord Jesus, both Jews and Greek. Paul could not have told them all. But there were a lot of people telling him. The disciples multiplied, the leaders multiplied, and then the churches multiplied. We see what God is doing. When we see success, whether it be in our lives or it be in ministry, that success came from God. When we see fruit, we know Where that fruit came from. It's not coming from his servants. It's coming through them. The source of that success, the source of that fruit is God. Only God can save people. Only God Can grow his work. And yet, whenever there's growth, there are obstacles. And in Ephesus, yes, lots of success, but also lots of obstacles. But God overcame those obstacles. Let's look. Verse 11. Acts chapter 19, verse 11. We're going to see two things here. We're going to see God's power working miracles and also God's power changing lives. Verse 11. Now God worked unusual miracles by the hands of Paul. So if he's saying unusual miracles here, this is even beyond the normal miracles of this trans this this transition time. This is not a normal thing, but God was especially at work here. God worked unusual miracles by the hands of Paul so that even handkerchiefs or aprons were brought from his body. The sick and diseases left them and the evil spirits went from them. So this is this is very unique. Very clearly that God is working here. God's doing things only God can do. People are being healed from handkerchiefs. That it touched Paul. This is not normal. He says unusual miracles. So he cast out demons. And there were some people who Who saw what was going on? They thought, oh, this is great. There are some, I guess, charlatans here. Got the seven sons of Siva. They this was a Jewish guy, he had got seven sons, and he thought, you know what, I'm gonna cast out some demons too, like the Apostle Paul. So he found some guy that was possessed of a demon. You know, nowadays we think possessed of a demon? The Bible talks about it, Acts talks about it, the gospels talk about it. Very few people in our Western context have come in contact with demon possession, and so much so that often we kind of wonder, is that really a thing? What are you talking about here? Do they just have seizures? Is it epilepsy? Is that kind of thing. Sometimes people do make that mistake and they think you know the actual genuine physical problem is like, hey, the demon in them, but it's not. It's just a physical problem. But there is such a thing as demon human possession. As I traveled in Asia, in places where the gospel has not penetrated as much, where the things are very dark, there are more accounts of people saying they solved. Demon possession. I've read in missionary biographies, especially in uh rural China about two hundred years ago. There are there are accounts of of guys, faithful preachers who Who who were very skeptical of these accounts of demon possession, but then they were there and they looked I don't know what's going on. There is there is something at work here that I've never seen before. And the Bible reports that that's the kind of thing going on here in the very dark part of the world as the gospel is just penetrating into this area for the first time. There are people possessed with demons. And Paul is given unusual miracles here. Cast them out. And so these guys, Siva and his seven sons, he says, hey Paul can do it, I'm gonna do it. When I've got found this guy, he's got a demon in him, a real demon in him. And he said, I command you by the Lord Jesus, whom the apostle Paul preaches, that you come out of him. And the Demon said to him, Jesus I know. Paul I know, but who are you? And he attacks him and beats them all up. And everybody heard this story. And what's the result? Look at verse 17. This became known both to all Jews and Greeks dwelling in Ephesus, and fear fell on them all, and the name of the Lord Jesus was magnificent. Magnified. This is God at work. They saw the power of God. They said, oh, only This Lord Jesus he must he can cast he can do what nobody else can do and then of course in that area there was a lot of magic and maybe this is why there was a lot of demon possession also because you look at verse uh 19 We've got a lot of contact with the occult in this area. In verse eighteen it says, And many who had believed came confessing and telling their deeds. Now verse 19. Also many of those who had practiced magic, they're involved in the occult, they brought their books together and burned them in the sight of them all. And they counted the value of them, and it was totaled fifty thousand pieces of silver Like, wow. These guys were serious. They didn't sell their expensive books to get more money. No, this is wrong. They got saved. They said, this is of the devil. We're going to burn that. We're not going to make money off of that stuff. And people heard that they're like, what? That's that's valuable. Why why aren't they making money off of that? There must be something to this. These people have changed. And what happened? Verse 20. So that the word of the Lord grew mightily and prevailed. We're talking about success here. God is at work. It's clear to those who are saved. It's clear to this the community in general The word of the Lord grew mightily and prevailed. And it was very clear that this came from God. So Jesus' name was magnified. The word of the Lord grew. And so did the opposition. So many people were coming to Christ that it was affecting local idol sales. They looked at their graphs, their charts, they put them up there and they said, wait a minute, we're going up, we're going up, was going up. You know, we we we're here in the center of idol worship Greatest Diana, it was what everybody said. And there's a there's an artist rendering of what that temple looked like up on the top of the hill there in Ephesus. This is what Ephesus was known for. People came there, tourists came there, they went. If they had had camera at the time, they would definitely be doing selfies in front of this thing. They were buying little knick-knacks afterwards, idols to worship. Hey, you can do this in the world across the world today. I've seen it. But so many people were coming to Christ in that region. Not just Ephesus, the city. We're talking about the surrounding region. The tourists that came in normally were were were down. The sales of the little silver Dianas were down. And the local businessmen were upset. It wasn't so much the spiritual change of these people, it was the fact that it was hitting them in the pocketbook. And look at verse 23. And about that time there arose a great commotion about the way. That's Christianity, the way. For a certain man named Demetrius, a silversmith, who made silver shrines of Diana, brought no small profit to the craftsmen. That means he was making a lot of money. He called them together with the workers of a similar occupation and Here is a voice of opposition to the gospel talking about the success that God had brought in that region. Men? You know that we have our prosperity by this trade. Moreover, you see in here that not only at Ephesus, but throughout almost all Asia, this Paul has persuaded and turned away many people, saying that they are not gods which are made with hands. So not only is this trait of ours in danger of falling into disrepute, but also the temple of the great goddess Diana may be despised and her magnificence destroyed, whom all Asia and the world worship He said, This is not just a phenomenon here. Yeah, Paul is here, but he's affecting the entire region with his teaching. We're losing money. And you know what? We're losing influence. And they started a riot. A giant riot in that Colosseum there. In fact, that's the way it looks like today. That's a picture of the Colosseum there in Ephesus. They filled that thing up with people shouting, Greatest Diana, the Ephesians! They're all angry. Paul wanted to go in and say something to them. His friends actually he had friends in the government that told him, No, no, no, no, no, don't go in there. In fact, it might be good to go see Somewhere else. His time at Ephesus had come to an end. But not before God had clearly worked. There had been genuine fruit. Whenever we see God working in a great way, there will be opposition. I came across this quote a couple of years ago when writing one of my mission devotions, devotionals. I thought it was really Really thought-provoking. Had a little trouble figuring out who actually said it. Many people attribute it to Adonai Judson, the fame, the famous missionary to uh Burma. But actually it was his son who at his funeral was talking about his famous father, and this is what he said, Edward Judson. It seems to be a law of the kingdom. That there is no success without suffering. If you succeed without suffering, it means that someone suffered before you. If you suffer without succeeding, one who comes after you will doubtless have the success. Interesting. Wherever God is working, there's success. Whenever there is fruit, there's going to be opposition. We're in a spiritual battle. There are obstacles. I think of the work I've been involved in Asia. Yeah, lots of obstacles over the last couple of years. I think of where I'm headed to now, uh serving there with uh with this the school in the Middle East. I thought we were in a lull when I joined them two weeks ago. That that bubble burst There's a lot of obstacles. And yet, despite the obstacles, God continues to work. God prepares the way. God leads and guides, gives a gives a plan of attack. God overcomes the obstacles. And when he does, he deserves the glory. As we look at this passage, we see that because of what God did, the name of Jesus Christ was magnified. Let's look at verse 7. Says. Because of what God did, verse 20 says, the word of the Lord spread throughout the region. Even those who did not believe gave testimony to what God was doing. And when we see God work in our lives, change us. When we see Him work through us to influence others for Him, it's not because we're great, it's not because we had an amazing plan. No, it's because God likes to use humble vessels like the Apostle Paul, and he wants to use you. If you know Jesus Christ as your Savior, God wants you to bear fruit. John chapter 15, verse 16, Jesus Himself says, You've not chosen me, but I've chosen you. And ordain you that you should go and bring forth fruit and that your fruit should remain. But that fruit doesn't come from you. It comes from through you. It's God works in you, changing you to be like Jesus Christ. It comes it comes through you as you yield to Him independence. And when we see God work, we shouldn't say, well, I'm a pretty good Christian. No. When we see God work, we shouldn't say, well, I came up with a really good plan there. No. We should turn to God and say, this came because what God is doing. In 1 Corinthians 3, 6 through 8, the Apostle Paul, actually once again written during his time at Ephesus. He said this, I planted, Apollos watered, but God gave the increase So then neither he who plants is anything, nor he who waters, but God who gives the increase. Now he who plants and he who waters are one, and each one will receive according to his own record reward, according to his own labor. God says, Yes, you should work There are rewards to be gotten, but you know what? Any success, any fruit you see, that comes from God. God gave the increase So as I look back at our serving in Asia, I look ahead to God expanding our opportunities in the Middle East. Whatever success we see, whatever fruit comes, this is a result of what God God does. As we think of our own personal lives. This doesn't just apply to ministry and missions and that kind of thing. It applies to daily life. Are you raising children? Raising children is an amazing adventure. I love having kids. As you try to follow God's principles and be consistent. And people see that you're you're raising trying to raise godly kids. Maybe they compliment you and say, hey, wow, you're doing a great job. And you might think, well, I am doing a good job. It's a lot of work. No, no, no, no, no. Any success we see, any fruit we see, this is God working in their hearts. Yes, we want Him to work through us. We don't want to be an obstacle. We want to be someone that God is working in us and influencing us Influencing our children through us. But ultimately, any fruit we see, it's coming from God and His work in their hearts. As we try to be faithful with family devotions, with bringing them to church With just talking to them talking to them about spiritual things as we go through life. We think of our jobs, we think, hey Hey, I've got a good job, I've got a good salary. Why? Because I work hard. Well, there is a relationship there. But you know what? Ultimately, the opportunities that you have, the talents and the abilities you have, those things come from God. Yes, we are stewards of these talents and abilities. And if we're not good stewards, we're well, that's going to be obvious too But if we do see God working and see more opportunities come, and you know there are gonna be good times, there's gonna be bad times. There's a lot of factors involved here. But ultimately, if we're seeing success, This is coming from God. And we should give him the credit. Give him the glory. I was reading the biography of Mary Slesser. She was a missionary. in the late 1800s, early 1900s to Nigeria, Africa. And uh she's one of the few missionaries I've ever heard of who got her face on money. You know that that doesn't usually happen. You know that that that's not a thing. You look at that, you've got presidents on money, you've got revolutionary figures on money, you've got uh very wealthy I don't know if you've got you've got pe historical people on money, but Missionaries on money, but her face is on money. But originally she was not famous. She was a nobody, a poor gal from Ireland. Who went to Nigeria and disappeared for decades. Most of the time she did not see results, did not see fruit And she wondered, what am I doing here? She'd write back to supporters, and one of her letters said this, there's not much progress to report. Christ sent me to preach the gospel, and he will look after the result. But for years there were very few results. She spent most of her time taking care of a house. She was a single lady and uh she was a foreigner in that area, and battered women, they would come to her for refuge because the Local guys wouldn't wouldn't mess with people there. She was a foreigner. She spent her time taking care of these ladies. And then infants were abandoned in the jungle, so she'd go and run and rescue them. And she spent all the time feeding babies and and helping people out and beating back the jungle from her house because the jungle just kept growing up to her house. And she's like, I'm sharing the gospel with these people, but I can't go out and do much. But she was faithful. And little by little, over nearly five decades, she began seeing fruit. And as the accolades began to come, and eventually as her face ended up on money, although I think that may have happened after she after she died, she said this. It isn't Mary Slester doing anything. But something outside her altogether uses her as her small ability allows. In another letter, she wrote, If I've done anything in my life, it has been easy because the master has gone before. Other people said, hey, look at all you've done. You're gonna have so many crowns in heaven. She said, this. What would I do with starry crowns except to cast them at his face? feet. She says, Christ sent me to preach the gospel. He will look after the results. And when we see God bringing results and fruit and success, We need to give the glory to Him. As this passage says, the name of the Lord was magnified because clearly God was at work here. The word of the Lord grew mightily and prevailed. Why? Not because Paul was so great, but because God is so great. Great. As we go and we serve God in our families, in our jobs, in this local church, as we consider missions, remember that God prepares the way. God guides your planning. God overcomes the all obstacles. And when he does, God should get the glory. Let's pray. Dear Lord, thank you that you are a great God. You deserve the glory for what you are doing in this world. World. No, we can't see you with our eyes. You are a spirit, and yet your work abounds around us. We see it in our own lives. And we long to see it even more than we do today. Lord, please work in us and through us. And Lord, as you do that I pray we would not become proud. We'd not become self-centered and think it's because of our talents, our experience, our abilities. Lord, help us to give the glory. And the credit to you. In Jesus' name, Amen. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we We have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. Nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have Have you visit our church? This is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy to use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person Or over the phone, or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call, so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, Or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.