Would you bow your heads with me as we go before the Lord this morning? Father, we do come this morning with grateful and thankful hearts. You truly are worthy of all praise and all honor and all glory. You are worthy of our obedience, Lord, and our great love for Father, we thank you this morning for the many blessings that you bestow upon us, Father, and lots of times, Father. Father, we take things for granted, even the small things. But Father, help us and remind us as we go through this week and as we are here this morning to hear your word, to have grateful and And have uh grateful hearts and to be thinking and focusing upon you and how you have called us, Lord. And that uh we are your children. And I pray, Father, this morning for those who are unable to be here, uh not able to get out uh because of age or illnesses. And Lord we do pray for those who are not feeling well this morning. We We ask for your healing hand to be upon them and comfort their families, Lord, and uh just guide and direct for them. And I pray, Lord, that as we uh come to your word, that you would uh work in our hearts as Morning, Father. Help us to set aside all the distractions and cares of the week. And help us, Lord, to concentrate this Morning upon your precious word to us. And may we have ears to hear and eyes open to see, and may your spirit lead us and guide us into all truth, and that we would desire To be obedient to you, and that we would be changed more and more into your image today from sitting under your word as we leave this place than when we came in. And we ask Jesus' name. Amen. We are going to be in Second Peter chapter three, verses eleven through fourteen. 2 Peter 3, verses 11 through 14. Therefore, since all these things will be dissolved, What manner of persons ought you to be in holy conduct and godliness, looking for and hastening the coming of the day of God? because of which the heavens will be dissolved, being on fire, and the elements will melt with fervent heat. Nevertheless, we, according to his promise, look for new heavens and a new earth in which righteousness dwells. Therefore, beloved, looking forward to these things, be diligent to be found by Him in peace without spot Or blemish. That uh it's good to have our college students uh back. Uh some of them are here today, some of them can't be for very unfortunate reasons actually, but um uh great to have uh uh you guys back with us for a little while. And And um we do need to be in prayer for oh we do have oh Zach's back there and Emma Oh you are back there. Okay, good to see you. We are praying for your family by the way, and we know that this is actually uh should be a joyful time, but a little bit of a difficult time as well for you guys. But good to have you guys back and hope that everybody gets around you guys and and is able to to fellowship with you. We are in 2 Peter chapter 3 this morning, and we're looking at verses eleven through 14. This passage is a passage that really is going to help us live in light of the day of the Lord. Last Sunday, we looked at the passage just prior that explained God's perspective on the day of the Lord, which differed from the perspective of these false teachers that were were mentioned in this passage. But now we are turning our attention to how are we to live in light of that? It's interesting different philosophies that you come across in life. Uh financial advisors, for example, will tell you that there are certain things that you should do and shouldn't do. Most financials advisors will say that you need to make sure that you put enough toward retirement, a certain percentage usually they say, and they'll usually tell you that you don't need to make Make sure that you don't go into debt. Perhaps uh in fact probably all of you at some time or another have li heard Dave Ramsey and he has this phrase, live like no one else so that you can live and give like no one else. Uh the idea behind that phrase is that it If you're careful and don't go into debt uh much or at all, in his opinion, uh in the beginning of your of life that at toward the end of li uh toward the the I don't know end of life or something that you'll be able to to just have a uh you know you'll live like no one else. You'll have prosperity and and abundance and be able to give and all those kinds of things. And and you know, as a whole, I guess that's probably pretty good advice. Um but these financial advisors uh and these even Christian financial advisors, they sometimes They they will tell you that what you need to do is see the big picture. Don't just focus in on the next ten years. Look ahead to, you know, many, many years ahead. But I would actually suggest to you that most financial advisors are not looking far ahead enough. Because what we the big picture is actually after this life. And I'm not saying at all that we shouldn't save for retirement. My wife and I are really behind uh on in on that because you know just because you're young and you know, before we're you know, in our twenties and not thinking too much about it in our thirties not thinking too much about it, I turned forty I'm like, Oh man, this is gonna come eventually and anyway It's funny how that happens to you. But uh but we we ought not to lose sight of the fact that actually it's all a matter of stewardship. It's all a matter of looking ahead to the next life, investing for the next life. If you're only If you're only doing what you're doing financially in your life now so that you can live a nicer life, if you're only doing that in your twenties and thirties so you can live a n a better life in your fifties and 60s, you're missing it. You're not seeing the big picture. Because the big picture is living all of life for the next life. And what God wants us to do, and what we're going to very see very clearly see from this book, is that we are actually supposed to be a certain sort of people. Because of the coming of Christ. Notice what it says in the first verse here. It says, Therefore, since all these things will be dissolved What manner of persons ought you to be? He's literally saying, you should be a certain kind of person. You should be a certain sort of person, a manner of a certain kind of person, because everything is going to be dissolved. Everything is going to be burned up. The heavens and the earth are going to be burned up, and there's going to be a new heaven and new earth. And with that in mind Think about the kind of person you want to be. It's analogous to a financial advisor saying, invest in your twenties and thirties so that you can uh live a comfortable life in your 60s and 70s and 80s and beyond. And God says, actually invest your entire life because it's all in the future, in eternity, because this is all going to burn up. And immediately we get in this passage and we have sort of immediate application when you think of it that way. What kind of person do you want to be? That's what he's asking. He's asking what kind of person do you want to be realizing that the material world is fleeting? It's here today and it's gone tomorrow. It's like a vapor. And the only thing that is going to last in this world are souls. Your soul, my soul, that's the thing within this earth and heaven that is going to be for all of eternity. It's our souls. So, what should we be? Well, there are three things we're going to see in this passage. First of all, we're going to see that we are to be immersed in God and His purposes. Then we're going to see that uh we are to be people who have an upward focus, and then we are to see have people uh be people that have clear spiritual goals. Immersed in God and His purpose, upward focus, and clear a clear spiritual objective, clear spiritual goal. So we'll first look at being immersed in God and his purposes. And I want you to notice very clearly that he says, what kind of persons should you be? Number one, you ought to have holy conduct. And number two, you ought to be godly. Now, out of all the things that he could have chosen, love, joy, peace, long-suffering, generous goodness, patience, you know, he could have there's so many things in Scripture that he could have chosen He chooses two things, holy conduct and godliness. And that is not by accident. Why were these two things chosen? Well, we need to understand a few things about this whole idea of con of holiness. Did you know that God says you, if you know Christ as your Lord and Savior, you are called to holiness? It says in 2 Timothy 1, verse 9, who has saved us and called us with a holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and grace. which was given to us in Christ Jesus for before time began. Before the time began, you were called for the purpose of holiness. This holiness is also told we're told to pursue this in Ephesians chapter 4, verses 22 through 24 it says that you put off concerning the former conduct the old man which grows corrupt according to the deceitfulness of lust. and renew in the spirit of your mind that you may put on the new man which is created according to God to in true righteousness and holiness. God is saying that the new person that He's put inside of you at conversion when you came to Christ, that there is a new person inside of you, and that person is in righteousness and holiness. get to get a little more about righteousness in a few moments. But God put in us a a new person that is holy. It's separate from sin and separated for God's purposes. Now we still have that old person inside of us, that flesh inside of us. But we have the new nature inside of us that is separated, is intended to work toward making us holy. God has called you, and He has called me to holiness. If you genuinely know Christ as your Lord and Savior, He's called you to that. Holiness is to be completely separate from sin and to be completely separated to God. And that is what sanctification is and we are to be progressively growing in our sanctification in our holiness in our in in Christ And then we have this word godliness. Why would he choose this word? The word godliness actually has a linguistic connection to the Old Testament In the Old Testament, we have the same word in Hebrew used, and it's used for the fear of the Lord For example, in Genesis 20, verse 11, it says this, and Abraham said, Behold, I thought surely the fear of God in this pleasance and its in this place and its equivalent is the same word here, godliness. The fear of the Lord in the Old Testament is godliness. It's the same concept. And you find it all over the place in the Old Testament, don't you? In fact, one of the major identifiers of someone as you know the Abraham came upon them to and met them or somebody ran into somebody else that is a Christian, they would say in They wouldn't say he's a Christian. That didn't come until Antioch in the book of Acts. No, they would say there are fears of God. They feared the Lord. In 2 Peter chapter 1, we've already learned this just a few minutes back. Would you flip over a page? I want us to remind us of just the importance of this term by looking at that And while you're flipping over there, I'll also read another verse for you that references this whole idea. In Hebrews chapter 12, verse 28, it says this: therefore, since we are receiving a kingdom which cannot be shaken, Let us have grace by which we may serve God acceptably with reverence and godly fear. It's the same concept. God says, because you have been saved for a kingdom that will that is an eternal kingdom, it can't be shaken. Then you are to pursue reverence and godly fear, this whole idea of godliness. In 2 Peter chapter 1, we learned about the importance of godliness. It says that we have been given divine power. Why? That we should per that pertains to life and godliness. Through the knowledge of Him who called us, verse 3, who called us by glory and virtue, verse 4, by which we have given to us exceedingly great and precious promises, and through these you may be partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world through lust. But also for this reason, giving all diligence add to your faith virtue, virtue knowledge, to knowledge self-control, self-control, perseverance. And to perseverance, godliness to godliness, brotherly kindness, and to brotherly kindness, love. God has given us all things so that we can be godly They pertain to life and godliness, so that we can be partakers of the divine nature. Now we talked about this before, but let me just make mention this. And I do not know exactly how this is all supposed to work. But I will tell you this, that what the indication that we see from 2 Peter here Is that the level to which we pursue godliness in this life, there seems to be some connection between that and being a partaker of the divine nature in the next life? In other words, if you know Christ as your Lord and Savior, you are going to heaven. You are guaranteed eternity. But there are rewards in eternity. That's why it says, for example, in Matthew chapter 5, Blessed that is happy are the pure in heart. Why? For they shall, future tense, see God. There is a sense in which we will be able, we can appreciate God and know God and and love God and enjoy God. More on the other side of heaven based upon the godliness that we have on this side. Can I put it this way? We should be preparing to enjoy God. It's sort of like uh somebody who has no desire for whatever thing that they're going to be looking ahead to. I mean imagine you're going to a different country, for example. And uh you're you maybe you're in the military and you're uh you're going to uh you're you're deployed to Germany or something and And you don't y y you've never thought about Germany, you don't like Germany, you don't want to go to Germany, you're not you know, you're not you're not reading about it, researching anything like that, and suddenly you're dropped in Germany in the middle of You know, r rather than preparing and looking forward to it and enjoying it and and and all of that now, what you're able to now. and to know God and to love Him because that's what we're gonna do for all of eternity. Godliness is something that we are to pursue. It's what kind of person should you be? holy and godly. Throughout 1 Timothy we find over and over again this idea of the importance of pursuing godliness. It says in 1 Timothy 4, for example, in verse 8 of that passage, it says, For bodily exercise profits little, but godliness is profitable for all things. Having promised this life and that now is, and of that which is to come, we are to prepare for the next life by living godly now. In 1 Timothy 3, 6, verses 3 through 6 it says, If anyone teaches you otherwise and does not consent to wholesome words, even the words of the Lord Jesus Christ, and the doctrine which uh which accords with godliness. He is proud, knowing nothing, but is obsessed with disputes and arguments over words from which come envy, strife, reviling, evil suspicions, unless uh useless wranglings of men. corrupt minds and destitute of truth, who sub who suppose that godliness is means of gain, from which withdraw yourself. Now godliness with contentment is great gain 1 Timothy 6, verse 11, it tells us that we are to pursue righteousness, godliness, faith, love, patience, gentleness. We are to look, godliness is the preoccupation with the eternal rather than the temporal Why does God tell us that we need to be persons of holiness and godliness? Because our natural inclination is to be happy, not holy. We pursue happiness at the expense of holiness, and we wonder why on earth God is doing what He is doing to us, because His goal is different than our goal. My goal is happiness. His goal is holiness. And we wonder why we can't figure out why he's doing what he's doing. But if we will change our goal to match his goal, which is holiness, Then suddenly, as we pursue holiness and godliness, which is his goal for us, suddenly, in many cases, we'll begin to understand why God is doing more of what he is doing. We won't understand everything, but we'll understand more. If you ever find yourself sort of going, I don't get it, I don't understand. In some cases, I really don't either. But there are some times we're just understanding that what God wants for us is holiness. Now let me just say this. He wants us to be holy, but he doesn't want us to be miserable. And that's actually important. I remember one time I was miserable in a particular situation, and I went to get some counsel, and they said, well, God wants you to be holy, not to be happy. And I talked to somebody else, another count somebody gave me counsel. He said, well, God wants you to be holy, but he doesn't want you to be miserable. But I want you to understand this. That those two things are not mutually exclusive. You can be holy, and in fact, in fact, the holiest life you can live is the happiest life you can live. But you don't get to define the terms. In other words, God, God knows this. That a holy life for you is the happiest life for you. You pursue, and happiness is truly not pursuable Those who live their lives pursuing happiness will never be content. And that's why Paul says, godliness with contentment. is great gain. Well how do how are we to be godly? How are we are we to be immersed with God? And the answer, folks, some of the answer is this. I was thinking about this and meditating on this. How is it that God says these two terms here that we to be holy and we to be godly and that is to characterize our lives. How does that happen? Well I'll tell you how how are you to be aware of the presence of God? Well I I think it often starts with being quiet. The psalmist said this, verse forty uh chapter uh Psalms 46, verses 8 through 10, he says Come behold the works of the Lord who has made desolations in the earth. He makes wars to cease in the ends of the earth. He breaks the bow and cuts it It cuts the spear in two. He burns the chariot. He does all of these things. He's doing God is doing what he is doing. The only way he can do it. How do you reflect on the on what God is doing? Be still And know that I am God. Folks, you and I, I dare say we do not spend enough time just being still and knowing God that God is God. Why do we struggle with godliness? Because I think, folks, godliness requires stillness. In 1 Timothy 2, verse 2, it actually says that we are to lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty. Godliness and reverence. In 1 Thessalonians chapter 4, verse 10 it says, Indeed you do so toward the brethren who are in Macedonia, but we urge you, brethren, that you increase more and more, that you also aspire, aspire to lead a quiet life. to mind your own business, to work with your own hands as we commanded you, that you may work walk properly toward those who are outside, that you may lack nothing. Now he's not saying mind your own business in the sense of don't love other people, don't meet the needs of other people. He's not saying that. He's saying there's a sense in which an awareness of God brings a quietness to the soul. And a quietness to the soul brings an awareness of God. And that we are to, in our lives, we can be very busy. I think the Apostle Paul was pretty busy. I think Christ was pretty busy. But you can be very busy and at the same time have a quietness in your spirit, a quietness in your soul that you are aware of the presence of God in your lives. in our life. And we need, we need to do this. In fact, that must be a primary pursuit of our lives. What should we be? Well, number two, we should be people with an upward focus. We need to be people with an upward focus. He then says this: looking for And hastening the coming of the Lord. He wants us to be focused and looking ahead, looking for the fact that He's coming for us. Christ is coming again. He's looking for us. We are looking for that. Actively looking. Jude 21 says this: keep yourselves in the love of God, looking for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ unto eternal life. This was something that actually in the Old Testament they were looking to the coming Messiah. They understood what it meant to look and to wait. In fact, John the Baptist's disciples come to Jesus when he comes first comes on the scene for a question from John. And this question is this, are you the coming one, or do we need to look for another? The word looking means to expect, to wait for, with anticipation. Acts 3. 5. So he gave them his attention, expecting to receive something from them, this idea of expectation. Even in the extra-biblical literature between the testaments and the Old Testament and the New Testament, you find several places in the book of Maccabees and other places, not scripture, but it does tell us that they are looking ahead to the coming of Jesus. And Peter takes up this idea and he says the same way they in the Old Testament they were looking for Messiah, we need to be looking ahead. There's this expectation he's coming. We don't know when, but he's coming and we're expecting him to come. I was reading this and looking up these different ideas and a and an illustration popped into my mind. I used, you know, you're when I was growing up Of course, some of you know I I'm living in the same house I grew up in. And uh uh uh growing up we had a little dog, his name was Scruffy, and uh this little dog was uh a Yorkshire Terrier little thing. And uh he and my mom had an inseparable connection, like they were just really connected. And uh when he when sh when she left, that dog moped around like you wouldn't believe. Like he like any time she she he that dog like changed his whole countenance. In fact what he did very frequently was he would he would get up on the um we had a couch in front of the big picture window for those of you in our house uh From the big picture window in our house. The over the big picture window overlooks Elkridge Heights Road and really anybody comes up Elk Richard you can see from the big picture window. You know, we spend all of our time just seeing who comes up the road. No, no, we don't do that Anyway. Well this dog would a w found a way to prop his little self up on top of the of the back of the couch and his little you know, rear end would be hanging out, tail they hang out wagon, and he'd be waiting, watching Elkridge Heights Road for my mom to drive up the street. And don't think they have better eyesight than you think because he always knew when my mom drove up that street And he would start whacking his tail and getting all ready with it like he would until he got there. And he would be running around the house and crazy until that until my mom walked in the house. That's like we gotta be expecting Christ to come. We're waiting, we're looking, we're watching, we're on we're on edge. He's gonna come, he's gonna come. We're constantly thinking about it. We're expecting it. And then it says this. This is interesting. It says, hastening. Hastening. Look at it again. This might kind of jar your theology a little bit. It says looking for the hastening, looking for and hastening the coming of the day of the Lord. It says that we are to hasten the day of the Lord. Now you might you might Think to yourself, does it really say that? I mean, is that really true? Are we how can we what role do we have in actually causing the day of the Lord to come sooner? Now you could say, well, that just means we're supposed to prepare. But that is not the most clear way to take that. The word hastening means to make it come quicker. Do you and I have a role in hastening the coming of the Lord? Well, it's interesting. In Isaiah 60, verse 22, it says A little one shall become a thousand, and a small one uh a strong nation. I, the Lord, will hasten it in its time, that God can speed things up. But it's very interesting in the book of Acts, chapter 3, verses 9 19 through 21, it says this Repent therefore and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out, so that the time of refreshing may come. From the presence of the Lord, and that he may send Jesus Christ, who has preached to you before, whom heaven must receive under the times of restoration of all things Which God has spoken by the mouth of all the holy prophets since the world began. Now, folks, what it seems to indicate is that on some level We have some sort of involvement in in hastening the coming of Christ. Now that doesn't mean that he's not sovereign, he's not in control, and it doesn't mean any of that at all. In fact, we find clearly in Isaiah Lamentations, if Ephesians all over the place, it tells us that clearly God is in control of his coming. He does he is the one that is in control. But on some level, we have some sort of role that we're playing here. That's why Christ directed the disciples to pray this Thy kingdom come, that we are to actually pray for the coming of Christ Now, I'm uh look, uh there's a real mystery here. I'm bringing up the mystery because the passage brings up the mystery. But I'll simply say this We are to be bringing people to Christ and discipling people and praying for the coming of Christ. I I I gotta tell you, we ought to be praying for the coming of Christ. We ought to be hastening the coming of the Lord. That's what it says there. But fully understanding that it is not as though we in our own self-effort usher in the coming of Christ. That's not what we do. In fact, there are doctrines, uh d false doctrines that that sort of I I would say they're false doctrines that actually teach that our role, it's a post-millennialism, that that teaches that we are to usher in the kingdom of God. And I would I would disagree with that kind of a concept. That's not what what's in mind here. But there are certain things We do have some level of involvement. What's the point? The point is we need to do what God says. And that is to be godly and holy and bring people to Christ and pray for the coming of Christ, that we and we ought to be anticipating and looking forward to the day where Christ comes for us. Now why why do we have why can we look so forward to this? Well, it's because the coming of Christ or the day of the Lord has a two-pronged approach. And the first one we just we looked at very very clearly from last week, where we talked about the judgment and the destruction that's going to come on those who don't who don't know the Lord, who don't accept him as their Lord and Savior. We're not going to take a lot of time. It mentions it here again. We're not going to take a long time to talk about that because we talked about it in detail last week and it's reiterating it here. But I want to move then to verse 13 here where it says this. Nevertheless We, according to His promise, look for new heavens and new earth in which righteousness dwells Do you know the wonderful focus for the believer is that there's going to be a new heaven and a new earth. Yes All of this is going to be destroyed. All of this is going to is going to be burned up in fire, or however God chooses to do it. But God is going to bring about a new heaven. And folks, that is to be the hope of the believer that there is going to be a new heaven. And there is going to be a new earth. The original promise was in Isaiah 65, verse 17, for behold, I create new heavens and a new earth, and the former shall not be remembered or come to mind. Again he reiterates this in Isaiah 66, 22, where he says, For as the new heavens and the new earth which I will make shall remain before me, says the Lord, so shall your descendants and your name remain. He's telling that he said he prophesied this all the way back in Isaiah. There's going to be a new heaven and there's going to be a new earth. It's going to be a physical reality. A new heaven and a new earth. And it's actually included in God's redemptive plan. In Romans chapter 8, verses 19 through 25. We have this idea that the whole earth, creation, eagerly waits for the revealing of the sons of God. They're waiting for the for for uh this to all come to about. Why? Because there is a hope that we are eagerly waiting for it, and it's alluding to the fact that there is a final redemption, not just of us, but of all of creation. Do you know what God is doing? Just to put our like to picture it to kind of help us a little bit? Well, think back to the very to the very first book of the Bible, the very first couple of chapters of Genesis. Think back to the way it was before sin. The way it was before the fall. You had the Garden of Eden, where everything was right. where there was complete and direct fellowship with God, where there was no corruption and there was no sin. That is where that is the direction we're going, folks. That is what will happen ultimately again in the new heaven and the new earth. It will be essentially like the restoration of the garden. of Eden once again. But you take your Bibles and turn for just a moment, and I I want us to just revel in this for a minute. In Revelation Revelation. Revelation twenty-one verse and pick up in verse one. And I just want us to give a give a a few minutes here. And I want us to read through and remember what this is going to be like, the new heaven and the new earth. Revelation 21, one. Now I saw a new heaven and a new earth. For the first heaven and the first earth had passed away. Also there was no more sea. Denied John saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband And I heard a loud voice from heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people. God himself will be with them and be their God. And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. And there shall be no more death, nor sorrow, nor crying. There shall be no more pain, for the former things have passed away. Then he who sat on the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. And he said to me, Write, for these words are true and faithful. And he said to me, It is done. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. I will give of the fountain and of the water of the life freely to him who thirsts. He who overcomes shall inherit all things, and I will be his God, and he will be my son. But the cowardly, unbelieving, abominable murderers, sexually immoral immoral sorcerers, idolaters And all liars shall have their part in the lake which burns with fire and brimstone, which is the second death. God's going to make all things new. And I was reading through this and thinking about this this week and studying this week and I was thinking about the fact that we're coming upon Thanksgiving and I was thinking about preaching a Thanksgiving message or something instead because as we're coming up upon Thanksgiving, I said, No. I'm going to preach what's exactly in this passage because we often think about God's provision in the past, but can we also be thankful about God's provision in the future? Can't we be eternally grateful for the fact that God is going to take this wrecked, corrupt, unrighteous, filthy, evil world and you He's going to wipe it out and make it new. And folks, if you know Christ as your Lord and Savior, you get to be a part of the new heaven and the new earth. It's the completion of our redemption. It's incredible. And it's something I don't think we really give we do I don't really think we think about enough So what is the character of this new heaven and new earth? If you could use only one word To describe the new heaven and new earth, what word would you choose? Well what's more important is what word God would choose or what word Peter would choose in this context. What is the word that God that Peter chooses under the inspiration of the Spirit of God? It is the word righteousness. Notice the text. It's the word righteous. In righteousness. The new earth in which righteousness dwells. Why would Peter in this very short sort of synopsis of the idea of the coming of Christ, the day of the Lord, the new com why would why would Peter choose that word? Because it does it does it is it does uh summarize in it in completeness what what it's going to be like. Now that you say to yourself, well that doesn't sound very exciting. I mean, righteousness, come on now. Like it's got to be better than that. Well you don't understand what word what the word righteousness means if you think that. Righteous need righteousness prophesied in Isaiah that there well let me just read this. Isaiah 32 it says this. then justice will dwell in the wilderness, and righteousness remain in the faithful field. The work of righteousness will be peace, and the effect of righteousness quietness and assurance forever. My people will dwell in a peaceful habitation, in secure dwellings, in quiet resting places, though hail comes down on the forest and the city is brought low in humiliation. Blessed are you who sow beside all waters, who send out freely and feet the feet of the ox and the di and the donkey. He's talking he's describing what a world looks like when every Everything is righteous. There's peace, there's rest, there's quietness, there's fulfillment. Everything is right You look at the world today, you look at all the problems, you look at all the corruption, and folks, the problem is it's not righteous. That's the problem, ultimately. So what is righteousness? When we think of righteousness, unfortunately, we have a uh a very impersonal view of righteousness But I want you to know that righteousness is actually a very relational term. It is a relation, it's something relational. When we think of righteousness, we ought to be thinking of covenant righteousness. It is a place where we are where we are in right standing with God, where we are right with Him, where everything is right. When you think of a relationship, when you think of righteousness, think of a relationship. Think of having nothing between you and your spouse, or nothing between you and your closest friend, or nothing between you and your kids. Do you know how hard that is? Do you find that hard in your life to have nothing between you and your family? Why is that so hard? Because we're in a fallen world and we're all fallen and we're all sinful and we're all we all got so many problems. But there is going to be a day where you are going to live in complete righteousness with your brothers and sisters in Christ, and in complete righteousness with God, everything is going to be right, no barriers. Complete peace. Everything is going to be right. Now are you looking forward to righteousness? Are you looking forward to that new heaven and that new earth where righteousness is? Righteousness is conformity to the will of God. In Matthew chapter 5, verses 17 through 20, it says very clearly that Christ's righteousness starts from the inside out. It's not righteousness like the Pharisaical righteousness, which is the conformity to certain standards, sort of strictures of standards that everybody has to conform to as a code. No, righteousness in God's mind is a is to come into a a right Clear, pure relationship with God and with others, other brothers and sisters in Christ. And there is going to be a day where righteousness abounds. Now, how should we then live? What should be our goal? Because we're headed toward a new heaven and a new earth in which righteousness dwells. What should be our goals? The answer is righteousness. We find that spelled out for us in verse 14. We should be a people with a clear spiritual objective. And you'll see in the passage it says, looking forward to these things, looking forward to the fact that we're going toward a new heaven, a new earth who that is characterized by righteousness, looking forward to these things, we need to be diligent. There he goes again, this whole diligence. thing. You know, Peter's always talking about diligence. Over and over again actually. Second Peter chapter one, he talks about it again in uh verse ten and uh uh six through eight he talks about he he he talks about diligence a lot You know, we don't like the we we want to think of the Christian life as anything in except in terms of being diligent. What does the diligent mean? Diligent means to takes to take every opportunity, to be diligent, to to to focus on, to uh be occupied with, to, to to const we need diligence. I one of the reasons I'll just say practically that that I think I think I hope that one is helpful and somebody just mentioned to me before the service that uh this two seven discipleship thing is is very helpful on Wednesdays, is that it it provides a structure for us to learn to be diligent in the memorization of Scripture, in the study of Scripture, in the in the uh in the gr in in learning more about who God is, there is a structure for diligent Diligent spiritual growth. Diligence is a integral and very important part of growing in the Christian life. So Peter returns to the idea of diligence. Well, what are we to be diligent? It says then to be found by something. And that is actually a judicial term. It is to be found by by something. It's like when a judge says, I find you to be guilty or not guilty. Okay. Is he going to find us? What's what's where what is he supposed to do? It says in peace. Do you see it there? We are to be diligent that God may judicially, when he comes for us, when Jesus comes for us, that he will judicially find us in peace. Well, what does that mean? Well, the word peace is not that different from the word righteous. It's the result of righteousness, actually. Peace is to be to be at peace with somebody, to have no hostility toward them. The Bible actually tells us in Romans chapter 8. I'm sorry, Joe Romans chapter 5, that God has made us to be at peace with him. We are, because he has declared us righteous before God, we are to be at peace with him And then he said, but he's not talking about that here. He's not saying that that we are just at peace with him positionally, but we are living in peace with him. In other words, we're going the the way he wants us to go. We are following his will. We're doing what he wants us to do. And we are taking every single opportunity that we possibly can to do the will of God. So why so that what? We have no spot and no blam and no blemish Jude 24 says it this way, now to him who is able to keep you from stumbling, to present you faultless before the presence of his glory and exceeding joy. And when the readers of 1 Corinthians went or 1 Peter rather 2 Peter When the readers of 2 Peter understood this, what they were would have immediately had as a picture in their mind is the unblemished, unspotted uh sacrifice in the Old Testament. In Exodus 29, for example, for example, it says, And this is what you shall do to them to hollow them for ministering to me as priests. Take one young bull and two rams without blemish. God desires, look folks, God has saved us. He wants us to be presented to him as a spotless, blemishless sacrifice. And what God has saved us for is to grow in holiness and godliness, so that one way we stand before Him. as that kind of sacrifice. In fact, God saved you for that reason. In Ephesians chapter 1, verse 4, it says this just as he chose in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy, there's our word again, and without blame, same word, before him in love. Ephesians five twenty-seven, that he might present to herself a glorious church, not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that he should be holy and without blemish. Philippians two fifteen That you may become blameless and harmless children of God without fall in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation among whom you shine as light to the world. Colossians 1 22 in in the build in the body of his flesh through death to present you holy, blameless, and above reproach. It is everywhere in the New Testament. That's God's goal for you and for me in this life as a Christian. He saved you to be holy and to be blameless, blameless. And that is, folks, what we are to be growing in. How do we do that? Godliness. The more aware you are of God, the closer you are with God, the more you love God, the more you are growing, going to be growing in holiness. And blamelessness and spotlessness. It's not through some sort of legalistic com conforming to some sort of uh external standard. No, if you get close to God and He rubs off And God says, we are to be diligent in this. We are to be focused on this. We are to be occupied with this. We are to be diligent. To take every opportunity. You know, when somebody's really into something, they take every opportunity. If you are into your house. Making your house nice. You take every opportunity. You see you you go somewhere and you see things that you could do to the house. If you're into fashion, you're gonna go so and you're gonna see things that you're whatever you're into, if you are into peanut butter Like I am. Some of you were very nice and bad to me at the same time for my birthday. Like you gave me things with peanut butter, especially I ate all of it. Why I have to run all these races and everything is just because I keep eating peanut butter and chocolate together. Like that's what we're eating in heaven. Like no not really, but um Maybe, I don't know. Uh hopefully. But like if you're into something, like you take every opportunity And God says we are to be into this thing called being at peace with Him. We're to be into righteousness. We are to be into blameless. We are to be into growing in holiness. We are to be into it. We are to be diligent when it comes to this. Summing all of this up, what are we to do? Number one Three questions. Number one, what are you gonna be? What are you going to be in this life? I heard somebody in like, I don't know, their forties or fifties recently Tell me, thirty, forty, fifty, somewhere in there. Tell me, uh I gotta figure out what I'm gonna do when I grow up. Have you figured it out yet? God wants you to be holy and godly. Well, that's just for pastors. It's definitely just not for pastors. Well that's just, you know, for like the really super spiritual people, like, you know, Abraham and David in the Old Testament and Do you remember David? No, it's for everyone. Every Christian. That's God's called you to holiness and godliness. He wants you to be holy. What are you going to be? Our first thing, the one what we ought to be in life, is holy and godly. Number two. Where are you looking for hope? Where are you looking for hope? Don't look this side of heaven Look to the new heaven and the new earth. That's where you're going to find hope. Hope deferred makes the heart sick. And if you look look to your hope in this life, you're going to get sick a lot. God desires for us to be hoping in the eternal kingdom. Praying for it, desiring it, wanting it to come, thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. We ought to want that And hope for it. Number three, how are you living? How am I living? How are we living? God wants us to take every opportunity to stay right with Him and grow in our relationship with Him. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for your word that teaches us so clearly how you want us to live. And we will confess before you immediately that we can do none of this without the saving grace of you. It is by grace, through faith alone, that we are saved, and it is by grace, through faith alone, that we are growing in you. But Lord, you have called us to be diligent. You have called us to take every opportunity available to us in order to be able to grow in righteousness and holiness and blamelessness. Because this world is gonna all be burned up, frankly, there if looking way ahead, there's nothing we can leave behind. Our souls are the only thing that's eternal. I pray, Lord, that you'd help us to invest in the only thing that's eternal, our souls. And they may be holy and righteous and blameless before you. Lord, I admit before you I got a long way to go. And I think all of us would would affirm that That. But may that be our diligence, may that be our pursuit above all else. And Lord, we want to thank you as well for the fact that we look forward to the hope of a new heaven and the new earth. We thank you not only for what you have provided for us, we thank you for what you are going to provide for us. And that we get the awesome and incredible privilege of being a part of that new heaven and new earth. earth and if there is su if there are people here and I suspect that in a that in a group of this size that there is, Lord, if there are people here that aren't really going to be a part of that, they don't really know you. I pray, Lord, that you would cause them to understand their own sin, their need of a savior, and they would be saved. And we pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen.