The followers of the disciples of Christ need internal righteousness. If a son asks for a bread from any f father among you, will he give him a stone? Okay, do you see that same kind of phrasing, good gift, perfect gift, is from above and comes down from the Father's life. I have I have done everything I'm supposed to do. How many of you say, okay, I got that in the bag? You can't be poor in spiritual things. And we can be blessed by it. And he will set the sheep on the right hand sa hand, but the goats on the left. When we understand that our sin produces spiritual death, we are spiritually dead because of our sin. Through your precious Son, our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, and what he has done at the cross on our behalf, taking our sin upon himself, and dying Verses 7 through 12. And we ask in Jesus' name. You just need to settle down and know that God is God and let God do what He wants to in your life. And he who seeks finds. Now we have seen that phrase before and it's gonna help us get a little warmer as to what we're talking about when we say it. Now yeah. Every perfect gift is from above, and comes down from the Father of lights, with whom there is no variation or shadow of turning. Ask it could be translated ask asking. And he who seeks finds, and to him who knocks, it will be opened to you. Those discussions, that kind of thing. And there's this guarantee that it will happen. Verses 22 through 23 and 32, that's the passage. Or if he asks for a fish, he will give him a serpent. That's a big one. It comes from the Father above, and he gives us the Word of God to show us the righteousness of God so that we can receive it In a Sermon on the Mount is helping us to to know how to live out kingdom life on this earth. We must treat others as we want them to treat us. There's an internal righteousness that works its way out eventually. For the next hour or more, Lord, and just pray that uh as your word comes forth that we would have ears to hear, and eyes to see, and hearts to receive. We worship you because of all that you have done. uh our time of listening to your word. And Father, we are grateful and thankful this morning that you, in all of your mercy and all of your grace, reached down and loved us who were unlovable. We're going to get to that in a few moments, but I want to set things up this way. They ha addressed that subject a lot in that in that in that particular uh the whatever it is, uh chapel or whatever. Messages and it almost felt as though they were contradictory. So end up doing what God wants you to do. to you? referencing a father and it says that God is our father. James chapter one, and you're going to see this, I think, kind of come together in James 1 here, and we're going to pick up in verse 17. Speak slow to wrath, for the wrath of man does not produce Oh there we have it. Father in heaven. Give to the poor what you have. Thinking through those things and thinking to myself, you know, I'm I'm a pretty good Christian, at least when I compare myself to the other person down, you know, like like like I'm maybe not that great compared to Christ, but when I compare myself to others, I feel pretty good about myself. Well, that was a really long introduction. Practically live it out. I don't mean struggling physically. That if we pray for this fervently, if we do it this way, it's guaranteed that it will come to pass. Through a statement to help us to understand just how intent God is on supplying this. How much more will your your Father who is in heaven give good things to those who ask? Correlations here. Like a fish, I suppose. I think what he's talking here about is the fact that sometimes when we pray before the Lord, God gives us something and we look at it and we think to ourselves, wait a minute, I didn't Commentator says it this way. These are just things that I that came to my mind. We become kind of untrusting of people in general because we've been burnt so much in one way or another, or unrealized expectations. It destroys our conception of God or twists our conception of God to where we really begin to question his goodness. The punishment for our sin, so that we live in a fallen world and go through horrible circumstances in this world, but there's an end to this. And perverse generation, that this is the God that we serve. summarizing the law in the old uh back then. When he was asked by a Gentile to summarize the law. similar doesn't it? Constantly the you know we constantly struggle with that. able to resist that temptation. Where he says, for example, in Romans chapter thirteen, verse nine, that you shall love uh uh that if there is any other commandment, all are summed up in this saying. Namely, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. Verses 31 through 46. It is called the Exchange. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. There and taking the punishment and paying it in full, satisfying Lord, your great mercy. Morning, and we praise you and thank you just for who you are, your excellence, and your greatness, Father, the creator and sustainer of all life. Is there among you who if his son asked for bread, would give him a stone, or if he asked for a fish, will he give him a serpent To those who ask him. extent where you exclude God from the picture, or you're the kind of person that sort of lets it all sort of happen and hope that you just sort of end up in God's will. passage, what is it? Two things. Seek and you will find and it will be op uh seek and you will find knock and it will be open to you. children. phrase. he is beginning here. and doing positive things is not enough. Jesus is applied to you. parallel passage, same kind of wording, but he says something different at the end that's really going to clue us in. Or if he asks for an egg, will he offer him a scorpion? Okay, so first we have righteousness. a specific thing that he give he says that will be given, how much more will your heavenly father give the what? Who helps us apply internal righteousness? Spirit of God. eighteen, of his own will he brought us forth by the word of truth, that we might be a kind of first fruits of his creature apply the sermon on the mount sermon on the mount consistently and wisely. you start saying to yourself, okay, if you start looking at yourself and you look at your heart, you start start saying, okay, how how often do I have selfish motives? And there is this purity about my motive all of the time, that I'm constantly able to love God and to love people with pure motive. So what is but does that mean I just let go? No, there is. I want a big house, I want a nice car, I want you know a healthy life, I want all the it No, it really has nothing to do with those things at all. for God's help and the work of the Spirit of God to take His Word and His gospel and work it through in my life in In such a way that I am a light to the world, that I am able to pray in seclusion and with no selfish motive. It requires the Spirit of God in our lives. Things that are essential. Among you, do they not come from your desires for pleasure that war in your members? Persistence to knock. focused and literally it's and I'm I'm in my subconscious I'm hearing this and I'm not really paying attention. You know, and I'll have this conversation. Praying in the right way or enough. Look at verses nine through ten. counterfeits. I mean you you could see unsaved people, unbelievers who really love their kids, and unbelieving fathers who really want to provide the best they can for their kids and mothers Who can be conjoled or bullied into bestowing gifts? Plays, or even as an indulgent grandfather who provides everything requested of him. Carrying out this Sermon on the Mount. the goodness of God. Scripture that's talk about the goodness of God, the fact that He is a loving Heavenly Father, that He wants what's very our best for us. Think that we know what's good for us, and God doesn't, that we question the goodness of God. Clothe me. See we we have real concerns about our future. At all. Will enable you as his loving Heavenly Father. To a place that you are in a right relationship with God. By accepting Christ as your Lord and Savior. the truth of your word. Vision of Christ. To have the best experience you can possibly have. who asks receives, and he who seeks finds. Uh that was that was the case. for the things that you're supposed to be taking responsibility for. Together, you look at the evidence, and then it becomes much clearer what it is. But to fulfill. Then you are already indwelt by the Spirit of God. to live out Christ's righteousness. So what is the good and perfect gift? But then, folks, we as believers have the responsibility every day of our lives to continue to apply the righteousness God do not have to do with what we do and what we don't do. I mean, if you go, and not only that, if you go through the Sermon on the Mount, what is the emphasis in the Sermon on the Mount? And the rich young ruler said to Jesus, How how can I gain eternal life? When it comes to certain things we know good Christians don't do, and certain things that we know good Christians do, and we can become quite good uh about about saying That's what prayer does. Right here in this passage through prayer. on your pleasures. need to do is we need to come before him with a concerted effort to pray, to ask, and to seek. On. It's not that we lay back and let God do what God wants to do. and knock. Do we wrestle with God in prayer? Essential necessities of of life, food that's needed for life. our problem. problem. Not thinking right about God. of who God is as being our good, loving, Heavenly Father is absolutely of prime importance to our life as b our lives as believers in the world. It is the goodness of God where Jesus, of his own will, voluntarily, no one forced Jesus to go to the cross. uh no connection to God or or the Christ or and yet knew that knew that that would be a moral thing and that is and that's true because the Bible Something that you know would be poor treatment, you would not want it want it done to you, there is this moral reality that kicks in and guilt kicks in as a result of it. The Bible says there is a moral law written in our hearts. with or our co-worker or in the church. harmful for somebody else in business, in family, in in life and j in in in all kinds of situations. To be able to say, okay, I want to do unto them as I would have them do unto me. of the moral law of God. Really illustration that it's more of an illustration that Jesus talks about in Matthew twenty-five. God's people. Personal responsibility when we pray fervently. seeking and to knock with persistence. Christ's righteousness is. Difficult circumstances, despite hard things in life, you remain good. Emptiness and dryness, may it motivate us to seek after you, to ask and seek and knock for those who could make it here today and thank you for blessing us and protecting us through the week and we ask God that even now that you would glorify yourself in and through us. Well in order to understand what it is, we need to understand the context of the passage and what he's saying and what we actually have to do because it isn't clear unless you compare everything together, you put a several things together So he is not talking about general common goodness kinds of things that everybody receives. And it says this, do not think that I have come to what? Some of you anymore. Seeking to have the Holy Spirit. Enablement. In temporal things. We may not even want to verbally you know like we don't we may not want to say that. As long as you let God define what's good in your life, then you will not question you won't have a you'll question it, but you won't have a problem with uh with the goodness of God in your life. That God is your loving, heavenly Father, that will provide exactly what you need when you need it, and will give you the life that God wants you to have in the midst of a crooked It in a very practical way. important thing. Thing conversely, if you don't do well towards someone that you you would want them to do well to you, the same thing kicks in. We compromise this by by willingly doing something harmful to somebody else for our own benefit. Verse 40. Jesus actually calls his disciples his brethren. Well talking a lot about the kingdom, we talked been talking a lot about Jesus and what He is He is expecting and demanding in Matthew five and what we clearly Sure, come and talk to me after the service. And and um or if you want to talk to somebody else that you're comfortable with, they feel like you feel like they have a relationship with the Lord, that's great. To earnestly seek your face, to pray to you in the way that you intend. or email us at info at bbcofmd. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. This morning that we are able to come together around your word freely and worship you. I mean are uh is this talking about some sort of prosperity gospel where you can just ask anything you want and it'll be given? Main staple diet, bread and fish. And notice a couple other things. the previous verses here. The subject of the sermon is internal righteousness. Chapter 5, verse 21. on our account when we accept the death of Christ as payment for our sin. How does that look? It says to let our light shine before men, so we will s they will see our good works and glorify God in heaven. How is that ever going to happen practically? We seek in earnestness. It's not, let me, prayer is not a side thing. If you'll do this, then you will find. The righteousness of Christ applied to us and worked out in our lives. Who graciously and willingly bestows the good gifts of the kingdom in answer to prayer. And so relating to the goodness of God, we find it difficult to do that because of previous relationships. Realize that because until you realize your problem, you don't know your you can't figure out your solution. Spheres of life, to be able to do that consistently and selflessly in love will be a s is a good, clearly a good summary What are the next two words? and you gave me drink food. Folks, let's remember this. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. So that we may find. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. So this passage is an extremely familiar passage, and one candidly that often is taken out of context One was you just need to relax and let go and let God. Either you're the kind of person that is sort of passive, sort of, okay, I'll I'll just sort of float alone along and let God do what he wants to with me. That I am able to have the kind of heart that truly loves God and truly loves others, that I'm growing in this. And I think to myself, I am such a doer. And my kids I knew you know if I I I knew so like they're a little better about it now, but m for many years it was There will be spiritual life for us, enablement, ability to be able to apply righteousness in the way that God would have us to do. of whom we are in the image made, he also wants to give good gifts to his children. And the circumstances of our lives cause us to question the goodness of God. we will be restored. In our families or in our marriages, we're doing something that may benefit us, but ultimately it will be to the detriment of the person that we're living with And often they might uh you know quote from uh Psalm six forty six ten that says, Cease striving and know that I am God, I will be exalted among the nations. So whatever it is is good. You fight in war, yet you do not have because you do not ask. and you will seek me and find me when you search for me with all your heart. When we think of prayer, is that how we pray? The reality that all of us have sinned, we're all depraved, but even an evil father knows how to give good gifts to his kids. And we have real concerns. Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. Different speakers will come in and one of the most common topics that they will they will address is how do you find the will of God? If you flip back to Matthew 5. and ending at Matthew 7, 12. Take your Bibles and turn to Luke eleven. So then my brethren, my beloved brethren, let every one man, now here's a application, let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak. Don't uh but be really careful that you don't cast, you show discernment and you don't cast pearls with forced wine And knock. So he said to him, What is your name? Even the evil father loves his kids and wants to give to his kids and wants to provide for his kids. If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father, who is in heaven, give good things to your children? For God's pleasure? He says he says a stone and he says a serpent. And if you question the goodness of God, go to the Word of God. It says there in verse 12, therefore, whatever you want men to do to you, do also to them, for this is the law and the prophet. About a father giving bread or fish, those are necessit, you know, food, those are necessities of life back in the first century. Keep on knocking. Or that's not really good for me. The problem always has to do with our with a wrong view of God or a a diminished view of God, something that we're It is by the goodness of God that he looked upon mankind and offers to all who will receive it the gift of eternal life. And actually, that's where what we have to believe. But there is a way for us to still live out the kingdom life, even when things are not yet right. How is it that we live on this earth in a way in a kingdom life the way God intended? Or you'd have another message that said you need to take responsibility. First of all, it has to do with necessities. To live out Christ's righteousness, a divine enablement And then it says, make sure that when you pray, do it in a closet, not around anybody. And that is why we desperately need so what is our role in this? Knocking is persistent. And so if you say to yourself, I'm feeling I'm feeling empty spiritually, I'm feeling depressed spiritually, I'm feeling then what's the answer? We're burnt. Roman philosopher and statesman Seneca said this. When we treat them well, we are treating the body of Christ well. And when we trust in the death of Christ to pay the punishment for our sin, then God gives us, Christ gives us his righteousness, which is Now, in the passage, uh Harry read it. And then we see then this guarantee, he's now gonna argue. I have seen thrive, seen God face to face, and my life is preserved. Do you remember that story? And why is it that we question the goodness of God? Now, then let's just think of it this way. What does it look like to live out righteousness? Now this is an interesting phrase. But did you know that actually Jesus is not the only one who taught this? And we're going to pick up in verse 31. So he is coming to a conclusion about in his sermon here toward the end, and that's going to help us. Why do you keep knocking that way? We expect God to provide in a certain way or to act in a certain way or to do a certain thing. I was sick and you visited me. This passage really is actually going to help us understand. We know that to be the case. And we pick up in verse 7 it says this: Ask and it will be given to you. Now, why is he doing this? Our faith in the finished work of Christ on the cross and dying to pay the punishment for our sin and rising from the dead. That's okay. In other words, you and I have absolutely no ability to apply internal righteousness to your lives apart from the work of the Holy Spirit. Number two, we need to fully expect. It says, For what man is there among you who, if he if his son asks for bread, will give him a stone. That is a natural uh a natural thing because we're made in the image of God that we want to provide for our kids. Why is it that we would be discouraged in prayer? We miss these a lot. And also you are good to us in this life as well. Now just I just want us to think then for a few moments about the Sermon on the Mount as a whole. So how do we do this? There is this child coming to his father, dependent on his father, asking his father for his needs, his And it is guaranteed because God is your good Heavenly Father. Now in all three of these situations, and in some of them they had no connection to Scripture, particularly Confucius. Look that look, if I'm that is it really necessary to do that? I'm talking about spiritually. There's sort of a resemblance to two of the two of the things that Jesus mentions here mentions here. We must trust the fact that this world will come to an end and our lives will be so much better the other side of heaven. It's concerted, uh, intense, persistent prayer What is fundamentally at stake is man's picture of God. We know that the deal we're making is going to benefit us but hurt the other person. We must treat God's people well. What is it? Now let that sink in for a minute. Christ's righteousness is actually internal perfection that you can't do. And so what he is saying here when he says ask and seek and knock is he is calling for a divine enablement. And Jesus reminds them that a good father would never do that. He says, for this is the law of the prophets. You need to pray about it, but you don't need to worry about how you're going to handle trials and difficulties in the future. We're still asking the question what it is. What you have are two markers. Your righteousness must exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees. Did you know that if you have a if you have a prayerlessness problem, or if you we have some sort of sense And I will tell you this: here is always the place to start. Some of our concerns is how we're going to respond and how we're going to handle it. Amen. Now we're going to be able to work through this pretty quickly and we're going to see uh three things. But one cannot be a truly praying man and yet poor in spiritual things. You know, I I think of the when I was reading through this and studying this, I think of the Old Testament story of Jacob and how he wrestled with the priests. And I would actually suggest to you that you need to go ahead and admit it. Very frequently quoted with no context whatsoever. And it says this every good gift and every perfect gift is where How does the life of internal righteousness look outwardly? We've been burnt by a relationship. Now, with all of that in mind, let's summarize this just by pointing three things out. See, the real impossibilities of the Christian life, the real impossibilities of pleasing Now if you know me, I get pretty focused. And the king answered and said and uh answer will answer and say to them, Assuredly, I say to you, and as much as you did it to one of the least of these, and part of First of all, we're nearing the end of the Sermon on the Mount. There is a responsibility. Ask. That's how we're supposed to pray. Picking up verse 31 it says this. Um and and you usually got one of two ideas. And he goes away and he doesn't and he can't. First of all, it says to ask. There was this wrestling that went on. People say, you know, I I don't know, you know, I don't know why I'm struggling spiritually in this way or that way. The root of all sin is unbelief, and that unbelief is because we don't know God in some way. One I think is difficult circumstances. And I pray, Lord, that as we looked at your word this morning, it would first of all encourage us that you are a good God. I'm gonna have you flip a little bit more than normal or move your fingers over your thing your phone a little bit more. That is how we will have the divine enablement to follow Christ. I was thirsty and you gave me drink. I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you have Christ's righteousness applied to your account. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible Ask and it will be given to you. Therefore, whatever you want men to do to you, do also to them, for this is the law and the prophets. So we're kind of going through just just going through the evidence here to figure out what it is in the passage. You know who are experts at knocking? So we are to pray persistently. Now, he then and and then we have this guarantee here. How would you summarize it? We know this is a golden rule. And that's why Jesus ends the body of his sermon this way. And we pray these things in Christ's name. It will. I pray, Father, that you would set aside all the distractions of this week, all of our cares and concerns. Okay, I can't do it. Well dad, you didn't answer. And also, that's just the negative, but the positive is also true. Or almost we feel sort of tricked by God by how He answers our prayer. And our role is to knock or to ask and seek and knock. How do we pursue this divine enablement to follow Christ? We don't have because we don't ask. 17, just a couple of pages back, you're going to see that. And I should be coming to the inclusion. He's not exactly saying that. But there has it certainly has something to do with the Holy Spirit. You can't. And Jacob asked, saying, Tell me your name, I pray, and he said, Why is it that you have you ask about my name? I've done that, I've done that, I haven't done that, I got this. I mean, none of us. So what is it? And he said, Jacob, and he said, Your name shall no longer be called Jacob, but Israel, for you have struggled with God and with The only thing that we need to do is pray. Now is he saying then that every day we should be asking and knocking and um James 4 1 verses 1 through 3 says, Where do wars and fighting among you come from? The door will be open. Whatever it is, it is good because it says in the passage that God the Father gives good things to his And then you see at the end of verse 12 it says, for this is the law and the prophets. I used to really encourage paper Bibles and I gave up. There is effort to the Christian life. So why is it? My what? Let's pray together. So he's clearly talking about necessities. There is a fervency that's intended to be in our prayer life. Uh brought us the commentator said this one man one may be a truly industrious man and yet a yet poor We we we na even the unsaved person who naturally knows that there is right and wrong and when you do something I mean he is the universal ruler of all. And may this motivate us and encourage us to pray, to pray asking, to pray And sometimes they would be sort of in the same in the same series of methods. This passage is going to help us with the balance of the of of those You need the righteousness of Jesus applied to you. I'm such a I get up in the morning, I start thinking immediately about all the things I need to do. In AD twenty, for example, Rabbi Hill said it this way. What is hateful to you, do not do to anyone else. Or you're the kind of person that says I gotta deal with this, I gotta do this myself, I gotta do it all, I gotta be the one to What is he talking about when he says it? Now, with all of that in mind, we have probably our so keep all of that in mind if you can. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. We will be reading this morning from Matthew chapter 7, and we are looking at verses 7 through 12. We why? We look ahead to tomorrow and the next day and the next day, and of course Jesus addressed this in the Sermon on the Mount and Xiaomi. Like, which is it? God somehow do this to me and I'll just sort of live my life and somehow I guess you'll do this to me and you know is that what we're supposed to do? It's also very well known for us to us. All the nations will be gathered before him, and he will separate them from one uh one from another, as a shepherd divides his sheep from the goats. Prayer, there's this guarantee, guaranteed for a child of God If then you, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children Or as a malicious tyrant who takes vicious glee in the tricks he plays. Internal righteousness cannot be applied through self-effort. And if you have never received true internal righteousness, you say, Well, I've been a really good person. Good morning. Look at the passage again. It is only by the Spirit of God applying that in our lives. For this sums up the law and the prophets. That's the body of the sermon. I was in prison and you came to me. But my good has outweighed my bad and you know I'm I'm uh overall a pretty good person. Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning to give you praise and honor and worship you, Lord. Our spiritual supply is proportionate to our efforts in prayer He is doing this because he's really actually getting to the core of why we wouldn't pray. He is a good and loving heavenly Father. And that brings us to verse 12, where we see practically living out divine enablement. To destroy the law and the prophets. Or maybe we've even even grown up in relationships that are really less than ideal. Isn't it true? So it's clearly talking about a prayer from a child of God to his or her They're called inclusions, but they're two markers that mark out the the body of the sermon here in Matthew 5. That is the thing that is going to happen if we will pursue it with all of our hearts and pray for it with all of our hearts And Chinese philosopher Confucius even said this do not do unto others what you would not want others to do unto you. Then the king will say to those on the right hand, Come, you blessed of my father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. It is the righteousness of God first applied by Christ How often do I live my life really for to love God and to love the people around me? I can't do this. I was just thinking about this. We actually have to believe that God knows what's good for us better than we know what's good for us. Father, we come to you this morning and we thank you and praise you for who you are. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. I want to demonstrate another evidence of this. In other words, if you are poor in spiritual things, it means you are not truly poor It may be sort of subconscious and we're not even willing to admit to ourselves that we're questioning There are many times folks that we run into situations where we are tempted for our own benefit to do something that is actually going to be somewhat in somewhat As followers of Christ, we must treat others as we want them to treat us. If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts, there's that good gifts again, good gifts to your children, but this time we have a specific Keep on asking. No, we have a responsibility to pray, to ask, and to seek. And the truth is, the truth is, you are either one kind of person or the other. We have this passage, it says, Ask and it will be given to you, seek and you will find, knock and it will be open to you. And Jesus said to him, uh said to him, Well, what do you find in the law? And if you don't know for sure where you would spend eternity, the Bible says these things are written that you may know that you have eternal life. It has to do with the heart. Prayer joins divine enablement and personal responsibility. Prayer is the main thing. And this passage is saying that if we want how we treat other brothers and sisters in Christ, org. Internal righteousness is the subject of the sermon. That is, we need to pray in dependency. You will find. And look at verse 12. And he's absolutely right. Because we we here's what this compromises all the time. Divine enablement meets personal responsibility when we pray fervently. Or were are we quick to do as little praying as we possibly can and still say we're praying? And that is the only way we can receive the righteousness of Christ. And to him who knocks it will be opened. And what I'm going to do is just take this a sort of an extended look at this introduction to sort of uh really understand what the passage is saying, and then we'll be able to be able to The reason he's not saying that is that if you are a Christian, if you are a believer, Uh pray dependently and fervently, but we're supposed to pray persistently, and it says it will be oh. We're supposed to pray persistently and repeatedly. If you had to summarize it, how would you summarize it? When the Son of Man comes in his glory, and all the a holy angels whipped with the And when we do it, Jesus says here, you're doing it. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. Am I supposed to just let God do it or am I supposed to do something? You know, sometimes we um we don't want to really come to reality about the root of This is very similar to what he says in other places. My brethren, you did it to me. We worship you that you have provided for us a way of salvation Amen. You lust and do not have. May the Lord richly bless you. Seek and you will find. You need to follow your own do do what you're supposed to be doing and take responsibility. He says, I will not let you go. I was a stranger and you took me in. You hear that kind of a kind of a thing. We get that from the passage because it says it uses the illustration I mean God's gotta do this in our lives, right? It's the gospel. Little kids. You need to think about it, you know, just a a simple knock. But I think also it's interesting he uses the term stone, and uh because they are ended indicate that they're sort of And I think that we need to understand that all of what God is doing here in It says, ask and it will be open to you given to you. He says later on, your righteousness, verse 25. You really consider what what how the law is summarized. It is not whatever you could think of that you just want to We need a divine enablement, and we need to fulfill our responsibility. And number three, we need to practically live. Seek and you will find. You ask and do not receive because you ask amiss, that you may spend it It will happen. You just kinda stay off, you know, let let God do what he wants to in your life What is it? Difficult circumstances. So you have the introduction that's prior, then you have the body of the sermon that Christ is preaching, and then you have the conclusion that So we pick up in verses nine through ten, and we're going to actually learn from this that we should fully expect divine enabled And why is this mentioned here? What's the issue? This is coming, this is a conclusion. Or if he asks for a fish, will he give him a serpent instead of a fish? Who helps us apply Christ's righteousness? And I'm I'm really I get into something and I'm really like blocking everything out and I kinda get really focused. And I think what he has in mind here, of course, we've already mentioned that the bread and fish are ascent they're you know How is it that we can truly trust And do you know what we desperately need in order to do that? In fact, we can get really good at towing the line. You see the first word is therefore. There is focus for the Christian life. And he says in the in the in that passage in Genesis thirty uh two Why is it that we question the goodness of God? You know, the truth is there, you know, when you um sometimes we look ahead to our future and we don't And we can see and know your grace here as well. In a lot of colleges, particularly Bible colleges and and Christian colleges, Christian liberal arts colleges So look at Matthew 5. Do we wrestle with God in prayer? But things are not right on this earth right now, and that's why you see so many problems in the earth. We're going to see, first of all, we need to f fervently pray. First of all, number one, we should fervently pray for divine enablement. And a serf serpent, I mean a serpent could, you know, could look like When we run into situations where there is a need That's okay. God must not be thought of as a reluctant stranger It's a beautiful day, isn't it? External righteousness, just behaving, just doing a list of rules, whether they're negative, staying away from certain things. Luke 11, verse 11 says this. Would you take your Bibles and turn to James chapter 1 for a moment? He is the Heavenly Father, the God of the Kingdom You need to go ahead and admit that you're questioning the goodness of God. But he is referencing God as being a father. This is so, so help necessary. We have here three commands ask and seek Well what is it talking about here? Is it saying you can't have any rich people and everybody's got to give away their money? Pray in earnestness as well. Even you who are evil, he it's It's because we are questioning the goodness of God. Let us show our generosity in the same manner Actually, what do you take your Bibles and turn there, Matthew 25, for a minute? And do you know that literally you don't need to worry about that We need, folks, we need to be all in. This is the whole law. Number two, expect God's enablement as a loving father who knows how to But but no know that you can have the righteousness of Christ applied to you And when we find ourselves in spiritual Now it's interesting, he gives two different different questions. Do unto others as you would have them done to you. To be able to treat people that way in all of our different And the righteous will answer him, saying, Lord, when he when did uh we see you hungry and feed you? We are treating Christ well. And it's only the righteousness of by the righteousness of Christ that you can come Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. Where have we seen that before? Matt Luke chapter eleven and verses eleven through thirteen. Comes down from the Father, with whom there is no variation or shadow of turning. Now, remember we know what it is, right? It's clear in James 1, if you remember that passage, it says He gives us the Word, every good and perfect gift gives us And He knows exactly what you need when you need it, better than you ever could. The Bible talks about that, right? Keep on seeking And you see that in the world some Number three, as followers of Christ, uh And I've got to tell you, I I was every time I study prayer, I get convinced We come into difficult circumstances, maybe they're tragic circumstances, maybe they're inexplicable circumstances In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this We hope to see you soon I I it seemed like every other message was that way when I was, you know, back in the dark ages when I went to school Think about this for example. Is he saying that whatever you want to ask, ask and knock and seek and it'll be given to you They are experts. And you say, well, the kingdom isn't on this earth. And Father, I pray that as we begin That's the good and the perfect gift Knock and it will be open to you. The word ask ill shows for us that we need to be dependent. And it's for a very good reason, I think. When you question the goodness of God, always go to the gospel first. 17 for a moment. He of his own goodness went to the cross for you and for me to pay I mean there's a sense in which you go through the Sermon of the Mouth and you read through it and you understand what Jesus is gonna argue for this. Now the answer to that is to know the Word of God and to search out all the places in Scripture Number one, divine enablement meets Knock and it will be open to you. Think about how really how difficult it is to apply And then Jesus says, sell all you have and and uh and give and give What we're doing here now is we're putting some puzzle pieces together here Jacob says to Christ, I think it's a precaric Christ there, I will not let you go unless you bless me. This was actually a pretty familiar way of solving It's not let me say a prayer. Well, let me mention one comment. So the subject of the Sermon on the Mount is the fact that Folks, let me put it this way. You ever been there before? And then finally, this. And if I don't answer, maybe I'm really into something. Well, are we praying? I was naked and you cleaned me I mean, what what is it supposed to be By the way, this is also taken out of context a lot, isn't it? And then later on it's going to say, don't judge people. It is about motive. Or hard relations. Or when man So just let go and stop trying so hard and And yet God says that what we Or when did we see you sick or in prison and come to you? And Father, we are grateful this morning Or a similar phrase. He says, if you'll do this, then he says, then he says in the passage So he makes this clear parallel. I wrote three things down. All the rest is commentary. And for the Christian we need to be a little We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. This clearly is not what it's talking about because it's referring to the When God does not carry out what we expect Him to carry out in the way that we do, Internal righteousness can only be applied through placing How many have ever been to a Christian college and they And Jesus is explaining what that looks like when the righteousness of Jesus There is responsibility to the Christian life. And in the future I'm like, well Or we just are not we Is that what it's talking about? Every goodn uh every good gift and everyone That's really true. There will be spiritual food for us It compromises Or we know within our siblings Now when you think about there's another parable or uh Whatever it is, it is good. So the golden rule that we all know from verse 12 is connected to the previous The Holy Spirit We're supposed to seek No good thing will He withhold to them that walk uprightly when we begin to look at the truth. That's not what that's not what And that's a real easy message for you to hear and you go, I'm good with that. That both the righteous and the unrighteous, the just and the unjust, the believers and It has everything to do in the context of looking at So realize this. I'm my subconscious but I'm telling you and finally I'm like what? To know him is to trust him, because he is trustworthy. Our understanding of the goodness of God Why? But we really would love to meet you in person. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. How often do I do I live my life purely So we must pursue divine enablement. We must be vitally linked to I did not come to destroy, but to do what? Really. We most of us grew up hearing this, and it's certainly an extreme And we must trust your gospel. What's our role? And he blessed him there. Why? In fact, if you look at verse 12, there are two things I want to I've done We thank you for And what is, folks, the subject of the sermon? That's not the point. And there's a discussion about the law. For everyone who asks receives Seek. Bible says, But as many as received him, to them The Holy Spirit of God. And what we're going to do be able to do is And people really don't know what this passage means. Seek Jeremiah 29, 13, 16 That's the goodness of God. Help us to set them aside. Take that into captivity. And you're a if you say that, you're absolutely right. That would be your Fervently pray for it, fully expect it, and practically Go and learn it, is what he said I guess you don't flip to different passages. James Mike, so I have my office downstairs in my basement. Over in John chapter 20 and in a couple of other places. Because God will Let's bow our heads together. What is it in the passage Because the goodness of God And yet, isn't it true, folks, that we constantly And let me just say this as If you are truly a praying person, you And then let's look at this. It is the Holy Spirit that helps us James 1. And Father, we're thankful And Father, we're thankful The point is Our role is this. So we ask independence Now, we know we're talking about Are we asking God? And Father, I pray, Lord, that this would also motivate us to Do you remember when the rich young ruler came to Jesus? Despite No, it's let me pray. For everyone Have you ever asked this question when you've heard this passage How much more is this the case? And the rich young ruler said, I have done all of that since my youth. And you know what that responsibility is? Matthew chapter 7, verses 12. You see that And he gives this illustration in Matthew 25, verse 2. We we can have that kind of mentality. Knocking is not and move We're made in the image of God, so God And then for And do you know where that comes together? The answer is to go to God. I mean, God Christ is not ruling right now on this I want you this is It's when we begin to think Verse 8 We must trust the provider. Ask. God's law is summarized It's prayer. And For I was hungry. But as soon as you 17.