And 1 John 1 teaches us that the primary goal for our lives is fellowship or communion with Him. That they may lay hold of eternal life. And he said to them, Take heed and beware of covetousness, for one's life cannot consist of the abundance of the things he possesses. It's almost like it's overflowing. And we pick up here in verse 5 it says this, this is the message which we have heard from him and declare to you that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. It's becoming sort of that way. Just think of God's motives are always right. And the more like Christ we are, the more communion we can have with God. And if you do what you do purely out of duty, it will either burn you out. And to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Okay. Mixing everything around anyway. Syndroms. For you to be able to jot down. the corruption that is in the world through lust. It's a reference to John 1. to steal but and to kill and to destroy. These things are written that you might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing you might have life through his name. And be we could have communion with God. Should war come, should the atomic bomb descend? And when they had laid uh many uh stripes on them, they threw them into prison, commanding the jailer to keep them securely. is a weird thing to talk about. on my desk. If we say that we have fellowship with him and walk in darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth. In 1 Timothy 6, it says this with regard to the idea of God being light. And see it for yourselves. For the fruit of the Spirit is three things is all goodness and righteousness and truth And that uh uh Jesus that it's recorded that Jesus said this to a question about him being a good teacher. Thinking that we are in communion with God when we really are not. And the hiding, nothing more than an assuming hardiness to cover that self-consciousness, but it is walking in darkness nonetheless. He would have fed them also with the finest of wheat and with honey from the rock. all new to me. Communion. and the midst of of of Israel and they they had communion with him but that was there was all kinds of adjustments that had to be made Make sure we're thinking about our message ahead of time and we're thinking about that's why when I I really try to sing when our you know when I I'm singing I'm involved in the worship. is if you come because you know that that is God's window, one of his windows for you to commune with him, then you'll come. and taking your sin on himself and giving you his righteousness so that you could be united with Christ. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. As he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another. And these things we write to you that your joy may be full. If we say that we have fellowship with Him and walk in darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth. And um it was just a a an encouragement to me. normal series message in Matthew seven and was planning on preaching that and midway through the conference I was just learning so much uh and I'm kinds of food. to the mundane things of life. And Martha is busy, busy, busy. And Martha, do you remember the story? We know the word ultimate, right? But I do hope that that what is said this morning will not just be stay here and then be forgotten, that there will be meditation on the things that I've said. through knowledge of him who called us by glory and virtue, by which have been given to us exceedingly great and precious promises. which we have looked upon and handled, have ha uh have handled concerning the word of life. Whereunto thou art called and hast professed a good profession before many witnesses. It's something that we can increase in. It started before you and I were ever born. In Acts chapter 16. Paul and Silas were in jail in John chapter or in Acts chapter 16. incurable. candy bars ahead of time and you don't want it anymore. But it says in this passage that God is light. It says, picking up in verse 14 of chapter 6, that you keep this command without spot, blameless unto the Lord Jesus Christ's appearing, which will manifest in his own time that he is the blessed and only potentate. Therefore, he says, awake you who sleep, arise from the dead, and Christ will give you light. And by moral purity, I don't just mean he stays away from everything bad. There is a uh um Tim Keller uses the illustration of uh just a it's a it's a flawed illustration, but it's sort of an illustration to get you ideas. Truth, of course, we know is purity of information. What is meant by light and darkness is that light reveals. of what we're hearing, when we can come to the Word of God, we can be sure and confident because of the truth of Scripture. But we know this. There shall be no foreign God among you, nor shall you worship any foreign God. in order for them to have communion with him. Because we do not have face-to-face communion, there are certain windows that God has created in order for us to have this communion. The preaching of the word is a window. And he explained, they explained, and this is so important, that what pastors have to be careful of is that when we stand in the pulpit, that we stand on the outside and we sit on the inside. You will become self-righteous because you're really good at doing it, or you will lose the motivation to do it at all. Come. And it's entirely possible that there's somebody here, or maybe more than one person here, that you've actually never been united with Christ. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. To have the best experience you can possibly have. We know that you are with us all the way, whether we feel like it or not. Your word proclaims it. He says he counts all things as waste, as rubbish, in light of the surpassing value of knowing Jesus Christ. The life was manifested, and we have seen and bear witness and declare to you that eternal life which was with the Father and was manifested to us. quite a while and I really uh it was really a blessing. Probably being more reminded of things than I than I was actually learning, but very, very important. this on communion with God and fellowship with God. And Jesus comes in and he begins to teach and Mary just sits and listens. went that that he entered into a certain village and a certain woman named Martha welcomed him into her house and she had a sister named Mary who also sat at Jesus' feet and heard his word. That's why the Bible says, whatsoever you eat or drink, or whatsoever you do, do all to the glory of God. The second to the final thing is fellowship with him. You cannot glorify God without communing with God. a great deal this week and was convicted and challenged and r and encouraged and I am praying that you will be as well this morning. And what God invites us to do as his children is to share our lives with him. That through these you may be partakers of the divine nature, having escaped Well, we're going to see three things in the passage. which was with the Father and was manifested to us. Jesus Christ. He created us and united us with Christ. And then ultimately to us. saved you for union with him and communion with him. Colossians 3. Colossians 3:4, when Christ, who is our life, appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. Who no doubt is a he's a pastor, he's certainly a Christian, and it says, lay hold on eternal life. is something that we must grow in and something that we must develop. And he who hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life. With the Father communing with the Son, and the Son communing with the Holy Spirit, and the Holy Spirit communing with the Father. He says, this is eternal life that they may know you, knowing Christ, knowing And extended to us. God is eternal life. All mine are yours, and yours are mine, and I am glorified in them. And the glory which you gave me, I have given them, that they may be one just as we are one. There is nothing that beats that, and that's why Jesus said one thing is needful. Communion with God results in fulfilling joy. Aren't you glad about that by the way? You're not, but you feel like it. And they teach customs and are lawful that are not lawful for us, being Romans, to receive or observe. Nehemiah chapter 8 verse 10 says this, the joy of the Lord is what? But endless nibbling at the table of the world. but for the simple pleasures of earth. God. and fine with self-medication of trivialities from all over the place. We're in the bathroom and we're using the phone. from all sin. And not darkness at all. The King of Kings, the Lord of Lords, who alone has immortality dwelling in unapproachable light. Whom no man has seen or can see, to whom be honor and everlasting power. But I want to get more practical than that. Goodness, righteousness, and truth. For all things that are exposed are made manifest by the light. Finding out what is acceptable to the Lord, and have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather expose them. In fact, three times in the synoptic gospels, Matthew, Mark, and Luke, in all three of those Gospels, it actually says But if you want to enter your into life, keep the commandments. You don't go dressed a certain way. And isn't it wonderful that we have the truth of the Word of God that transcends our convoluted, corrupted culture, that gives us all kinds of things that we just aren't are never quite sure anymore Their grandparents and parents and parents and parents all the way back to Adam and Eve. Sin always involves us in being unreal, pretending, duplicity, window dressing, excusing ourselves, and blaming others. With some of us, the sin in question may not be may be nothing more than a self-consciousness. They said we were na uh they they they didn't want they hid themselves from God and then they blamed somebody else. We must not live a lie in our own selves. Because to grow in likeness to Christ is to grow in fellowship with Christ. Why can the Spirit of God have perfect fellowship with the Son, and the Son have perfect fellowship with the Father? 1 John 3, verse 1 says this, Behold what manner of love the Father has bestowed upon us that we should be called the children of God. Therefore, the world does not know us because it did not know him. For we shall see him as he is. Pure. Well how do you how do you grow in that? I would soon subdue their enemies and turn my hand against their adversaries. He says, if you'll adjust to my ways, I'll satisfy you. by saying that when we're with Christ someday, we will have immediate communion. communion. He says scripture is a window. And what he points out here, what he points out, is that the more we leave those windows open He can't not understand God's word if he's going to do his job, right? And what they meant by that is we actually have to learn to sit under our own preaching. To come to the window that God has provided in order to be in communion with God, to grow in their communion with God, they're coming out of duty, not out of delight. We worship together for communion with God. Where now I'm coming because I'm a good Christian and I feel like a good Christian every time I come. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In Luke chapter 10, you're in 1 John, you can stay there, but in Luke chapter 10, a story is told of Jesus, and it's a familiar story where he goes to spend time with Lazarus and Martha and Mary. Therefore, tell her to help me. I have a lot to say and little time to say it in. And then finally we're going to see the hindrances to it. in Christ. We are the life of Christ is shared with us, and we are united to Christ by no merit of our own, by no work of our own, by no effort of our own. In verse 3 of John chapter 17, and this is life eternal, that they might know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent. Can't at least at least that's the way I feel about it. That is what we are often doing in our lives and why we are not really receiving joy. Is darkness. If you are not growing in Christ's likeness, you are not growing in your communion with God. In truth. We're gonna look at verses 8 through 16 for a moment. Right yet. to the preaching. Or if you don't have self-righteousness, you'll drop off and stop coming. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. or email us at info at bbcofmd. That which we have seen and heard we declare to you, that you also may have fellowship with us. We we think of we are compartmentalizing so much that we even think of our fellowship with God, our community with God, which are basically the same thing, example. And yet what God is very clear about in Scripture, and one of the things that they emphasized at the conference, was that communion with God should saturate our lives. should saturate every aspect of our lives. So there are four reasons why communion with God is so important in these first four verses. Is something that must continue to be pursued. When we come to Christ, we are given new life in Christ. moments. Within the Godhead, there was sweet and complete union and communion. I pray for them. Well, what is joy? It's not dependent on your personality. You need strength? And this word was used in three different ways in the classical Greek. For all the ill that Satan can do, when God describes what keeps us from the banquet table of his love, it is a piece of land, a yoke of oxen and a wife, Luke 14, 18 through 20. I mean it's a good thing you know some of us have to you know like we're ticking phones into our showers probably or something anyway. to the next aspect of this, which is the method to growing in communion. But now you are light in the Lord. for the right occasion. Because it just wasn't you didn't feel acceptable that way. It is a term of total acceptance, total correctness, total right-statedness when it comes to other people and relationships. We're not considering our relationship with God anymore. There's none. If you go to 1 John chapter 3, you're going to see in verses 1 through 3 what is really the ultimate, and then we're going to back up from there. And I will fill it. He can do all these things in such a way that they are tasks rather than his own means to his own fellowship with God. He has to worship, he has to assemble, he has to be at every service, he has to do all these things. Because this folks, you have the same danger, but in a different way. And once we have, we have the ability to commune with you and to grow in our fellowship and communion with you. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. Running to Christ. The struggle, all of the difficulties and surprises that we may have had You're worried and troubled about many things, but one thing Eternal life not only gives us union with Christ, but come union with Christ. It's incredible. That the Father has with the Son, and that the Son has with the Spirit. The word joy is interesting. It was used as an employee that was paid in full. Have you and I experience that kind of giftedness? With a counterfeit kind of thing that that keeps us from wanting the real thing So how is it that we grow in our communion with God? So what are these three things? And isn't it true, folks, that it is really hard in our world to find unconvoluted truth? Is there an area of your life or in my life, or there are areas of our life where we say, okay, well that area is off limits That is the light. And you know where we get it? Roy Hessen says this, the first effect of sin in our lives is always to make us try to hide what we are. They're not one, they're distinct in persons, as we know. And when we are like him completely, when we are entirely in the light completely, we will have face-to-face connection with God. Verse 12, so I gave them over to their own stubborn heart, to walk in their own counsels. Why should we adjust to his ways? Where you're going to be, you know, having to worry about preparing for messages and doing all the duties and everything and not and not really glean. There's never been a time in your life where you've actually understood that your sin separates you from a holy God. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. May we count all things as loss, and only see the true gain in Christ. Today you are with us knowing that this last week with all of its challenges, uh all of And that we would through that have the fellowship with you that you desire to have. Help us, Lord, to pursue that knowledge of Christ. If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. There there we go. Could you bid her come help me? One thing is needful, and Mary has chosen that good part which will not be taken away from her. That communion and fellowship with God should saturate everything in our lives. Everything. It says this in 2 Peter chapter 1 and 1 verse 2. our lives with him. God created us and united us with Christ for communion with God. union and also communion. to receive the life of Christ. Jesus prayed to his father to intercede on our behalf. Now, here's what's incredible about that. As you, Father, are in me, and I in you, that they also may be one in us. As children of God. But Jesus said, whatever is impossible is possible with Christ. He, meaning God, satisfies my mind. That is the kind of joy that God is talking about here in 1 John chapter 1. They're suffering pain and anguish. And yet you can sing. But I'll give you a couple of the highlights. This word joy is like it's the superlative use of gladness. Maybe you're saying to yourself, sitting here, you know, I haven't really experienced that kind of joy in a long time. He says this. It's like junk food. From our communion with God, the way that God wants us to. It begins by realizing who he is, understanding it, knowing it, so that we can adjust to it Completely right in every way. We must not live a lie. We lie and do not practice the truth. We must walk in the light as he is in the light. And so we have to walk in the light. Because we're like him. He's saying, I'll give you myself. If you think back to the Old Testament, they had they had even more distant communion back then. And Augustus Strong then explains that there are certain windows the more we will have fellowship with God. He can do all of these things as his duty rather than as his delight. This is what's very scary. uh uh worship uh intricately linked with the people of God, assembling with the people of God. Let me just mention these four points. That Jesus died on the cross to pay the punishment for your sin. If you don't know, let me encourage you after the service, come and talk with me. We are satisfied too easily by even the things that you give us by your benevolent hand. by adjusting to your ways so that you can fill us and satisfy us. And it says, our eyes have seen it, we've looked upon it, our hands have handled it, they have experienced Christ, he's saying. No longer does joy come from being still and knowing that God is And the more we are like him, the closer we get to him in our communion with him. Most of the so far has not, I didn't get from the conference actually, but this definitely I did. And we have to worship and we don't we can't think of the singing and the music as preliminaries. with lesser pursuits. The good part that he is talking about, that Christ is talking about, was communion with God, fellowship with God. So number f uh uh uh and and and it's and it's interesting scripture talk when it talks about eternal life, it says this. Wherewith we can enter into when we have communion with God. Lord Jones said, in joy there is always a feeling of power and strength. You have moral purity, but righteousness is relational. I want to say this about goodness as well that I forgot to mention. But then he says, the problem is we as his people will not adjust to his ways. In the future, we will have immediate, open, face-to-face access to God because we will be like him completely. Our communion with God, our fellowship with God, as just one aspect that shouldn't touch the other areas of our lives. But Jesus says something rather surprising. But Martha was distracted with much serving, and she approached him and said, Lord, do you not care that my sister has left me to serve alone? When we come to Christ, and we truly come to Christ, we are united with Christ. John Piper made a very helpful, a very helpful statement that I want to read to you. The greatest adversary of love to God is not his enemies, but his gifts. It is a process. Anything that is of any good of us is of God You know what's going on here in this passage? The way he closes them down is different, is often different than the way uh other people close them down. Father, we are grateful and come to you with thankful hearts, knowing that Compared to our risen Savior. Um here's a question for you. as one piece of the pie of our lives, or do we see it as the whole pie? Um if you're thinking uh some people when they're young, I think kids mainly and I don't know, probably some adults, they like to make sure that uh they're f you know when they come sit down to eat dinner and they have different Um and then uh and then some of us and then usually usually that relaxes a little bit when you actually realize that you mix that stuff up and it's pretty good that way. That's the one thing. All we should do every day of our lives is pray and read the Bible all day long. The life was manifested, and we have seen it, and bear witness to declare to you that eternal life In 1 Timothy 6, verse 12, it says, fight the good fight of faith, lay hold on eternal life. They're clearly persecuted for their faith. It'll be okay. God is righteous and relationships that he has has to be, there has to be a correctness about them. This is where we must understand that growing in Christ-likeness is proportionate to growing in our communion with God. We look forward to the day where we are like him completely. To open wide its mouth so that he can fill it Is that how we are? That results in the joy, that results in the satisfaction and the strength. And um I really appreciated the emphasis that they had uh in in saying and explaining that a pastor, if he's not careful, can close down windows. It is often because they are not coming for the right reason. Do we see it that way? We need to immerse our lives in communion with God. Lord, would you help us? Number three reason why why important why communion with Christ is so important. Righteousness. You can come to you can do be involved in different things and not come for communion with God. Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. But I I had to get up to use the use the restroom and I almost grabbed my phone to take it to the restroom and I said, you know what? So how do you get this eternal life? Number four, communion with God results in fulfilling joy. The ridicule, if you can imagine, the the uh the dishonor of being put into the area where the worst criminals that could possibly put in, that's where they are. Goodness and righteousness and truth. We have in the future we'll have immediate communion, but now we have immediate communion or mediated communion. I'm gonna give you the f can you if you could skip to the four points and we'll come back to them. Lord, we confess before you that so oftentimes we distract ourselves. And we don't see the value in Jesus. And may you work in our hearts today, even to do that very thing. That is settled. But beyond that, or in conjunction with that really, he prays something else in verse 9 of chapter 17. Our appetites have been shaped in a different way. And just think of it this way. They redirected it. But right now we don't. We're declared righteous, so we're united with Christ, but what God is doing right now is He is He is causing us to be more like more like Christ It's part of it's the worship. What they really were saying by that was that you we have to tr choose to sit under our own preaching as we preach. And we recognize that we don't always live in light of your presence. And these things write to you that your joy may be full. 3, for you died and your life is hidden with Christ in God. Folks, if we are going to grow in our communion with Christ, it means we're going to have to give up our own lives. And sometimes we are so blessed by God we forget the God of the blessing. Um but but sometimes in our lives as Christians That's why it sounds weird to us to think that we should pursue eternal life. Ephesians chapter 5, verse 8. Now, I want to really open this up. Now you can hear me, hopefully. The gifts of God being actually replacing an appetite for God Himself. Or subconsciously even. We know that when he is revealed, we shall be what? Number three, we must abide, we must open wide the windows of communion that God has provided for us. You feel like you're trapped. Well, you need communion with God so that you can have joy in God, so that you can be strengthened by God. And it is not all it is very often where you would either you will either become self-righteous This is how God desires for us to live, to live in communion with God so that our joy may be full. In fact, God's penultimate goal for us But it used to be, you know, 50 years ago that you didn't even go into a department store and shorts and a t-shirt. That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon, and our hands have handled concerning the word of life You ever had a anybody have had kids like that or you are like that? Like I, you know, I could do without it for, you know, five minutes and why don't I pray, you know, or think about the Lord or something rather than like glued to my phone. What three areas do you grow in? Father, we come to you and we thank you that you are light. Ultimate is the final thing. 1. I'll tell you what it's not. But God said that's not right, and I'm not doing that obviously. Notice how this works in Psalm 81, verse 8. And we thank you that because of the death of Christ and the sacrifice that he made on the cross, that we are invited to come to you by faith. Goodness is purity of motive. Augustus Strong explained the difference between our communion with God in the future when we were with Christ and our communion with God now. Reading from the text today would be 1 John 1, 1 through 9. Martha is gets a little upset and says, and she thinks she's in the right, and she goes to Jesus and she says to Jesus That's what happens when you're in fellowship with God. Why? But I want to point this out. John ten, twenty-eight says this, I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. Do you know where communion started? I do not pray for the world for those whom you have given me, but for those whom you have given me, for they are yours. That's the kind of joy that results from communion with God. Would you take your Bibles and turn to Ephesians chapter 5? Righteousness has to do with with uh with relational purity. Now, there was a particular application, and I'm going to end my message early, and I'm going to have to start you're going to get a two-parter next Sunday. I am come that they might have life and that they might have it more abundantly. It's also complete. I don't really want to express that area to God. And this knowledge is not just an academic knowledge. But at midnight, Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns to God, and the prisoners were listening to them. The greatest enemy of hunger for God is not poison, but apple pie. Now in our society it's getting like it's getting where you know you can go to a really nice restaurant and shorts and a t-shirt and nobody really cares. God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. It really should be an all-encompassing thing of life that we experience. We are partakers of the divine nature. First, we're going to see the importance of it. In the beginning was the Word. In Acts chapter 16, you might note, you know, you might remember the verse, Acts 16, 31, believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, thou shalt be saved. We're d uh uh you I know you do, I do too sometimes. We must not deceive ourselves, folks, into thinking that we are walking in the light when we are really walking in darkness. So as many of you are aware, uh this past week I was able to go to the pastors conference. And this is intended to pervade and to saturate everything in our lives. And that life is given to us. Would you would you tell her come help me? Goodness refers to moral purity. And by the- because of the blood of Christ and what and the provision that Christ has made, the Spirit of God is living inside of us. And we pray these things in Christ's name. It is truth for us. You feel like you're in prison. Because you know that you're not going to have be ex feel accepted. There is no area that we cannot allow, that we keep from the light of God shining in our lives. Do you know what we as Christians have to look forward to? Lord, so often we we run to lesser things There is a 100% total acceptance, total righteousness, total relational purity. Number one, we must immerse our lives in communion with God. What is communion with God? And it says this that which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, and the same thing. That which was from the beginning had come again to earth and manifested himself. I I mean I I'm really like I would just be fine stuck somewhere by myself reading books all day. Really. We have right information. It's part of the window of worship. Now, the one thing here does not mean that the only thing that we should ever do is pray and read the Bible. Why would Paul tell a Christian to lay hold of eternal life? It's one step at a time in a progression. Remember that the fellowship that the Father has with the Son and the Son has with the Spirit is totally right. From our parents. You think you know goodness and righteousness? The importance of it, the method to growing in it, and the hindrances to it. The same communion that the Father has with the Son, the Son has with the Spirit, we are invited into It's not dependent on somebody else's personality. Because some of us have lousy personalities. Those three things. We cannot lose our union with Christ, but we can lose our communion with Christ. It started before the human race ever began to exist. Every kind of severity of trial that you could possibly think of outside the cross is there. Verse 6 says, if we say that we have fellowship with him and walk in darkness. In that particular, every other area, okay, we're good, but in that particular area, we're not in relationship with God anymore. And God is in the process of making us like him now. God is saying, if you'll open your mouth, if you'll open yourself up to me, I will fill you. Assembling with the saints is a window. We do uh uh Lord's Supper together for communion with God. The subject matter of the conference, all the messages were centered around the subject of communion with God. Jesus answered and said to her, Martha, Martha, you are worried and troubled. Well, it's interesting that Jesus says it this way, John 12, 25. Jesus prays to his Father that we would have the same oneness. You remember Adam and Eve when Jesus would God shed light on their situation? Not because, well, God's a mean God up there, and if we don't adjust to his ways, he's going to put us down. Why do Christians fall away from being actively involved in the service? So we'll return back to Matthew 7 next Sunday, Lord willing. Before Jesus went to his death to provide for us union and communion Um yeah, so they were set they were centered around the subject of communion with God. You feel like you're in a situation you can't get out of. In in in the Greek, in the the Koine Greek and in uh in the New Testament, the period before the Greek is classical Greek. That is really something to consider, is not If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. We are occupied with things that do not matter. That which we have seen and heard, we declare to you, that you also may have fellowship with us, and truly our fellowship is with the Father and with the Son It says this: For you were once darkness. We may not say it that overtly, but there's this this some area, when we delve into that area, we can't we're not thinking about God anymore. He satisfies my emotions. You have been united with Christ. Maybe at this point in the message you're five- you're saying, okay, I want this. Do we see fellowship that way? The Word was with God. Joy is not dependent on your circumstances. They are put in like like um like the worst kind of maximum security prison into the inner stocks where they can't get out because these people are so dangerous. Keep those in your mind. It has to do with purity of motive, of motivation. They hid themselves. And she's occupied with all kinds of doing this and getting ready and doing that and getting and doing all these things. It might be a little bit like a fire hose this morning. When you have a four-course meal available to you of all of the nutritional riches of a wonderful meal, and you eat What is it that means when it means that God is light, it is good, he is good, he is righteous, and he is truth. Psalm 81, God invites Israel The second to the final thing that gets us to the final thing is communion with God. Should I be thrown into a concentration camp? Prayer and understanding scripture, not just sitting on the shelf. I got my hands full here. Penultimate is the second to the final thing. He has to do that. I I needed it, frankly, probably more than I realized That is secure. Now, I want us to put it this, understand this. And the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanses us from all sin. We have open access to God, but it is mediated. It is not the x-rated video, but the primetime dribble of triviality we drink in every night. For when these replace an appetite for God Himself, the idolatry is scarcely recognizable and almost Darkness hides. Number two, we must adjust our lives to the character of Christ. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. Would you take your Bibles and turn to Psalm 81? That means that we've that we are going to have to think about what God wants for us rather than what we want for ourselves. If we live a lot lie on the inside, we end up living a lie on the outside. And everyone who has this hope in him purifies himself just as he is. Open your mouth and I'll fill it with myself. We've already established you can't grow in your union with Christ, but you can grow in your communion with God. Our fellowship with God, our communion with God begins with God We don't think of the righteousness that way. org. We pick up, and it says in verse 38 of that passage, now it happened as they went in That is joy from fellowship. Beloved, now are we the children of God, and it has not yet been revealed what we should be, what we shall be. But my people would not heed my voice, he says. We're then going to see the method to growing in it. The Word was God. It says that clearly in verse 4 of this passage, and these things we write to you that your joy may be full. God's motives are always pure. I don't really want him to know about that. Verse 7. Help us, Lord, to pursue that fellowship with you. Goodness, righteousness, and truth The word eternal life is an interesting word. And I thought, you know, I I'd like to I'd like to preach a message on What is fellowship with God? There is no greater privilege. They were imprisoned. But the Godhead is one entirely in fellowship, in likeness. The haters of the Lord would pretend submission to him, but their fate would endure forever. This is the message which we have heard from him and declared to you that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. The spiritual, quote, spiritual things Do you know where fellowship started It was used for the filling up of lungs. That's where we come to. For which whatever makes manifest is light. We have correct information. May the Lord richly bless you. Do we see our commune with God? It says, Grace, peace be multiplied to you in the knowledge of God in our Lord Jesus Christ, as his divine power has given us the things that pertain to life and godliness. Our communion with Christ, which finds its basis in our union with Christ Well Paul and Silas was there. I want you to see three things here that light is. It says this, hear, O my people, and I will admonish you. Well, what does that mean? Righteousness is purity of relationship. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. In John chapter 1 there. Same thing he says in Mark 10, 18, no one is good except God. Amen We are sharing in the life of God. That you can you can be in the worst circumstances utterly imaginable. The method of to communion. And when we close off those windows, we no longer have fellowship and communion. That they, verse 21 of John 17, that they all may be one. No, God does everything good as well. I'm gonna I'm gonna it's gonna be a two-part here, but We thank you, Lord, for your presence Lloyd Jones says it this way: it is a state of complete satisfaction. It's not dependent upon your emotions. I would have satisfied you. Why is it that we don't have the fellowship The only way to have active, vibrant, joyous It's talking about the word of life there is talking about Jesus Christ. That brings us to number two importance. And we get it from our ultimate parents. I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can truly be united with Christ. He satisfies every desire. Or he's not doing his job. And why am I saying, you're not pastors, why am I saying all this to you? We have a union with Christ. It's something that we can lose We are so wired to justify ourselves. Uh they they If you are not growing in your communion with God, you are not growing in Christ-likeness. This knowledge is an experiential knowledge. We are blessed of God. I am the Lord your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt. They said it this way, the preaching that you're going to hear more than anybody else's is your own, so make sure you make it good. Are you feeling weak? The word joy, it's a really interesting word. He says back, why do you call me good? It is because we are not willing to follow the ways of God. That is what He has to preach the word of God. They're not coming for communion with God. What it is saying is that if this the if this is the one thing that is needful, I don't really want to be transparent with God about that area. What does it mean when it says that God is light? It's a walk. Anything with I in it is sin. Well, it is partnership. And yet that's exactly what God says. It's shared by the Trinity. I I do. Nah let me just leave it Whenever we do anything or say anything or don't say anything to hide what we are or what we've done, that How do we grow in our walk with the Lord? When I was at this conference, I really appreciated the emphasis they had. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins. But our communion with Christ, our fellowship with Christ We are used to Number one method. It's right standing with. In the Old Testament, they still had communion with God. Would you encourage us? For it's true, as Philippians 3 talks about, there is nothing He is good. It is the ability to share our lives one with another So right now we have immediate communion. And as Paul describes It's the fullness of joy It's not convoluted, it's not distorted, it's not twisted, it's truth, it's right And our and our moral uh we're morally like him completely We pray all this in Jesus' name. And it became flesh, verse 14. John 1. Later on in the same passage it says, laying up in store for themselves a good foundation against the time to come. Luke 12, verse 15 says this. But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanseth us. And even now there are certain functions you don't We preach because of communion with God. So I'll keep coming because I feel like a good Christian when I come, and that's self-righteousness And not only that, but he shares his life with us. Number one It's not dependent upon your emotions. YouTube and Facebook and all these kind of things. We have to look forward to face-to-face communion with God for all of eternity. And you have never been united with Christ by accepting what Jesus did for you. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. That took longer than I expected, but let's move on. We shall be like him. He said in the future, so in the future, biblically, we see that from 1 John chapter 3. Let us pray together. And it was used for the pouring of wine into a vessel until it was full. Baptism and the Lord's Supper are windows. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. I mean literally I I I this uh on Sun uh Saturday I I I this is And what we're doing is we're it's like we're getting a we're like met we're we're medicating ourselves. If you go to 1 John, in fact, go ahead and take your Bibles and turn there. Your danger is not the same as mine. We hope to see you soon. The final ultimate thing for God, God's goal for us is to glorify Him He tells Timothy, who no doubt is a Christian. And he says I'm like just pretty much have a lousy personality. And Christ went to the cross and sacrificed himself on the cross so that we would be united with Christ. Our strength. Walk as children of light. Well, how do we grow in our communion with God? Because they are one entirely. And truly our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son Jesus Christ. And most of us would think, yeah, that makes sense. He who loves his life will lose it. And if it wasn't really clear in the passage, I would think that would be impossible. My joy must remain full. Somebody raised their hand. Sometimes I hate to say that, pastors do it. Please read along with me if you will. There's a wonderful illustration of this, just to put it down and make it real practical, there's a wonderful illustration of this. Goodness and righteousness and truth. And I want to be clear that I get I got all this from from the conference I went to. I was reminded of this First we'll look at the importance. And it's not dependent upon your circumstances. Okay, so so clearly we need this. Oh, that my people would listen to me, God says, that Israel would walk in my ways. 4 says, in him was life, and that life was the light of men. Acts 16, verse 20 says this, and they brought them to the magistrates and said, These men being Jews exceedingly trouble our city. Having received such a charge, he put them into the inner prison and fastened their feet in stocks. Walk, he says, of child in children of light. There's three options. But if we walk in the light And the most deadly appetites are not for the poison of evil. And this is the this is the term righteousness. So goodness and righteousness and then truth Roy Heston said this. Psalm 81. May we do just that. The Bible says that you can have eternal life. But for for today we are in 1 John chapter 1 and talking about the subject of communion with God. You say, like eating and drinking? When we think of eternal life, we usually think of union with Christ, but we forget communion with Christ. John 10 verse 10, it says, the thief cometh not for And the multitude rose up together against them, and the magistrates tore off their clothes and commanded them to be beaten with rods. Are you feeling downtrodden? Why? Light refers to the transcendence of God, the righteousness of God. We don't always take advantage. How is it that we grow in our communion with God? God is good. Do you realize why do we do what we do here? It is participation. It started even before the angels. It is not the banquet of the wicked that dulls our appetite for heaven. And we no longer want to sit at the feet of Jesus. I'll try not for it not to be that way. What did they do? And we can do all that is mu that as much as by our silence as by saying or doing something. It's not preliminaries to the I'm just going to say it this way. No. Understanding scripture is a window. I actually did an entire research paper. The Bible says God is light and in him is no darkness at all. A pastor can't Or maybe they sh maybe we don't say they shouldn't, but we live as though they don't. Joy also is strength. There is no, there is absolutely no better pursuit. But if a pastor is not careful, But you can come to church and not come for communion. I haven't been to one of those since pre-COVID, so it's been It's for this reason. Christ came that we might be saved, united with Christ, and have abundant life. So I have a question. And I actually have it up there on the screen for you. And Israel would have none of me. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. And um I uh was you know working on my my message for my And we we are to share. He has to do it. There is a righteousness, there is a correctness about relationships. We we pray together for communion with God. It's like being dressed in the right clothing. It's not just moral purity, but there's a motivation. They were walking in darkness. And truth is purity of information and perspective. But we really would love to meet you in person. That's said by Paul and Silas to the Philippian jailer. One of the best ways you can summarize God is he is good. The Shekinah glory was in the midst of the tabernacle, in the midst of the camp Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. You are good and righteous and true. So you sort of start But God says that there is a kind of a state And this is what happens to them in verse 25 of Acts 16. Ephesians chapter 5, and we're going to pick up in verse 8. For it is the shameful even to speak of those things which are done of them in secret. Number three. It will either burn you out. And number four, you uh you'll wait wait for next week actually. Um, because I'm actually not close to done. Let me ask you this question. May we open wide our mouths He gave us eternal life so that we could experience God. Same thing in Luke 18, verse 19. Number two, we must not live a lie. Because he can satisfy us if we'll just adjust his ways. Amen. John 20, verse 31 says this. He says this. I do, I think I do, I really do. Yeah. And it's not dependent upon your natural excitability. We've got to adjust to God. I'd be really happy. Why aren't we experiencing that kind of joy? So, what does God want us to know about it? The world may believe that you sent me God loves as the Father to give good gifts to his children. Anyway. It's not dependent upon any of that. You ever felt like you're in jail? O Israel, if you will listen to me, We get you know one more And um And it is of absolute primary importance. We've experienced Jesus. The life of Christ manifested himself to the disciples. No one is good but one. Jesus But we are not They're not coming Joy brings strength. Lord, may we have that mindset I'll spare you the details of the whole research paper when I was in seminary on the word joy. All of these things are windows. We've talked about union and communion. It means to share. Number verse five, we must understand that God is light If we do, it will be a hindrance to fellowship. I mean, how often are we just drawn? That for that reason you may want to take notes and there will be several lot of things up on the screen. It's confession time anyway. Go to 1 John chapter 3 for a moment. Why aren't we experiencing that? We're just wired that way. And clearly we are lacking it, I suspect. Let me pause and just say this. And then he says what that looks like. That area is that's my own little compartment over here It started Open your mouth Prayer is a window. For we shall see him as he is, the Bible says. In fact, you can know that you have eternal life She ought to be helping her sister. Like not interacting with anybody. I hope you are. It's all for communion with God As we've just sung If I don't have a lousy personality, it's because of the Lord. It's all for communion with God. I'd really like you to turn your Bibles this time It is called the Exchange. There is none good but God. Why? It was all pastors and elders. This is all Remember that? It's a walk. Let's pray together. That is God. And we're going to get into that a little bit in in a in a few minutes. We pick up the phone all the time during the day. And we must not live a lie. What is it? They're whipped