Let's go to the Lord in prayer together. Father, we come before you this morning with grateful hearts. We are thank you, Lord. For your continual goodness and greatness. We are thankful for your wisdom and providence. We are thankful for your faithfulness to us. We praise you, Lord, for another Sunday in which we can gather together, worshiping you, both with The preaching of the word, singing, and prayer, reading the scriptures. Surely, Lord, these things are precious, and we do not take We thank you, Lord, also as we just sang about the fact that uh we Have the ability to be near to you and to draw nearer even still. Lord, when we were first brought into this world, we were so far from you. The gap between us and you was insurmountable by our own efforts. But you, through your love, sent your son to bridge that gap. to make us a new, a new creation, that we can now have a relationship with you, a right relationship with you. And that begins while you're here on earth, but not only that, it extends to after we leave this earth, to be with you forever and ever in eternity. You have done that for us. We praise you. We ask that now you would be uh in each and every moment of The rest of the service, message to come, may we have hearts to listen and put aside other distractions that we can give our full attention to your word We pray. In Christ's name. Amen. Reading the text this morning from Matthew 22. one through twenty two. Please read along with me if you will, Matthew twenty two, one through twenty-two. Twenty-one, I'm sorry. Thank you for that correction. Hour's about to go on all the wrong places. Thank you. Twenty-one, one through twenty-two. Now when they drew near Jerusalem and came to Beth, uh came to Bethhophage at the Mount of Olives. Then Jesus sent two disciples, saying to them, Go into the village opposite you, and immediately you will find a donkey tied and a quilt with her. Loose them and bring them to me. And if anyone says anything to you, you shall say, The Lord has need of them, and immediately he will send them. All this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the prophet, saying Tell the daughter of Zion, Behold, your king is coming to you, lowly and sitting on a donkey, a colt, the foal of a donkey. So the disciples went and did as Jesus commanded them They brought the donkey and the colt, laid their clothes on them, and set him on them. And a very great multitude spread their clothes on the road. Others cut down branches from the trees and spread them on the road. Then the multitudes who went before and those who followed cried out, saying, Hosanna to the Son of David, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Hosanna in the highest. And when he had come into Jerusalem, all the city was moved, saying, Who is this? So the multitudes said, This is Jesus, the prophet from Nazareth of Galilee. Then Jesus went into the temple of God and drove out all those who bought and sold in the temple, and overturned the tables of money changers and the seats of those who sold doves. And he said to them, It is written, My house shall be called a house of prayer, but you have made it a den of thieves. Then the blind and the lame came to him in the temple, and he healed them. But when the chief priests and scribes saw the wonderful things that he did, and the children crying out in the temple, and saying, Hosanna to the son of David They were indignant, and said to him, Do you hear what these are saying? And Jesus said to them, Yes. Have you never read out of the mouths of babes and nursing infants You have perfected praise. Then he left them and went out of the city of to Bethany, and he lodged there. Now in the morning, as he returned to the city, he was hungry. And seeing a fig tree by the road he came to it and found nothing on it but leaves, and said to it, Let no fruit grow on you ever again. Immediately the fig tree withered away And when the disciples saw it, they marveled, saying, How did the fig tree wither away so soon? So Jesus answered and said to them, Assuredly, I say to you If you have faith and do not doubt, you will not only do what was done to the fig tree, but also if you say to this mountain, Be removed and be cast into the sea, it will be done. And whatever things you ask in prayer, believing, you will receive. So we're coming here now to the final week of Jesus' life before he goes to the cross and he rises from the grave. now is going to address this final week and thirty percent of the book is going to be del designated to one particular week of Christ's three and a half year ministry. So this is a very, very significant week that's going to culminate with Christ on the cross and in three days later rising from the dead. You ever uh been involved in something or seen something and it was so big? I mean it was so big that it was very hard to describe. It was very hard to sort of uh it was so the the it was so expansive and so in depth That um it's just very, very difficult to to to b convey what you've experienced or what you've seen. I when we a few years ago we went to the Grand Canyon And uh I can tell you this, I've heard this before, but until I actually went there, uh I didn't understand when people say the pictures do not do it justice. I got off the, we were using a tour bus. I got off the tour bus. I walked out to where I and it was just so expansive. And I thought to myself, man, this this This is so much bigger and more textured and greater depth and everything than the picture. Showed. Now, uh why is that? Well, because it's massively expansive, but also has dimension. and depth to it. In fact, you can hike into it. You can uh and so maybe if you're trying to describe the i in a better way you need uh in a more in-depth way you're gonna have to use a picture like someone this person who is hiking in the midst of it and taking a totally different perspective on it, or someone who is uh rafting down the middle of it. I mean this is such a in-depth, expansive uh wonder of the world that one picture on a postcard just simply can't do it justice. You really gotta see it from multiple perspectives. and multiple uh experiences to really grasp and experience the Grand Canyon. Well and even in a greater way, Jesus is going to try to help The people around him, the Jewish people, the disciples, the world, to understand how expansive and in-depth what he is about to do in this particular week. And so we're going to see Jesus riding on a a donkey in the midst of people and them putting down palm branches, what does that mean? And then we're going to see him going into the temple and chasing out the money changers. What does that mean? And then cursing a fig tree. What does all that mean? Well he has he want Jesus is the teaching, and teaching is effective, but there's a sense in which Jesus wants to by experience He wants to show the people what his ministry is all about, what his leadership includes, what the cross is going to result in. And so we're going to see three different experiences of Jesus today in what we're looking at this morning in Matthew 21 here. Jesus is going to tangibly reveal his divine authority to demonstrate his kingdom priorities. So how does Jesus demonstrate these priorities? We're going to see this in a minute, but I want to set the stage this way. This is the final week. Jesus has been coming, he's in Bethany on Friday afternoon. He's going to celebrate the Sabbath there. And then he's going to go on Friday evening through Saturday the sundown. Then he's going to go into Sunday into into uh into Jerusalem. We're going to see that in a few moments later on. But how does Jesus demonstrate these kingdom priorities? Well, we're going to see three things in this passage. One, there's going to be a claim of peace through humility. A claim of peace through humility in verses one through eleven. A demand for purity in worship. And finally, we're going to see a call for genuine fruitfulness in verses 18 through 20. twenty two, a call for genuine fruitfulness, a claim of peace through humility. What was the donkey all about riding through and the palm branches, all that is a claim of peace What was he doing when he was going to the temple and chasing out the money changers in the temple and all the different things were going on there? Uh a demand for purity in worship and We're gonna and then a call for genuine fruitfulness. Now you say you this is a large passage. You've you've chosen a a lot to deal with and And sometimes that is very helpful. Sometimes it's good to get just a couple of verses and go through those in detail. But sometimes it's really necessary to see a bigger picture to see to see more of what's going on, to see a continuity of thought in what Jesus is trying to get it trying to convey. Sometimes taking a a larger grasp is extremely helpful. Because you you sometimes can miss the whole forest for the individual trees. So we're gonna work at work through this at a fairly quick clip. First of all, we're then we're going to see that a claim of peace through humility. And we pick up in verse 1 it says, Now when they drew near Jerusalem to Bethesh at the Mount of Olives, then Jesus sent two disciples saying to them, Go into the village o' opposite you, and immediately you will find a donkey tied, and a colt with her. Loose them and bring them to me. And if anyone says anything to you, you shall say, The Lord has need of them. Immediately he sent them. All this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the prophet. So Jesus tells the disciples, they he they're in Bethany. And he tells these disciples that they are going to need to go into Bethphage. Now they've been coming, they've come from Jerusalem, they've come into the general area where Jerusalem is. And they've landed in Bethany. Very good friends of Jesus were Mary, Martha, and Lazarus, remember. Very likely he's staying in their home at this point. And he says to his disciples, I want you to go up to Bethphage, I want you to get a particular donkey from a particular house that I'm going to be using to be able to fulfill an Old Testament proverb prop prop prophecy to be able to set the stage for the fact that I am coming as king, but a particular kind of king. And so they go and they do that. They go up to Beth Beth Age, they get the the the the young donkey, the the untrained donkey, they bring it uh to Jesus and they retrieve it, and then they are going to They followed the instructions of Jesus, and all of this, Scripture tells us, Matthew tells us, is to fulfill an Old Testament prophecy. And that particular prophecy is found in Zechariah 9, verses 9 through 13. It says Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion. Shout, O daughter of Jerusalem. That's talking about the nation of Israel. Behold, your king is coming to you. He is just and having salvation Lowly and riding on a donkey, a colt, the foal of a donkey. I will cut off the chariot from Ephraim and the horse from Jerusalem. The battle bow shall be cut off. He shall speak peace to the nations. His dominion shall be from sea to sea, and from the river to the ends of the earth. So Jesus does exact or uh the disciples do what Jesus says. Jesus is on this donkey, and they brought the donkey and the colt, laid there, and so you have the basically Matthew's actually the only there's you have parallel passages on this from Mark and and Luke, but Matthew's the only one that mentions there's actually two animals. You've got the donkey and the colt. They're both there. That makes good sense because if you have an untrained donkey, you need the mom close by, basically. And they're using both of them. It says they drape the cloth their clothes over them sort of as a makeshift uh kingly kind of saddle or whatever for Jesus And in they're going to be w coming from as I mention as you saw on the map, they're coming from Jerusalem and they're going to be going into I mean coming from Jericho from Bethany, that area, and then going over the Mount of Olives and they're going into into Jerusalem by a particular road. Now one thing to note that's important is this is during Passover And during that time, there was a huge pilgrimage from all over the Roman Empire. That pilgrimage was called the Diaspora. Now, what what we're talking about here is this. So Um during the Roman Empire, they scattered the Jewish people in all kinds of different areas amongst the Roman Empire as a sort of a way of dividing and conquering. Well, those Jewish people continue to practice their faith in those various areas throughout uh the Roman Empire. But once a year they would make this pilgrimage back to Jerusalem, and it was many, many people. Remember over in Acts chapter 2, later on, you're going to see 3,000 souls that are 3,000 souls that are saved during this time. They're Jewish people from this from coming from all kinds of different areas And I just want to note that this is really by God's providence. He is going, this is intended to be a very, very pivotal special time in human history that God has a way of broadcasting. Through these Jewish people who are coming together, and then they're going to go out back into the Roman Empire, and they're going to be able to spread this news of who Jesus is and what Jesus has done. Now, that's the multitude, these crowds, and the crowds have been very likely hearing about Jesus, even from um from where they have been in the various a areas of the Roman Empire, they've probably been hearing about Jesus Very likely they heard about Jesus rising Lazarus from the dead. They heard about that. If you've noticed, as we go through the book of Matthew, in the beginning Jesus was pretty private about He would even heal somebody and say, hey, don't spread this around. He wanted to work with the people. He wanted to teach the people. He wanted to be uh give people the opportunity to follow him. But as his ministry progressed, the three and a half years progressed, toward the end of the three and a half years, now Jesus is being more public. with what he is doing. And he is to the point of actually raising somebody from the dead, Lazarus particularly. And that, because it's just, you know, that's not doesn't happen That was spread throughout the entire area as something that was very significant. So the people came to this pilgrimage and when Jesus is Zechariah and other places actually as well that we didn't read. And so they have all of this in their mind, and they begin to pull palm branches down, and they begin to lay those down. Well, what are the palm branches all about? Well Palm branches are all over the place. In fact, you can see them on coins that are even from the first century, and they were an expression of Nash uh of nationalism generally, Jewish nationalism and Jewish victory. So the people that were there that were seeing Jesus come down on this donkey, they were really viewing Jesus as the Messiah, the one who was going to militarily set them free. And they said Hosannah, which means save now. That term is used in the Old Testament a couple of different times. 2 Samuel chapter 14, verse 4 says, And when the woman of Tokoah spoke to Second Kings chapter six verse Verse 26, then as the king of Israel was passing by on the on the wall, a woman cried to him, saying, Help, my Lord, O help It's the same kind of thing. Lord, you're here to help us. You're here to save us from the tyranny of the Roman Empire. But Jesus, when he came, he really came for a very different purpose. Now, ultimately, Jesus will uh save the entire world from itself. But when Jesus came, he came And he came on this donkey. Why? Why did Jesus come on a donkey like this? Well, first of all, he wanted to fulfill Old Testament prophecy. Jesus went to great lengths. To make sure that there was a clear continuity between the Old Testament prophecies and teachings And his coming and what he was doing. It was intended to be a signal that he is the fulfillment of many, many Old Testament prophecies And if you read the Bible from Genesis all the way through the Gospels here, you're going to see lots of continuity from the Old Testament prophecies. From the prophets and from the priests and all them to what Jesus did in the fulfillment of those things. And so Jesus, when he got on this donkey, he was doing it as a fulfillment of Old Testament prophecy. But he also was sending a signal to the nation of Israel that he was coming as a reconciling peacemaker. In first, indeed, for example, in Judges chapter 5, verse 10, it says, speak, you who ride on white donkeys. who sit in judge's attire who walk along the road. When a king or a judge or a magistrate or somebody of authority wanted to come into an area in a manner of of peacefulness, not to start war, but to bring peace. They came in on a donkey or perhaps a mule. They didn't come in on a stallion It was to send a signal to the people of the manner in which they were coming. And Jesus was doing it this way. In first Kings chapter one, verse thirteen it says, And the king also said to them, Take with you servants of your Lord, and as Solomon my son, ride on my own mule, and take him to the town of Gion. That was the way they would Sho send a signal of the m of why they were coming, the manner in which the king was coming. And so Jesus was claiming to be king. He was claiming to be Messiah, but he was saying, I'm coming to bring peace. I'm coming in peace to reconcile. See, there is a very important spiritual truth that Jesus was trying to get across through this entire experience, and that is he is the Prince of Peace. peace and he is to come to bring reconciliation to those who are hostile. Hostility between individuals, hostility between nations, and hostility between people and God. There is a a Hostility between people and God because of sin. And Jesus came to bring peace so there would be no more hostility Romans chapter 5 verse 1 said this. Therefore, having been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Through whom also we have access by faith into this grace in which we stand and rejoice in the hope of the glory of God. Jesus came to bring peace Now, the people didn't really understand what Jesus was doing. And a parallel passage in the book of Luke, chapter 19 We find Jesus' response. It's as though he gets to the place where they have, you know, it's like everything, the dust has settled a little bit. They're not um he's probably somewhere up on the uh Mount of Olives. Perhaps he's kind of looking back at what has just taken place and it says in Luke chapter 19 Verse forty one it says Now as he drew near he saw the city and wept over it. So he's uh he's beyond the Mount of Olives. He's uh he's uh looking over look uh if you You've got the Mount of Olives, you've got the Kidron Valley, uh Garden of Gethsemane is right there, and then you're right up against it uh Jerusalem and the temple. And so he's At the you can see it there, the Mount of Olives there, and then the temple in Jerusalem is right there. And so he's looking and he's seeing over he's looking over at Jerusalem and he's seeing the temple and he says this It says this saying, If you had known even you, especially in your day, the things that make for your peace, but now they are hidden from your eyes. For days will come upon you when your enemies will build an embarkment around you, surround you and close you in on every side and level you and your children within you to the ground, that they may that they will not leave in you one stone upon another, because you did not know the time of your visitation. The response that these people gave, though it was a sort of understandable response, it was not what Jesus was teaching. It was not the reason that he came. And so he notes, he prophesies that the temple would be desecrated. It would be flattened. And that's exactly what happened in 70 AD. The temple was indeed flattened at that point. A very important prophecy that Jesus prophesied years before it occurred. Now, and he wept over their response. Now, a couple of things just to make note of. You know, the truth is Jesus claimed to be the Savior. There's really no way of getting around it. He claimed to be the Messiah. He claimed to be the Savior. He claimed to be the Messiah and the Savior of the Jewish people. He claim Aim to be the Savior of the world That is what he claimed to be, and he is sending massive experiential kind of signals to everybody before he goes to the cross. This is what I'm there's something very significant that I'm about to do Now the reason that he's that I think that this is so important to understand is that some people take Christ as a good teacher But the truth of the matter is, you can't just take Christ as a good teacher. He is either a liar, a lunatic, or he's Lord. I mean there's really no way of getting around it. He is lit because he claimed to be more than just a teacher. He claimed to be the Son of God. He claimed to be Lord. And so understanding that is very, very important as we go through this. And he's he's fulfilling all these prophecies, and he's making pro prophecies that that come to pass because God Re is wanting to reveal who Jesus really is. One of the one of the most awesome things about the Bible is when you see prophecies and then hundreds of years later you see those prophecies being fulfilled where you it shows that the truth the truth of God's Word. It shows the truth of the Bible, and it really helps us understand and build our faith. Now We then move to a demand for purity and worship. So now he's coming, he's crossed the Kidron Valley, he's gone into the temple And the temple was a place of worship. It was a very, very busy place during the time of the Passover. Remember, you've got thousands of people coming. from all different places to make their pilgrimage to this temple. And and during this time Jesus comes in, verse 12. And it says in the passage, and Jesus went into the temple of God and drove out all those who bought and sold in the temple and overturned the tables of the money changers and the seats of those who sold doves And he said to them, It is written, My house shall not shall be called a house of prayer, but you have made it a den of thieves. So let's Talk through this a little bit. He's coming and there are all of these money changers, there are being very likely turtle turtled doves sold and other sacrifices. sold. There was a a a temple tax that was actually uh mentioned first in Exodus chapter 30 where they had to give a half of a shekel. It was a A particular tax that they had to give in order in fact I'll read it to you, Exodus chapter three, verse thirteen. This is what everyone mu among those who are numbered shall give half a shekel according to the shekel of the sanctuary. The half shekel shall be an offering to the Lord. Every one, including among those who are numbered, from twenty years old and above, shall give an offering to the Lord. The rich shall not give more, and the poor shall not give less than half a shekel. When you give an offering to the Lord to make atonement for yourselves. So they had a required half of a shekel to give to the Lord. And think about it this way, you've got all of these different people coming from all over the area, and they're gonna have to have some money changers somewhere. Right? In order to be able to convert the money into the temple shekel. And so that's what they did. And they had they were trying to accommodate this these massive multitudes of crowds. And so they're selling turtle doves and they're selling things in the temple so that they can these Jewish people can do what they need to do in order to fulfill the requirements of the Old Testament law. So why would Jesus overturn the money changers in the temple? Why would he s why would he do what he did? I mean let's let's think of it this way. Was it really wrong for them to accommodate the needs of all these multitudes of people? I mean, administratively, wouldn't it be necessary to do that? Why did Jesus do what he did? Now, he indicates this, Jesus indicates that it had become a den of thieves. So Apparently, very likely, and this is actually prophesied in Scripture as well, it's amazing how many things are actually prophesied in Scripture and And this is no exception to this. In Isaiah 56, verse 7 it says, Even them I will bring my holy mountain and make them joyful in my house of prayer. Their burnt offerings and their sacrifices will be acceptable on my altar. For my house shall be called a house of prayer for all nations. And then Jeremiah 711 says, Has this house which is called by my name become a den of thieves in your eyes. Behold, I even I have seen it. So apparently uh that had even occurred back in the Old Testament, and it's continued to this day. Apparently what was very likely happening is there was sort of a usury that was taking place. Where the doves were not being sold at cost as to accommodate the people. There was an upselling going on where profit was being made on the needs of the people coming in But folks, even aside of that, why was it that Jesus was so concerned? And the answer is exactly what he says in the text. He says. My house is to be called a house of prayer. And the Mark passage says, the Mark uh parallel passage says, a house of prayer for all nations. But you have made it a den of thieves. See, Jesus understood that worship of God Worship of his father needed to be a matter of prayer, a matter of true inner spiritual worship. And what had it become? It had become a a a bunch of busyness, administrative accommodation of all these people And apparently they had lost the entire purpose of the temple as it stood. Remember back in the Old Testament that the tabernacle first and then later on the temple was to represent the very presence of God, the Shekinah glory of God. The purpose of the temple and the tabernacle was to be in the center of the Jewish people, the twelve tribes of Israel, and they were to, it was to show that God was with them. And there was to be prayer offered. There was to be fellowship. There was to be a connection with God in the temple. And Jesus was pointing out, he was pointing out that this was no longer the case. That it had become a business, it had become an administration, it had become a bunch a practice, a function, a form. But it was missing the spiritual relationship that was necessary So Jesus explains this. Now on the way out, Jesus does something else, and there's a lot more I could say about this, but there's something else that we see Jesus in verse 14 heals some blind and lame people on the way out. Verse 14 says, And the blind and the lame came to him in the temple and he healed them. Now this is more significant than meets the eye because the blind and the lame in the temple were not allowed to go into the inner parts of the temple. They had to stay on what was called the court of the Gentiles. You had the core of the Gentiles and the Court of the Women, and then you had the holy place and the most holy place in the temple. They had to stay on the outskirts by uh by by the d decree of the rabbis of that time and there seemed to be a sort of an indication that that they that was a there was a ceremonial uh uncleanness because of that Now, of course, when Jesus came, he was healing the lame and the blind and all of that, all over his ministry. But when Jesus does it here, it's really remarkable because what Jesus is doing is it's Essentially, he is giving these lame and these blind the ability now to go into the inner parts of the temple. He is dealing, there's a sense in which he he's dealing with purity of worship, which is why he says, my house that the my father's house is intended to be a house of prayer and he's also in a sense purifying these people so that he can they can literally do just that What is the point? Jesus is essentially saying, I'm going to replace the temple. In fact, when Jesus dies He dies on the cross, and what happens? The middle veil between the holy place and the most holy place is ripped in two to demonstrate that Jesus now bec it is through Jesus that we have. Complete access to God, access to the presence of God through Jesus Himself. Jesus can purify and cleanse us Himself, outside and without ceremonial ritual, he can do this himself so that we are able to come into the very presence of God Now when Jesus does this, the people are amazed. And they're in verse 15 it says this, but when the chief priests and the scribes saw the wonderful things that he did, And the children crying out in the temple and saying, Hosanna to the son of David. That's who was in the court of the Gentiles. That's who was there witnessing what was going on. And they're praising the Son of David. They're recognizing Jesus for for who he is. They're recognizing the miracles that he's done. It's wonderful to them But these chief priests, you know about them, right? We've seen them over and over and over again. These Pharisees and the chief priests, they are outwardly righteous, but they are inwardly sinful. They are self-righteous. Jesus is teaching a lot through this experience that he is uh through what's going on in this temple. And they are indignant indignant toward what is going on here. They don't like what the kids are doing these children are doing in and uh saying Hosanna to Jesus. They don't like what Jesus is doing and taking the attention away from them. And so Jesus responds this way. He constantly is responding this way. He says, verse 16 They were indignant and said, Do you hear what these are saying? And Jesus says to them, Yes, have you never read, out of the mouth of babes and nursing infants you have perfected praise? They're always doing he's doing this to the people that should know what the Old Testament has said, the people that should know what the Word of God is saying in the Old Testament, he's constantly saying to them, have you not read this? He says this in first for example Matthew chapter twelve verse three says, have you not read? And in Matthew 19, 4, have you not read? In Matthew 21, 42, have you not read in Matthew 22-31? He He keeps telling them, have you not read what the Old Testament says? And then he explains what it says. And it says in the Old Testament From Psalm 8-2, it says, Out of the mouth of babes and nursing infants you have ordained strength because your enemies that you have made that you may silence and the enemy of the Avenger. What is he saying there? Here's what he's saying. Here's the point. This quotation confirms that the humble perceive spiritual truth more readily than the sophisticated. Did you catch that? You have these sophisticated, educated chief priests, and they're not getting it. They're not getting the spiritual truths behind what Jesus is doing. But the children are. They're understanding to some degree. And they're praising Jesus. They're seeing, they're calling a spade a spade, so to speak. Jesus is pointing out that it really is the humble, the person that will realize that they don't know. things, that they are they don't they don't have ev all of the information, that they humble themselves before God, that they realize their sin. It is those people that actually began to perceive Spiritual truth. In fact, isn't it true, folks? The Bible says pride goes before destruction and a haughty spirit before a fall. Pride blinds us from seeing the truth. And it's very easy for those who are intellectual, it's very easy for those as these uh chief priests and these scribes to sort of um to not recognize the truth. simple truths as they are seen as Christ is conveying them. And that's what Jesus is teaching here Jesus is teaching several things in this passage. One, he's saying, I'm superior to the temple in the sacrificial system, and I'm going to replace it. He is saying that he can purify people from the inside out. And that's been his entire message. He says, do you remember over in Matthew chapter 5, verse 7? 17 rather it says that that righteousness, your righteousness, must exceed the righteousness of the scribes and the Pharisees. Their righteousness was an external righteousness. Jesus says, not concerned with the external righteousness. There has to be an internal heart purity of righteousness, which is something that only God can do in us. He also publicly indicts self-righteousness in this passage. Now it's interesting. We see this this this driving out of the money changers and the sellers in the temple here. But actually it's not the first time that Jesus has done this. Over in John chapter 2 and other places, we actually found that in the beginning of Jesus' ministry, he did this. And there's different debate as to what's going on, but I think it's pretty clear what I could see is that there were two temple cleansings. There was cleansings. There was one in the beginning of his ministry to signal the problem. And then Jesus taught for three and a half, or for three years or whatever, sometime around there, and then he again deal comes back and says, okay, you haven't fixed the problem. Jesus has giving them every opportunity to see the truth of what he is teaching and to follow that truth. So he's teaching childlike humility produces a spiritual insight, and then finally he's teaching that Jesus values prayer over administration And that administration can eclipse prayer. Now, I think there's a very important lesson for all of us in this as Christians. It is very easy for us for that to happen. In 2 Timothy 3, verses 1 through 5, it says this: But know this that in the last days perilous times will come. For men will be lovers of themselves, lover of money, boasters of pro boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy, unloving, unforgiving Slanders without self-control, brutal, despisers of good, traitors, headstrong, haughty, lovers of pleasure, rather than lovers of God Having a form of godliness, but denying its power from such people turn away. Having a form of godliness but denying the power thereof. See, this form of godliness is essentially organized religion. A form of godliness. A form. It's not a heart issue It's the form of godliness. When Jesus came, Jesus came to demonstrate that what was really valuable to God was what was in the heart. And the fact is, we, the Bible says our hearts were born with hearts that are deceitful and desperately wicked, actually. Because we've got the sin nature that's passed from Adam to every person on this earth. And it doesn't take a rocket scientist to see that. I mean the world is pretty bad. You look around and there's sin everywhere. And if we're really honest with ourselves, we're sinful inside as well. And you know what keeps us from God? It's actually Yes, it's sin, but what really keeps us from God is self righteousness. See, if we recognize our sin Then the Bible tells us that Jesus is, we can believe that Jesus took our sin on himself and died to pay the punishment for our sin, and by faith alone we can have a relationship with God. But a self-righteous person, these Pharisees, these scribes, these people, they were self-righteous. And self-righteous will righteousness will always keep us from God. And so Jesus is teaching these people that truth. And it's very em see, we can become quite we can have in our own as even as Christians, we can have every I David And every T crossed. We can have do everything in an appropriate manner. We can have but but on the inside, we're not our hearts are Impure or our hearts are prideful. Understand what God says is very important. And the other thing that I think a lesson that we can learn is this: even in our worship, Folks, if we're not careful, we could be so occupied by administration that it eclipses real worship. I mean we are I mean I Truthfully right now I I've learned learned that the mu month of August is this is um is a a month where we're I'm I'm doing all of this administrative planning to make sure everything is organized for the fall. We've got Sunday school and Iwana and all these different ministries that have Do it I've done a ton of administrative planning over the last month and I'm still not done in the bug in the month of August. Folks, if we're not careful, it can all be about administration. And we forget worship. Now there is a way to do administration worshipfully. But we ought to be very careful that the sum total of our ministry and our service is not just doing We've got to see more. We've got to see it as worshiping the Lord. We've got to see it as helping people come to Christ. We've got to see it as helping people grow spiritually. We've got to see it as loving people and loving God. We've got to see see it in the right way. If we're not, we risk the we risk the the uh we we risk a lot In the book of Revelation, chapter three, we find this Church of Ephesus that had their eyes crossed and their teeth their eyes crossed. Their their T's crossed and their I's dotted, and yet it says that they lost their first love. May we not, may we be careful about that. That's what happened, essentially, the nation of Israel. It was all about form and function, and they had lost the heart of their worship. Then we move now, then Jesus leaves the temple and he goes back to Bethany, probably spends the night With Mary and Martha and Lazarus in their house as their guest. And the next day he's going to get up. He heads toward the Mount of Olives and goes over the Mount of Olives and heads toward Jerusalem again. On his way, he's hungry. Most of us are hungry in the morning, right? So we can identify with that. And on his way, he's hungry. And he stops by a fig tree. And that fig tree, he sees the fig tree, and notice what it says in verse 18. Now in the morning he returned to the city, he was hungry And seeing a fig tree by the road he came to it, and found nothing on it but leaves, and said to it, Let no fruit grow on your on you ever again. Immediately the fig tree withered away. This is kind of strange, right? And you read this and you go, what in the world? Jesus comes to a fig tree, doesn't have fruit. Is Jesus having like a pity party? Like, oh there's no fruit on here, well you'll never have fruit again. I'm gonna curse you and you're gonna die and that's you know is that what Jesus is doing here? I can guarantee you he's not. That's not what's going on Jesus is going to actually use this fig tree as another another tangible example example. We need illustrations. We think in pictures. So we need these illustrations, these examples to teach us spiritual truths. And the disciples are with Jesus here, and they're going to need, they need this spiritual truth. Now, we get a little insight as to what's going on from the Mark passage, the parallel passage in Mark chapter 11. It says there, and Jesus went into Jerusalem and into the temple So when he had looked around at all things, as the hour was already late, he went out to Bethany with the twelve, and the next day when they had come out from Bethany, he was hungry. And seeing from afar a fig tree having leaves, he went to see if perhaps he would find something on it. When he came to it, he found nothing but leaves. Why? For it was not the season for figs. In response, Jesus said to it, let no one eat fruit you ever again of you ever again and the disciples heard it. So that tells us a little bit more about what's going on. So apparently the fig trees back then they would produce leaves before they would produce fruit And Jesus probably actually knew that this was sort of the time for leaves uh rather than fruit. But there's you know, fruit comes at different times. I mean it's not exactly uh uh an exact science where you can Predict the day of the fruit. So he's looking at a tree, it's produced leaves, and he's going over and with a possibility that there's fruit on a tree. And he finds no fruit. And what God is doing, what Jesus does here then is he decides to use this as an illustration for the disciples to remember something that is extremely important here. Verse 18, or or so well we we've seen what's happened here. So what is going on? Well, we need to what is really actually happening here is this. Fir first of all, we can understand from the Old Testament That sometimes figs and fig trees are in some relationship to the nation of Israel. Speaking of good figs and bad figs. We find this, we won't take the time to turn there, but in Jeremiah 24 you can find that to be the case. Now, is then he talking here specifically and only about Israel? Okay, Israel is the fig tree. And it's not producing fruit, and uh and so it is it is being uh dealt with there. And there are different scholars that think differently about what is talking about here. I think probably that is it that is at least what Jesus has in mind But there is more to it because he really wants disciples to understand a very important spiritual truth We pick up in verse 20, you'll see that it says, when the disciples saw it, this is really why he's doing it as a lesson for the disciples, they marveled, saying, How did this fig tree wither away so soon? Now, I just want to say. This I find this funny. The reason I find this funny is the disciples have been with Jesus three and a half years and he's done all kinds of miracles Right? He's done you know, he's raised people from the dead, he's healed the blind and the sick and all this kind of stuff. You know, why would they I don't know, I just find it funny that they say he he's like, No fruit's coming from you anymore and they're like, Oh, how did this winter so fast? I mean, Jesus did this, obviously. But anyway, I just I just find it comical there. They asked this question, and Jesus says, so Jesus answered and said to them, Assurely I say to you If you have faith and do not doubt, you will not only do what was done to the fig tree, but also if you say to this mountain, Be removed and be cast into the sea, it will be done. Whatever things you ask in prayer, believing you will receive. So what's the lesson of the fig tree? The lesson of the fig tree is this. There is the possibility, folks, that someone can look like they're producing fruit, but they're really not. Israel had all of the trappings. It's very similar illustration to what he had already said with the temple, what we already learned from the temple. All of the external visibility of doing something great. They had the leaves were being produced. It looked great. But essentially, it was useless, this tree. And do you know that's that can be the same with you and I? We can look great on the outside. We can look like we got it all together, like everything's good, but actually we're not actually producing any kind of spiritual fruit. Now, when Jesus says you're going to do the same thing I just did, he's not saying that you're going to go, you know, cursing fig trees all the time And he's not necessarily saying that you're going to go move mountains all the time. He's saying that you will be able to accomplish God's will. It was the will of God. Jesus was carrying out the will of the Father. And they would be able in days and weeks and years to come to carry out the will of the Father and to produce fruit, but there was something that they were desperately going to need. And you know what that is? I would say it this way: they were going to need dependency. They're going to have to depend in faith and through prayer on God. Now that reminds us, for example, of John chapter 15. You remember it says that that we're uh that Jesus is the vine and we're the branches, and in order to be able to produce fruit we fruit we have to abide in the vine. Do you remember that passage? He says, for without me you can do nothing. The fact is that when it comes to spiritual worship, when it comes to things that are truly eternal, not things that you can see, but things that you can't see. When it comes to intangible things, we cannot do anything apart from dependency on Christ. And so Jesus says to them, You've got to trust the Lord. You've got to have faith. And then he says, it's through prayer. You've got to pray. He says, and wherever things you ask in prayer, believing, you will receive. He's encouraging them that although these times that they're living in now are going to pass away, they're going to fade away like a fig tree. In the future, these disciples are going to be used of God to establish a new kingdom. And one that is according to God's will, but they are going to need to depend upon the Lord. And that is the same for us, isn't it? Is it not? We as Christians, if we are going to do anything of any eternal value, if we're going to do anything of any kind of spiritual worth In God's sight, we have to live in utter dependency on the Lord. So wrapping all of this up, we we we're gonna ask three questions. Number one Do you accept Jesus as the one who can bring peace to a hostile world? Do you accept Jesus as the one who can bring peace? peace to a hostile world. We just think of our world, we're you know, you there's a there's a war going on right now between Russia and Ukraine, right? I can't think of too much of a time in my lifetime where there hasn't been some war going on. In fact, has there ever been a time of complete peace in the world since Christ? I would say uh you can make an arg a pretty strong argument that there has never been a time where the entire world has been at peace. It tells us something. We cannot in of ourselves bring peace. The world is hostile against one another. And the real problem is actually the heart. And when we actually think about it, we're all, we all have that sort of seeds of hostility in us. And that's because of sin. And we can't deal with our own sin ourselves. It must be through Jesus alone that can deal with the sinful heart condition that we have. Will we accept him as the only one that can bring peace? Number two, has our administration eclipsed our worship? This is just a I mean I was convicted about this myself. I have been very busy with all kinds of administrative things. And they're necessary. And I'm not saying that you can just be disorderly and let everything just be a mess. Folks, there is an it is so important that as we as we accomplish administrative tax tasks, as we serve, that we really serve. We serve with humble hearts. We serve with love for God and love for others. We have a desire to see the furtherance of God's kingdom We have a desire to have to produce spiritual fruit. And this passage reminds us of this. And then thirdly, Are we dependently praying so that we can be eternally fruitful? Are we dependently praying Uh just very very practically, how's your prayer life? If you look at this past week, how often have we prayed How often we have we prayed for ourselves? How often have we prayed for others? How often have we prayed for the things that we are dealing with or that we are going through? Are we dependently praying? Do you know what we're gonna we're doing as Christians if we don't dependently pray? We're spinning our wheels. You ever gone through an entire day and felt like you got nothing done? How many have ever had this experience before? Like you're you feel like you're working all day long and you look at the end of the day and you go, I don't think I can't figure out what I actually did. I've done that a couple of times when we were uh doing tree r tree removal. Things one thing went wrong after another after another after another and it's like we didn't get anything done. Done the whole day. At the end of the day, it's like we spun our wheels. Do you want to spend your whole life spinning your wheels spiritually? See, we we have to be dependent on the Lord in praying So that we can be truly, eternally fruitful. And we're going to talk about that more tonight. We're going to delve into the subject of dependent prayer. Why? So that we can be reminded and learn more about the importance. of praying dependently so that we can live eternally, we can ha we can produce eternal fruit. Let's go, Lord, in prayer Father, we come to you this morning and we thank you. We thank you for the truth of your word. We thank you for the the practical, tangible, experiential examples that Christ gave us to signal to us the kind of ministry that He has on this earth and what he had intended to do As we anticipate even going through this passionate week together, all the lessons we're going to learn in Matthew, I pray, Lord, that you'd help us to apply these things to our lives practically. And even as we um embark on uh active ministry this fall with all thing all kinds of things going on, Lord, we are going to burn out and spin our wheels if we're not dependent on you. If we're not relying on you, if we're not praying to you, I pray, Lord, that you'd help us to do that. And then Lord, I pray that if there is someone here this morning or I'd imagine there would be who don't know you as their Lord and Savior. I pray today would be a day where they would understand their sin and their need of a savior and they would come to Christ. Christ. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.