Verse sixty uh we'll start verse sixty-seven of Luke chapter one. Now his father Zacharias was filled with the Holy Spirit and prophesied, saying, Blessed is the Lord God of Israel, for he has visited and redeemed his people. And has raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David, as he spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets, and have been since the world began. That we should be saved from our enemies and from the hand of all who hate us, to perform the mercy promised to our fathers and to remember his holy covenant. The oath which he swore to our father Abraham, to grant us that we, being delivered from the hand of our enemies, might serve him without fear in holiness and righteousness before him all the days of our life. And you children be uh called the prophet of the high you child will be called the prophet of the highest For you will be before the face of the Lord to prepare his ways, to give knowledge of salvation to his people by the remission of their sins, through the tender mercy of our God with which the dayspring from on high has visited us to give light to those who sit in darkness and the shadow of death to guide our feet into the way of peace. Let's pray. Father, we praise you and thank thank you, Lord, for the privilege of being here this morning. Thank you for the incarnation. It means so much. There is so much uh that that is that is um that pivots on Christ uh But giving up his glory, taking on uh uh humanity, being clothed with humanity, taking on the form of a servant, being made in the likeness of men, and then being and then coming here to ultimately die to pay the punishment for our sin. Lord, you, I love how Zacharias when he when he prophesies this He he says it in as though it has happened. You have redeemed your people. Now we look back and we know we see that Christ surely did die on the cross to pay the punishment for our sins to redeem his people. Lord, we're grateful for that. We would without that and without the resurrection that we also celebrate on Sunday. Being the first day of the week, we celebrate the resurrection of Christ, the birth and the death and the resurrection of Christ all in one day. We thank you that we serve a risen Savior And because of all of that, Lord, we come this morning to thank you and praise you. And Lord, as we do so, we pray that you would help us to worship you in spirit and in truth. Lord, we confess before you that sometimes this time of year we're so preoccupied with the traditions. Some of them are wonderful and we're thankful and nothing wrong with them. But Lord, how wonderful it is that we could take a few moments. and really zero in on Christ and what he has done for us in coming to earth and being born. And Lord, may we really receive that gift of Christ today. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well good morning. Can't think of a better place to be than where we are right now. We are so blessed with all the talent that God has blessed this church with and I am just uh enjoying all this music. and uh talent. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we come this morning with exceedingly great joy in our hearts Knowing that over 2,000 years ago, you sent your only begotten Son to come and take on human flesh. And he came to save us from our sins. He went to that cross willingly and took all sin upon himself and paid the price in full And he satisfied the just demands of God. And the fact that he was buried in the tomb and rose again on the third day day and is now seated at your right hand, Father. We are so grateful and thankful this morning for what you have done through And we just want to give praise and honor and glory to you this morning. And Father, I thank of those who are unable to be out here this morning. morning and some are not feeling well. And Father, we ask your good hand to please be upon them and bless them today. And we pray for healing for those who are not doing Doing well. And we do pray, Lord, that uh in all things that you would have preeminence in our lives and that we would enjoy this day and celebrate your And help us, Lord, to keep our focus. And I pray this morning as we come to your word that you would help us to set aside all the excitement of the gifts and all the things that we do and the meals and the things that are coming up today and just ask that we would take this time to uh settle our hearts and we ask that your spirit would work mightily in us and draw us back to you and be focused Upon you, and I pray that in all things we will be changed more and more into your image. As we hear your word this morning, and as we leave this place, we will be changed more so towards you than when we came Amen. And we thank you in Jesus' name. Amen. We'll be reading this morning from Luke chapter 2. And I mean, I'm sorry, Matthew chapter 2. Got that Luke in there. Matthew chapter two verses one through eleven. And if you follow along your uh Bibles. Matthew chapter two verses one through eleven. Now after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea, in the days of Herod the king, behold, wise men from the east came to Jerusalem And they were saying, Where is he who is born, King of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the east, and have come to worship him. And when Herod the king heard this, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him. And when he had gathered all the chief priests and the scribes of the people So they said to him, In Bethlehem of Judea, for thus it is written by the prophets But you, Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, are not the least among the rulers of Judah. For out of you shall come a ruler who will shepherd my people, Israel. Then Herod, when he had heard, when he had secretly called the wise men, determined from them what time the star appeared And he sent them to Bethlehem and said, Go and search carefully for the young child, and when you have found him, bring back word to me that I may come and worship him. And when they had heard the king, they departed, and behold, the star which they had been had seen in the east went before them till it came and stood over where the young child was. When they saw the star They rejoiced and exceeding with exceedingly great joy. And when they had come into the house, They saw the young child with Mary, his mother, and they fell down and worshipped him. And when they had opened their treasures, they presented gifts to him. So this passage goes over The response to the Son of God coming to earth from the perspective of the Magi, but also of Herod. And then the other group of people that we see responding to this event is over in the book of Luke, Luke chapter 2, where you have the shepherd. A lot of verses, a lot of content is is uh occupied with how people are responding to what is taking place. How are the magi responding? How did Herod? How did the Jews with Herod respond? How did these shepherds respond? And And describing that. And that really brings up a question for us, how are we going to respond to the gift of Christ? I mean, it it's clear John 3. 16 tells us that it is the gift of God. God, Christ is the gift, God sent his Son in the world as a gift. Now, when we receive gifts, y how do you receive them? How many I'm curious, how many of you have uh have uh opened gifts already this morning? I'm curious, how many of you and how many of you are still planning on opening gifts most of your gifts later on? Okay, you know it's like fifty fifty, which is not surprising. Uh uh half and half. We've already opened up our gifts uh this morning actually. house, believe it or not. Um and you know when all you have is a bag of coal and s you know switches it's it's really not that hard to open that up But anyway. Um but how should we respond? How should we respond to gifts? You have you ever have somebody that's hard to get gifts for? You have something like that in your hand in your in your family? And um I have somebody in my family and I won't mention her name, but Her name is Elizabeth. And um she she is very hard to get gifts for. I've just learned that Christmas giving is experimental. Okay. Like it's a grand experiment when it comes to gift giving to my wife. Like I just never know. So I've gotten very creative. I've gotten like I I I'll just like I'll buy that and that and that. I know, you know, fifty percent or more is going to go back. So I just kinda started buying stuff and and uh and then the on Chris and I bought some really funny things today this morning and she she thought they were funny and Actually I'm not sure she thought they were funny at first, but anyway. It all depends on what you're what you what you're giving, how you respond to the gift. I mean what if somebody gives you, you know, you say, well, you know, you just thank them for the gift. You say thank you, I love it. I mean that's what you supposed to say. That's what parents tell their children to say over and over again at cr at birthdays and things like that. Thank you, I love it. I mean, uh but you know what if somebody gives you like rogue for a year I mean if I open if I open that up, I might not respond with thank you, I love it. So that might be a little bit of a hint. And I could see somebody giving me that Or, you know, uh how to win friends and influence people, or um, you know, Weight Watchers or something. I mean those kinds of gifts are gifts that you you wouldn't necessarily want to uh want to have and if you got them you might there might be a little more intention intention going on. You might you know those three gifts you you would determine that you must the person giving those make thinks that you're bald, fat, and uh arrogant, you know, th those kind of things. But how how do these different groups of respond to these gifts in this passage. Interestingly enough, as we look at the passage, it really is going to tell us exactly how people respond today to Christ. There are really three different ways to respond. And we're going to see these three different responses in this passage this morning. I think it will be very helpful for us. Matthew is laying out In this passage, a lot. There's a lot here going on. One of the things that you see that's going on in this passage is a lot of fulfillment of prophecy. Fulfillment of Old Testament prophecy, particularly For example, in verse fifteen verse five it says, In Bethlehem of Judea, for thus is written by the prophet, and that's Micah 5, 2. But you, Bethlehem Ephraim, though you are little among the thousands of Judah, yet out of you shall come forth me. the r the the one, the ruler in Israel. And then in Matthew 2. 15, later on in the passage, you have the uh uh you have it says, and there was until the death of Herod that they might be fulfilled. which was spoken of the Lord through the prophet, out of Egypt, I have called my son. And we're not going to take a long, long time to go through these, but all these are fulfillments of Old Testament prophecies through this passage. You find the same thing in Matthew 2, 17 there. It says, and it was fulfilled, which was spoken by Jeremiah the prophet, saying and than the prophecies even of these different gifts are prophecies are are fulfillments of Old Testament prophecies The different gifts that the Magi gave. All of these are fulfill are to make Matthew's making these connections. And I I simply mention this for this reason. One thing that if you read through this narrative, one thing you should find is that this is not just some some trite cute story. It's not. It's not some cute fable to learn some sort of small lesson from. Kevin DeYoung, uh the theologian Theologian and and wr writer wrote a wrote a uh article this past week to pastors saying pastors don't be cute in the pulpit. by that is preach the gospel, preach the truth, preach the things that you preach every every year at Christmas time. Preach people need Christ. And this passage is not a cute passage about some um cheerful kind of thing. There's a lot going on in this passage, but it's all it's true and it's real and over hundreds of years of time you have this fulfillment in the New Testament of Old Testament prophecy. Look back later at a later time. But we want to look at three three different responses to the birth of Christ. And the first one we're going to look at is in chapter 2, verses 1 through 2. and four through six. It's math or it's the earthly wisdom how earthly wisdom responded to Jesus as king. Earthly wisdom responded to Jesus as king. So we pick up in verse two of chapter one, it says, Now after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judah Judea, in the days of Herod the king, behold, wise men from the east came to worship. uh came to Jerusalem saying, Where is he that has been born king of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the east have come to worship him. In verse 4, then it says this, and when he had gathered all the chief priests and the scribes of the people together, he inquired of them where the Christ Christ was to be born. So they said to them him in Bethlehem of Judea, for thus it is written by the prophet, but you Bethlehem in the land of Judah are not the least among the Judah the rulers of Judah, for out of you shall come the rulers who are the sh who will shepherd my people Israel So you have these magi, these these, you know, uh, you know, history, church history says there were three of them. Perhaps because there were three gifts. We don't really know how many there were. But you have these three wise men that have come. They are prof probably from Babylonian descent. And do you remember in the Old Testament, the book of Daniel, that there were wise men back then, that they were called upon by King Nebuchadnezzar to interpret dreams? Do you remember that? It's really probably these folks are descendants of those kinds of wise men in Babylon. And what we know about that is that Babylon is no longer in power, right? We have we have several kingdoms now after Babylon, the Medio Persian Empire and the Greek Empire, and now the Roman Empire here, that are now in power. And so these Babylonian Magi, they have been displaced. I mean in a sense just like Jew uh the Jewish people have been displaced at this point, because the Romans are in power, and now they're looking and seeing what's going on And they're there they find the star, this star in the east, and they want to come and they want to find this king. And so they go where they think they need to go and they go to uh to to Herod and they ask and Herod doesn't seem to know anything about it and so he gets the scribes and then they read uh from from s from scripture what exactly where uh what is going on here And all of this that is happening. Now when when they say we see a star from the east, are these people astrologers? And the answer is yes, they are Now these people are are very likely, likely they're astrologers. And uh you know some people have different views of what this star in the east was. Some pa people say it was a fusing of Planets at just the right time or a supernova or comet or some people, and maybe this is more likely just an act of divine placement. God just put a star there Either way, they saw something that caused them to make a connection that there was su there was somebody coming, uh there was going to be king that was born. And in Numbers chapter twenty-four, verse seventeen, it says, I see him, but now but not now, and behold him, but not near. A star shall come out of Jacob, a scepter shall rise out of Israel, and batter the brow of Moab, and Destroy all the sons of the tumult. So this is now actually a fulfillment of prophecy of the Old Testament. And they want to come and they want to worship him. They want to come and they I think the better way to say it is they want to come and pay uh pay homage to him. Now that does bring up a question, doesn't it? These magi who are astrologers, who are considered the intelligent academic people of the day. But they're very superstitious and very um uh you know they're into all this astrology and everything. How isn't it interesting that God uses these folks How do we how do we process this? How is it that they that this is that that God actually uses their astrology in order to be able to to for them to come and to recognize who would be king in Israel. And do you know that is exactly the way society is, exactly how the world is It's mixed. Were the Magi right? They were. The method and how they got to being right, was that right? No There was a mixed, sort of a mixed bag there when it came to the way that they were perceiving things. And that's exactly the way the society perceives Christianity and perceives Christ, perceives even what's right and what's wrong, and what's true and what's not The world is not always right and the world is not always wrong. There are some that m try to sort of make the the claim, Christians that sort of say, well the world's just always wrong Now the sense in the there's a sense in which the world system that is driven by the devil, that is they're always at least mod motivationally wrong. But can you say that everything in our culture is wrong? Did you drive here this morning? I think we're all pretty glad when we have electricity. I think that we're pretty happy with some of the innovations of man So for us to say that, well, we're just going to isolate ourselves from all of the advancements of society, some Christians believe that, but that it doesn't seem to mix with Scripture very well. Very well. Isn't it true that God can use the advancements of society in the medical field and all these different places? Isn't it true that God can use these kinds of things He can, but it's mixed. They're not always right and they're not always wrong. There are three things we can sort of say about the society in general as it's Number one, the wisdom of the of the earth is not completely right and nearly always dated. It's not completely right. And and the wisdom of the earth is actually usually just catching up, often. For example, did you know that the intelligence intelligentsia of the day I mean if you were the smart one, if you were the intelligent person, you believe the earth Was flat. Do you know that there are some people who don't believe the earth is flat? It's it's a little little nuts. But anyway. And then there the uh and the wisdom of the earth, though, is not always completely wrong It's not always completely wrong, but here's the thing that we know folks. If you try to make make society your basis of truth, if you try to make the perceptions of academia or if you try to make um anything the basis of truth, you are going to get a lot of mixture. A lot of bad mixed with good and truth mixed with error. And so it's re it's it's necessary, folks, for all of To take everything in society, their perceptions of everything, and sift it through the truth of the Word of God, because here we have the truth in purity. So important for us to understand that we must look at society through the lens of the Word of God, not look at the Word of God through the lens of society. Because if we do that, if we look at the lens of the Word of God through the lens of the culture, we're going to get a very distorted view of the truth of Scripture. Now, all of that to say then that you have these folks that are God is going to use them. And he's going to use them to fulfill prophecy. He's going to use them to bring them to the Christ child. We've said this before. I'll say it again. He's not a baby at this point. He's two years old, you're close to two years old, somewhere around there. Uh just you know, understand that and s some of you all last time I mentioned that you went home, you You went to your nativity scenes and you put, you know, the the um you told me you did this. Uh you put the wise men on the other side of the room, you know, to separate it from the details. That's good. Amen. Praise the Lord. Uh glad you glad you guys are are biblical Now we move to another group in society, and they are hostile. And they're really hostile to the things of Christ. And honestly, isn't it true that this seems to be becoming more and more of a prevalent view of Christ today? And that hostility we see in this in this man Herod, this king. We see when the Magi come to him, that in verse 3 it says this, and Herod the king heard this, and he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him. He was troubled, and Jerusalem was troubled with them. Why was Herod troubled? The word means to be fearful. Why was Herod fearful? And why would Jerusalem be fearful? Well Herod was fearful very Clearly from the passage as we as we move on and see what Herod does, we clearly see that that Herod felt threatened, right? He was his power, his authority was threatened by the prospect of someone coming and taking his place as king of Israel. We know some interesting things about Herod. This was Herod the Great, by the way. There are other Herods after him. But this is Herod the Great. This is the one that built the uh that built the temple uh for the nation of Israel, and he he helped to crush all opposition. He was uh named king by the Roman Senate Senate He was a puppet king though of the Roman Senate. He really resented the fact that J that that Israel did not really ever accept him as king King. And so he was he was pretty um paranoid and fearful. In fact, uh he ended up killing some of his own uh a couple of his own wives because he was so fearful. Including his favorite wife. He wa he felt threatened. And we find actually in verse 7, pick up there, it says that Herod, when he had secretly called the wise men, determined from them what the time the star appeared. He sent them to Bethlehem and said, Go and search carefully to this young child, and when you have found him, bring back word to me that I may go and worship him. And he had no plan to actually do that And then in verse thirteen we see this. When they had departed, behold, an angel, God intervenes. Behold, an angel of the Lord appears to Joseph in a dream, saying, Arise, take this young child and his mother, and flee to Egypt and stay there. Of course you will remember the story that Herod, he's going to kill every young child. And by the way, what who else did that in scripture You can go all the way back to Pharaoh. Remember that? Pharaoh did that in the book of Exodus. He killed every child under two years old. And there's actually another parallel over in the book of Exodus as well. There was 400 years And here there's four hundred years of silence. These are all of these things to make connections here. Herod, though, what happened? Herod felt threatened. And do you know, do you know this is true Do you know why people in society are rejecting Christ? Because they feel threatened. Now you they may never look like they have that they feel threatened. They may look like they have the upper hand, but there is a sense in which to follow after Christ is to feel threatened. A very, very honest philosopher by the name of Thomas Nagel, he was an atheist, and he was very candid about his feelings about the idea of the existence of God. He says this. I am talking about the fear of religion itself. I'm speaking from experience, being strongly subject to this fear myself. He says he's feared. I want atheism to be true, and I am made uneasy by the fact that some of the most intelligent and well-informed people I know are religious believers. It isn't just that I don't believe in God and naturally I hope that my belief is right. I hope there is no God I don't want there to be a God. I don't want the universe to be like that. My guess is that this cosmic authority problem is not rare Here's a man who is fearful, but he's honest enough to realize he is, and he's honest enough to be an atheist. Why? To believe that there is no God because that's what he wants. But do you realize, folks, that we all believe what we want to believe? Belief always follows desire. We always believe what we most want to believe. And that's exactly what people do. Why do people reject Christ? Because they have to change something. Because they have to follow a different path. Now, the reality is you come to Christ not changing anything. It's Christ that changes you. The people are threatened by the reality of Christ because if there truly is a God and if He has made a connection to me through Christ, then I'm now accountable to someone. And so society, when they look at Christ, they're okay with some, you know, light-hearted Christmas carols. They're okay with the idea of a baby in a manger. But when you get into any kind of death depth about who Jesus is and what he came to do and all of that, they will shy away from that because we all, there is a sense in which we all have little herods in our hearts. We there's there is uh our our human nature, our sin nature, we want to do what we want to do We want to go where we want to go. We want to be the captain of our own fate. We want to be the sovereign of our own life. And so why would we want there to be a God to whom we must be accountable to? And certainly why would we want Christ to make a way for us to come to God to reject all of that is m so preferable? Fear leads to manipulation, in fact. You know the story, I think, already. How uh he uh how how Herod is doing everything he can to get a hold of this child so that he can take him out And on the other hand, you see everything that God does in intervening, appearing to this magi in a dream. Getting Joseph and Mary to escape into Egypt, supplying I don't think there's really any doubt that these Magi break brought expensive gifts And what did God use those for? How that how do you think they got to Egypt? How do you think they survived in Egypt for for the time that they did? I don't think they really to me they used the gold very lightly And then you have this future reality of the myrrh that was given that was a bury was a scent for burial. And it was the same spice that was used later on in Scripture. All of this then brings us to the response of the Magi now. As we come to a confrontation with Christ that results in humble worship. Verse 9 says, When they heard the king, they departed, and behold, the star which they had seen in the east went before them till it came and stood, this is about the Magi, stood over where the young child was. And when they saw the star, how did these magi respond? When they saw the star, they rejoiced with exceedingly great joy. And when they had come into the house, they saw the young child with Mary, his mother, and fell down and worshipped him. And when they had opened their treasures, they presented gifts to him: gold, frankincense, and myrrh. We see that they are now coming to give homage to the king. of Israel, this little baby. Now it's interesting. It says in the passage, in this passage, that they rejoiced exceedingly with great joy. But then it says, when they came to this young child, not the baby in the manger, they came to this young child, they fell down. and worshiped him. I mean, picture this. Really picture it. You've got these three or four or five or two. We know there's at least two, right? But you've got these, or maybe more, who knows? We've got these wise men that have come and they see this two-year-old and they fall down. On their face, and they worship this two-year-old. Have you ever thought about how strange that would be? Have you ever thought about like why did they I mean it's interesting this word fell down, this concept of fellow, it's mentioned in two other places in Scripture. Once it's mentioned when during the Mount of Transfiguration, remember that? When Jesus goes up and he's with Moses and Elijah in the Mount of Transfiguration, and the glory from Jesus is shown, and it says that the disciples heard it and they fell on their faces. And then Luke 5, 12, uh It says this, and when they happened in a certain city, that behold a man was full of leprosy, saw Jesus, and he fell on his face, implored him, saying, Lord, if you are willing, please make me clean. I mean two extreme examples. One who s saw the glory of Christ and fell on their face, the disciples, and on the other hand, you've got these, you've got these uh This man who wants to be cured of leprosy, that makes sense, but this babe, this this two-year-old You know what I think the wise men realize? This is what I think the wise men realize on a practical level. The measure of greatness is when the high can become low. The measure of greatness is when the high can become low. Think of one who is in who has everything going for him. And is joyful and is prospering, but somehow has the ability to really come down to the level of the mourner. and to mourn with them. Wouldn't that be great? Or someone who is rich, wealthy, but nobody knows it. And they're able to live as someone completely normal. Wouldn't that be great? Or a sage-wise man Great intelligence, who is able to step down and to and to converse with a little child, to talk with a little child, and just to relate to a little child Wouldn't that be great? It can't work the other way. The mourner can't step up to be joyful. The little child can't step up to be high like the the wise, intelligent man The poor can't become rich. But when the other when the rich becomes poor, when the wise becomes uh becomes childlike, when the when that happens, there is a measure of extended greatness. And I think my guess is that the wise men, they realize that this was born king of the uh this was gonna be a man born king of the Jews. I'm not sure they fully understood the fact that he was deity. Certainly we know from Scripture he laid aside his glory, so it wasn't like there was anything unusual about this two-year-old I mean when you think of a two-year-old Jesus, don't think he's glowing or something. All of those, you know, gaudy things that we see, art and all that, that if he didn't glow. Okay Only on the Mount Figuration. He glowed then. Other than that, he didn't glow. And yet they they fall down and worship him I I wrote down five different responses that a genuine follower of Christ has to the gift of the Son of God. Number one, express Extreme rejoicing. Are you rejoicing today? Like these Magi did. Extreme rejoicing. Number two, humble worship. Are you falling on your knees to worship him? Number three, immediate seeking. Would you take your Bibles for just a minute and look over at Luke chapter 2 I want us to see the shepherds because I think of all of the different groups of people that are represented in these gospels in Matthew and Luke what we actually see that the per people that seemed to respond and understand it the best were actually these lowly shepherds. And God chose by by his own sovereign plan to reveal the most clearly to the to the group of people outside of Mary, outside of Joseph, and you know, Zacharias and Elizabeth, outside of those individuals, he he revealed most clearly to the to these shepherds About who Jesus really was. Picking up in verse 8 of Luke chapter 2, it says this. Now there was were in the same country shepherds. living out in the fields, keeping watch over their flock by night. And behold, an angel of the Lord stood before them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them, and they were greatly afraid. Then the angel said to them, Do not be afraid, for behold I bring you good tidings of great joy which will be to all people, for there is born to you this day in the city of David a Savior Which is Christ the Lord. You don't get much clearer than that. And this will be assigned to you. You'll find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes lying in a manger. And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of heavenly hosts. Can you imagine this? Praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth, peace, good will toward men. And so it was when the angels had gone away from them into heaven. The shepherds said unto one another, Let us now go to Bethlehem. Let's go. Let's get up and go immediately. They immediately sought him. Let's now go even to Bethlehem and see this thing which has come to pass, which the Lord has done. has made known to us. And they came with haste. They were just so excited. They just wanted to see them. They came immediately, they came with haste and found Mary and Joseph and a babe lying in a manger. And what did they do with this once they saw him? Now, when they had seen him, they made widely known, they published it, they preached it, they made widely known the saying. which was told them concerning the child, and all those who heard it marveled at those things which were told them by the shepherds. There was this enthusiastic proclamation: Jesus, the Savior of the world, the Messiah, the King. They understood it all, and they broadcasted it everywhere. Jesus is here. And to the point of great amazement of those who heard who heard them. They marveled, it says. Where why do they marvel? Why do you suppose they marveled? I think they marveled because the shepherds were marveling. And marveling is contagious. I think they were the shepherds were so genuinely amazed by all of this, by the glory they had seen, by the little baby in the manger. They were Taking all this in, they went and broadcasted this, and they were so amazed by it that the people around them were also amazed. What a way to respond to who Christ is and what He has done for us. Are we responding this way? Christmas comes around every year. And it could become oh just another year. I mean you kids I know you were excited about the presents, but somebody was telling me last Last night it's really true. Adults, we don't get quite as excited. Now we say I can't wait to watch our kids. That's about the best we can get of that excitement, right? But but like I'm not like I mean I enjoy what my wife got me. Don't get me wrong, I won't get in trouble here. But but uh but I you know I wasn't I like I can't wait to open up what I yeah and and my girls, they got me good things. But I I can't I can't wait to open these was it's it's just not quite that way for an adult. But when it comes to Christ and how we respond to him, may we be refreshed and renewed in who Jesus is and what he has done. Walk away from here. Number one, we cannot expect the world to receive Christ in a completely true way. We can't expect that. It's going to be mixed. At best, it's going to be mixed But much more like lately now what we are seeing in our culture is secondly there is a hostility toward the things of the Lord. There is a hostility toward Christ. And the selfish pride embedded in the human soul creates hostility towards Christ. Christ. And frankly, all of us have it in us. Did you know that? Even when you're a Christian, you don't lose your sin nature. There is still a hostility, a selfishness, a little herod in you. me, who wants to be king, and who wants to to have their rights and not give up their rights and have their way and get their position and do their do what they want to do. But the proper response to King Jesus is to fall on our knees before him and worship him. Serve Him faithfully and to joyously proclaim Him and to seek Him with all of our hearts and to worship Him. The Christians' response to Jesus is appropriate for the kind of gift he really is. You respond well to a good gift. If it's rogue not so much. She didn't give me rogue game by the way, just so you know. But if it's Jesus, you respond in the absolute best way possible. you worship. I would just mention this. I I I would you all obviously are in in my uh certainly in my opinion the right place right now. Like like thank you for being here and thank you for choosing to respond. You could you know there's many Christians that are opening presence right now. So thank you for being here. But maybe there's somebody here that you're really you're not you're just you're not respond you haven't responded right to who Jesus is. Maybe you don't really know Christ. That's true. And if and I would be glad to to help you receive that gift later on if you want to come Or maybe you're a we're Christian, we're you're a Christian and and we but we've just been so preoccupied. occupy with so many different things or we're we are we're beginning to look at the w the the the word of God through the lens of our culture may we respond in the way that these Magi and particularly these shepherds responded to Christ. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and praise you for who you are. We thank you for your word and your truth. We thank you for the gift of Christ. And Lord, we confess before you that it is so e we are just we so easily take for granted the truth That God became flesh and dwelt among us. And we pray, Lord, that you would help us to truly respond, really not just today, but every day. To the wonderful reality of the gospel of Christ who saves our souls so that we can have a right relationship with you. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.