The Lord in prayer together Father, Lord, we thank you for this day and what we have already sung about and learned about We've sung about the confidence that we can have in you. We've sung about the prep your presence. We've sung about your faithfulness. We thank you, Lord, that you indeed want to be with us. We thank you, Lord, that you through your son have made a way for that to even be possible Lord, we recognize though that we often do not live in light of your presence. We often don't uh don't consider that. That you are with us. Even though it is promised in your word, Jesus Himself says that He will be with us even into the end of the age. Lord, we thank you for your presence. We thank you that through your presence we can have assurance and we can rely on you With complete satisfaction that we don't have to consider or wonder or doubt what you will be like from day to day. Are the same today, yesterday, today, and forever. I pray, Lord, that uh that we would be people, that you would Work in us in such a way that we would be mindful of your presence every day, every hour, that uh it would affect how we live and the decisions we make. That it would move us in such a way to, it would propel us to live faithfully for you. We certainly have seen these things laid out in your word through this study of Exodus. Your mercy is great, your presence is amazing, and your plan I pray, Lord, that you would help us to catch a hold of your goodness to your people. Even this rebellious and stiff-necked people we see in Exodus. Because honestly, Lord, if we are fully candid, we know that we are like them as well. Pray all these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Reading today from uh the text will be in uh that pastor will be preaching from it will be Exodus thirty-three, eighteen through twenty three and then over to chapter thirty-four, twenty-nine through thirty-five. And he said, Please show me your glory. Then he said, I will make all my goodness pass before you. And I will proclaim the name of the Lord before you. I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious. I will have compassion to whom I will have compassion. But he said, You cannot see my face, for no man shall see me and live. And the Lord said, Here is a place by me, and you shall stand on the rock. So it shall be, while my glory passes by, that I will put you in the cleft of the rock. And I will cover you with my hand while I pass by. Then I will take away my hand, and you shall see my back, but my face you shall shall not be seen. And then chapter 35 four verse twenty nine. Now it was so when Moses came down from Mount Sinai, and the two tablets of the testimony were in Then Moses called to them, and Aaron and all the rulers of the congregation returned to him, and Moses. Talk with them. Afterward all the children of Israel came near, and he gave them as commandments all the that the Lord had spoken with him on Mount Sinai. When Moses had finished speaking with them, he put a veil on his face. But whenever Moses went in before the Lord to speak with him, he would take the veil off until he came out. And he would come out and speak to the children of Israel whatever he had been commanded. And whenever the children of Israel saw the face of Moses, that the skin of Moses' face shone, then Moses would put the veil on his face again Again earnestly desired and longed for the presence of God. You remember from last week that Moses was looking ahead to the prospect of leading Israel into Canaan and fighting the Canaanites. And realizing that there was just absolutely no way that he was going to be able to do this without the presence of God. Even that the presence of God was going to need to be in the midst of them. That the kingdom work that God desired was not going to be able to be accomplished. Without God's presence. And there are times in our lives as Christians where we look ahead to what God calls us to do. And we say to ourselves, there is absolutely no way that I can do this without the presence of God. Jesus said this, if you remember, from last week as well, from in John chapter 15, as he looked ahead to the fact that he was dying, then would rise from the grave, then would ascend to his father, and he would leave his apostles behind. And he said to them, Without me abiding in you, you can do nothing. There is absolutely nothing you can do. for the furtherance of God's kingdom, for his work apart, can I say it this way? Apart from my presence. And we noted last week as well that that when it comes to our assurance, we need it We need an assurance from God. We desire it. We want it. That He is with us. That he is helping us, that his attention is toward us. Let me just ask you a question this morning Are you going through a difficult time in your life? Maybe you're looking ahead to some prospect of something that you just say, I can't hack it. I can't handle it. I can't do with this. I don't know how in the world I'm going to glorify God in this situation. Maybe you're a mom. Are there times in a mom's life where they look at their kids and go, I don't know how this is going to work out? And there are other times where you say, Well, the boy that my my child's surprisingly he's doing he or she's doing pretty well. Uh I think moms have in living color the sin nature, like they probably can explain it better than I can, uh, in what it actually comes out as, because they have to live with it every day. Whatever you're going through, whatever the difficulty you find yourself in, if we are truly going to glorify God with our lives, if our lives are going to be what God wants them to be, If we're going to actually live for the furtherance of God's kingdom rather than our own kingdom, and you know what I mean by that? So often we're living for our own kingdom. We're we're we're we're everything we're doing, we're doing to build our kingdom. I mean not not a literal kingdom, not that we have subjects and we're the king. But sort of building our own status, our own wealth, our own life. We're building our own lives, our own kingdom. And we don't need the Lord's help for that. We're really good at that. But to build God's kingdom, we must have God's help and we must have His presence And as we look ahead to the daunting task of building God's kingdom, we ought to be able to say with Moses, Lord, show me your glory. That's what he asks. The very first verse of this is, would you show me your glory? Moses has seen the glory of God before. But what Moses is asking, he's seen the presence of God before on some level, but really what Moses is asking is I want to, I want to, as much as possible, I want to have a A tangible assuring knowledge of your presence. I want to know without a doubt that you're with me. And so he says, please show me your glory. Well, God now is going to answer his request He's going to, we first are going to see in verses 18 through 19, the tangible expression of God's presence results in assurance. And God wants to, he wants to give Moses this assurance. And so we begin and look at verse 18 and the answer that is given there, or verse 19 rather, it says, I will make all my goodness pass before you. Remember, he's up on a mountain, he's up on Mount Sinai. Because I will mount make all my goodness pass before you, and I will proclaim the name of the Lord before you. I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious and I will have compassion to whom I will have compassion So what does he mean when he says, I will have my goodness pass before you? Well, this word goodness, the goodness of God, is a very, very, the goodness is a very general term in the Old Testament. And it could mean various things. It could mean kindness. It could mean the best of anything. It's a superlative word. It's kindness. It's the best of something. It's used that way in Genesis 45, Isaiah 1. 19, and Ezra 9. 12. It has to do, it could, it's used in the context of something that's valuable, very, very valuable, like wealth or property. It's used that way in Deuteronomy 6 verse 11. It's used in Hosea 10 verse 11 and Zechariah 9. 17 as beauty, something that's beautiful. In Zechariah, for example, 916, it says, And the Lord their God will save them in that day as the flock of his people, and they shall be like the jewels of a crown, lifted up like a banner over his land. And how great is its goodness, and how great is its beauty. Grain shall make the young men thrive, and new wine the young woman. And then in Job 20 and 21, as well as Proverbs 11, it's it's referenced to happiness, welfare, and happiness. And then finally in Deuteronomy 28, verse 47, it has to do with cheerfulness and gladness. Now just think through this. God uses a very general term here. I think because Really, all of these things God wants Moses to have. He wants Moses to experience him You know, in our lives we try to experience we we want to experience God. And some people go to great lengths to experience God through different ways that really the Bible doesn't show us that we're supposed to experience God in those ways Sometimes we have you see dreams or somebody has a vision or they see something in the stars or those kinds of things. But the Bible teaches us Particularly in the New Testament, which we're going to get to, some very specific ways that we can truly experience God And what God was doing with Moses was he was to the extent he could, he wanted Moses to really experience him. And so if you think of experiencing God, you can think of these things, kindness and the best, it's a superlative word, the best. Value. God Moses wants Moses is going to see the value of God, the beauty of God. I think of Psalm where it says David said, to worship him in the beauty of his holiness, the happiness and gladness. You ever just viewed? We love to look at beautiful things. We'll go to beautiful gardens or beautiful buildings. We'll travel all over the world to see some amazing structure that man has made or that God has made. And when we see the beauty of it, there's this joy and gladness that that we experience as we just see it, as we experience these different things. And the photograph is not the same thing as going and seeing it personally, is it? Very different. Said this before, but you go to the Grand Canyon and you realize that none of the pictures do it justice. It just doesn't. Experiencing it is something different. And what God wants Moses to do here, he is answering, yes, I want you to experience me the very best that you can. And the very best that I can. And he says, I want my goodness to pass before you. And then Moses gives us the reason for this, or God rather, gives us the reason for this in verse 19. He says I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious, and I will have compassion on whom I will have compassion. The reason that God showed himself to Moses and allowed Moses to experience God in the very, in the utmost, the best way he possibly could, was not because Moses was such a great guy. It wasn't because Israel was so great, because that we know that wasn't true. It wasn't because of some merit of Moses or Israel. It was because God says in his word he will be gracious to whom he is gracious. It's the grace of God. And He will have compassion on whom He chooses to have compassion on. And brothers and sisters in Christ, if you and I are a recipient of the mercy and the grace and the compassion of God in our lives, then we ought to be truly grateful, shouldn't we? We ought to be ecstatic about this. And it really is when you know the mercy of God and you know the compassion of God, that is when you really be able are able to experience the greatness of God. In Deuteronomy chapters thirteen, verses seventeen through eighteen, making reference to this He says, so none of the accursed things shall remain in your hand, that the Lord may turn from the fierceness of his anger and show you mercy. He's talking to the nation of Israel here. Have compassion on you and multiply you, just as he swore to your fathers, because you have listened to the voice of the Lord your God to keep all his commandments Which I command you this day, to do what is right in the eyes of the Lord your God. God chose, even though Israel failed time and time again. God chose to have mercy and compassion on them. And he does the same thing with you and me by his grace alone. And we're going to learn how that occurs later on. Well, what do we learn from this? There are a couple of implications of this. First of all, God is gracious and merciful. He is full of compassion. He desires to restore his people. In James chapter 5, verse eleven, it says, Indeed we count them blessed to endure. You have heard of the per perseverance of Job, seeing and seeing the end intended by the Lord. The Lord is very compassionate. and merciful. And folks, we've seen the greatness of God and the holiness of God and the transcendence of God as we have looked through the book of Exodus. But don't forget that God is a compassionate gracious, loving God. And God wants us to experience Him. And the only way we can is because He's so gracious and merciful to us. In fact, the Apostle Paul, speaking of this grace, says this in verse 7 of Ephesians 1, he says In whom we talking about Jesus Christ, that's where we get grace from. In him who we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins, according to the riches of his grace, which he made to abound toward us in all wisdom and prudence, having made known to us the mystery of his will according to the good pleasure which he purposed in himself But in the dispensation of the fullness of time he might gather together in one all things in Christ. God is gracious And he loves us and he is benevolent to us and he is merciful to us by the good pleasure of his will. I gotta be honest with you, it's like a mom. I don't know why you mothers are so good to us. This is not a Mother's Day message per se, but mothers more than any other you know, like natural entity seem to be self-sacrificing. They will sacrifice themselves. In order to give to their kids and to their husbands. There are some times where I actually have to step in with my wife and say, look, no, you are not going to do that. And what I mean by that is out of love, you're not going to sacrifice yourself there for them. No, you need to take care of yourself. There are times where where m you mu you you poor mothers f wanna like like you're all you like you wanna give them everything and you want to give them all the attention and educate them all the same time and then you at the same time you want them to be independent and You you you just have love for your kids and you'll actually sacrifice yourself to give those things to your kids. Christ sacrificed himself ultimately in a more perfect and greater way than any mom could, frankly, by giving his own life for us. God also, how does God tangibly express himself to us? And from here on out, we're going to begin to look at that. Okay, so how, yes, Moses. Moses, God expressed himself to Moses to the best he could. How does that happen to us as Christians? Well, it happens to us by the Word of God. I've mentioned this before. We won't take the time to actually look at this, but in 2 Peter 1, verses 16 through 21, it references another mount. Do you remember when Christ was on another mount and Moses and Elijah came and the glory of Christ was shown, the Mount of Transfiguration? Do you remember that mount? And on that mount, the disciples, Peter, James, and John, they experience the glory of God. You remember that mount? And in 2 Peter 1, verses 16 through 21, it actually says, in reference to that, that we have a more sure word than that. In verse 19 it says, and so we have a prophetic word confirm which you do well to heed as a light that shines in the dark place Under the day dawns, the morning star arises in your hearts. Knowing this first that no prophecy of Scripture is of any private interpretation, for prophecy never came by the will of man. But holy men of God spoke as they were moved by the Holy Spirit. He's saying, you want to experience in a more sure way. in a more assuring way than Jesus transfiguration, then you've got to go to the Word of God This is how you experience it. It's by the truth and knowing the truth of the Word of God. So Moses experiences on this day the Word of God. He experiences, and we see we pick up in verses 20 through 23 and we see this. So we see the tangible expression of God's presence is limited actually by God's greatness. So how does God do this? Now God is going to give him some direction on how this is all going to take place. Verse 20 But he said, You cannot see my face, for no man shall see me and live. There is an extent to which God is so great That no, we are not created in a way now with our as particularly with our fallen natures that we are able then to see, to experience the fullness of God. So what God was saying was, you're going to experience as much as you can of me, but there's going to be a limit. And the Lord said, Here is a place by me, and you shall stand on the rock. So it shall be, while my glory passes by, that I will put you in the cleft of the rock, and will cover you with my hand while I pass by. Then I will take away my hand, and you shall see my back, but my face shall not be seen. God in his mercy coupled with his greatness, devises a plan for Moses to experience the presence of God as much as he possibly can And he says, his glory will pass by. And by the way, as he's doing this, look up again at the previous verse. Look at look at chapter look at look at the verse here. Picking up here in verse 19. I will make my goodness pass before you. And as this happens, notice what he says, I will proclaim the name of the Lord before you. Two things. He says the goodness, which we looked at. That's the greatness, the beauty, and all that. But he says, I'm going to proclaim. At the same time I'm doing that. I'm going to proclaim the name. So I'm going to make a connection here So that you could see my presence along with who I am, my name. He really wants Moses to understand who he is. And then when you pick up here, you see this limitation imposed. I'm going to put you in the cleft of the rock because you can't experience the all of this, the fullness of God's glory. So you can't experience almost. I'm going to put you in the cleft of the rock. When I pass by, I'm going to cover you with my hand, and I'm going to remove it, and I'm going, you're going to be able to see my back. Now, that is a personification, it's called a personification where we're, that's the best description that we can understand in human terms of what's going on here. What it actually shows us, by the way, I'll just I can't help but say this, it's not in my notes. It shows us what heaven like the greatness of heaven, like we're not we we just it it blows our mind. This is as close as we can get to understanding like we there's like a lot of mystery here. Does that make sense? And and it just shows us that there's gonna be an incredible experience when we actually experience God in heaven and we're with we're actually with him. Because all of this is okay we see his back, we can't see his face, we can't have, we can't get too close to him. But God is God for and notice it's it's protection here. You see a lot of things going on here. You see placement, you see protection. God is protecting Moses. He doesn't want his presence to kill Moses We see his perception, he says, You can't see my face But he is going to get as close as he can, and Moses is going to experience the tangible nature of who God is. Now let me ask you a question. Obviously, you and I don't experience the tangible presence of God now. Now we have the Word of God, which the Bible says is more sure than the transfiguration we've already mentioned. But it's not that physically we're not, we're not whole, we're not, you know, we don't see God physically in that way. We don't we can't be can I say it this way? I don't mean to sound trite by saying this, but it's not like we can be hugged by God. We can touch him or he can touch us. Jesus, when he came to earth, he is is the manifestation of God. We're going to learn that in a minute, and he could be touched And he could be, in fact, he told the disciples even after his resurrection, put your hand in my side, told Thomas. We know he could be touched. But is there any way in which you and I can experience In a greater way, the tangible, in a more tangible way, can we experience God on earth? And I want to make an application here And I'm careful with this, but this has been on my mind for a while. And I want to make an application here, and I want to say yes in a way. Yes, in a way. Let me ask you this question. What we see here is the back of God. That's what Moses is going to see. It's a body part. Okay. Let me ask you this question. Is the body of Christ here? Did you catch that? Is the body of Christ here? And the answer is yes. Who is the body of Christ? The church. Is there a way that we can experience Christ in a more tangible physical way? Actually, there is, brothers and sisters in Christ. It is through his church. He is the body. We are the body of Christ. Ephesians chapter 1, verses 22 through 23 say, and he put all things under his feet and gave him to be head over all things to the church, which is the body. The fullness of him who fills all in all. Until Christ returns He has left us with each other who if if we know Christ as our Lord and Savior, we make it the body of Christ, and there is a sense in which we can experience God more tangibly through each other. In Ephesians chapter three, verse ten, it says, to the intent that now the manifold witness of God may be made known by the church to the principalities and powers in heavenly places according to the eternal purpose which accomplished in Christ Jesus our Lord, in whom we have boldness and access with confidence Through faith in him, therefore I ask that you do not lose heart in my tribulation, for which is your glory Why? Do you not have to lose hearts? It's the body of Christ. We are to encourage each other and strengthen each other and experience Christ in each other in the body of Christ. Hebrews 10 verse 25 says this. This is why it says it. It says, For not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together as the manner of some is, why? but exhorting to encourage one another in so much the more as you see the day approaching What is that day? Well, it's a little bit of a mystery what that day is. I was doing quite a bit of research on that, trying to figure out what the day is. We know it sometimes it references the second coming of Christ. Sometimes it ref references persecution. Probably what's going on in Hebrews, it was written before the temple was destroyed, and it was anticipating persecution. What it was saying was that the assembling of ourselves together is absolutely important for mutual exhortation. and encouragement. There is a sense in which we need each other to experience Christ God's left us with this thing called the church. He's building it. And folks, can I just say it very practically? You can't get it by streaming. Now, um, if you're listening to me by way of streaming, if that's the best you can do, then I'm glad you're listening. And I'm glad you're hearing the Word of God preached. Some of you you're sick and home right now and you're listening and that's great. But there is a difference There is a difference between being able to to to know each other, to experience each other, to share each other prayer requests when we come together on Sunday nights and on Wednesday nights and share our needs with each other, our burdens together, our There is a difference between that and watching a screen. We experience Christ along with each other. And we ought to take full ad, can I say it this way, can I take we ought to take full advantage of every resource that God has given us to experience Him, and that includes assembling together. Then we move on and we see actually the tangible expression of God's presence. It carries lasting effect. If you skip down to verse 24 through 25, we pick up here, God, when he's up in the mountain, gives Moses the law again. He reiterates the covenant of God with a people. He's going to have show great mercy and compassion. He's going to restore Israel completely. To do what God had called him to do in the very beginning, and he re- he w he creates the the new uh testimony, uh the law again for them. Tablets of testimony. And then he comes. Moses comes down from the mountain, and we pick up here and we see some of the effects. The effects of being in God's glory. Now notice in verse 34, chapter 34, okay, so skip down there to 34 in verse 29, it says, And it was so when Moses came down from the mountain, and the two tablets of the testimony were in his hand. when he came down from the mountain, that Moses did not know that the skin in his on his face shone while he while he talked with him. So when Aaron and all the children of Israel saw Moses, behold the skin was of his face shown, and they were afraid to come near. It's an interesting thing that's sort of happening here. So Moses Moses comes down from the mountain. His face apparently is glowing. The wording there indicates it's like there's these rays coming from his face, probably light rays. And Moses is not aware of this. He doesn't aware that there's actually a physical change in his face. Aaron and the folks around him realize it and they're afraid. They're fearful. Did they need to be afraid? Well the answer is they didn't need to be afraid. Because actually, notice what it says in the next part of this. Then the mo then Moses called to them, and Aaron and all the rulers of the congregation returned to him, and Moses talked with them Afterward all the children of Israel came and gave them the commandments of all the law the law the all that the Lord had spoken unto him in Mount Sinai. And when Moses had finished speaking with them, then he put his tail on his face So he's speaking with them and conversing with them and talking with them and he's not veiling his face. It wasn't until he did all of that then he veiled his face. So they didn't he didn't need to do that. They didn't have to have to not have his face veiled But they they were so fearful that Moses had to bail his face. Now what's the what's the you got what's the significance of this? Take your Bibles and turn to 2 Corinthians chapter 3. We're going to see what you don't have to take my word for what the significance of this is. We're going to look at what Paul says. Paul actually references this exact scenario here in his word in 2 Corinthians chapter 3. Would you pick up in verse 7? 2 Corinthians chapter 3. He calls what's going on here for Moses the ministry of death. Now what he's talking about is the law. The law is good, the New Testament tells us that, but the law can only shows us our sin and brings which and sin brings death. It shows that we need Christ in order to fulfill the demands of the law. So he calls this verse 7 the ministry of death, written and engraved on stones, it says, was glorious. so that the children of Israel could not look steadily at the face of Moses because of the glory of his countenance. Which glory was passing away. He says, as bright as this was, and as fearful as the people were, this glory was actually passing away. Verse 8. How will the ministry of the Spirit not be more glorious? He says, how is now after Christ is risen from the grave and gone to his Father and the Spirit of God has come, how is that not more glorious? Verse 9, for if the ministry of condemnation had glory, the ministry of righteousness exceeds much more in glory. We are able to experience more now the glory of God. For even what was made glorious had no glory in in this respect, because the glory that excels, for if What is passing away was glorious, what remains is much more glorious. What he's saying is that all that passed away in time, Moses' the glory for Moses, it passed away, all that passed away But there is now, he says, now we've got something that we can experience the glory of God in a way that doesn't pass away. It's eternal. Look at what he says, verse 12. Therefore, since we have such hope, we use great boldness of speech. Unlike Moses, who put a veil over his face, so that the children of Israel could not look steadily at the end of what was passing away. It's interesting how it's worded there. But their minds, what was the problem? Their minds were what? Their minds were blinded. For until the day the same veil remains, until this day they say it says. Now God now Paul is switching the the illustration a little bit and he's saying There's actually a veil on Israel. There was a veil back then in the sense that Moses had to veil himself because their minds were blinded. And he says now Israel is still, many of them are still blinded. Why? Look at it. For unto this day the same veil remains unlift uh unlifted in the reading of the Old Testament, because the veil is taken away. But even to this day, when Moses is read A veil lies on their hearts. Nevertheless, when one turns, how is the veil taken away, folks? Verse 16. Nevertheless, when one turns to the Lord, the veil is taken away. When one turns to Jesus Christ, That's when the veil is taken away. He is saying, Paul is saying, that everyone has this veil, or blinded. They cannot experience the glory of God. They cannot experience the presence of God without experiencing Jesus Christ. That's why when Christ came to earth, he said When you have seen me, you've seen the Father. That's why he could say, I am the way, the truth, and the life, and the life. No one, no one comes to the Father except through me So, verse 17, now the Lord is the Spirit, and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty. But we all with unveiled face, beholding as in a mirror the glory of the Lord, are being transformed to the same image from glory to glory, just as the Spirit of the Lord. Now what is he saying here's what he's saying here very basically You can't see the very presence of God, but we have a mirror of the glory of God. And you know what the mirror of the glory of God is? It's Jesus. Now, Jesus is God. He is full deity. But when Jesus came to earth, he did limit his glory. But he reflected the glory of God. If he didn't limit his glory, then everybody would be consumed. So he limited his glory, but he reflected the glory of God so that when we look to Jesus, We can see God. And we can experience God as Jesus is the physical, tangible representation of God He is God. And then it says this, as we look to Jesus and we see who he is and what he has done, and we emulate that, then God changes us. There's a lot going on here, isn't there? So that God's goal for the Christian is that we be like him. And there's, look, I can't help but say this, one day, the Bible says that we will see him in his full glory. Why can we do that? Because there's one day where we will be changed. Right now, what's going on? Right now, for the Christian, we're becoming more and more like Christ. That's God's goal for us, to be conformed to the image of Christ. The moral attributes of Christ Who he was, his love, his kindness, his justice, all those things are becoming, we're growing in Christ's likeness. And one day we will be like him, the Bible says, for we will see him as he is in his full glory. He will change our bodies that we will be likened unto his glorious body, and we will be able to experience the full glory of God. Right now, this is what this passage is saying. Right now, we can experience more of the glory of God than Moses did up on that mountain. Did you know that? I don't think we've ever thought of it that way sometimes, some of us. We look at that experience that Moses had and we go, man, I'd love to have that experience. And God says, you can have it Through Christ. The more you look to Christ, the more you look to His Word, the more you fellowship with the saints, the more you do those things, you can experience God in a greater, more tangible, more fuller way than God did then than Moses did then with God. If you will look to him, look to Jesus. So we'll wrap all this up in this way. I have three questions that will really just bring all of this this to conclusion. Because what what is our goal here, folks? Our goal is to be able to experience God the way Moses did. How do we do that? Number one, here's the first question. Are you tangibly assured by the Word of God? See, it's the word of God that is the more sure word in the human transfiguration. We talked about that earlier. Are you tangibly assured by the word of God? Number two, are you regularly assured by the body of Christ? The church. Are you regularly assured by the body of Christ the church? Are we bearing one another's burdens, brothers and sisters in Christ? Are we praying for each other? Are we fellowshipping with each other? There has been a real problem when we were not even able to assemble together. There has been a loss. I hope you felt the loss. And may we look ahead and say, every way we know how, every way we can, may we may we assemble together. Even so much the more as we see the day approaching. Are you regularly assured by the body of Christ? I'm going to make this really practical for you. On Mother's Day, this is almost cruel. Uh I the I've been in churches before and thankfully our church isn't like this, I don't think. Maybe on Mother's Day it will be, but um where everybody's out the door in five minutes after the service. Like to God. It's like I preached in churches before. Guests preach in churches and I come and I preach and and I'm, you know, kind of wanting to get to know people afterwards and they're like I thought, is it something I said? Like what you know, maybe it was, I don't know. But sometimes it's like they're just doing their they're just doing their duty Jeff, don't text me. That's an inside joke. Anyway. Number three. I better move on. Are you seeing the glory of God in the person of Jesus Christ? Are you seeing the glory of God in the person of Jesus Christ? That's how you see the glory of God. Christ says, if you see me, you've known the Father. And I just have to ask you this question today. Do you know Jesus? The Bible says there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. That if you that you are a sinner and I'm a sinner, we're all sinners. Our sin separates us from a holy God. We've clearly seen that in this passage. And the Bible tells us that That he can by no means dec uh he can by no means just overlook the guilty But because of his great love for us, Jesus Christ died to take our sin on himself and die in our place. That's the punishment for sin, death. So that he could actually give us his eternal life, so that we can know God. The Bible says, But as many as received him, to them gave you the power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name Do you know Jesus Christ? And if you don't today, let me just ask you to do this. Would you come and talk with me after the service? I would be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you are a child of God. I'll be as thorough as I can with you to help you to understand How you can know the glory of God as much as possible this side of heaven. How you can have a relationship with God. How you can be rightly related to God Through Jesus. I'd be glad to do that. Or someone else you're comfortable with. Talk to somebody. Help. Let us take a Bible and show you how You can know for sure that you are truly rightly related to God. And for the rest of us, may we look to Jesus. Because when we do the things of this earth grow strangely dim in the light of his glory and grace. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and praise you and thank you for who you are. It is unfathomable to us that we That you would even want to dwell with the likes of us. That you would go to such extent To be with us. To the point of your own son coming on earth, becoming a man, dying on the cross for us. And we pray, Lord, that you'd help us to look to Jesus, to experience on every level What you have given us to experience and experiencing who you are through your word, through your people And through Christ Himself. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Gannam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called The Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call. So we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need, we can pray for Please call us at 410-768-4273 or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.