The kingdom was split up into three different kingdoms after the great uh after uh Herod the Great was had um had died. He feared the multitude because they counted him as a prophet. The mature Christian is able to stand firm amid all of that because his foundation is unthreatened. When things are uh shaky, sometimes the reaction that you'll have is they will be threatened by someone who is just firm and just stays firm throughout, thick and thin and up and down. And the king was exceedingly sorry, yet because of the oaths, and because of those who sat with him, he did not want to refuse her. We've seen insecurity, offense, personal agenda, competing values, self-preservation. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And I just praise you and thank you for your goodness and your kindness uh to my family. Amen. Philip's wife. Then his disciples came and took away the body and buried it and went and told Jesus. Let me just put a plug-in for your home group tonight. Home group and also have a time of prayer together as well. If you can't, let me really encourage you to have good discussions tonight in your home groups. Which is a little weird because Herod was fearful prior, and you say, well, that doesn't make any sense. He feared the multitude because they counted him a prophet. Hopefully I'm pronouncing these right. Okay, Herod Phillip. Herodias divorced. John the Baptist did. Uh so he does exactly that. what you think of us more than what the world thinks of us. unexpectedly, and let his net that he has hidden catch himself. Better with her knee and all. This is John the Baptist. in the uh French Indian War. Britain, and so they now began to oppose them and the enemy of my of my enemy is my friend, and so they became allied with the French in order to deal with the British. It was because their uh the the colonies had decided that their mission, their purpose was in conflict, essentially was in conflict with the mission and purpose of Great Britain. Matthew fourteen and we'll learn about that as we go. is that the world system heavily influences, Satan and the world system heavenly influences secular governments. setting up his kingdom. Of course, we see the fulfillment of that in the book of Acts, as that certainly does occur. and he is Herod Antipas, his kingdom in Tiber or his capital city in Tiberias was about eight and a half miles, hears about all these things that Jesus is doing, all these miracles. Luke chapter 9, verses 7 through 9, in addition to what we just read in Matthew, adds this. performs no miracles, Herod presumably gets pretty upset about that and scourges him and punishes him and sends him back to Pilate. 6 through 12. performance, you find your identity in Christ. situation as well. person Herodias. So he killed his own son because Aristobulus was too close to the throne, and uh Herod the Great was clearly insecure as well. Okay, this is an example of incest incest in this in this family. insecure, dumb, and also hungry for power, all that uh he's all that uh he divorces his uh he divorces his current wife and marries Herodias. And this marriage and all of this, and he cites uh the Old Testament. Leviticus 20, verse 21. Two clear passages that speak this is a clear violation of the law, and John the Baptist speaks out against this and says, enough is enough. Who chose to take a stand for the evil wickedness in his day. But do you realize that the world sees us as getting in the way? is there's without question a clear agenda among uh among people in the world, uh people in our nation particularly, to reconstitute morality in this country. So clearly Siloam wants power as well. Okay. And Herodi says, okay, ask for the head of John the Baptist. eight through twelve. She came in with haste and the king and asked uh to the king and asked, saying, I want you to give me at once the head of John the Baptist on a platter. Emerging, and we find some of that also in the book of Acts, emerging between the disciples of John and the disciples of Jesus. you from becoming to Christ. How he truly is who he said he was, Lord and Savior. Streaming our service. Morning for who you are and all that you have done on our behalf. And worshiping you, I pray that you would work in our hearts. your good hand upon us and for guiding us and directing us and helping those who have been struggling with illness and all those types of things, Lord. 1 to 12. Of coming and worshiping before you. the revolution uh and their independence from Great Britain. conflict we see uh or at least John the Baptist does com comes into conflict with Herod and ob and and ultimately uh they And they were intended to represent the people of Israel. And some of the things that some of the ways that Herod and Herodias in this passage oppose Christ oppose John the Baptist and ultimately opposed Christ as well, we are going to find we are opposed uh with the same But beware of men, for they will deliver you up to counsels and scourge you in their synagogues. through a line of succession and granted by the Roman government, but he really, I think, had very little, if any, respect among maybe anybody. But Herod the Tetrarch, he was uh in charge of Galilee and Perea. Don't take the throne too early. He's very insecure, he likes the power he has, he wants to keep the power he has, he'd like more power, and he wants respect from everybody. uh uh uh problems when there is back biting, when there are um when there is uh in improper treatment. Christians and we see that and also make up misinformation about Christians. uh Antipas and Herodias has done. sort of insecure uh leader who is evil, and behind this insecure man who is evil is a very secure, intelligent woman who is also equally evil, if not more fifteen years actually. Leviticus 18, 16 says, you shall not uncover the nakedness of your brother's wife. Because John had said to Herod, it is not lawful for you to have your brother's wife. Herodanthippus protected him, John the Baptist. In Ephesians chapter 2, verses 1 through 2 it says this, and he has and and and you he made alive who were dead in trespasses and sins in which you once walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, the Spirit who now works, and the sons of disobedience. Questionably wrong. imagination. what's going on here basically. for free, but she's going to end up marrying Philip of Philip the Tetrarch, who is one of the other uh one of the three who have power basically. Christ. To put to to kill John the Baptist, to take off his head, and to put it on a platter which is gross in and of itself. He commanded it to be given to her, so he sent and had John beheaded in prison. as does, but nevertheless it will come. And accepting him as your Lord and Savior is because you are in the way. to be a savior and to be saved today by the by what Christ did on the cross and dying for us. So that we could remember Christ and that we could with our lives, with our bodies, with what we are doing here, we could preach, we could show the Lord's death until he comes. Spirit and in truth. British and uh and fought for them against the French and then the tables turn suddenly and now uh uh uh you know because And now he is rejected by he is rejected, going to be rejected by really the secular government of the day, Herod. the they were in between, but basically it toward the time of the crucifixion at the end there, you have uh they get together, the uh Herod and um And the Roman Romans, they are able to ally together against Christ. The kings of the earth set themselves and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed. the governments of the world. people associated with Christ, particularly John the Baptist in this passage, we're going to see four, I think four attitudes here. This is John the Baptist. Herod the Tetrarch, really known more as Herod Antipas, or sometimes just Antipas in history ministry was. He's not unlike his dad, Herod the Great. in the passage, even grotesquely sinful. Herod Antipas wants to see these miracles that Jesus is doing from the power of John the Baptist, he's really confused. moments. He was very, very bold. Like he has respect for many people. and is greatly respected with the people, so much so that Antipas does not want to put John the Baptist to death. With those who aren't Christians, you will find sort of this mixed bag of responses. are not so secure anymore. and put him in prison for the sake of Herodias, his brother, Philip's wife, because John had said to him, It is not lawful for you to uh to have her. who was the son of Herod the Great. Herod II, or sometimes Herod Philip, goes by both both names. This is the Herod the Great from Matthew chapter 2 that we're talking about. So that when Herod the Great dies, Herod Philip is not going to get part of the kingdom. She's he's married still to Herodias, and Herodias presumably does not like this. Herod Antipas was married to the daughter of King Eretus. went on there. So she wants to be married to him, but she has a condition. Herodias, scripture actually says is the one that's behind this, convinces Herod Antipas to throw him in prison, to throw John the Baptist in prison. For Herod, and catch this, for Herod feared John. typical among committed uh among those committed not uh not to God's standards. We look at what's happening to our country, we look at the direction it is going, and we say to ourselves, well, it's you know, the world, the the evil in the world, Satan, it's getting in the way. We are going to find ourselves in a very serious moral problem as we go down the road. truly was, and John spoke out against it as he should. So Herod has a party, and no doubt this is a big party, a great celebration of his birth. He doesn't he he is he is making these grand gestures of promises and oaths before because he's wanting to make himself seem powerful before all of his respected leaders of the Lord and of others rather than self-aggrandizing ourselves. taking a stand and are and I just want to ask the question, are you and I again are we really ready to take a stand in this day? Then his disciples came and took away the body and buried it and went and told Jesus. And the disciples of course, his John the Baptist disciples of course, take him and bury him in another place out of respect for him and go uh to Jesus. It's a very simple question, but sometimes we need to go back to just simple brass tacks, simple reality. And he is a right example of doing what's right in standing alone for what is right, even when it cost him his life. Prayer. moments to remembering what Christ did for us on the cross. or email us at info at bbcofmd. Revolution and the the colonial time up you know coming up to that time period. And obedience to that government as far as so far as we can according to Scripture. I'm going to say go to your home group and talk about it. of Herod the Great. Herodanthippus and uh and Herodias. And we see this man is a man who is ver verse six of Mark I, clothed with camel's hair, with a leather belt around his waist, he eats locusts and wild honey. And Herodias, his wife, is as evil as she can be, we'll get to her in a minute, is also threatened. But you knock you knock away the the supports of security they have, money. is a lot like Ahab, actually, in the Old Testament as well. So when Herod the Great puts Aristobulus IV to death, Herod the Great arranges a marriage for Herodias to another of his sons inappropriate relationship and even as evil as this whole family is, some of them recognize that and through a convoluted um Probably what's going on here is Herodias likes the idea of the power that she'll gain from Herodanthippus, who is in charge of Frey and Galilee, remember. And sometimes we bring it upon ourselves as Christians. from from persecution and largely been protected from uh from that kind of a reality. In Matthew chapter 14, verses 6 through 7 now we come and it says, but when Herod's birthday was celebrated, and you gotta know Herod's birthday is celebrated. invite that were probably reluctant to go, perhaps. And Herod Antipas is so pleased by this dance. Folks, these are absolutely, all three of these are totally and completely opposed to the values of Christ. And of the values, even of course, of John the Baptist as well. That you are a child of God. And we know that throughout church history we see the same kind of opposition from the world, from secular governments that oppose that oppose us as Christians. We pray, Lord, that you would help us to do that today in a way that is pleasing to you. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. We know this even from the Old Testament. And we see that here in this passage as well. Kinds of purposes and reasons. to secular governments, and we've seen that throughout the history of the church. Is as a result of insecurity, because of insecurity. And ultimately put him to death. John the Baptist, on the other hand, has this respect without this position. That is never the case with a non-believer. Might come across as a lot of confidence. He stands up for what is right. turn of events, what happens is Herod the Great actually strikes uh uh uh strikes uh Herod Philip from the line of succession in his will. Because have you followed this yet? Alright, so he falls in love with Herodias, and Herodias likes this idea. And Herod Antipas has a strange mixture of respect for John and a fear of him and a fear of the people as well. There is no question, folks, that we are living in a society where we must expect the world to see us as getting in the way of their agenda. The daughter of Herodias danced before them and pleased Herod, therefore he promised with an oath to give her whatever she might ask. He puts on this great elaborate party. He died on the cross so that you could be rightly related to him. Course, the mission of the world is on a collision course with the mission of the kingdom of God. By various groups of people. Insecurity, offense, competing values, and self-preservation. And comes up with this idea. Of normal behavior. And the truth of the matter is, isn't it true that, isn't it true, folks, that the world can be threatened by Christians? And everything in between you find that but some often often you you may find that they're quite threatened by you because what especially if you're a mature Christian in the workplace, for example. Some people, it's like it depends on the day. We need to be ready for that. In fact, that's what it says in Mark, the parallel passage. Craig Blomberg uh noted noted uh uh commentary uh guy says this. And very frankly, it is very they're very clear now about the fact that we are getting in the way. and I would say John the Baptist as well, we are going to get in the way of the world's agenda. Herod's values, we can see three things in here, I think. But they'd never there's never been a time where they have truly placed their faith in Christ. But we really would love to meet you in person. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. Who plot my hurt? And my soul shall be joyful in the Lord. I am your salvation. Focus on you, that you would truly be our vision, that we would see you high and lifted up. I pray that you would help him to preach your word clearly. Give me John the Baptist's head here on a platter. in different directions. It's kind of amazing how that happens. We're going to see offense in verses 3 through 5. Now we are going to finish this passage, Lord willing, today, and I'm going to preach through it and move on, but I really would encourage you to flesh out some of the applications of this and discussion and to be able to discuss this further. What's going on here? This is this kind of guy, Herod, in the way that he is. She uh she is as wicked and as evil as you can as as I think probably you can imagine. I uh um uh and um and things are fine I suppose. That's wrong. And there is without question, I mean it is so clear, so obvious, and he brings out so many examples so frequently. Now God, you'll recall, Christ said in Matthew chapter 10, as he gave instruction to the disciples, to be wise as serpents and to be harmless as doves. It's going to happen. And I think it's high time that we just recognize that and accept it and realize it because if we want the respect of the world too much And what does she do? Herodanthipus is gratifying himself. For it is the power of God to salvation to everyone who believes, for the Jew first and also for the Greek. This is a loaded question. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. Take hold of shield and buckler, and stand up for my help. And in the beginning, uh things went well, but you realized as time went on that you were going Blessed are you when they do revile and persecute you and say all kinds of evil against you falsely for my sake. is the son of Herod the Great, one of the sons of Herod the Great, from one of the many wives of Herod the Great. Can the world be threatened by Christians? Well, why was this man so threatened and paranoid and what is this what is this seeming preoccupation with John the Baptist in Herod Antipas' life? in the next portion because what we're going to find is Antipas and particularly his wife Herodias are offended by John the Baptist. That's a different son entirely. So what does Herr uh Herr Danipus do? We are going to get in the way. Anyway, so they're all going to this party, they're all kind of collecting uh uh collecting together uh in this palace at Macarius probably according to Joseph And they're gathering together, and uh and this girl dances before the before him uh him. What's going on what is another reason why you have the world at opposition with the the work the work and the mission of Christ? And so, as a result of all of that, he puts to death John the Baptist. Heavenly Father, we come this morning with grateful and thankful hearts this morning, Father. But when Herod's birthday was celebrated, the daughter of Herodias danced before them and pleased Herod. He was a man who was very fearful. Because this man is very fearful and insecure and not very respectable and sinful and all these things, this man is also apparently a conspirator. Well this girl is the daughter not of him, it's not his daughter, but it is the daughter of Herodias. And she dances before them. All of those things can keep us from truly coming to Christ. of the opposition that has that came to Christ and the opposition that came to John the Baptist. So he sent and had John beheaded in prison, and his head was brought on a platter and given to the girl, and she brought it to her mother. That particular partnership, you would end up colliding. Begins showing this relationship here in this passage. And later on he tells his disciples in Matthew 10, verse 16: Behold, I send you out as sheep in the midst of wolves. Here's where he was from, and that's where his ministry was. Antipas finally does see Jesus in Luke 3023 at the trial of his crucifixion verses. But let's then see notice this man John the Baptist, who now comes on the scene of this story. You've got Herod Antipas coming up with this crazy idea that somehow ge John the Baptist has either come from the dead or the power of John the Baptist is in Jesus or something like that, all because this man is threatened and paranoid. Well, Herod, Antipas, and Herodias, neither one of them like this. Herodias, uh Siloam comes and it says in the passage that he does not want to do this, but that's exactly what he ends up doing. We must expect the secular world will oppose us just like it opposed Jesus and John the Baptist. Herod Antipas, he has come up with this conspiracy kind of theory that uh Jesus, who is giving doing all these miracles about eight and a half miles off the coast of Galilee, from the this person that maybe he's come back to life or the spirit of John the Baptist is in this guy and now he's gonna and and Herod actually wants to see him In that passage, it says, and Pilate heard of Galilee, he asked uh if the man were Galilean, and as soon as uh he knew that he belonged to Herod's juris jurisdiction, this is Herod Antipas still, he sent him to Herod No. Because if you're a mature Christian in the workplace, then you are unshaken by some of the things that go up and down in the workplace. or status or vocation. Al Moeller, in his program, The Briefing, speaks often about what he calls the moral revolution in this country. Sometimes we are so we value the world's opinion of us so much we don't want to just come to grips with the reality that we are going to be despised by the world Mixture of fear and respect, but he also has very competing values with uh with John the Baptist and with Christ, of course. But he's acting as this, Antibus is acting as this regal king, and he says, I'm so pleased by you, I'll give you anything you want. This is what we all unify around, what we all agree upon, what we all must remember. Matthew chapter 14, starting in verse 1. But basically, uh actually not all that fine obviously because Herod Antipas goes and he uh he visits his half-brother Her uh Philip. Now let me ask you this question. And that's obviously the answer is yes. Our scripture reading this morning is in the book of Matthew, Matthew chapter 14. Because John had said to him, It is not lawful for you to have her. We're also seeing in Matthew another sort of sub-theme, and that's really what we're going to be concentrating on today, is the rejection of the King, the rejection of Jesus. John the Baptist was not fearful. John the Baptist is really unconcerned with his social standing. Who warned you to flee from the wrath to come. And you have something somewhat similar here in this passage. Some people say, you know, I I don't want to come to Christ because I'm not all the things I'm going to have to give up. Or or you know, I'm not going to come to Christ uh you know because uh because I I you know I I don't want what I I care what people think about me Lord, that we would we would continue to follow Christ. I think to some extent a picture of what how the world opposes Christ. Very not a very respectful kind of a not not a respect not a respectable kind of person We're going to learn about this. What else do we learn from this? So she, having been prompted by her mother, said, Give me John the Baptist's head, verse eight, here on a platter, and the king was sorry. I'm doing the best I can. So then you have Siloam who dances before these men, including Herod Antipas, and very likely sensual kind of dancing. I thank you for that, Lord. It's not like, you know, oh, I just don't know about this. Help them to not be hindered by these various things. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. Psalm 35, verses 1 through 9. In fact, Herod Antipas goes on to question Jesus at this trial. So you have Herod on one hand, who is not respected by people and cares a lot about what people think of him, as we'll learn in the passage. Your identity does not, you don't find your identity in your work. And when he visits him, he falls in love with his wife, who is also the uh I told you this gets weird. And in the Mark passage in verse twenty four of chapter six it says, So when she went out and said to her mother, What shall I ask? There is clear opposition there. And actually biblically we are, insofar as we can follow Scripture, we are to follow whatever government we are under. Who is this Herodias? All over the place in Scripture. So probably a political marriage that was a a marriage that was arranged by uh somebody else that's not really that important, so I won't get in get into all that. That's that's they were married at one time and had a daughter. Father, we come to you this morning and we thank you for the truth of your word. But also there is a great quite a possibility, and it has happened throughout church history, where those who are threatened and insecure will often persecute God He behaves her. He is risen from the dead, and therefore these powers are at work in him. John the Baptist is, of course, very secure in himself through all of this. The world can be and sometimes is threatened by threatened by Christianity. Because God is just and he is holy, he must punish sin. Who is this Herod the Tetrarch? Have you ever been working with someone or had a partnership with someone? But I want to begin by looking at this character of Herod Antipas. And may in all things your great name be honored and glorified and lifted up. He was called a tetrar tetrarch. John the Baptist doesn't really care that much about respect. Because we find in Mark chapter 1, and Mark is so struck by this, he also says the same thing in Mark chapter 3. We need to be ready to put our our our show that it is not us who is somehow firm apart from Christ. And we all say, yeah, right, it's definitely wrong. Who was also in Jerusalem at that time. But anyway, so Herod the s Herod II, uh Herod Philip is married to Herodias. If a man takes a brother's wife, it is an unclean thing. Well, she's really young. The world, even the governments of the world ultimately are opposed to Christ. And we have seen that he has been rejected by the religious leaders. And before we read, let's pray. Your mission and their mission was not going to work together. We're going to learn how he he and his wife, Herodias, put John in prison, John the Baptist in prison. I thank you for answering my prayers in that. And um it's just sort of interesting how, you know, he was he was he was, you know, commissioned by the British and worked for the He is risen from the dead. Herod Philip is who? Now it's clearly in Mark chapter six, Herodias is behind this as well. Look at that list. A mature Christian is that way. Okay? In those times where things are things are, you'll find this to be the case, Well, Antipas and Herodias are offended at John and throw him into prison because he gets in the way of their agenda, their power agenda. And this morning, as we open your word and as we later will be observing the Lord's Supper, Lord, I pray you'd help us to It says in Romans in Psalm 2, verses 1 through 3, why do the nations rage and the people plot a vain thing? Um and she goes to her and and he he's he's so pleased by this that he's you know you know he's acting as this regal king. We must not be ashamed of the Word of God. But as you'll uh as you'll recall, uh the Herods of those days was a sort of go-between. Let them be shaved before the wind, and let the angel of the Lord chase them, and let their way be dark and slippery, and let the angel of the Lord pursue them. And he is absolutely going to oppose what the the lifestyle and what has what j what her uh what Herod We need to expect opposition. I think we also can see, well clearly, not even I think, the first one's I think, that's my own thinking, but number two, the value of sensual gratification. We must expect it. We find that from the passage. Let those be put to shame and brought to dishonor who seek my life, and let those be turned back and brought to confusion For the rest of us, we can learn from this passage in some of the ways that the world does oppose us. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. Herod of course, if you'll recall, and these are two different Herods the Herod in in Matthew two is a different Herod than in uh So here's a man who is very fearful. There is a sense in which they can. Israel did not really accept either any of the Herods as truly their king. Really. Matthew is going to take some time in verses 3 through 12 are going to look back at a situation with John the Baptist. A non-believer may seem very well composed. Do you suppose that Christians get in the way of the agenda of the world? We have lived in this country in a bubble where we have largely been protected. Matthew is very good about uh telling us and presenting Jesus as King to us. Matthew chapter 5, verses 10 through 12 says, Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Herod the Great was also a pretty insecure man, so insecure that he kills two of his family members to make sure that they This gets like grosser. We tend we and and the truth of the matter is when it comes to the world, frankly, the world is on a collision course. Prior to Jesus' ministry, John the Baptist was on the scene and he said to the Pharisees and the Sadducees together, when they came to Jesus, you brood of vipers, Matthew 3. Sometimes they'll respect you, other times they're sort of like, what is this? Lord, I pray that you would help us to value what you what your Help us to have ears to hear what your spirit says to us through your word. But folks, even if we are always wise as serpents and always as harmless as doves, as arguably both Jesus and John the Baptist were, certainly Jesus and John the. Help us to set aside all the distractions of this week. He he insults them, he n calls them brood of vipers, he warns them about the coming judgment and calls them to repent. Now stop pause there then and now let's return now to uh to talk a little bit more about this Herod Antipas. Has a son, uh Aristobolus. Insecurity, offense, personal agenda, competing values, self-preservation. She doesn't know what she wants. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Um but in this present time that the passage starts off with in verses one through two You've got to divorce the wife you currently have. It's my own imagination. We should not celebrate ourselves, we celebrate Christ. I mean, you will not be there are good there's gonna be so much you if anybody comes to me after the service says, well you didn't cover this, you didn't cover this. Because the reality is this is a further you you can really flesh this out practically, you can talk about things that you can truly apply in on in the in this day and age and what you That uh he was very fearful, very insecure, he was unstable, he was paranoid, he was extremely sinful, as we'll see Dumb guy he is, he says, sure, yeah, no problem. And when he heard him, he did many things and heard him gladly. I think one we can see the value of self-celebration. Now, when Herod saw Jesus, he was exceedingly glad, for he had desired for a long time to see him. So what what's going on here in this passage? And number three, the value of self-aggrandization Now he is actually now he ends up working with the French and against the British. So Herod Antipas, Herod Antipas was a a quite an individual. This was clearly defined as sinful, even by his own family. We've seen all kinds of things from Herod and uh from Herod Antipas and from Herodias in this passage. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. In Scripture, we've already seen from Matthew that the disciples of Christ, the followers of Christ, should expect opposition. We're going to see competing values in verses 6 through 7. In Matthew 14, verse 5, it says, and although he wanted to put John the Baptist to death, we'll learn why in a few moments. Therefore bear fruits worthy of repentance, and do not think that I that to uh think to say to yourselves, We have Abraham our father, for I say to this uh you that God is This woman, I'll just say up front, is about as evil as Jezebel in the Old Testament. Number two, are we willing to stand alone for what is right? At that time Herod the Tetrarch heard the report about Jesus and said to his servants, And he had this position of authority that was acquired And he comes up with this conspiracy theory, and John and Matthew, of course, is now going to delve into what's going on here in the background that we'll see in a few moments. What happened? And although biblically the government is not the same thing as the world system Yeah, well, Herod, this guy, Antipas, does not make sense. He says, You have not uh uh it is not lawful for you to have her. And maybe you're listening today, and really what's going on in your own heart, the reason that you are not truly coming to Christ You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. org. We're to find that Herod is very concerned with his social standing. He's the half-uncle of Herodias. Sometimes we look at it from the perspective of a Christian and we say that the world is getting in the way of God's agenda. Then we find why does Herod Antipas ultimately make this decision? It shall rejoice in his salvation. Well, Herod the Tetrarch, as I mentioned before, is not the same person as Herod over in Matthew chapter 2. If you think of Ahab and his relationship with Jezebel, Ahab is this Herodias was the daughter of Aristobulus By the way, this Salome, this is just You need to accept him. This is the the very central aspect of our faith. And Father, we thank you this morning for your word. And therefore, these powers are at work in him. He was uh the the word the the the word tetrarch actually means to be ruled uh to to rule a fourth, to rule a quarter, but actually And Father, there are so many things that we take for granted during the week. Now we pick up then in verses one through two, and we're going to see that the opposition against Christ and against John the Baptist Therefore Herodias held it against him and wanted to kill him, but she could not. So Herod Antipas, because he's in the midst of all these very respectable leaders, And that we would stand firm, that we would not be ashamed of the gospel. Well, Herod, verses 6 through 7, Herod, he's protecting John the Baptist because he has sort of this You have positional leadership in Herod. And when things go up and things go down circumstantially, when there are trials, when there are circumstances They're like, oh I gotta get a Harry Harry Dance because of the party, I guess we'll go, you know. Do we on purpose incite it? May the Lord richly bless you. I don't think there is a fearful bone in John the Baptist's body. In fact, if you rub shoulders with non-believers Maybe comes along as just sort of sort of a very smooth person, very very easy to get along with, that kind of a thing Right? It says in verse 19 of that passage, well verse 18 says, but John Okay. In verse 1 of Matthew 14, it says, At that time Herod the Tetrarch heard the report about Jesus and said to his servants Herodanthippus, they were married for they were married for It views Christians as getting in the way of its agenda. Are you and I willing to just stand alone for what is right? Uh I've been one of my favorite kind kinds of history, one of my favorite uh time periods of history is the American And Herod said, John, I have beheaded, but who is this who of whom I hear such things? He has uncovered his brother's nakedness, they shall be childless. Help them rather to understand their sin and understand their needs. And the king was sorry. Now, you look at that list, and I'll just simply say to you this: that there's no way we're going to flesh out all of this in one sermon So she goes to her mother immediately, and Herodias says, now's my chance. Those values bring bring Herod Antipas in It is your brother's nakedness. That's exactly what John the Baptist faced. Plead my cause, O Lord, with those who strive with me. Yesterday, uh Lord, with uh Joey had taken a fall, and I just thank you that uh she's doing Jesus says nothing. You find your identity in Christ. And so you have this gross That is that is this girl. And although he wanted to put him to death, he feared the multitude because they counted him as a prophet. Yet what we clearly see throughout the Old Testament and the New Testament Well, how in this passage, how are we going to see We're going to see insecurity, number one, in verses one through two. Some people will respect you. He takes a stand. But really, even throughout church history, you have the church true church that often is in opposition Now catch this, because this this is a little bit of a twist. He can't just look over your look look the other way. And to that very destruction let him fall. So please turn to Matthew chapter 14. And his head was brought on a platter and given to the girl, and she brought it to her mother. I pray that you would help them to see You will be brought before governors and kings for my sake as a testimony to them and to the Gentiles. I think I think it I think this a message like this particularly is going to be helpful as you discuss things in your home groups. Okay, so Herodias was the daughter of him. Okay, why? All of these things, do either any of these stand out to you as something that is hindering you from coming to Christ Also draw out the spear and stop those who pursue me. Now that's significant, obviously, because that's where Jesus is And she dances before them. He's been rejected largely by the multitudes. It's interesting in Luke, the Luke passage, the parallel passage, says this. Now, what then do we learn? She's he's she's just a normal wife of a private citizen. John the Baptist speaks out, he takes a stand and he speaks out against against this this divorcing Therefore he promised, with an oath, to give her whatever she might ask. Certainly doesn't care about what he wears and where he goes and those kinds of things being What's going on here in this passage? Gets actually confusing because there's another son named Philip of Tet. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Those kind you knock away those and find and you're going to find that their identity is wrapped up in those things and they And it's interesting as we pick up in the passage that we are really going to see I don't really know much about what So he beheads uh Aristobulus then uh uh has a daughter, and the daughter's name is Herodias Her name was Thessalius. Or I'm I I'm not going to come to Christ because, you know, those Christians, they're self-righteous. And if you need help with this, please come and talk with me after the service. I'm uh I'm reading And he divorces his uh his And so what do they do? For Herod had laid hold of John and bound him and put him in prison for the sake of Herodias, his brother Philip. In fact, if you continue to stay in that particular He is afraid and he is insecure. Verse 3 it says this, for Herod had laid hold of John the John and bound him Are you willing to accept that? Herod's celebrating himself. He rose from the grave three days later in order to show, to prove that he truly is. And if there's anybody here today that they see the world, they see it's messed up, they see all of these kinds of things. We hope to see you soon. Nevertheless, because of the oaths and because of those who sat with him, he commanded it to be given to him Herod's recognition of John's holy holiness inspires a mixture of respect, fear, disgust We must not be ashamed of We ask in Jesus' name. Rejoice and be exceedingly glad. John the Baptist was a man who in many respects is in contrast to Herod Antipode. We should not be involved in sensual gratification, and we ought to be servants of He speaks out against these people. Um and he goes all out and inviting all kinds of people that he could In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. In Jesus' name. And Herod the Tetra, and you'll learn why in a few moments. Jesus says Herodias probably is not in love, I would guess, with her half-uncle And Lord, as we look ahead here, and if you I'd like to take a minute to thank you for Let's go to the Lord in prayer. He was the son of Herod the Great and Malthus, one of the wives She wants all of the power. And Christ left us this ordinance Dear Lord, thank you for your goodness to us. You have very little, if any, positional leadership in John the Baptist, but he has respect kind of leadership from the people. But throughout church history, we've always been in the way. You are so good to us. You know John the Baptist is a man who's in the wilderness, and he's preaching baptism of repentance for the remission of sins. And John the Baptist on the other hand, that we find actually has great popularity with the people. And help us to worship you this morning. If you would take your Bibles as we open to Psalm thirty-five, and we're going to be looking at verse. Matthew very likely begins this I'm just going to make an application here at this point. A non-Christian may find, may be very, very, you might come across very secure. He marries his half-niece. This is weird and Self-preservation in verses eighty We'll be reading verses 1 to 12. And you simply need to realize today that you have sinned against God. He doesn't have respect from maybe anybody, we don't know exactly, but certainly doesn't seem like And so we have uh a man now. His foundation and his identity is in Christ. And really, Herod Antipas, though the scripture doesn't make this connection No. Like, he is a very, very unstable kind of a person. You don't find your identity in your profession. And we're going to learn about a tangled web of all kinds of Well what happened? And so they were in between He's too afraid of the people. Herod the Philip basically becomes this very private citizen We need to expect it. And we've seen this already. Um who is also the uh half-niece of both of them. So what can we learn from all this as we wrap this up? We thank you for the examples here in this passage. And as we get ready to come to uh a time of singing Well, you have this person mentioned in the passage this And and John had to speak out. And then in verses 8 through 12, we're going to see self-preservation. And this morning, as Pastor Jim comes and preaches Some people will look down on you. This is wrong. John the Baptist did Romans chapter one, verses sixteen through seventeen say this, For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. She sees this. And uh now you have great uncles going, you know, that's And Father, we just want to praise your holy name this morning. We have this little And uh you know that this this guy's so full of himself. Her name is Siloam. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Amen. They were a puppet king of Rome Well, we learn that Herod Antipas is threatened. That was why. Amen. Therefore be wise as serpents and harmless as doves. And you remember that other guy, Philip, Herod Haird Philip, that, you know Herodias? She said, The head of John the Baptist immediately And we see now that there's going to be a They're opposed uh to what Christ ultimately is going to do itself. Nevertheless, because of the oaths and because of those who sat with him But he loves you so much that he died to pay the punishment for your sin If you find that these kinds of things are hindering And although he wanted to put him to death Except Aristobolus was killed by Herod the Great We're to be wise as serpents and harmless as And we've seen the nature of the kingdom of God through the parables that Jesus is. We're going to see that in the passage. Yeah, it's gross. He's even been rejected by his own family. And today we would like to thank you and praise you for For great is your reward in heaven, for so they persecuted the prophets which were before. But uh you have this political marriage for fifteen years, they're married. Mark calls it an opportune day. Thank you for the privilege. But the family doesn't like this. Uh some of some of them realized how wrong this kind of thing Now who's this girl? And This is a wild man, he's not particularly concerned with what people think. She's probably only 12, 13 here. John the Baptist is one who speaks truth. Well you have very different values, don't you? I'll be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure We've seen So she, having been prompted by her mother, said He comes and and the con Say to my soul And John the Baptist says And number three Matthew 14. They're going to be offended. Fight against those who fight against me He had to, I mean, you know, it's not like this was He's not even really a king. What do we learn from all this? Number one. Let's go to the Lord. Well, Matthew's going to explain this in verses. It is called the Exchange I'm just kind of imagining that. They think this is wrong. So he sought to see him. We can be a great testimony in those conversations. She finally has an opportunity to do John the Baptist is not a fearful man. First of all, we have John the Baptist You are an offense against God. That's my own imagination That makes sense.