Let my cry come before you, O Lord. Give me understanding according to your word. Let my supplication come before you. Deliver me according to your word. My lips shall utter praise, for you teach me your statutes. My tongue shall speak of your word, for all your commandments are righteousness. Let your hand become my help, for I have chosen your precepts. I long for your salvation, O Lord and your law is my delight. Let my soul live, and it shall praise you. And let your judgments help me. I have gone astra I have gone astray like a lost sheep. Seek your servant, for I do not forget your commandments. Let's pray together. Father, we do praise you for your law, for your word. We thank you for It's that it is a it is a help to us, that we can lean on it, that it helps us find our way, our m are we are we can be rooted and grounded in it, and I pray that you would help us to be just that. And Lord, as we consider our world, we consider the trials and the sufferings, I know of many in our church that are hurting and struggling in various ways, Lord, and going through difficult things. Lord, I pray that you'd help us to think through each situation that we find ourselves in to think through it biblically, to realize that there is this lens of hope that we have through everything that we go through for the believer. We confess before you, Father, that often we don't think biblically. We think in terms of our experience. We think in terms of the problems that we are faced with and the and the challenges that we are faced with. We too often rely on our own strength and our own ways and our own thinking, our own understanding to deal with those things. And Father, you call us from your word to trust in you with all of our hearts and to lean not on our own understanding, and to acknowledge you in all of our ways. And we do that as we dwell let you your word dwell in us richly. Lord, help us to do that even this morning. And as we worship you, Father, I pray, Lord, that we would take thought, great thought in who you are and what you have done for us. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you so much as we come together before you to we just want to praise your name. We want to give you you the praise and the glory that you so deserve. We thank you for the truth of your word, the promises that we depend on. upon. Father, we just pray that now we would just put aside distractions and um any kind of uh thoughts Lord that would take us away from our focus on you this morning and I just pray that you would speak your truth into our lives and that we would be not only hearers but doers of your word. Lord. And we thank you, Lord, for the the many truths and promises that you give us in your word. And Father, help us to to be a thankful people, um, especially this time of year, but but not only this time of year. We We have so much to be thankful for. Because he lives, all fear is gone. Lord, help us to live in the truths of your word. And I just pray that you would be with those who can't be with us today. For many reasons, I pray that they would be able to join us online now and worship with their brothers and sisters in Christ in your church that you've called us to. And we just pray that you be with them and help them to recover and to be able to join us quickly. But we thank you for all that are here. And we just pray your blessing upon us, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Please turn with me to Romans chapter 8. Our scripture reading is Romans 8, verses 18 through 25. So let's go ahead and read that. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. For the earnest expectation of the creation eagerly waits for the revealing of the sons of God. For the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it in hope. Because the creation itself also will be delivered from the bondage of corruption into the glorious liberty of the children of God. For we know that the whole creation groans and labors with birth pangs Together until now. Not only that, but we also, who have the first fruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves groan within ourselves, eagerly waiting for the adoption, the redemption of our bodies. For we were saved in this hope. But hope that is seen is not hope. For why does one still hope for what he sees? But if we hope for what we do not see, we eagerly wait for it with perseverance. So the passage that we're looking at this morning is a passage that helps us to understand how to put on the lens of biblical hope. the the teaches that God has subjected corrupt creation um to uh uh uh to uh corruption and but also it does it in hope And what we're also going to see from the passage and what is really clear in life is that God very Very infrequently chooses to simply remove suffering from us as Christians But rather he uses the suffering that we go through from living in a corrupt world, from living in a distorted world, a fallen world. He uses that suffering in our lives uh to to do what he wants wants to do, to prepare us for glory. And the the passage tells us This passage tells us that our salvation is in hope. We are saved in hope. In fact, in Hebrews 11, verses 1 through 2, it says, Now faith is the substance of what? Of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. The very foundation of our faith is based upon the fact that there is now a corrupt world and suffering and we deal with our own sin and our own corruption and all those things now, but there is all of it Is within the prospect of the confident hope of the future. And that God uses sufferings in various ways to do His work in our lives. And we're going to see how all that works. I'm going to generally explain just in By way of illustration and introduction, how this worked in my dad's sickness. And I'm not going to talk, you know, for year, you know, for weeks and weeks and weeks or months. and months about this, but I I don't think it's inappropriate to take a passage of scripture that we're going to expound upon and use some of the illustrations of my dad's sickness to show how this works. And I I've had a lot of time, not as much time maybe as I want to, but I've had a bit of a bit of time to think through this. For example, you know, at the very beginning of my dad's uh diagnosis uh you know, early early summer, not that long ago. Um you know, of course the desire was that there would be a cure, that there would be a uh uh um that you know, he'd be able to m move on from this and all of that. But as time went on it became more and more and more apparent that that wasn't going to happen In fact, in the very beginning of the diagnosis, I had a real sense that God was going to use this. Rather than just remove it, he was going to use this. Frankly, in my life and candidly in your life, in the life of our church, in my kids' lives, and our families' lives, for his purposes, and for his ultimately for his glory. And I have been, I want to tell you that I have been quite amazed. Seriously amazed by God's hand over all of this. You know, I always wondered, for example Why God had me live with my dad for 13 years? Like, that's not normal. as an adult, right? How many of you live with your dad for you know there happens from time to time, but it's not a real normal thing to do. And God providentially brought us together. Well, I get got to spend some part of every day with my dad for 13 years. God knew that that that was going to end earlier than relatively early compared to other parent parent-adult-child relationships. He knew that. He knew it ahead of time. And then after the diagnosis, God, I prayed for uh for uh for more good days. And many of you prayed with me about that. And God was very good. Some of the sweetest times I had with my dad were this summer. God was very gracious to kind of say at the beginning of the summer, okay, it's coming to an end. Make the best of it And it and um and we did candidly. Um and I can look back at the conversations that I've had and the memories that I've made and the and all those kind of things that And it doesn't mean that it was a bed of roses for sure, but but there was great meaning there, and we had we we were able to spend time together a great deal and all that. I mean God was so gracious in in placement on the entire situation. He didn't remove it. He didn't say, okay, well, I'm just going to take this away or we're just going to make this all go away. No, he didn't do that. But what I Can so clearly see through the entire experience is God's hand on all of it. And there, you know why? Because for the Christian, there's always the lens of hope. If we take that lens off and we look at our circumstances and our suffering and our trials without the lens of hope, you're it's going to be as blind as I am right now trying to see you, which I can't see anything It's really amazing. Tells me how old I am. I like literally it's all a blur. Um some of you look a little better. No kidding. I'm joking, I'm joking anyway. Um so so what we're going to see in this passage is something that I believe that I've been experiencing and I think I will continue to experience as long as I keep my focus in the right place and all of us keep our focus in the right place when it comes to the trials and the sufferings of our of our lives. And we're going to see here this truth, that God wants us, and I really believe that this is the case. I mean, what we see here is Paul's perspective on everything. He's giving his perspective on on creation, on our walk through creation, on suffering. He's giving his perspective. And there's no doubt that what God wants us to do is put those lenses of hope on. Well the question then is how do we put these lenses on? And we're going to see three things First, we're going to see that we do this by reconciling present suffering with future glory. We need to reconcile those things. We reconcile present suffering with future glory. And then by understanding in verses verses 20 through 21 By understanding the corrupt creation prepares us for liberated glory. God uses the corrupt creation, the distorted creation, it for us to prepare us for glory. And then finally, we're going to, by experiencing the Holy Spirit's work in our suffering. What we're going to see in this passage, there are two essentially two kinds of hope in the passage, and really actually in the book of Romans and other places. You have the objective hope of what is going to happen for sure in the future, the coming of Christ, for example Him making all things new, the redemption of our bodies. These are objective hopes. But there is this kind of experiential hope, which is different than the world's hope of I hope so maybe it'll happen. That's not different than that. It is based upon a sure hope, but it is something where we are growing in our experience of hope And you're and I think we'll flesh this out, you'll be able to understand what I'm talking about here, where you have the objective hope, but then there's also this experience of hope that God wants us to live in and grow in. So first we're going to look at how to reconcile the present suffering with future glory. Reconciling the present suffering with future glory. We pick up in verse 18 and it says this, for I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. The word consider there could be translated calculate. He says, I calculate that the sufferings of this present time Is not comparable to the proportionately to the eternal glory that will be revealed in us. And so he's talking here about sufferings, and then he's talking about glory, eternal glory. Well, what does Paul mean by sufferings? What is he talking about? Well, Paul in a couple of different passages talks about his own sufferings. And the variety of sufferings that he goes through, he's gone through, tells us something about the vast you know, how much this includes. This passage is not just talking about persecution for Christ. It certainly includes that. But this passage is not just talking about, okay, when you're persecuted for Christ's sake, then you're going to have greater glory. It is more encompassing than just that. And that's based upon Romans chapter 5, which we'll look at in a few moments, where it talks about trials as well. Notice what it says though. In 2 Corinthians chapter 6 verse 4, it says this And in all things we commend ourselves as ministers of God in patience, in tribulation, in needs, in distresses, in stripes, in imprisonments, in tumults, in labors, in sleeplessness, in fastings. It goes from things like stripes being whipped to sleeplessness. See the variety there? And distresses. Have you ever been distressed? I mean, Paul was distressed. We've been distressed. In 2 Corinthians chapter 11, we have a very well-known passage that lists other kinds of kinds of uh uh uh sufferings. And these many of them are under persecution, but I think that there's more involved here that he wants us to understand here than just being under persecution when he says this He says, Are they ministers of Christ? I speak as a full I am more, and labor is more abundant, and stripes more measure, in prisons more frequently, and deaths often From the few Jews, five times I received forty stripes minus one, three times I was beaten with rods, once I was stoned, three times I was shipwrecked a night and a day. Uh I had been in deep and all uh in journeys often in perils of water, and in perils of robbers, in perils of countrymen, and perils of Gentiles, and perils of city, and perils of wind uh wilderness, in perils in the sea, and perils among false brethren In weariness and toil and sleeplessness, often this guy didn't sleep a lot. He says twice in both passages. He did sleep, but he had A problem with this, and hunger and thirst, and fastings, and cold, and nakedness, besides all these things, what comes upon me daily, my deep concern for all the churches, Paul understood what it meant to suffer. And Paul says, I dare say, outside of Christ, I don't think there's many people that suffered in the history of the church more than the Apostle Paul did, Christ being an exception, of course. And with all of the suffering he went through, he says it's not worthy to be compared to the glory that will be revealed in us. And Paul also says this in helping us to understand this. In 2 Corinthians 4, verse 16, it says this. In fact, would you take your Bibles and turn there? We're going to flip back and forth a little bit between these two passages. Keep a finger where you're at, but I'd like you to take your Bibles and turn to 2 Corinthians chapter 4, which really informs us more about what fleshes out what he's really saying here in Romans chapter 8. So in 2 Corinthians chapter 4 verse 16 it says this. Therefore we do not what? We don't lose heart. We don't faint. We don't lose heart. Why don't we lose heart? Because even though our outward man is perishing, Yet the inward man is being renewed day by day. Then he says this for our light affliction is what? For a moment. Now, do look, you read, we I read all of the different sufferings, all the different things that Paul went through. Does that sound like light affliction for a moment? Doesn't sound like that to me. Why how in the world can you have the perspective that all of that suffering is light affliction for a moment? You've got to put on the lens of eternity. And suddenly it's a light affliction for a moment. Now, this is great, a great comfort to us. Because when we see brothers and sisters in Christ suffer, when we suffer ourselves, we must put on the lens of eternity. You keep the lens of your own life in view and suddenly your suffering is prominent. It's in front, you can't get away from it. It is something that is just if you put the lens of suffering on instead of the lens of hope on And you don't see your suffering in the lens of hope, you're going to really struggle. It's going to be all-consuming to you. But on the other hand, if you take suffering and you view it through the lens of hope, it's going to be something quite different. It's going to be, it's not even worthy to be compared. as far as the calculation. I think of both my mom and my dad. They both suffered in their death. They frankly did not, there are some people I was talking to and pop's yesterday, we went and visited them some of their relatives went to sleep and died. That wasn't my parents. That wasn't the case with either one of them. They suffered. And how do you deal with that? My mom suffered longer than my dad did. My dad may have suffered more acutely than my mom did. How do you reconcile that? There is no way to reconcile that except to realize that God, in light of eternity, Mom and dad are looking back and going, it's light affliction for a moment. That's how they're looking at it right now. Because they're with Christ. And the same thing is true with all of us. You're going through suffering. Look, I know some of you are going through suffering, and you know, and I know, and some in some cases, I'm the only one maybe that knows, but I know you're going through suffering. Make sure that you are looking in light of eternity so that you don't lose heart. Now, there's something else, though, that he says here that would be surprising that might be surprising to us. It says in Romans, it says this, it's not be wordy to be compared with the glory, but it doesn't stop there It says, not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed where? In us. See, before we add the two words in us, it looks like, oh okay, well suffering's better than heaven. I mean has it heaven's better than suffering and it's and it's you know you just calculated and all that. And that's true. Heaven heaven is the We've got to look at the line of attorney, but there's something else going on here besides that. It says that it's not worthy to be compared with the glory that shall be revealed in us. So there's something that God is doing in us. Well, what is he doing? Well, 1 Corinthians, I mean 2 Corinthians rather, chapter 4, helps us with this. It says this. For a lie of affliction is for our is uh for our light affliction, which is but for a moment, is doing what? It is working For us a more exceeding and eternal waste of glory It is working for us a more exceeding and eternal weight of glory. That is, and we're going to see how this works in a few moments, but that is what God, that God uses the sufferings not just in comparison to eternity, but in your life and in my life. To do something to us, to reveal the glory that's already there. And we're going to understand that more in a minute. Now, we see in 2 Corinthians 4 verse 18 it says this, while we do not look at the things which are seen but the things which are not seen. For the things which are seen are temporary, for the things that are not seen are eternal. So he's got crul's perspective is something that is that is eternal and not temporary. And not uh and spiritual rather than simply tangible and physical. Colossians 3 verses 1 through 3 says it this way: if then you are you you were raised with Christ Seek those things which are above, where Christ is, sitting on the right hand of God. Set your mind on things above, not on things on the earth For you died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. So where does all the suffering come from? Paul's going to be very clear about this. Where does all just think about it for a minute? Okay, we talked about suffering. Where does all the suffering come from? If you think of all of the different kinds of suffering, pain and fear and worry and disease and war and all of these different kinds of conflict. Suffering. It all comes from where? The fall. It all comes from the fallen creation From a distorted creation. That's what he's going to tell us next. He says this. Verse 19 for the etern earnest expectation of creation eagerly waits for the revealing of the sons of God. Now this is interesting how he says this. Creation becomes the subject of the sentence. And creation is eagerly waiting with earnest expectation for the revealing of the sons of men. Now, it's personifying creation Now that would not be unusual for the original recipients of this book. Scripture does this in the Old Testament. In Psalm 98. 8 it says, Let the rivers clap their hands, let the hills be joyful together before the Lord. Isaiah 55, 12, For you shall go out with joy and be led forth with peace. The mountains and the hills shall break forth with singing before you, and all the trees of the field shall clap their hands. Psalm 65, 12 says, They drop on their pastures of the wilderness, and the little hills rejoice on every side. The pastures are clothed with flocks, the valleys are covered with grain. They shout for joy with all s uh and they also sing. So it's personifying creation here, Paul is. What is he saying here? Well, we're going to understand this more in a few minutes, next verse But what are you saying is that that creation is anticipating the day When we, the children of God, the sons of God, when the glory of God can be fully revealed in us, it's looking forward to that day It's like it's waiting for us. The word there uh means to crane your neck and look over the edge. It's like somebody that's sitting on uh put they're on their tiptoes and they're waiting. You ever seen a little kid when they're excited, they get on their tiptoes like that? It's not as it's not as cute when I do it. But they do. And so uh and so cr it says creation is waiting for this So what's it talking about there? It's talking about the revealing of the sons of men. Now It actually goes back to this idea back in Romans 8. 16. Look back at Romans 8, hopefully if you're there. And look at verse 16. It says this: the Spirit himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are what? We are the children of God. Now that is actually going to become a very important phrase. The Spirit bears witness of our Spirit. We'll see that in a minute. But I want you to notice this. It says this, and if children, then what are we? We're heirs Heirs of God and joint heirs with Christ. And indeed, if indeed we suffer with him, that we may be what? Glorified together with Christ. What is God doing in this world through our suffering? He look, I'm just going to say it this way: there are certain areas of growth in your life and my life that can't happen any other way besides suffering. It can't It seems to be very clear, and I hope you'll see this as we go through the New Testament through this message We can try to avoid it, we can try to skirt it, we can worry about it, we can fear it, we can, but you cannot grow in certain ways without suffering because God has literally set it up that way. And we'll learn more about that as as we go on, how to handle that in our lives, because it's a little daunting to realize that. The primary work of the world since the fall is now different. So so it says well we'll we'll get that in a minute, but I want to I want to mention this. Okay. So here's the question. How is it that the suffering is working in us So that the glory of God is revealed. Let's really nail that down. What is it talking about there? Well The glory of God has to do with the identity of God. It has to do with the character of God. And what is true about his image-bearers is that That God, there are certain attributes that are true of God that will never be true of us, as omnipotence, and omnipotence, as omni omnipresence as But there are other character qualities, there are other perfections of God that are true of God, and God intended them in the very beginning, before sin, to also be true of us. Love and wisdom and those kinds of things. And what God is saying, what God is doing so that we can be glorified with Him is He He is He is taking suffering and Corrupt creation and he's doing all he's taking all of this and he has one goal. His goal is Christ-likeness We find that in Romans 8. In Romans 8, verse 28, notice what it says here. And we know that all things work together for good to those who love God. To those who are called according to his purpose, for whom he did foreknow, he also predestined to be con what? To be conformed to what? To the image of his son, that we might be the firstborn among many brethren. Okay. God is taking all of this, all things, work together. Where are all those things? Well, they're suffering, according to the to previously in Romans 8, which is what our passage is. He's taking all these things and he is making us like Christ. He's making Christ like us into Christ's likeness. Now. How is he doing that? What's going on here? Secondly, he is drawing us into closer fellowship with him. through a knowledge of God. In other words, in other words, God reveals his character to us. Before and with his revealing of his character through us. We find this in John seventeen. In Christ's prayer, his high priestly prayer to his father, he says this Father, the hour has come. Glorify your son, that your son may also glorify you. as you have given him authority over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as you have given him. And this is life eternal. That they may what know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom you have sent. I have glorified you on the earth. I have finished the work which you have given me to do. And now, O Father, glorify me together with yourself Jesus has gone before us. He's glorified together with God with the Father. And now we are one day going to be glorified together with Christ and the Father. And the glory which I had with you before the world was. Then later on in John 17, verse 20, it says this, I do not pray for these alone, but also but for those who believe in me through their word. That they may be one as you, Father, are in me, and I in you, that they also may be one in us. The world may believe that you sent me, that the glory which you gave me, I have given them That they may be one just as we are one, I and them and you and me, that they may be made perfect in one that the world may know that you have sent me and have loved them as you have loved me. Father, I desire that they also whom you gave me may be with me where I am, that they may behold my glory. Which you have given me, for you loved me before the foundation of the world. O righteous Father, the world has not known you, but I have known you. And these have known that you sent me. And I have declared to them your name, and I will declare that the love which you loved me may be in them, and I in them. The express purpose of Christ is that Christ says, I've known you, and I want, and I'm going to I'm going to experience my glory with you, but I want these people, those who believe in the Word, Those who know Christ to know you as well and to know to know me and to know you. So it's a knowledge, it's a ex it's not and I don't think it's just a a momental knowledge here. I think it's an ex Experiential knowledge of God. In other words, you can have an academic knowledge of God. You know all these attributes, you know all these things, you have all these things in your mind. You go to Bible college and seminary and more seminary and all this thing. You can know all these things But it isn't until you experience some things in suffering that these things become really real and you experientially know what you knew in your head. And God uses suffering to do this. I'm going to illustrate this with what I would consider to be so far the hardest day of my life. That was a you know the the day before my dad died. Something happened there that I shared with the home group, and so this is gonna be a repeat for you guys, uh the home group that I went to last Sunday night. I just really think that it would be helpful for everybody to sort of uh i I think it illustrates well this truth that and and and so so what had happened was my dad was uh had a had he was bleeding from his esophagus and We had taken him to the ER, Johns Hopkins, and they recommended a procedure to be done called an endoscopy, where they sent a scope down a story to see what's going on. on. The problem is, of course, there's cancer down there, all things that it's it's a very s there's a lot of risks involved even at that point of doing an endoscopy with internal bleeding and also and also um And also cancer and all of that. And and they asked my dad what they wanted him to do what he wanted to do, but and he said he wanted them to do it. But he was not in he was not in the right frame of mind mentally for them to be able to accept what he was saying. And and truthfully, I mean he really was not he was not uh he was in and out of coherence and and things. It was Uh he was definitely not processing everything and it was clear. So they looked to me, I'm on the the I have medical power training. They looked to me and they said, you actually have to make this decision. Hardest day of my life. Uh and I'm trying to figure this out. So that so the GI doctor was saying that she felt that it was pretty low risk. But his oncologist felt like it was pretty high risk. And then there was another doctor that I got involved in that I really respected, and he said it was pretty high risk. But you but my dad is saying he he basically said he said something to the effect of uh it's this is conf he said this you guys are confusing with a lot, but they need to figure out what's going on. That's what's what he said. And that that's a mechanic by the way, like just figure out what's going on here so we can fix it, you know. Um so I'm I'm caught between the high risk of this and doctors that I respect that are saying this is high risk, and my dad who is indicating the best he can that he wants it done. And I decided to fulfill my dad's wishes the best I could, and I said, okay, let's order, let's go ahead and put the order in and do it. Very hard decision to make. I didn't really like the decision I was making, but I really also wanted to fulfill my dad's wishes. But you know what happened? God intervened. Uh the head the head of the GI department, at once she got the order, came down to our room. And she basically said, my words, not hers, this is a bad idea. And she conferred with Dr. Lamb, his oncologist, and basically went in and talked with my dad and and uh us and all of that. And that gave me enough confidence to know I here's what I knew. I knew even if my dad was saying he wanted it done He would not take three solid doc all of the opinions of doctors and go against them. He would not do that. And so I I was comfortable saying, okay, let's not do this. Now, why am I telling that story and what does that have to do with this? The next I thought I had a couple more, I thought at that point we had a couple weeks. Uh his vitals were strong still. I woke up the next morning. Uh I went home. My sister stayed with him, which was something that they needed. Uh there was some consciousness there and out, and my sister needed that because I had spent all summer with him and she didn't. She did some but not not nearly as much as I did. And and I went to the next I went in the next day, the next morning, his vitals were still strong. And I thought to myself, okay, well I need there is something I need to get done before he passes away. Let me it looks like his vials are strong. Looks like it's not gonna be the day. And I went and I I went and got it done. My sister texts me one word while I'm I'm at an attorney's office dealing with the thing that I thought I had a little, you know, I thought I was prudent in getting it done. She says, come. I immediately knew what that meant. And I s drove the fastest I've ever driven before. And I didn't crash, thankfully, to the hospital. And I made it within seven minutes of his death. Now here's why I'm saying all this. Because oh by the way, I made it with my grand my daughters there. And my sister and a very close friend of ours, Harry. God's supering this is I look back at this and I go God knew what he was doing. He didn't take the stuff away. But through the entire thing, he intervened where he needed to I didn't need the guilt of, I mean probably if that endoscopy would have been done, he would have been gone then. I didn't know that. The doctors didn't even know that. But I didn't need the guilt of making the wrong decision there. And God knew it, and he intervened there. And God does that. If we have the eyes to see it, if we will view it and see it the way that God sees it. then we will not try to s escape our suffering. Not going to try to jump into it either, by the way, but we're not we're not just say well the only way to deal with this is true is for it to be gone. No, we need it we need to see the hand of God in our suffering And when we see that, there is an experience of knowing God. My own daughter said, boy, I really see God's, this is unmistakable So, what am I saying with all this? We've got to have the perspective of suffering that God has and that Paul has here. And we've got to look at it with the lens of hope because folks, this bottom line is not the end. It's just the beginning. So how does this all work? Let's move very quickly to this. How do we put on the lens of hope? Number two, by understanding the corrupt creation prepares us for liberated glory. And he says here in picking up in verse 20, for the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly But because of him who subjected it how? In hope. Now we have sufficiently explained this for the most part, except I want to point out the word futility here, what it means. The word futility, it it's it means something it could be translated, it has been translated, frustration or vanity, or emptiness. And all of those things are compon essentially color what this word means. Futility, frustration, vanity, emptiness. Here's the point. The point is that because of sin in God's judgment on the on creation It no longer was going to be able to do what it's fulfill its purpose to the extent that it otherwise would be able to. He put judgment on the creation. And we see that in we won't take the time to look at it, but in Genesis 3, 16 through 17, we see that. There's storms and thistles, there's pain and childbearing, there's all kinds of things going on in this in this create this corrupt creation that shows that God now has cursed the creation that he has made because of man's sin. Now That meant then that the cre the old creation is not fulfilling its purpose the way that God originally designed it to be. Now, ultimately one day it will, so I'm not saying that God's like off the throne here or anything. Understand that. But there is a sense in which God designed creation to be a certain way in displaying his glory, and it does still do that, but it's a marred way of doing it. to the point where he subjected, God subjected this to futility. There is a sense of purposelessness in the world. Creation is not always fulfilling the purpose that is created for. But it says this: God did this In hope that one day no longer would it be frustrated One day it would be restored to again be full to fulfill the very purpose that God intended. You ever been in a situation where you feel useless or purposefulness and it frustrates you? I think all of us at one time or another we've been in that situation. And he describes creation that way. But he says it does have a purpose. It says this, verse 21, because the creation itself also will be delivered from the bondage, the slavery of corruption. God sees the creation and us and all of that enslaved by corruption into, it says, the glorious liberty of the children of God. There is this glorious liberty that both we as the children of God and creation will be restored to to be able to fulfill the very purpose that God originally designed for us. And that brings us, folks, great hope. I love the way this is written here. It's going to be deliverance. Deliverance. Do you feel that? Do you feel the bondage and the enslavement of the corruption of this world? If you don't, you're not suffering. Because as a Christian who suffers, you realize something's not right. You realize that the corruption of this world is causing you to suffer. And and that one day, though, it will be restored. That's why 2 Peter 3, verse 13 says, Nevertheless, we according to his promise Look for new heavens and new earth in which righteousness dwells. Now, here is the other thing that this passage is imply implying. It's implying that the primary purpose of creation now, other than partially displaying the glory of God, which we see in the Old Testament, it does But it also is there. God is using it to work in his sons, his children. To be able to be Christ-like, to grow in Christ's likeness. This whole creation is for that purpose, primarily, secondarily now to display the glory of God. And there's a great implication here as well that I want us to point out. I want to mention to you. It says that not just us will be restored, because we think of that usually. But also creation will be restored. Now, that is such a blessing. It's a blessing for this reason Sometimes we think of eternity, we think of heaven, we think of a new creation, we think of the millennial kingdom, we think of all of these things that are going to happen in the future. We think of them in terms of sort of so far outside of our understanding that it's like this blur. And it is true, we cannot fully understand it. However, the same creator that made this creation Is going to restore this creation. The same creator that made us is going to restore us. That means, folks, that the the pleasure and the enjoyment and the worship and the the the even things down to the smells and the tastes and all of those things are not going to be entirely, totally different. They're going to be better. So that somebody somebody doesn't get everything done on their bucket list in this life for a Christian, you got the next life. And you've got all of eternity, and it's going to be better. Just sort of trying to make this practical. But what then do we do in this life? How do we experience In other words, how does the hope that's objective that we know, okay, Christ is coming again, we have heaven in place, but how do we live that out in Experiential hope in this life. Look at the next verses here in verse 22 through 25. We do it by experiencing the Holy Spirit's work in the midst of suffering. Romans 8. 22 says this, for we know that the whole creation groans and labors with birth pangs together until now. Not only that, but we also have the first fruits of the Holy Spirit, even we ourselves groan within ourselves. Early, eagerly waiting for the adoption, the redemption of our body. For we were saved in this hope But hope that is seen is not hope. For why does one still hope for what he sees? But if we hope for what we do not see, we eagerly wait for it with perseverance. What is he talking about here? First of all, he tells us our current condition. He actually says all of creation is groaning. And he likens it to somewhat to a to somebody giving birth. You know, Jesus actually was the first to make this analogy. In John 16, verses 23-23-22 it says Most assuredly I say to you, that you will weep and lament, but the world will rejoice, and you will be sorrowful, but your sorrow will be turned into joy. A woman, when she is in labor, has sorrow because her hour has come. But as soon as she has given birth to the child, she no longer remembers the anguish for joy that a human being has uh being has born been born into the world. Therefore You now have sorrow, but I will see you again, and your heart will rejoice, and your joy no one will take from you. Jesus said that And he describes creation as going through birth, la going through labor And then he says this, and he says, but there's going to be an end where there's going to be joy and newness and God's going to make all things new. But then he says this. He says, not only that, but but we have the first fruits of the Holy Spirit. Now, what is he talking about there when he says we have the first fruits of the Holy Spirit? Well, he's he's He's referencing, and we won't take the time to turn there. You could look at Leviticus 23, 10 through 11 if you want later. But he's referencing the Old Testament first fruits offerings, the initial offerings. And he's making this connection that the Holy Spirit is the initial offerings, if you will, of our redemption that will one day be completed. And this is verified by other passages in the New Testament. For example, at 2 Corinthians 1 verse 22 it says, Who also has sealed us and given us his Spirit in our hearts as a guarantee Ephesians 1. 14 says something very similar, and in 2 Corinthians chapter 5, verse 5 it says, Now he who has prepared us for this very thing is God who has given us a spirit of guarantee. It's a down payment. The Holy Spirit is this down payment. That will one day our redemption when we are glorified, when we have our redeemed, our resurrected bodies will be complete. Now, but it's not just a down payment, it's an appetizer. It's a foretaste. Because we have the Holy Spirit, it's telling us that there is an anticipation and a groaning. That occurs because we we it's like we get an appetizer, but we don't have the full meal yet. It's the pump has been primed. And it really references back to Romans again, verses 15 through 16. Look at it with me for just a few moments. 15 to 16, it says this. For you have not received the spirit of adoption again to fear, but you have received the spirit of adoption whom we cry out, what? Abba Father Look at what it says verse 16. The Spirit himself bears witness with our spirit that we are the children of God. There is, when the Spirit of God indwells the believer, there is a witness of the Holy Spirit that can occur. Where we we know we are assured that we are children of God, and we are assured of the adoption. That will culminate in the future. We're adult sons now, but we will culminate in the future, where we'll have the inheritance of our adoption. That all of this is happening and the Spirit of God is doing this in us experientially. Like we we experience, we know in our hearts, we have the assurance in our hearts that we are a child of God, and we look forward to the day more because of this. This is actually truly where we get our assurance of our salvation from from Scripture. It's through the work of the Holy Spirit in our lives, not praying a prayer, not writing your your date in a book or in the beginning of your Bible, that kind of stuff. It's the Spirit of God that does this in assurance. Now, then it says this. It says that so that we anticipate with eagerness the adoption and the redemption of our body. Now we see that in many other places, 1 John chapter 3, 1 Corinthians 15. We won't take the time to look at the w the resurrection that we are going to experience. We will be like him, for we will see him as he is. And the Holy Spirit assures us that there's a This will happen now, but I'm still going to ask, I'm going to go back to this question, how is it that we put on this experiential lens of hope? And the key is the word perseverance. It's the word perseverance. He gives this sort of logic here first. He says, for we are saved in this hope. And hope that is seen is not hope. And he says, for why does one still hope? But for what he sees, he's saying, it's always been creation is is subjected in hope. And we are saved in hope. So don't expect to see what, don't expect to have full understanding and full experience of what is in the future. There's always this future yearning. Understand that. That's the way God set it up But then he says this, but if we hope for what we do not see, we eagerly wait for it with perseverance. Now what does this word perseverance mean? Sometimes it's translated patience. What does this mean? It means essentially there are three concepts in this. One, it means to stand still or stay alive. Okay? Stand still. You're persevering. You're sticking to the stuff. You're standing still. You're staying alive. It means to remain firm or to endure, and sometimes it's translated endurance. To remain firm and to endure, to stand still and to refer and to remain firm and endure. And then another meaning though is to expect and await with anticipation. That's all. It's such a it's a word that has so many different meanings and that you have to sort of think of it It's someone who is able to stand firm and endure because he's looking ahead and awaiting with anticipation. You say, well, I think you might be pulling too much out of that word. Look at Romans 5. Take your Bibles and turn there. Romans 5. And this will help us with all this. Notice what it says in this passage. Romans 5, verse 1. Therefore, having been justified by faith, we have, or it's talking about the position of peace. We are at peace with God. Through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom also we have access by faith Into this grace in which we what? We stand and rejoice in what In hope. We rejoice in hope of the what? Of the glory of God. How does this happen? And not only that, but we also may glory in what? In tribulations. Then knowing that tribulation produces what does it do? There's our word. It does what? It produces what? Perseverance. Tribulation produces perseverance. And what does perseverance produce? Character, what is that? We talked about in the beginning. The character of God, the the attributes of God that are true of us, are true of God and can be true of us. It produces That kind of character in us and character what does it produce? Hope. That is experiential hope there. Now, hope does not disappoint because the love of God, here's how you know it's experiential, the love of God has been poured out in our hearts by who? By the Holy Spirit who was given to us. Douglas Moose said it this way Hope, like a muscle, will not be strong if it goes unused. It is the suffering that we must exercise with deliberation and fortitude It is in suffering that we must exercise with deliberation and fortitude our hope. And the constant reaffirmation of hope in the midst of apparently hopeless circumstances will bring ever deeper conviction of the reality and the certainty of that for which we hope. Just take a minute and look at that again. Hope is like a muscle. It It will not be strong if it goes unused. So it's the suffering that we must exercise with deliberation and fortitude our hope. We must exercise our hope And the constant reaffirmation of hope in the midst of apparently hopeless circumstances Will bring us ever deeper conviction of the reality and the certainty of that for which we hope. So you're in suffering. Or if you're not a suffering Christian, just wait, you will be. And there's a sense in which that's discouraging, but no, actually, there's a sense in which that is the only way to exercise this muscle of hope. experiential hope, where you really begin to know with assurance and yearn and long with assurance of the coming of Christ. It's like Paul said, those who love his appearing. You ever said to yourself, um I remember y when I was younger and and I thought to myself, what does it mean the love is appearing? You know, I want to like you know finish college and get married and get a job and I got a life ahead of me. I don't really really want God the cut Christ to cut come back at it. Like I'm not against it, but I'm really not for it either. I'm kind of, you know, level. By the way, I don't think that's wrong, it's just immature. You've got to go through some suffering to look forward to the hope and to experience it But there is there is a real experience, there is a real knowledge, there is a real um Fellowship with God, knowledge of God, growth in Christ, conformity to the image of Christ that happens as we go through the sufferings and the tribulations. And do you know what we need, folks? You say, well, what's my role? What do I need? James 1. Do you remember what James 1 says? My brethren, count it all what? Joy when you fall into various trials. It doesn't say you jumped into them, it says you fell into them, by the way. But it says, count it all joy when you fall into various trials, knowing that the testing of your faith produces, there's our word, patience or perseverance. It's the same word. But let patience, let perseverance have its perfect work. That you may be perfect and complete, Christ-like, lacking nothing. What should you do? If any of you lack, what is it? Wisdom. That's what we need. If any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask of God, who gives to all liberally and without reproach, and it will be given. Him. Do you know what we need, brothers and sisters in Christ? We need wisdom. We need wisdom to see things from God's perspective. We need wisdom to be able to look at the trials of our life and to consider them joy because at the end of the trial, if we will handle it right and perceive it right and use the lens of hope that God's given us Then we are going to end up knowing God more and experiencing Him more and loving Him more. And there is no other way, besides suffering, to bring some of those things about. So in concluding th concluding applications, I have four things for us to just summarize all this with. Number one We must calculate present suffering to be light and momentary affliction in comparison with future glory We need to calculate it to be light and momentary in comparison with future glory. Number two, we should glory in suffering as God's means of preparing us. For future glory. The glory of suffering is God's means of preparing us for future glory. Number three, we must realize that suffering produces perseverance Perseverance character and experiential hope. Number four, we need Holy Spirit-influenced wisdom. To come through suffering with strengthened hope. We need these things. And then we will be able to look on our life and world and suffering with the lens of hope, and be able to ultimately glorify God. in our lives. Now you may be listening this morning and you don't have that hope. You you haven't actually ever been able to put that lens on Because in your life it's really it's really all been about what you want So, when we live for what we want, suffering is an inconvenience and makes no sense. Suffering is absolutely senseless when we're living for what we want. That's really true for the Christian and for the non-Christian. But when our lives are totally wrapped up in our pursuits and our agenda and our kingdom and what we want, when that occurs in our lives. And suffering comes, we don't know what to do with it. It's senseless. It makes no sense. It's an interruption, and it plunges us into sorrow without hope. Hopeless sorrow. And if you don't know Christ as your Savior, if you have not, if you're following self, And have always followed self. Instead of following Christ, then you don't know what to do with your suffering, do you? It's senseless. But you know the wonderful thing? This is the wonderful truth. The Bible tells us that you can receive Christ today. But as many as received him, to them gave you the power to become the sons, the children of God, even to them that believe on his name. Today, you can choose to stop following after yourself and follow Christ. Now that's not works, that's not effort. It's not as though now you're going to fulfill, now I'm going to do all these good things to be to do what God wants me to do. No, it is by faith alone that you're saved. And as you ex as you as you understand what Christ did for you and dying for you, and accept him and what he did on the cross in your place. Because of your sin, which we talked about, then you will have hope. Doesn't mean your suffering is going to go away. But now you have hope And that is exactly what we are saved in. We are saved in hope. If you don't know where you will spend eternity, let me just really encourage you to come and talk with me. either myself, you can talk with other people who are up here, Pastor Matt or Brad or other people that you're comfortable with, and we'll be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure. That you have this confident expectation of hope of future things. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and praise you for who you are. We thank you for your word. I I I don't know what I would do without your word. I don't know what we would do. We would be miserable without the truth of your word, without the truth of the resurrection. Your word tells us without the resurrection of Christ we would be of all men most miserable, and certainly we would be. We are so grateful that you, through your rich, wonderful word, help us to see things in light of eternity. And in light of who you are. Lord, it's we had we confess before you it's hard to joy in trials. It's hard to count it, to calculate it as joy. But Lord, it's light and momentary, and it yields such a wonderful reward. Give us the wisdom that we lack to be able to perceive the sufferings and trials that we go through. In such a way that it produces perseverance in us and character and hope. And we pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. To have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.