I versus two through five But you, Bethlehem Efrita, though you are little among the thousands of Judah, yet out of you shall come forth to me the The one to be ruler in Israel, whose goings forth are from old from everlasting. Given birth. Then the remnant of his brethren shall return to the children of Israel, and he shall stand and feed his flock, and the strength of the Lord, and the majesty of the name of the Lord shall be his God, and they shall abide for now he shall be great to the ends of the earth. And this one shall be peace. When the Assyrian comes into our land When he treads in our palaces, then we will raise against him seven shepherds and eight princely men. Let us go to the Lord in prayer Father, we thank you for this morning. We thank you for this season, this time. As we think of the the death And the extent that you that your son went to reach the people of earth, it is staggering, Lord. It is mind bottom Boggling and it makes us feel extremely small and humbled that you would stoop down so low To meet the needs of people. Certainly, Lord, our sin creates a great gulf. The distance between us and you Cannot be bridged by our own salvation by our own works, by our own righteousness, by our own actions, by our own decisions. No, it was only Christ Who could bridge that gap? We're so thankful this morning that he came to earth to bridge that gap. And we now have the opportunity to accept the gift of salvation by his work on the cross, sacrificing himself in our place. We praise you, Lord. And as we sing in a moment, we ask that you would help us us to raise our voices not just to be heard but to be praising and worshiping you specifically. May our focus and our eyes and our attention Be on you and your son this morning, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Our scripture reading this morning is Luke chapter 1. So open your Bibles to Luke chapter 1. We'll be reading verses forty-six to fifty-five. Luke chapter one, forty-six And Mary says, My soul magnifies the Lord, and my spirit has rejoiced in God, my Savior. For he has regarded the lowly state of his maid's Servant, for behold, henceforth all generations will call me blessed. For he who is mighty has done great things for me. And holy is his name, and his mercy is on those who fear him from generation to generation. He has shown strength with his arm. He has scattered the proud in the imagination of their hearts. He has put down the mighty ones from their thrones and exalted the lowly. He has filled the hungry with good things. And the rich he has sent away empty He has helped his servant Israel in remembrance of his mercy as he spoke to our fathers, to Abraham, and to his seed for us. Let's pray. Dear Lord, thank you for the opportunity today to praise you. For who you are and for what you have done. Lord, we think of this Christmas season where we remember how you, God, became man. How you dwelt among us. And Lord, I pray today that you would encourage our hearts. Help us to rejoice with you. Rejoice with those angels. Rejoice with all creation. As the Savior has come. In Jesus' name. Amen. The passage that just Matt just read was writ was uh this a psalm that was given by this young girl Mary. It is sometimes known as Mary's Magnificat. It is very much elevated language. It's language of praise, praise to the Lord for what God has done for us. And um and it's just an amazing song. It's really the passage in Luke chapter 1 here, there's really a con it's really in contrast to um to Zechariah and And his response as well. You have Mary, you have the angel appearing to Mary, and you have the angel appearing to Zachariah, and in Mary's case, there is a great sense of a great response of belief. In fact, right before the passage that Matt just read, um you have these words from Elizabeth. It says Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit, then she She spoke out with a loud voice and said, Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the fruit of your womb. But why is this granted to me that the mother of the Lord should come to me For indeed, as soon as the voice of your greeting sounded in my ears, the babe leapt in my womb for joy. Blessed is she who believed, for there will be a fulfillment of those things which were told to her before the Lord. And then It goes into this great psalm of praise. Mary Mary believed, and although you know in our circles, uh you know our our our strong Protestant heritage, we we don't we don't we would not adopt any of the the Catholic teachings on the Immaculate Conception or anything like that, but sometimes we actually go the other way of of not actually looking at what Mary did, what God did through Mary and how he really used Mary in this. And I want us to notice this. I want us to notice also as we Before we get into this passage, the response that uh Zechariah gave. Of course, the angel came to Za Zachariah as well in this passage in chapter one of Luke. And to foretell of John the Baptist, who would be his son. And Zacharias responded this way. How shall I know this? For I am an old man, and my wife is well advanced in years. The King James says well stricken in years Now I just want to point out that if you if you ha if you're that is not the way to get grow brownie points with your wife. I wouldn't go home and say And the angel answered and said to him, I am Gabriel, who stands in the presence of God and was sent to speak to you and bring you these glad tidings. But behold, you will be mute and not be able to speak into the day these things take place because you did not believe my words. which will be fulfilled in their own time. So you have Zacharias who should have, you know, as a priest, should have, should have Been close to the Lord and should have recognized uh what God was doing here and recognizing the that God is Almighty, He can do what He wants But on the other hand you have and he doesn't believe, and then you have Mary on the other hand who does. And and and Zacharias is mute. He can't speak because of, you know, the same sort of a little disciplinary uh action by uh by the Lord toward him until John was you know John was born. Um and yet Mary speaks grandly. You have this contrast. Now she is because of her belief is going to s to give this psalm that is just an incredible uh psalm that we're going to look into and we're going to see what's going on here. Now the theme of the psalm The theme of this passage that we just read, and you're going to see this in verses 50 and 54, is the mercy of God. That's the overall theme. God You know, finally, bestowing his mercy on his people. Notice this in verse 50 of the passage, Luke 1. 50 it says, and his mercy is on those who fear him from generation to generation. And then look again at verse 54. It says this he has helped his servant Israel in remembrance of his mercy. But this this word mercy In the Old Testament, it has the equivalent word, it's the word Hesed, and this word is full of meaning. Sometimes in the Old Testament, this word is translated mercy. Sometimes it's translated kindness. Sometimes often it's it's coupled with faithfulness. It's the cup, the covenant, faithful, kind mercy of God. There's a lot that goes into this Old Testament word. that is now being reiterated into the New Testament, this covenant, faithful mercy of God. It could arguably be talking about a pre-cov precursor to the grace of God as well, the concept of God's grace. There's so much in this word that we want to look at just for a few moments here before we actually get into the passage. In Luke 34, 6, for example, it says, And the Lord passed before him and proclaimed, the Lord, the Lord, God, merciful, I'm not sorry, in Exodus, it's Exodus 34. six. God, the Lord God, merciful and gracious, long-suffering and abounding in goodness and truth, keeping mercy for thousands. Forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin, by no means clearing the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children and the children's children of the third and fourth generation. Keeping mercy, merciful and gracious. That is the God of the Old Testament, that is the God of the New Testament, that is the God whom now Mary is responding to and worshiping. In Numbers chapter 14, verse 19, it says this, pardon the iniquity of this people, I pray, according to the greatness of your mercy. Later on, as you continue in the book of old, the Old Testament, I'm just going to point out a few points. Rahab uses this term. This mercif this this Hesed, this mercy term, this faithful mercy term. Remember when she helps the spies, she says Um verse twelve of Joshua chapter two. Now therefore I beg you, swear to me by the Lord, since I have shown you kindness. Translated there, that you also will show kindness to my father's house, and of course we know from the story that that's exactly what happened Ruth is a great illustration in the book of Ruth of this mercy, this covenant mercy that is found essentially in the person of Boaz. And Naomi says in speaking about Ruth finding Boaz in Ruth 2. 20, it says, Blessed be he of the Lord who has not forsaken his kindness to the living and the dead. And Naomi said to her, this man is a relation of ours, one of our close relatives. And then the in the in David's the covenant to David in 2 Samuel chapter 7, verse 12, you have the same The same word here that's used. And it says in verse 15 of chapter 7 of 2 Samuel, but my mercy shall not depart from him. As I took it from Saul, whom I removed from before you, and your house and your kingdom shall be established forever before you, your throne shall be established forever. So we see here that Mary is responding to this faithful mercy of God. And as she does so, she is going to, this psalm is going to come from her. It is, of course, the Holy Spirit's doing this through her. This is enscripturated, so we know that to be true. And so there's no question about that. But also I don't want, of course we want to recognize that, but on the other hand, we want to know, we want to realize that God is using this vessel Mary as well as we go through this. So, how does God apply his faithful mercy? We're going to see this in this passage in three ways. First, we're going to see it's received personally. It's received personally. Secondly, we're going to see it it treats the humble favorably. And in this faithful mercy, it fulfills promises wisely. So those three things we're going to see in this passage. First of all, God's faithful mercy is received personally. And we pick up in verse 46 of Luke 1, it says, And Mary said, My soul magnifies the Lord And my spirit has rejoiced in God my Savior, for he has regarded the lowly state of his maidservant. For behold, henceforth all generations will call me blessed. For he who he is mighty, has done great things for me, and holy is his name. So he said she says, my soul magnifies the Lord. This is a response as Mary has thought about and contemplated what God has done in the angel coming and she sharing what's going to happen through Mary and Mary have having a long trek, probably between fifty and seventy miles to visit uh Elizabeth all of what's going on here, and she is then able to respond and magnify the Lord. We're going to see this in this passage. This responsive worship. First of all, we see that it is a wholehearted exaltation. My heart rejoices in the Lord. And we see this in other places as well. In Matthew 23, 5 it says, But all their works shall be known to be seen of men. This word, this idea of exalting. Magnifying the Lord. Actually, it's quoted from 2 Samuel 2, verse 2 in Hannah's Prayer. In fact, you're going to Hannah prayed, My heart rejoices in the Lord, my horn is exalted in the Lord. I smile at my enemies because I rejoice in your salvation. Wholehearted exaltation to exalt God to to show him that he may be seen of men. This word is translated in John 3. 21 But he who does the truth comes to light that his deeds may be clearly seen. Mary wants the deeds of God and God and who he is to be clearly seen. To regard and to esteem highly, to be greatly enlarged. 2 Corinthians 10, verse 15 says it as a greatly enlarged by your sphere. And then her heart is rejoicing. Her heart is rejoicing. What at God, her Savior? Verse 47. So she desires to exalt the Lord, and she desires to rejoice, and she does, she rejoices, her whole heart rejoices. in her Savior. Now, what are the conditions that this kind of worship between Mary and God take place? What's the conditions? Well you have the condition of the worshipped which we're going to see, and that doesn't change. But you have also the condition of the worshiper. So we see the condition of the worshiper next. It says he has regard for the lowly. She's really talking about herself here. She's going to say this is applies to me. We're going to see that very personally in a minute. But she's essentially saying, I am the one who is lowly. He is regarded the lowly. She's recognized that she is lowly. And and in the Old Testament you have um uh you have that same kind of thing in first Samuel chapter one verse eleven and she Made a vow and the Lord of hosts, you uh if you will in indeed look on the affliction of your maidservant and remember me, Hannah says there. So we have this humility. And the other thing that you have in this passage, you have a real awareness. Look at verse 48 here. And Mary said, My soul magnesi uh uh four four verse forty eight, for he has regarded the lowly state of his maidservant, and behold, henceforth, all generations will call me blessed. Blessed. Mary says, henceforth from now all generations will call me blessed. Mary knew what was going on. It's actually quite amazing how much Mary understood. Contrary to the popular song, Mary did know. And I know that I'm gonna get some hate mail from people who love that song. Somebody's gonna say, Yeah, but you don't understand what it means. And I'm sure I don't, because Mary knew. In fact, it seems to me that Mary grasped what was going on perhaps better than maybe any other individual in this story She really understood what was happening. She really knew what was happening. She had such an awareness that she understood that she was going to be in a place where other people in the future And this was not this was not sort of some proud expression at all. She was saying he regards the lowly and he is doing this and there's going to be there's This is really amazing what is what is taking place here. She's keenly aware of the magnitude of what was happening. And then it says, and then we see what she says about God. What does she say about him? Well, she says, first of all, the mighty one. She uses this term mighty one. That is the in the Greek uh the it's a very common term it me it's the it's the noun form of the word ability or power She saw that God was all powerful, that God had great ability. And in Zephaniah chapter 3, verse 16 through 17 Actually at least verse seventeen it says, And the Lord God in your midst, the mighty one will save. He will rejoice over you with gladness. He will quiet you with his love. He will rejoice over you with singing. And then very it was very personable. Mary says, he has done great things for me. This is this is not something where Mary says, okay, yeah, God's doing something for my people. She's gonna say that. God's doing something for the world. No, she has first personalized this. He has done great things for me. She has personalized the mercy of God in her own life, the faithful mercy of God. And then she recognizes the holiness of God. She says, Holy is his name. Isaiah fifty-seven verse fifteen says this for thus says the the high and lofty one who inhabits eternity, whose name is holy. I dwell in the high and holy place with him who has a contrite You remember in the Old Testament in Isaiah six when Isaiah saw God And he saw himself as he really was. What was the first attribute that he saw of God? It was what? Holy, holy, holy. When we are in our right place before God, when we We see him as he really is, and we are lowly before him, humble before him. We see the greatness and the beauty of the holiness of God. He is entirely devoted to the gl to his own glory. This is the holiness of God. 2 Samuel 2, verse 20, Hannah's prayer again. No one is holy like the Lord, for there is none beside you, nor is there a rock like our God. Now, this is wonderful, amazing praise that Mary has offered to God, this teenage girl. So what caused this fourteen, fifteen, sixteen-year-old teenage girl, probably not much older than that, probably not much younger than that What caused this teenage girl to be able to express this kind of praise? Who was Mary? And what do we see in the passage? I want to note three things about Mary that I think will help us when we're when in just understanding what how the vessel that God used here. Number one Mary knew God's word and trusted it. She knew God's word and trusted it. We've already seen her belief But she knew God's word. There are twelve different scripture passages at least referenced in this psalm that Mary expressed. She had to have known God's word and she trusted it. Number two, she was very thoughtful. And she was very engaged. This young girl was very thoughtful and very engaged. Look back at Luke chapter one for a moment. And we'll see this. We'll see this as the angel speaks to Mary in verse 34. It says this. Mary actually says to the angel at this point. Verse 34, how can this be since I know not a man? Of course you know the story. Jesus has been uh you know she's been prophesied that she will bring forth a son, and I'll call his name Jesus, who And Jesus says and Mary says, Mary's thinking. She's on she says, How can this be, since I know not a man? And and but not in a way she questions, but not in a way that is skeptical the way Zacharias did apparent. Clearly there's a difference. Because then she believes and she submits, and we'll see that as well. But over in Luke chapter 2, verses 19 through 20, when the shepherds come, it says, But Mary kept all these things and And then again in Luke chapter 2, verse 51 through 52, as though Luke really wants us to understand who Mary was and what sh how she responded to the things. Verse 51 it says, Then he went down and with them and came to Nazareth and Nazareth and was uh subject to them, but his mother kept all these things in her heart. Mary was engaged, she questioned appropriately, she was thoughtful. Boy, would to God we'd have young people. That would be engaged and thoughtful, to be asking questions, to be going over things, to be really engaged in truth like Mary was. What would to God we would be, all of us who are middle-aged and older. Sometimes, you know, we're coasting. And we're just getting things done and doing one thing after another and another and another and another and it comes to sitting down to a sermon and it's quiet and it's like, oh finally I can relax. Well we better stay engaged. Or in our own personal devotions, okay, well let me go through the motions here, but we better stay engaged. So Mary was engaged, and finally Mary was humble and submissive. She was humble and submissive. Luke chapter 1 verses Verse 38, verse 38 says this. After Mary asked her question and it was explained the Holy Spirit was going to come upon her, then Mary says, Behold the maidservant of the Lord The word maidservant is actually, it's just the feminine word of the word bondslave. The maidservant of the Lord, let it be to me according to your word. And the angel departed from her. I'm let me be your slave. Let me be your bond slave. I'll do whatever you want me to do. I will submit to your will Frankly, that was not necessarily an easy thing. I think Mary probably knew almost immediately that there was she was going to be rejected by her friends Her friends were not going to understand her having a child before she was fully married and and that marriage was consummated. There was going to be a lot of rumors going around. There was going to be a lot of things, a lot of talk going around, and Mary just said, I'm going to submit I'm going to be your bond slave. Behold the maidservant of the Lord So Mary first understands the faithful mercy of God as it is applied personally. But then we see now how is the faithful mercy of God applied generally? And we move to the next movement of this Psalm in verse 50, it says this. And his mercy is on those who fear him from generation to generation. He has shown strength with his arm. He has scattered the proud in the imagination of their hearts. He has put down the mighty from their thrones and exalted the lowly. He has lifted the angel with good things, or the ank the hungry rather with good things. He has filled the hungry with good things, and the rich he has sent away empty. God's faithful mercy treats the humble favorably Treats the humble favorably in verses 50 through 53. We see this word mercy again here. It's after generation after generation, but there's a particular condition. It's those who fear him. And then it goes on to explain this as those who are humble before him. And it gives us three ways that God treats the humble favorably. And let me just pause and say this. Do you not want to be treated favorably by God? God resists the proud, but he gives grace to the humble. Number one, God protects. He protects. We see that in the passage. He has shown strength with his arm. He has scattered the proud in the imagination of their hearts. What does it mean? He's shown strength with his arm. Well, the the use of the arm, it has to do with being having the strength to go into battle. The use of the arm was clearly something that was necessary in battle. And it was saying that God has the ability to protect his people even in battle And so in Isaiah 51 verses 5 through 9 it says this, My righteousness is near, my salvation has gone forth, and my arms will judge the peoples, the coastland will wait. uh upon me and my arm and on my arm they will trust. Lift up your eyes to the heavens and look to the earth beneath, for the heavens will vanish away with like smoke. The earth will Grow out like a garment, and those who dwell in it will die in like manner. But my salvation will be forever, and my righteousness And later on in the passage, it again says in verse nine of the same passage, Awake, awake, put on strength, O arm of the Lord, awake as the ancient of days and the generation of old. You are not the arm that cut Rahab apart and wounded the serpent. And it says then, God scatters those who are proud. He scatters those who are proud. What's it talking about there? How does he scatter the proud? It's interesting. It says proud in the imagination or the thoughts of the heart. These are people who, in their own thinking In their own imaginations, when they think of their own accomplishments, when they think of who they are, they're proud. You know who comes to mind, just immediately comes to mind in the Old Testament, a figure who who who was this way and God put him low? I think of Nebuchadnezzar, don't you? I mean immediately you've got a man who is who is who says who looks at his kingdom and he says by the might of my power this has come about and Cod says yeah I'm gonna make you like an animal I'm going to scatter you. But I think the word scatter more so is a reference to back in Exodus. You remember an act of Exodus? As God freed and used Moses to free uh the slaves from Egypt and they were going Uh on their way to the promised land, they went through the Red Sea. And do you remember the story? As they went through the Red Sea, the Red Sea was departed was was was set in uh It was uh was divided, and they went through on dry land, got to the other side, and what followed? The armies of Pharaoh followed them And then they were scattered by the waters. It says it this way in Exodus 14, verse 24. But it came to pass in the morning watch the Lord looked down upon the army of the Egyptians from the pillar of the fire in the clouds, and he troubled the army of the Egyptians. And he took off their chariot wheels, so that they drove them with difficulty, and the Egyptians said, Let us flee from the face of Israel. For the Lord fights for them against the Egyptians. And the Lord said to Moses, Stretch out your hand over the sea, and the waters may come upon the Egyptians on their chariots and on their horsemen. And Moses stretched out his hand over the sea, and when the morning appeared the sea returned to its full depth, while the Egyptians were fleeing into it, so the Lord overthrew the Egyptians in the middle of the sea. And the warriors returned and covered the chariots, the horsemen, and all the army of the of Pharaoh that came into the sea from after them. Not so much as one of them remained. But the children of Israel had walked on dry land in the midst of the sea, and the waters were a wall to them on their right hand and on their left. So the Lord saved Israel that day out of the hand of the Egyptians And Israel saw the Egyptians dead on the seashore. Mary had such an understanding of things, and of course, with the with the help of the Spirit of God Understood that look back at the saving power of God in scattering the proud. And was recalling that. Isaiah 13, verse 11 says, This I will punish the world for its evil, and the wicked for their iniquity. I will halt The arrogance of the proud, and will lay low the haughtiness of the terrible. What is very clear, folks, from both the Old Testament and the New Testament is that God resists the proud He makes the proud his enemy and the humble his friend. So God protects. God also promotes He promotes the humble. Verse 52, he has put down the mighty from their thrones and exalted the lowly. He exalts the lowly. We see the same kind of thing in 1 Samuel 2, verses 7 through 8, and Hannah's prayer, same something very, very similar as well. We find in the New Testament in 1 Peter 5, verse 6, it says this: Therefore, humble yourselves under the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you in due time. In James chapter 4, verse 10, humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he will lift you up. Now this is exactly opposite of what the world says. The world says you've got to lift yourself up The world says you need to have the you know this the positive attitude of lifting yourself up out of your out of your What you're going through. And God says, no, humble yourself under the mighty hand of God, and he will lift you up. And then God provides. He provides. In verse 53, we see clearly that He provides. He has filled the hungry with good things. And the rich he is sent away empty. Now, what are we to learn from this? I mean, the immediate thing to learn from what we're seeing here is that do we not want to be humble? But you know, it's a little hard to say, okay, today I'm going to be humble. And at the end of the day, you know, you say, Man, I was humble today. I mean it doesn't work really work that well. Man, I did a good job of being humble. You go tell all your friends. Man, I did a great job of being humble. This week I was the most humble I've ever been in my life. I was way more humble than you. I mean it doesn't make any sense, right? So how is it how is it that you do this? How is it that you be humble? Well humble humility is not a goal that you can attain. Okay. And we you know, us, you know, Western Americans, we don't like that. We want goals we can figure out, we can attain that goal. Humility is not like that attainable goal. So how is it that we have that kind of humility where we can receive God's grace? Because God clearly resists the proud And gives grace to the humble. In fact, the pride are blinded, so they can't even see the mercy of God oftentimes It is only when we humble ourselves before the Lord that we can see his mercy in the midst of what we're going through. So, how do we do that? There's a concept in the book of Luke and also in the book of Matthew, in the Sermon on the Mound that is mentioned, and this I think is the emphasis that that that is uh started here and will continue through Luke and in actually in Matthew and the other gospels as well. And it's the concept of being poor in spirit. Uh it mentions, you know, physically poor, monetarily poor and physically rich, and certainly I think it's pretty difficult for a really, really wealthy person to stay humble. Is it impossible? Well nothing's impossible with God, but it's probably pretty hard. I wouldn't know, but it's probably pretty hard Although there is also a sense in which our in in our United in our in in our world and in our um in the United States we're all kind of rich, aren't we? But really the point is, it says in Luke chapter six verse twenty, then he lifted up his eyes toward his disciples and said, Blessed are you, poor, for yours is the kingdom of God. And Matthew says, Blessed are the poor in spirit, who in their spirit they understand that they are utterly destitute before God, that apart from the grace of God. that that there is nothing of any value in their spirit, that it has to be, that they are dead spiritually, that there is a, that there is a, that it is all by the grace of God that there is any life at all. Blessed are those who are poor in spirit. And then I really think this passage gives us a key as well to this. It says, Blessed are those who fear the Lord. I think it's probably pretty hard to genuinely fear the Lord and be proud at the same time. To genuinely fear the Lord, which is the beginning of wisdom, the Bible says, is to be aware of the working of God, to be aware of the presence of God, to be aware of God's uh of the consequences to be aw uh to be aware of God. Now that is a that is something that we can Can do. That is something that we have much more of a role to play. On a daily basis, are we aware of the presence of God? Are we aware of God's look watching us and God's are we communing with him? Are we spending time with him? Are we praying with him? Are we just walking with him? Doing so will bring us to a place of humility rather than a place of pride. And those kinds of things The fear of the Lord, God says, when we have that, genuinely, when we have that, then God will give us His faithful mercy. And then finally How does God display His mighty, holy, merciful work practically? God's faithful mercy fulfills promises wisely. We see that in verses 54 and 55. He fulfills promises wisely. Verse 54, he has helped his servant Israel to in remembrance of his mercy. Now remember the very beginning we talked about the covenant mercy of God and had how God had promised to See in a minute. All of these covenant mercy in this passage, Mary says, now God remembers this. Now, why would that be? Why would Mary say, God remembers his mercy? Well, we're going to see some implications of this, but there's been four hundred years of silence here. Between the testaments, between Malachi and Matthew, you have four hundred years of silence Years where there's been no prophetic word from God. Talk about a dark time. And frankly, during the first century there had been many, many Who had lost faith, who had lost trust in the promises of God. There had been many, many others that chose chose to to live live in self-confidence, self-righteousness, the Pharisees, the Sadducees, and those kinds of people And now Mary says, you're remembering your covenant faithfulness. You're remembering your faithful mercy to your people. In Genesis chapter 12, we find, it says in that passage, Now the Lord had said to Abram, get out of your country from your family and from your father's house to a land that I will show you and I will make you a great nation. I will bless you and make your name great and you shall be a blessing and I will bless those who bless you and curse him It's reiterated and detailed out in Genesis, Genesis chapter 17 And again in Genesis 15 and 17, and again, even in Genesis 22, it's mentioned again that God is going to be faithful to Abraham. In Isaiah 41, it prophesies, but you uh you Israel, many years later, after the original covenant with Abraham, Uh but you, Israel, are you my servant Jacob whom I have chosen, the descendants of Abraham my friend, you whom I have taken from the ends of the earth And called from his farthest regions and said to you, You are my servant. I have chosen you and have not cast you away. This is a prophecy before they had they're about ready to head into Babylonian captivity. The basis of the remembrance of God is his mercy. And we see that in Scripture as well. Psalm 98, verse 3, it says, He has remembered his mercy and his faithfulness to the house of Israel. All the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of our God. And we see in Zechariah, after he, you know, he he uh could talk again. We see in Luke chapter 1, verse 68 the same kind of thing, uh verse uh 72 actually of that passage. and to remember, to perform the mercy promised to your our fathers and to remember his holy covenant. Zacharias recognized the mercy of God there. Now, what's really helpful to understand about all this is the four hundred years. of silence, the darkness that had taken place, and now suddenly you have all this light everywhere. You've got Angels appearing to Joseph and to Mary and to Zacharias and you've got all this going on here. Why four hundred years of silence? By the way, there was another time of four hundred years of darkness in the in the nation Remember that? Back in Exodus? They were in slavery for 400 years before God spoke through Moses to Pharaoh. God gave the heathen a chance to repent. That may have been one reason why there was 400 years of silence. It may also have been that God was a, there was essentially a sense in which there would be some that would take the path of being humble and poor and and prepared for Christ and others who would be proud and self- uh self-righteous because when it comes, when Christ comes on the scene and he starts his earthly ministry, there's essentially two kinds of people. There are those who are self-righteous and he rejects them. And there are those who humbly come to him. But for whatever the reason, you've got in the minds of human beings, you've got a great delay in the fulfilled promise of God here. Do you ever feel that way? Do you ever feel like, God, what are you doing in my life? I don't get it. It doesn't, I don't really understand like you said you're good, and you you said that you'll provide and you said you'll I don't understand what's happening in my life There seems to be a lot of darkness, a lot of silence. God will always fulfill his promises, but he doesn't do it your way, he does it his way. Part of trusting him is submitting to him and allowing him to do what he wants to do his way. I think there are four things we can learn about how God fulfills his promises. Number one, God's fulfillment of his promises is often delayed, at least from our perspective. It takes longer to for the for the thing to be carried out than we expect. God is often just not as much of a hurry Number two, God's fulfillment is on his terms, not ours And the fact is, there are many bends in the road when it comes to the fulfillment of the promises of God. Many curves, many curve balls, many things that you just don't expect. But ultimately God will fulfill his promises in the very best way possible. We look back and we see the fulfilled promises of God. See how God did all of this. We see this stark darkness and this bright light of Christ coming into the earth. And this grand scene that opens up, that we look back throughout the ages of history and we see what God is doing here, and we see that Christ has come to earth and the momentous occasion with which this occurs. And the 400 years of darkness don't seem that bad to us. But if you're there, pretty rough. We need to trust in the work of God to bring about His will and His way. Now, in thinking about all of this, there is the covenant mercy of God is ultimately fulfilled. In one person. As we bring all of this to a head, I want us to remember this. Back in Luke chapter 1, well you take your Bible and turn there. Luke chapter 1. Hopefully you're already in chapter 1, but look at verse 30 for a moment. And I want you to see what the angel said to Mary in verse 30. And the angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God. And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bring forth a son and shall call his name Jesus. For he will be great And will be called the Son of the Highest. And the Lord God will give him the throne of his father David, and he shall reign of the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there will be no end. The mercy of God is fulfilled in one person, Jesus Christ. And so what is our response? What should be our response? Number one. Believe in the Savior and you will receive faithful mercy personally. Believe in the Savior and you will receive faithful mercy. You know the truth is we all stand in need of the mercy of God. You and I are born sinners. We're born estranged from God. We're born enemies of God. We're born separated from God. And the Bible says there is by no means, God will by no means just forget our sin or clear the guilty. He wouldn't be God. He wouldn't be righteous. He wouldn't be just to do that. But he loved us. That's why he sent his own son into the world to die, to pay the punishment for our sin. So that we can accept the mercy of God by accepting Christ as our Lord and Savior personally. It is a personal application. Number two, when we humbly submit to the Savior, we'll receive God's kindness. Humbly submit to the Savior, and you'll receive God's kindness Humble submission. And number three, when life doesn't make sense Trust that God will fulfill his promises in his time. Sometimes life just doesn't make sense. And when it doesn't make sense, trust that God will fulfill his promises. in his time. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and praise you for who you are. We thank you for your word and your truth. We thank you for this marvelous psalm m marvel marvelous psalm that that you use this teenage girl to express, Lord, and Luke to write down. Lord, we are we are amazed by your working. And Lord, I pray that we would all be the recipients of God's merciful grace in our lives as well. Lord, we thank you. For this. We thank you for Christ. And as we continue to think through and live through this Christmas season, I pray, Lord, that you would help us. to just appreciate all Christ has done for us. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. To have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.