Amen. And it really is some of the most essential things that Father Solomon wants to get across to his own son. Well, there are three things, and we're going to look at all three of them, but three things. Well well, how do you keep from doing that? I said, you know what I'm spanking you? Like he sp he spanks in different ways. It's not you're getting on my nerves or I want you to do this because I want you to do it. You're not born that way. And Naomi said to her, This man is a relation of ours, one of our close relatives, the kindness of God. But it's the same kind of set kind of concept. in a few moments. You ever notice that? The way we come to you as in dependence on you is to read through this, understand it, and realize we can't do it. I pray, Lord, that you would help us to be reminded of the most essential things that we need to pass down to our own children. Father, you are holy and righteous and just and merciful, all powerful, all-wise, all-knowing. And I pray for Brother Jim as he brings your word, give him strength and courage, and bless him, Lord, with your word. Caitlin. For with eternity in view. He's concerned about the heart of his son. And that you have some differences, but in the Old Testament, the heart really is the entire being To set your heart on something is to put everything into it, to put your entire being into it. Now this is not a promise. This is something that I think is is really probably only something parents can do If you go, for example, through the Ten Commandments, what you see there is how we are to adjust to the very character of God. And so he says, let your hearts keep my commands. Do you remember the story of Ruth? Because when Ruth chooses to go with Naomi, to by faith go to a land that would probably reject her as an outsider, or she would assume would reject her as an outsider. In that you did not go after young men, whether poor or rich. Fear the Lord, serve him in sincerity and in truth. says the Lord. In Proverbs chapter 3, verses 5 through 8, it says, Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and lean not on your own understanding. And allowed idolatry into the land of Israel and had all kinds of problems of sin and idolatry and accumulation of riches and possessions and greed. And he did what was right in the sight of the Lord, according to all that his father David, had to go back to David, had done. and broke in pieces the bonds and serpent that Moses had made. He was exemplary in these areas. But instead, I'm going to acknowledge you in all my ways so that you can direct my paths And lean not on your own understanding. For he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. And they will then, as they are wise, they will learn how to depart from evil. There are sometimes we need to just admit to our kids, I don't know, I don't understand, I don't know what to do, but God does, and we're going to trust him. So your barns will be filled with plenty, and your vats will overflow with new wine. I won't be punished for doing this, I won't be punished for doing that. The Hebrew Hebrews, which the the author of the book of Hebrews actually refers back to the passage in Proverbs that we're looking at. If you endure chastening, God deals with you as with sons. it comes to our Father, our B are instilling these things in our kids. A child of God. Talk with me or somebody else you're comfortable with at this service. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. utterly. in our fat in our Father, our Heavenly Father. And Lord, we pray today as we look at your word this morning later on in the service and we learn how we can be the kinds of earthly fathers that you want us to be in pleading for the hearts of our kids. And we're thankful that though Christ died on that cross for all sin, once for all, you rose him up out of that grave. with each other and I pray that this morning it would be an encouragement to our hearts that Lord you would make us more and more into your image And I pray, Lord, that we will keep our eyes upon you. And lean not on your own understanding. He's really pleading for the very heart of his son as he looks ahead to the life that this son would live. fairly recent census, but 2017 sentence census, and I don't think it's gotten any better. and explain how vital the role of the father is in the home. And I thought about punting on this message and preaching through Matthew, and I probably should have done that, but anyway, um we'll see how this goes. Ephesians chapter 6, verse 4 says, And ye fathers, provoke not your children to wrath, but bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. And the final chapter and this chapter now, the very first thing he says to his son is a passage here that is laid out for us. In fact, I guess I'll go ahead and say this. Notice in the passage, verse 1, it says, My son, do not forget my law, but let your heart keep my commands. in the sight of God. of God and man. It says this, train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old, he will not depart from it Others can educate your kids. candidly, my personal opinion is that really it's anybody besides the parents that can really instill uh in them and sh actually shape the the desires of our kids. And honoring God as Father. And of course, none of us are able to, because we don't have the character of God, none of us are able to fulfill those commands entirely Now, we know that the way that we do that in the New Testament is through Christ, that He gives us the gospel, and as we adjust and on your gates. to the gospel, and as we trust in the gospel and as we live for Him and the commands of Christ, we are becoming more and more like Christ. And these words which I command you today shall be in your heart. when you walk by the way, when you lie down, and when you rise up. unto such as keep his covenant and tet and his testimonies. the devised good. each to her mother's house, the Lord deal kindly with you. If you remember from the story, Naomi encouraged Ruth to go back and also wanted God to deal kindly with them. uh to go back to Moab. And Solomon desires that his son would know the grace and the favor of God. that can receive the grace of God. and all of the kinds of things that uh that these kings did in the Old Testament. King of Isa uh uh of Israel, that Hezekiah the son of Ahaz, King of Judah, began to reign He was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned 29 years in Jerusalem. It's easy for us to try to figure things out, to analyze things, to make things work, to make things go our own way, to solve our own problems. in our world. to fortified city. And we're taught that, that we've got to do it, we've got to depend on self, and we learn that through behavior. Proverbs 16, 6 says, By mercy and truth iniquity is purged, and by the fear of the Lord men depart from evil. And to depart from evil. to avoid the calamity of the world and the problems of the world. And a father looks at those things and he doesn't want that for his kids. And also chastener. It's not often in the Old Testament, there's a few times, but not often in the Old Testament, that God is equated to as a father. And let me be more specific. Because when we view what God gives us that way, it's not ours, it's his, and we're stewards of what is his, when we view things that way, it becomes very natural for us to honor Him with all Because they can't handle it. thing. as a steward for him. He's going to give further explanation about this particular passage in Hebrews. It says this, you have forgotten the exhortation which speaks to you as sons. You know, you're getting on my nerves. Because it's right for them. understand why you're doing what you're doing and all that kind of thing, but someday they'll understand. who will continue to chasten you. And the things that aren't, that they'll in their own discernment realize that's not a true reflection of the Heavenly Father. That is not what the Bible says. Lord, we need you. To have the best experience you can possibly have. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. Then I would not be ashamed. You are worthy of worship and of praise this morning, and we pray these things in Christ's name. Father, we are grateful and thankful for who you are, and we worship you and praise you because of who you are. undeserving as we are. And that there would be praise and honor and glory to your great name. and all of the things that we were thinking about on the way here. Let not mercy and truth forsake you. And so find favor and high esteem in the sight of God and man. uh for our us to get across to instill in our kids lives. Do not be wise in your own eyes. just as a father, the son in whom he delights. And it gives us instruction on how we, as fathers, what things are most essential, what things are most important for our I want to say, first of all, that there are many people that have had no opportunity, no choice, or I guess I should say no choice, but to live, to grow up in a home that there wasn't a father. Or you're now raising kids without a father in the home. And he is a father to the fatherless. having right influences and avoiding wrong influences and delighting in the law of the Lord. And and and yet what are the things that are most essential, that are most vital, that you just, you know, if if there's things you you don't teach your kids You know, they'll probably be okay, but the things that are most important, I really think, are in this passage, and that's why after these first two introductory chapters, Solomon gets right into it and he says, My son For length of days and long life and peace they will find with you. We want our kids to have a life that is pleasing to the Lord and the best life that they can live. Well, one of the things we see in this passage, something else that's very important, is he pleas for the heart. In verse 3, let not mercy and truth forsake you. So, what is the concept of heart in the Old Testament? or who appointed him over the whole world, if he should set his heart on it, if he should gather to himself his spirit and his breath, all flesh shall perish together and man would return to dust Solomon says that we need to let our hearts keep the commands of God. The world tells us that what you need to do is follow your heart. The best we know how. He will not depart from it. God's ways that we should have, we should want to instill in our own kids. Not just your your actions, let your heart keep my commandments. The first thing we see in this passage in verses 1 and 2 are the commands of God. per perfectly, but God desires for us to adjust to the commands of God, and thereby adjusting to the commands of God, we're adjusting to the character of God. But in the Old Testament, you have sort of this this veiled an idea here of this Deuteronomy chapter 6, verses 4 through 9 says, Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. talks about the two these two attributes of mercy and truth. What is mercy in this passage? In the Old Testament, what will be fully fleshed out in the New Testament, the very grace of God in Boaz's life and how he interacted. Naomi said to her daughter-in-law, Blessed be he of the Lord who has not forsaken his kindness in the living and the dead. Ruth says this, and she fell on her face and bowed down to the ground and said to him, meaning Boaz, why have I found favor? Truth carries the idea of favor. what Jesus does for all of us who are foreigners to him because of sin. Really hard for us to comprehend. that we find in Proverbs chapter 3 in this passage. Serve the Lord. The heart mean the mind and the entire being. then we will find favor and understanding in the sight of God and men. and put a new spirit within you, and I will take the heart of stone out of your flesh and give you a heart of flesh The fact is, we cannot receive this grace with a heart of stone that we are born with. For an exchange for our sin. In all your ways acknowledge Him, and He shall direct your paths. That we must teach our children, that we must instill into our children. Fathers, how is it that we can teach this to our children? In the Old Testament, there's a man who really stood amongst a ton of a great deal of kings that were evil. How could he do all of this? in the Lord God of Israel. nor who were before him, for he held fast to the Lord. The Lord was with him. And those are the times where we have to say, Lord, I trust you. Fathers, I think that the only way we can instill that in our kids is if we live it in our own lives as Christians. That's how we stay true and right throughout our lives. And those well look at look at the passage again. It will be health to your flesh and strength to your bones. the Old Testament. Solomon says, if you want to trust God, you've got to fear God. That's the fear of the Lord. Fathers, you ever look at the world and you've seen how the world is and you desperately want your kids to avoid the evil of the world? move into a place of foolishness, you know that their lives are going to be riddled with problems. Before I spank them, they're they're turning out uh uh uh quite well, um some of them. God actually uses the problems and sin in this world to perfect us and to make us into what he wants us to be. If they will just move off of foolishness into wisdom and the fear of the Lord, the fear of the Lord, the Bible says, is the what? Verse 9, honor the Lord. So your barns will be filled with plenty, and your vats will overflow with new wine. His son, to honor the Lord with our possessions. To see God as his father. Sometimes we think of honoring the Lord with our time. Why? If you look at Scripture, it's very clear whom the Lord loves, he chastens. But there but we also ought not despise it. And that means that we ought to avoid punishing in anger. For whom the Lord loves, he chastens, and scourges every son whom he receives. Shall we not much more readily be in subjection to the Father of spirits and live? But the Heavenly Father always chastens us for our good. will see will have some concept of what a father is, a very imperfect father, and they'll take from that Or he didn't do great in that area. someday. The Bible says in John 1. Now some people actually believe that we're all children of God. And by faith, we accept that gift of eternal life through Christ, and we become a child of the Father. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. And Father, we are grateful for this great plan of salvation. And Father, I think of those who are unable to be here with us today. What are the things? life that's pleasing to the Lord that He possibly could ha can have, and that's why you have things like length of days and long life and peace. One example of this is in Job 20 34 verses 12 through 15 where it says, Surely God will never be wit do wicked, nor will the Almighty pervert justice, who give who gave his charge over the earth. worldly parental philosophy is let your kids find out what they discover their own heart. certain goals that in the ways of God that I want you, my son, to hold on to in God's character. But Boaz is, without question, a picture of the kindness and the loving kindness Establish them. As we Christ took on our sin on himself, and by faith we are able to take on his righteousness. Fear the Lord and depart from evil. In 2 Kings chapter 18, verse 4, it says this. Maybe many times throughout our lives, where things happen in our lives that they just don't compute. And lean not in your own understanding. The father, the physical father, Solomon, is telling his son, I want you to learn to view God as your father. Now this is interesting. In faith to God, then he's going to make sure that you're rich. But painful, nevertheless. But for our prophet, we may be partakers of his holiness. with me. And the the things that are true that I have reflected the Heavenly Father in, they'll take that and they'll realize that that's a true reflection of the Heavenly Father. From them to be able to work from, to be able then to discern and to learn from their own Heavenly Father. There are some faces I'm not recognizing, and I'm thankful. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. or email us at info at bbcofmd. who seek him with the whole heart. that becomes our clear stability that we can set our roots deeply in in times of My son, do not despise the chastening of the Lord, nor detest his correction. Honor the Lord with your possessions, and with the first fruits of all your increase. This is the third chapter in Proverbs. My son, do not forget my law, but let your heart keep my commands. What it does tell us in this passage, this word train means to develop the palate, to develop the desires of our kids. to be intricately involved in developing the palate, the desires of our kids, to grow them, to instill in them the right desires that they should have for their lives. Bind them around your neck. And Ruth chose to follow Naomi and follow after Naomi's God, more importantly. the mercy and I think a precursor to the grace of God. with Ruth and with Naomi. And yet she is going to see in a very amazing way the kindness of God. Boaz, by expressing the character of God and the grace of God and the kindness of God, chose to care for Ruth and also for Naomi. And in Ruth chapter 3, verse 10, it says, Blessed are you of the Lord, my daughter, for you have shown more kindness at the end than the beginning. with which we are grafted into by the blood of Christ. To depend. around me, he is with me, he am I pr he I know his presence, I'm aware of his presence, and that is the concept of the fear of the Lord throughout these But we're a little afraid of if they continue down the road they are. Frankly, I'm not praying that my kids live a life that's just a wonderful bed of roses where you know everything is wonderful because that's not a prayer that's that's not a prayer that God is even going to answer. And we need to believe it enough that our kids get it. essential way of God that Solomon wants his child to get is that to view God as a heavenly father. For whom the Lord loves, he corrects, just as a father, the Son, in whom he delights as gods, given to us by his hand for his purposes, as stewards of what he has given to us. They will not despise the father's chastening. That I want my kids to be self-sufficient. Father, we come to you and we thank you and praise you for being our true Heavenly Father. Root ourselves in your commands and in your character, that we would have you as our Heavenly Father, and that that would be passed down to our children. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. uh of wavering in times of of the winds and struggles of life, we know that our our uh we are secure in And we're grateful that He intercedes on our behalf, making it possible that we could come before your throne this morning. And that when we leave here today, we will be changed by what we have learned from your word. really reducing the the the importance of the father. God is the Heavenly Father and He can give grace and does very frequently give grace in those kinds of situations. God desires for us to be rooted in his character, and Solomon desired for his son to be rooted in God desires for us instilled in our hearts and for us as fathers to instill in the hearts of our kids both mercy and truth. We are born in sin, and we are born with a stony heart. That is an indicator. In 2 Kings chapter 18, verse 1, it says, Now it came to pass in the third year of Hoshea, the son of Elah. Do we live this in front front of our kids? And fathers look at those things and they seek the Bible says foolishness is heart bound up in the heart of the child. The beginning of wisdom. To you so that you see your heavenly father as your father. So anyway, um that was y a long time ago. that that they're ready for the heavenly father to chasten them. My son, do not despise the chastening of the Lord, nor be discouraged when you are rebuked by him. The way that we do that, fathers, is by making sure that we have the right goals in our chastening. Number two, dependent on God rather than self. As an earthly father, and I pray uh really on behalf of all the earthly fathers in here, Lord, would you help us to instill in the hearts of our children Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. from your word. That though you are high and lifted up, and so much greater than us, you reach down and set your only begotten Son, Jesus Christ. My son, do not forget my law, but let your heart keep my commandments. uh that we're living in a world uh that is is uh really downplaying the role of the father This text really does show us the kind of father that we ought to be. There are three general things in this passage that Father Solomon is teaching to his children, to his son. Sometimes it's really speaking of God's covenant love and faithfulness with his people. Fathers, we ought to want that for our kids. And in Ezekiel 20, 36, verse 26, it says this. We are to be dependent on God. You know that you are not depending upon God with all of your heart when you are choosing to lean on your own understanding. who stood out. Trusting in God, believing in God, and being aware of the presence of God in our lives. That is not what God wants us to do. He is uh and he is God himself who came to earth, who died on the cross to take our sin on himself, to give us his righteousness. To come and take on flesh, being fully God and fully man. fills in gaps where there is no father. permanency in this passage as well. There is this it's essential permanency. If they understand that we're chastening them for their good. And you express your love to us, your care for us, the truth that you have shown us in your word, the law of the Lord. With permanency throughout your lives. follow after the commands of God. The fear of the Lord in the Old Testament is really summed up in the idea of being aware of the presence of God. They would go, I don't know, to the candy store and buy $10,000 worth of candy or something. So to say, oh, well, you know, I don't like God's chastening, well, nobody, the passages that we're going to learn to say it, nobody loves it at the time. Are we fathers, are we instilling the right attitude toward chastening to our children, to our kids? We want our kids to view God as our as their heavenly father. You have a few times that that's the case. And that the Heavenly Father is going to continue to chasten them. Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, we come with grateful and thankful hearts this morning And being high and lifted up, your ways and your thoughts are so much farther above us. Boaz took in Ruth, even though Ruth uh was considered a foreigner, an outsider Sometimes I think God doesn't give us as much as perhaps He would want to, because He knows we can't handle it. Why this is not this is not a health and wealth statement here. And if you are here today and you don't know whether or not you are a child of the Heavenly Father, of whether God is really your Father Lord, would you show that to our kids as well? Um and that we still n I mean I it's not that I don't like to teach you, it's just uh geometry is not my favorite subject. I will put my law in their minds and write it on their hearts. Help us to understand, at least certainly in an imperfect way, but a glimpse of who you are as our Heavenly Father. That we we would do our best very imperfectly. Verse 5, trust in the Lord with all of your what? Because I don't want you to end up in jail. Fathers uh that you are who have older adult kids and things, there's usually a delay in this kind of a thing. We pray all of these things in Christ's name. How is this instilled? May we have our kids become Hezekiahs in our world as well. Do you see the value of God's chastening in your own life? He followed the truth of Scripture. Certainly it is an awe of God. Um and uh one of them used to have a particularly hard time being spanked. So all of that to say as we conclude these things, let's remember these three things. We thank you for Christ, and we thank you for the sacrifice that He made on the cross for us, that we can truly accept by faith. That's non-material. Then secondly, we need to be dependent on God rather than self. And I thought to myself at the time I've never seen that before. Then you are illegitimate and not sons. If you want to know, the Bible says these things are written that you may know that you have eternal life, that believe on the name of the Son of God. And Father, I pray, Lord, that you would show us in the days ahead how wonderful a heavenly Father you are. We're going to be looking at Proverbs chapter 3 this morning, verses 1 through 12. But God wants us to fear him, and by doing so we'll we'll depart from evil, which in turn will be health to us. You want them to grow. If fathers, there are so many things that we need to teach our children, that we should teach our children, that we sometimes don't want to teach our children, like geometry, right? Proverbs 8. Has nothing to do with that. The Son, his Son, Jesus, is the firstborn of the children of God, Scripture says. There is an inseparable link between truth and faithfulness. Look at verse eight. He he chastens in different ways, that kind of a thing. Your chastening will continue by the Heavenly Father. These vital important things. Well, how do we how does a child, how do we teach our children that? He prospered wherever he went, and he rebelled against the king of Assyria and did not serve him, and subdued the Philistines as far as Gaza's territory and whatever and watchtower Let me just pause and ask you this question. You need to stop that. It also becomes very natural for a father to want to give more of his own possessions to his children to manage in a way that will please him. He then tells us to let not mercy and truth forsake you. But but Ruth chose not to. 12, it uses this wording of sons and fathers. He says, my son, do not forget my law, but let your let your heart keep my commandments. Write them. Lord, I pray this morning as well that as we stand upon your word, that you'd help us to worship you in spirit and in truth this morning It's not a guarantee that somehow there's sort of this formula that you can follow and your kids will end up doing everything right. All that to say that there is this desire on the part of fathers to see your children live lives. We need to pray for our kids. But in the very beginning stages of Proverbs, as Solomon uh uh gives wisdom to his son, he begins to explain that he wants his son to see Do we honor the Lord with all of our possessions? Proverbs 16, 6 says, By mercy and truth iniquity is purged, and by the fear of the Lord men depart from evil. There is this general sense that God is with me. Or it could be said, it will not depart from him. He followed after the Lord all of his days. That area does give me a baseline. Then I took into all your commandments. Oh, write them right on the table of their heart. 13 says it this way: the fear of the Lord is to hate evil. It's the same idea, the same word as honoring your parents in the commands in Exodus. I mean would you give you know uh you know ten thousand dollars cash to your three-year-old? You can have schools educate. We must desire for God to truly for us to truly hold on to the truth of God. He was in an evil land, an idolatrous land, and yet he stood right. Our barns will be filled with plenty, and our bats will overflow with new wine. I think it's probably okay that you don't want them to go to jail too. And not only the blessings, Father, but the protection and the provisions and the love wherewith you love us. Write them on the tablet of your heart. Why have I found favor in your eyes that you should take notice of me since I am a foreigner? With all what? In all your ways, acknowledge Him. We'll go to the next part here. The Bible doesn't, we are all made in the image of God. And we pray, Lord, that as we follow after you the best we know how, I pray, Lord, that we would we would trust you. Train up a child. And the Bible says great things about this king. Why? No, no. Three things we're going to look at. And how Ruth and Naomi, of course, were widows. And then as a result, he gives us a new heart of flesh that we are then able to receive the grace of God in our lives. Blessed are the undefiled in the way, who walk in the law of the Lord. First of all, we see provider. Why? And we thank you, Lord, for that. Fear the Lord and depart from evil. Engrave them on the tablet of your heart. Help them to know that. And so I want to be very clear at the very outset of this that although I want to uh encourage the fathers My dad and mom both used to tell me, particularly my dad, you know, he would spank me. They also do no iniquity, they walk in his ways. My own father, his father, was not in his home for most of for all of his adolescent life. It refers both to the mind, the will, and the emotions. Sometimes this word mercy is translated kindness. I don't think there's any time in the Old Testament that God has actually addressed as a Father. In Ruth chapter 1, verse 8, we see this. In all your ways, acknowledge Him, and He will direct your paths. I'm sorry, verse seven. If we can teach our children to fear the Lord, instill that in them, that is the beginning of wisdom. In all of your ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct your path. In verse 5, 6, and 9, it has things like engraving on the tablets of heart of the heart. Instead, what God wants us to do is to be sure that we chasten in the right way. And when we know that we are not acknowledging him in all of our ways, when we are wise in our own eyes. Because he trusted in his God. Is that they should behave why? So that after him was none like him among all the kings of Judah. Bind them around your neck. And verse 4, and so find favor and high esteem. It says this Let not mercy and truth forsake you, bind them around your neck, write them upon the table of your heart, and so find favor in high esteem. Why? Why? If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Father, we come to you and praise you because you are our loving Heavenly Father. One, we these essential ways are to be rooted in God's character, dependent on God, not self. Well, it's instilled by the gospel of Christ Afterward, it yields the peaceable fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained by it. The first chapter is a general chapter that talks primarily emphasizes the importance of That's our word that we're talking about here, kindly with you as you have dealt with the dead and with me. Help us this morning to set aside all the distractions of this week. Sometimes we need to make sure, you know, we still sort of say, well, if I need to have our devotion. And he does this through the transaction that was made on uh beginning on the cross You ever heard parents say that? You want your kids to be God sufficient, not self-sufficient. So this should not be a message I hope that is the discouraging to you if you're in a situation where your home there's no father. So what Solomon is get is getting at for as a father to his son is there are certain things in life, certain desires, certain pursuits. And frankly, sometimes we don't handle it all that well. I'm glad you're here. We are invited into His grace. How can we instill this to our children? You know that if they continue in foolishness or if they Um and uh and he would say after he spanks me he spanked me, he said he said, you know he would say, you know, God spanks me harder than he spanks you. No. It's a little different than the New Testament concept of heart. Rooted in God's character. And in fact, it's sort of ironically setting up the story But Solomon wants to teach his son to make sure that he is trusting in the Lord as well. Number one, we need to be rooted in God's character. And I pray that you would comfort those Lord who are struggling through different things in their lives. I used to tell one of my kids, um Because it has an extremely valuable purpose. And you really hope that someday they'll understand. And the reason for this is that the commands of God reflect the character of God. That's not what it's saying. And Father, I just want to lift them up to you. So Solomon, who is the uh the father in this passage, is giving advice to his son. At the same time, I want us to understand that the grace of God You can have the church can help educate them biblically. I'm sorry, carries the idea of faithfulness. It is a and it and it certainly has an aspect of wanting to follow him and do right because there God does chasten us, which we're going to see in Scripture. Now this kind of fear is not the kind of being terrified of what God is going to do to you. Furthermore, we have had human fathers who corrected us and we paid them respect May we take this hour and sit under your word and be changed from within It will be health to your flesh and strength to your bones. With all of your heart. For until those days the children of Israel burned incense to it and called it Naheshton. Do we do we chasen our kids that way? I want you to grow in Christ. We want our kids to be dependent on God rather than self. Amen. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. He's wanting his son to have the best life, the best All of your heart. Develop the palate of your children. Proverbs fourteen twenty-two says, Do they not err that the di that devise evil, but mercy and truth shall be to them In Jeremiah 31, verse 3, it says, But this is the covenant that I have made with the house of Israel after those days, saying, He was rooted clearly in truth. There's sort of this implication. For your good. A worldly parental way of dealing with things. We need to pray we need to live out a life of dependency on the Lord It's not like, oh man, I'm going to live my whole life avoiding the chastening of God. And in fact, um m uh uh uh Ruth responds in kindness to Boaz. And I was kind of serious. And he says, honor the Lord with all your possessions and with your first fruits of your increase. Now let me just pause and mention this. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. org. We ought to avoid, you ever heard somebody say, uh a parent, I've heard this before, a parent say, uh He removed the high places and broke down, broke the sacred pillars, cut down the wooden image. Do not be wise in your eyes. This is not saying, oh, well, uh, if you give And and then I uh and then I, you know, uh he explained longer wing means he's he's You shall teach them diligently to your children. You shall bind them as as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes. That our kids would know as well the favor of God. A dependency on God and a trust in the Lord. And if we do the our best to help them to understand this, and very frankly, there's usually an a delay in that, by the way. For length of days and long life and peace they will add to you. Do you, fathers, despise the chastening of God? And the wonderful thing about God's grace is that He is our Heavenly Father. Bind them around your neck. This is what he is telling to his son. He did not depart from following him, but kept his commandments, which the Lord had commanded Moses The truth is, most kids think that when they get out of the house, they'll suddenly experience freedom. Look, the reality is, this is true, if you're a child of God, you will be chastened. It uses the wording, it says, But as many as received him, to them gave he the power to become the sons or the children of God. Put away the gods of your fathers, served on the other side of the river and in Egypt. The exhortation from Solomon to his son is to fear the Lord. Now, no chastening seems to be joyful for the present time. You may have heard that before. Lord, we thank you for our our earthly fathers. How do we instill that in our children? And then and so find favor in the highest deem in the sight. He held fast. May the Lord richly bless you. Uh more than one in four children now live without their father in the home For length of days and long life and peace will add to you. And then we find the concept of truth as well. But but you you want them to grow in Christ Father, I pray, Lord, as a father. And that's very important. Do we really view all of our possessions And so find favor and high esteem in the sight of God and man. God desires for us to honor the Lord. Psalm 25 verse 10 says this all the paths of the Lord are mercy and truth. And He will direct our paths. Three times in this passage, he is telling them, he's telling his son, be very concerned about your heart. We are, uh if if this happens I don't understand, but I trust you. We need what we our goal as fathers really, isn't it true, folks, that our goal as fathers should be to pass the baton to the Heavenly Father? It will be health to your flesh and strength to your bones. The second chapter in Proverbs talks about the importance of wisdom and to pursue wisdom and to work after wisdom and to seek after wisdom. Always. I will praise you with uprightness of heart. Trust in the Lord with all your heart May we have more Hezekiahs You wouldn't do that. He's simply saying that if we will honor the Lord with our possessions, then the Heavenly Father will be able to give us more to manage for Him. For what son is there whom the Father does not chasten? Don't say that. Psalm one nineteen, and we'll read verses one through eight. We are thankful that you are our great example. And what God has to do in our lives is to give us a new heart. Dependent on God rather than self. Uh there was one king That exhortation is in Proverbs here. Write them on the tablet of your heart. It says, and Naomi said to her two daughters-in-law, go return I will, and prophesying what would happen in the New Testament, I will give you a new heart. But what God wants us to do sometimes is to simply say, Lord, I don't understand, I don't get it, but I'm going to trust you. But may it be said that we we at least establish a reasonable foundation. View God as our heavenly father. Dependent on God, not self. Pride and arrogancy and the evil way and the froward mouth do I hate. If you become his child, your chastening will continue by the Heavenly Father. If you don't know whether or not the Lord is your heavenly father, you can know for sure. Uh the fact is we're living in a world The second thing here is to be dependent upon God and not self, to trust My son, do not despise the chastening of the Lord, nor detest his correction. Now the only way they're going to be able to do that is by knowing the Word of God. And yet because of the grace of God and the sacrifice that Christ made and by his own love for us that is I want you to become Christ-like. Amen. God doesn't say to do that. Because they to please the Lord. Lord, we cannot I mean the maybe the the And that is this king, Hezekiah, who was the son of Ahaz. Fear the Lord and depart from evil. And he mentions really two primary ways that God is our Father, and that is first provision, provider. And he went to the cross and took the sin of the world upon himself. And I think there is frankly only one way. I hope and pray that that my kids And when they understand, they'll understand also that the chastening isn't finished God, do you the look, the Father always chasten, always. And we thank you in Jesus' name. Number one His mother's name was Abai, the daughter of Zachariah. And there are times, brothers and sisters in Christ, You may have heard it sung before that we're all children of God, like everybody in the world is children of God. Maybe that's the first step to dependency on you. In the New Testament, you have different words like mind and heart. And the Father, God our Father, gives us what we what we will manage well for him. Do we do we punish them or chasten them? Who shall you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your strength. Truth and faithfulness. I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Uh And uh I would say to them, Look, you know why I spank you? Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. Well, how does that occur? Sometimes it's translated loving kindness How did he do that? For they indeed for a few days chasten us as seems best to them And Father, we praise you and thank you for your word that we can share it. So your barns will be filled with plenty, and your vats will overflow with new wine Write them on the tablet of your heart. It isn't at all that we stop chastening. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. We are to, with our hearts, We get that very clear in the New Testament from Jesus himself as he addresses the Father. We hope to see you soon. You have commanded us to keep your precepts diligently. But I don't think And I'd like you to pick up in verse 5 of this passage, Hebrews chapter 12, verse 5. So that you can leave today truly a biblical child of God. And I pray that our ears and our eyes would be open, and that, Lord, we would be ready and willing to receive For whom the Lord loves, he corrects. We see pictured Blessed are those who keep his testimonies. You are the creator and sustainer of all life. There is absolute Do not be wise in your own eyes In Joshua chapter 24, verse 14, it says, Now therefore He tried he did what was right in the sight of God. Hebrews 11:6 says this, but without faith it is impossible to please God. Honor the Lord with your possessions and with the first fruit of your increase. We're all created by God. But anyway, um Well, what are those three ways? And in the story, there's this love story that occurs between Boaz and Ruth. They just don't make sense He is He is But do we honor the Lord with our possessions? And not to lean on your own understanding. In fact, would you take your Bibles and turn there to Hebrews chapter 12? Three things, three essential things when it's And Father, we are grateful this morning. It's all of it together. Don't forget them. Just like a father doesn't give everything to his child when he's when they're young, why? And then he says, this, My son, do not despise the chastening of the Lord. The length of days and long life and peace they will add to you You shall talk of them when you sit in your house. Sometimes we warn our kids with too much anger and not enough love. And Father, we're grateful for the many blessings that you bestow upon us Do not be wise in your own eyes. He stayed true. Nobody cares about your nerves. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. He is after the heart of his son. I'm your father, and I want to pass on the baton That means as much as we can as fathers, we need to chasten our children for their good. You you you chasing their kit your kids and they don't really But uh as I look through Proverbs chapter three, um Trust in the Lord with all your heart And are you chastening your kids in such a way that when they are old? It is inaccurate to say In Ruth 2, chapter 2, verse 20. And we find in the text that Boaz This is the concept of mercy. But boy, I really don't want them to face problems that could be needlessly avoided if they will just Yeah, we did that back then and you know, I think there's probably some sort of statute of limitations on, you know The Old Testament in the book of Psalms and Proverbs We we think of honoring the Lord perhaps with our prayers. We thank you for how uh they really um Rooted in God. When I learn your righteous judgments, I will keep your statutes. The third You are a good, good Father. And he's now seated at your right hand, and we worship and praise him this morning Shape the heart of your children in the way they should go. Sometimes I wondered, is this one gonna be the you know the criminal in the family, you know? And maybe today, this morning. And honoring to God as Father. You wouldn't do that. Let me encourage you to know that today. Praise. And frankly, the the only life worth living is a life that's le that's lived God says that we need to develop and to shape our children's hearts. And he says here, bind them on thy neck. Proverbs chapter 3, verses 1 through 12. You have this entire relationship that pictures Verse 5 of 2 Kings chapter 18. I'm going to choose not to lean on my own understanding. Frankly, not that are going to be a bed of roses, because that's not life. Let your heart I want you to learn that your chastening will not stop. There is, I think, no better illustration of this in the Old Testament than in the book of Ruth. If you live your whole life avoiding the chastening of God, you're not going to be living for God. But we really would love to meet you in person. And number three Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. And my father decided to stand in the gap and become a good father. Sometimes the only answer is we need to trust the Lord. Those kinds of things that are that we you know we want our kids to have. And that is we need to live it. Nobody says, yes, I'd get to have a spanking. We want our kids to be rooted in the character of God. This is his plea to his son. We've got that word favor now, which is a different word. But as they do, they'll be able to say, you know, Dad wasn't right. But in order to be a child of God, you must receive his son It's your whole being. What are the essential ways? But if you are without chastening, of which all have become partakers, I f I think I like chasing better. They wouldn't have any clue what to do with that. You and I have the opportunity as parents Those who uh fear the Lord Fear the Lord and depart from evil. You can't avoid it. One time I I said this, I said uh I didn't Why? Let not mercy and truth forsake you This is very interesting. The commands of God reflect the character of God. It isn't at all that we don't chasten. What are the essential things Now I'm not saying heaven earthly fathers always do this We do depend on you for this, Lord. So first we're going to look at rooted in God's character. Because God is your provider Oh, that my ways were directed to keep your statutes. Solomon wanted Are do we chasing our kids in such a way That's not the way life works. Hebrews 12. Look at verse 5. In fact Notice what the passage says here. You shall write them on the doorposts of your house. And the way that you can learn that and know more about that is come and talk about the next one. In Proverbs 22, verse 6. It is called the Exchange. Actually, I think there is a couple of times more, I think. In Ruth chapter 2, verse 10, in fact. That is actually a reference to the new covenant. Trust in the Lord with all your heart We would He trusted Let's pray together. And when he is old. We want our kids to have peace. He didn't do well in that area. Anyway. I want you to know