Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. Who being in the form of God did not consider it robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation, taking the form of a bondservant and coming in the likeness of men. And being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient to the point of death, even the death of the cross. Together. Father, we come to you and thank you for your goodness to us. We thank you for the truth of the scriptures that explain that Christ left his glory. He left the glories of heaven. He left his place with you and condescended to come down to earth to be Become a man, to further humble himself to become a servant, to further humble himself to the point of death, even the death of the cross And I pray today, this morning, as we look at your word, that you would help us to understand the truth of what it says. To marvel at what Christ did in his humility, but also to be thankful. And also, Father, that we would emulate, because in this passage it tells us that our mind should be the same as Christ in this area. So that we would learn how to humble ourselves before you We pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. Our culture does, it teaches us that more is better And that we should live higher and go higher and higher in life. Think of the movie Rocky, for example. That's a American classic and uh I guess and uh you know you have a man from Rags the Riches story, he's gone, he's an uneducated small time club fighter. uh and uh debt collector if you remember the story and he ascends to be become the world heavyweight champion. You remember the the scene at the art uh art museum in in Philadelphia, climbing the stairs at the end, climbing higher. And that's it was intended to be uh to indicate to indicate and show what the the the American story is like and climbing higher and higher and it's kind of built into our thinking in America and our Western culture And frankly, all over the world. We want to advance ourselves. We want to advance our careers. We want to advance our education. We want to go higher and higher and higher. And yet Christmas is not a celebration of that. Christmas is not a celebration of going higher and higher and higher. Christmas is a celebration of Christ who was high and became low, who was as high as you could be and came and humbled himself before us. And it's also interesting and important to note as we look at this message today in this particular passage. That he says in Philippians chapter 2, verse 5, Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. You have here in this passage, in these three verses, really, probably the central central passage to really understand And the incarnation and what Christ did, maybe it's the most central passage in all the New Testament to really help us to understand the very heart and essence and core of what he did on this earth. particularly in his in his coming to earth. And in this very passage we have, it's actually written to a church. Church at Philippi who who was a good church. It was it was a thank you letter to the Church of Philippi and thanking them for different things. But there was some disunity in the body and there was a lack of humility in the body apparently and he writes this to say let this mind be in you which was also in Christ Jesus. Jesus. In Philippians two five, let this mind be in you which is also in Christ Jesus. But in first Peter chapter two, verse twenty one it says, For this you are called because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that you should follow in his step. steps. And in Matthew 11, 29, which we've looked at fairly recently, he says, take my yoke upon you and learn of me. For I am gentle and lowly and hard, and you'll find rest for your souls. So Christmas is a celebration of someone coming high, or someone who is high coming low. And we see in this passage the way that Christ came to a place of humility, this way of humility. How did Christ humble himself? We're going to see three things. In this passage. In verse six, we're going to see that he humbled he humbled himself from a place of secure identity. Then we're going to see in verse 7 that he humbled himself from a place of servant humility. And then finally, we're going to see in verse 8 that he humbled himself to a place of obedient death. Secure identity, servant humility, and an obedient Let's look first at Christ humbling himself from a place of secure identity, verse 6. Who being in the form of God did not consider it robbery to be equal with God. The word form is an interesting word. It's going to be used again in this passage, and so we'll make note of that. But this word form has the idea of being clothed in. In Isaiah 44, verse 13, it says this, this is the Old Testament uh Greek translation equivalent. It says the cra craftsman stretches out his root rule, he marks one out with ch with chalk, he fashions it with a plane He marks it out with a compass and makes it like the figure of a man, according to the beauty of a man, that it may remain in the house. And uh we have uh this idea of being clothed, but we also have this idea of the word form. Uh it's translated image actually in the New Testament. Testament as well. In Romans chapter 1, verses 20, verse 23, it says this, and change the glory of incorruptible God into an image. That's the word form here. What does it mean when it says being in the form of God? We have the idea of being clothed. We have the idea of being An image in Luke seven twenty-five we have a similar word here. Um it says but what do you what do you out uh what do you go out to see? Actually there's a totally different word, but it's the idea of being clothed. A man clothed in garments, soft garments, indeed those who are gorgeously appareled, that gorgeously appareled is a word that is has the idea of glory. Now that helps us a little bit understand what this word forms. Form means. The word form has to do with the word glory, the idea of glory. Being in the glory of God. Being in the form of God, being in the glory of God So what what is it saying here? Now let's think about then what is the glory of God. What does it mean when it says being Jesus being in the glory of God, thought it not a thing to be grassed to be equal with God. Glory we find very well developed in the Old Testament. Do you remember one of the key passages to understand the glory of God is in Exodus 33, verses 18-19, where Moses asks God, Show me your glory. Now keep in mind that in that passage, he's up on Mount Sinai. He'd already heard from God. He heard words from God. It wasn't as though God wasn't there, but he says, Show me your glory. In that passage in verse 18 it says, He said, Please show me your glory. Then he said, I will make all my goodness, God says this to Moses, all my goodness pass before you And I will proclaim the name of the Lord before you I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious, and I will have compassion to whom I have compassion. We find later on in the book of Exodus and in the Pentateuch Leviticus and other places, that you have the glory in the cloud. For example, in Leviticus chapter 9, verse 6, it says, the cloud covered the tent of the meeting, and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle And other places in Scripture it says the same thing. Even in 1 Kings chapter 8 and 11 with the temple has the same thing. The priests could not perform their service because the clouds for the glory of the Lord filled the temple. There's this cloud. You've got the picture of a cloud. You've got a picture of the goodness of God. You've got a picture of light in Scripture as well in thinking about this idea of glory. In Ezekiel chapter 1, verse 28, it says, Like the appearance of a rainbow in the clouds on a rainy day, so was the radiance around him. This was the appearance of the likeness of the glory of the Lord. In Ezekiel 43. 2 it says, I saw the glory of God of Israel coming from the east. The land was radiant with his glory. So you have this picture of light, talking about the glory of God as a cloud, as light. Ultimately the idea of glory is the ide is that God is revealing himself in such a way that you can know it's God. And he does it in certain ways. And what we see in the Old Testament is that there are degrees to his glory. And so we get into the New Testament, we see the same kind of thing. 2 Corinthians chapter 3, verse 2. Verse eight eighteen. But we all with unveiled face, beholding as in a mirror the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from glory to glory, just as the Spirit of the Lord. And Second Corinthians chapter four, verses four through six says this, whose minds the God of this age has blinded who do not believe lest the light of the glory of the uh the gosp the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God, shall shine on them For we do not preach ourselves but Christ Jesus the Lord, and ourselves your bondservants for the Christ For Jesus' sake. For it is the God who commanded light to shine out of darkness, who has shown in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. We have the other idea, this idea of the face. And you remember in the Old Testament, when Moses came from the mountain, he was exposed to the glory of God. What did he come down? He came down and his face was glowing, was bright. There was a brightness to the face of the This is the idea of the form when it's talking about the form here, it's talking about the glory of God. And Jesus was in the The the radiant it says being in the radiant glory of God. And then it says this he did not consider it robbery to be equal with God. Well, what is that saying? He didn't consider robbery to be equal with God. Well, one thing is certainly affirming the fact that he, Jesus, is God. He is very God. John, he said in John Chapter ten verse thirty, I and my father are one. He is God. Jesus is God. So he's uh he did not consider it a thing to be grasped is the word there. The idea of grasping, uh it is used as a a thief of grasping something. But it's not he did not think it a thing to be grasped to be God because Jesus is God. First Corinthians chapter 15 verses 45 through 48 say this. And so it is written, the first man Adam became a living being. The last Adam became a living, a life-giving spirit. However, the spiritual is not first, but the natural, and afterward the spiritual. The first man was of the earth made of dust, and the second man is uh is the Lord from heaven. As was the man of dust, so also are those whom Now do you see the passage? This is interesting. Interesting, he says, why would he say it this way? Why would it be worded this way? If if if if what the passage was supposed to do was only to affirm the deity of Christ Why would it s just say and by the way Jesus is God? Being in the form of God, uh Jesus is God, being in the glory of God, Jesus is God, and then move on. Why would it say he did not consider it I'd like to suggest to you that it is alluding to other others who Are in the Old Testament who grasped at deity. Who grasped at being God in the Old Testament? Remember? There are two two persons. One is Satan, isn't it? Didn't he say he ascended to be equal with God? And there's somebody else, though. Adam and Eve. Do you remember what it says in Genesis chapter three verse five? In fact, Satan tempted them with this, for God knows that in the day you eat of it, your eyes will be open, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil evil. In Isaiah fourteen, twelve through fourteen fifteen, we have that passage where Satan wants to exalt himself, how you are fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning How you cut down to the ground you who are weakened the nations, for you have said in your heart, I will ascend into heaven, I will exalt my throne above the stars of God. I will also sit on the mount of the congregation of the farthest sides of the north, I will ascend above the heights of the clouds, I will be like the most high, yet you shall be brought down to Sheol, to the lowest depths of the pit And you know, folks, that's really what sin is. Sin is an offense against God. Sin Sin is an attempt to elevate ourselves equal to God or above God. And Adam failed because he sinned That was the temptation that Satan gave. In Romans chapter 5, verse 12, it says this: therefore, just as through one man since Entered the world and death through sin, and thus death spread to all men because all sinned. But the free gift is not like the offense. For if by one man's offense many died, much more the grace of God and the gift by the grace of one man, Jesus Christ, abounded to many Do you know Jesus when he came to this earth? He did not grasp at being God. He is God. And he was he was to replace Adam as the second Adam as our rightful representative. Adam failed as a as a representative of man. And now Jesus would come, and He He was going to be able to do what Adam did. not do. And living a perfect life. And then he came also as a substitute for us, which we'll see in a few minutes, and dying for us as well. It's interesting. Jesus, who c what did Jesus leave behind? Jesus left behind his glory. He limited his glory. He veiled his glory so that he could come to earth. He still retained his deity. He still is God. And he was God when he came to earth. But he put off the clothing of his glory so that he could come to this earth. There are several things, several implications that, and really applications that we can understand from this. People, I think, I think it's fair to say that people struggle with humbling themselves sometimes because they don't know who they really are in the first place. We have in our as we as a child as children we we grow up and we have sort of this sense of insecurity and we're trying to make something of ourselves and as we get to Teenage years, we definitely try to make something of ourselves. We're trying to find who we are. And we and it's just somewhat natural for us to think that we are made that that our value is based on what we do. And our value is based upon our talents and our giftedness and our and all of those different things. But do you realize that if you are created by God and you are, that your value comes from the fact that you are an image bearer? That you are created by God with exactly what God wants you to have, and the talents, and the abilities, and the personality, and the mental capacity, and all those things that God wanted you to have. He you you have it and you are valuable not because of what you do, but because of who you are, because you are created. And secondly, you are valuable and probably more really really more importantly because if if you know Christ as your Savior, you're redeemed. You are your value, and your value has has nothing to do with your own merit. We don't come to Christ on our own good works. We don't come to Christ on our own merit. We come to Christ accepting the gift of eternal life, and Christ makes us valuable so that we our who we are, our identity is firmly, should be firmly planted in who Jesus is. And so we don't wonder about our how how valuable we are anymore. We're firmly established in the fact that we are accepted in the beloved scripture says, Ephesians 1:6, that's Ephesians two six, and raised us up together and made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus. There's no higher calling than being a Christian. There's no greater way to ascend than being truly born again And we can't get there on our own, and we have to rely on what Christ did for us, which we'll learn about in a few moments. Folks, once we begin to really find our identity in who we are in Christ. It puts us in a place where we can now learn to humble ourselves. Without that, there's too much insecurity. But when we realize who we are in Christ, we now can begin to follow after what Christ is. And the truth of the matter is what's interesting. Is that in order to realize who you are in Christ, in order to become a Christian, you must realize that you are a sinner. You must realize that you are in need of a savior. Once you've realized that and you've accepted Christ as your Lord and Savior, we need to identify with Christ, and our value comes from who we are in Christ. And and folks, there are some that struggle with insecurity, but there are others that struggle with pride. capacity is or what their giftedness is. And they value that and they're not placing that that's valueless to God if we're not using those things for His purposes and for His glory. And yet, in our minds, we have a sense of value based on those things rather than in who Christ is and what he has done for us and who we are in Christ. Once we're there, then Christ has an entirely different way of looking at everything. And he taught his disciples this. Do you remember in the book of Matthew in chapter in Matthew 20 verse 20 uh it says this then mother the mother of Zebedee's sons came to him Can you imagine a proud mom wants their wants the best for his son for her sons? Comes to Christ and says, Hey, can you have one of your one of my sons sit on the right hand, your right hand and another son sit on the left hand of your kid and your kid? Kingdom. We ever act that we ever uh have that kind of perspective with our own kids. We want our kids to to we want our kids to promote you know we want to promote our kids. We want our kids to have all of this and go ascend higher and higher and higher and when we can't do it, maybe our kids will do it. We have that kind of approach. Well that's what this mother has But Jesus, and the disciples, if you remember as well, the disciples would argue about who would be the greatest in the kingdom of heaven. They, their mental, and we we look at them, how horrible was it? How prideful. No, we do the same kind of thing. And yet in Matthew chapter twenty, verse twenty-four, it says this. But Jesus called them to himself and said, You know that the rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and those who are great exercise authority over them. Man did not come to be served, but to serve and to give his life a ransom for many. Jesus' Jesus' way of thinking, his mindset is totally different than the world's mindset. And totally different than Satan's mindset. And totally different than our human nature's mindset. It's totally different. The world says, ascend, go higher and higher. Our human nature says, I need to ascend, I need to go higher and higher. Satan says, you need to ascend, go higher Third higher, that's what I'm gonna tempt you with And Jesus says, no. Jesus says, if you want to be great in the kingdom of heaven, be a servant. Serve. This is what is so amazing about the Christmas story. It's what should put us in awe that the God of the universe, the creator of heavens and earth, the creator of all things Left his glory, came down to earth for us. J. B. Phillips in his fanciful dialogue said this. He's talking about the The angel's point of view, and this is this is fiction, but I think it helps us to get the picture. The little angel was beginning to be tired and a little bored. He had been shown whirling galaxies and blazing suns and infinite distances and the deadly cold of interstellar space. And to his mind there seemed to be an awful lot of it, of it all. Finally, he was shown the galaxy of which our planetary system is but a small part. As the two of them, there's a uh an angel that was with him. As the two of them drew near to the star, which we uh call our sun, and to its circling planets, the senior angel pointed to a small and rather insignificant sphere turning very slowly on its axis. It looked as dull as as uh as a dirty tennis ball to the little angel whose mind was filled with the size and glory of what he had seen. And not perhaps overly clean, has been visited by our young prince of glory. And at these words he bowed his head reverently. From there, uh he leads the senior the junior angel through a series of revelations about Christ's incarnation that leaves him stunned and incredible. The God of glory comes to earth to become a man, to humble himself. In verse 7 it says this, but made himself of no reputation Taking the form of a bondservant and coming in the likeness of men. Christ humbled himself to a place of servant. It says here, made himself of no reputation. The word means to empty himself. He emptied himself. Well, what did he empty himself of? Well, he emptied himself of the glory that we've been talking about. He didn't empty himself of his deity. He didn't empty himself of being God. But he did empty himself of his glory. And this was prophesied in Isaiah 53, too. It says, For he shall grow up before him as a tender plant tender plant. And as a root out of the dry ground, he has no form or comeliness, and when we see him, there is no beauty that we should desire him. They didn't it wasn't as though Jesus came and somehow had some glory or beauty emanating from him that people would know who he was. He was he was to the to the to the person He made himself of no reputation. That is, he was not recognizable as God when he came to the came to this earth. And it's and not only that, but he took upon himself the form of a of a bondservant, the form of a bondservant. In Isaiah 53, verse 3 it says this he was despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, and we hid, as it were, our faces from him He was despised, and we did not esteem him. Surely he hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows, yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God, and afflicted. Second uh Corinthians eight nine says this, for you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became He took on, he left the form of God, the glory of God, and he became man and he took on the form. He clothed himself as a bond slave. And then it says this, he was made in the likeness of men. The word there is the idea of he became man. It it it retains the idea of him being God still, but he was clothed with humanity, so that he is both God and man. And here's what is amazing. He is still God, man. Even after the resurrection and the ascension, he goes to his father in the right hand of the Father, and he remains both God and man. It's incredible what he did for us. This should cause our hearts to just be amazed at what Jesus did in becoming in becoming So he became in the likeness of men. Being a slave, being a bond slave back in the first century, if they were When they would have heard those words, they would have understood that Jesus gave up that a slave a slave gave up his very name. He gave up his honor, he gave up his power, he gave up his um his own agenda, he gave up his rights And when Jesus came to this earth to become uh and took on the form of a bond slave, he gave up his rights And and this brings this is something that God wants us to do. In Second Corinthians chapter 4, verse 5, it says this for we do not preach ourselves, but Christ Jesus Jesus the Lord and ourselves your bondservant for Jesus' sake. We are to be bondservants of Christ, giving up our rights, our power, our honor We don't live for our own name. We don't ascend our own, we don't want to climb higher and higher with our own reputation, our own name. No, we live for the name of Christ. You follow Christ. Why is it so important to be a servant? Because you cannot promote your name and Christ's name at the same time. We must promote the name of Christ alone. In John chapter 3, verse 30, John the Baptist said, I he must increase, and I must. decrease. Christ Himself stood as our example of servanthood. In John chapter thirteen, verses twelve through seventeen it says this So when he had washed their feet, taking his garments, and sat down again, he said to them, Do you know that I have done what I have done to you? You call me teacher and lord, and you say, Well, for so I am. If I then, your Lord and teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another's feet. For I have given you an example. that you should do as I have done. Most assuredly I say to you, a servant is not greater than his master, nor is he uh who is a s uh is sent a greater than than he who Sent him for you know these things, blessed are you if you do them. One of the very final acts that Jesus does before he goes to the cross on that uh uh uh before the disciples is he washes their feet and he says, you go and be each other's servants. Follow my example. Follow in my steps. Do what I have called you to do. It is a very different way of looking at life, isn't it? Now you say you say, well does that mean that in my career I can't I can't be promoted? Is that is that what you're saying? That I can't I can't go from one promotion to the next to the next? Is that what you're saying? No, I'm not saying that, but what I would be saying is it does matter how you get there. If you are living to be pro to promote yourself from one one to the next so that you You can ascend and so that by your promotion you can feel somehow of greater value, of greater importance, of greater worth than folks. Perhaps you've gotten into a worldly kind of thinking. However, if you're at a job and you're faithful and you serve people and you serve your boss and you serve the Lord as you You work hard. It would not surprise me at all. And it probably wouldn't surprise you either that those faithful people might easily get promoted. But sometimes they won't. In fact, sometimes you won't because you are a Christian. Sometimes you will there will be people that have animosity against you And you will not receive the promotion that you thought you would receive. But for the Christian, we're not living for promotion, we're living for Christ. We're living to serve faithfully. And let God promote us as he sees fit. It is a different way of looking at life. We're following the example of Christ. Christ says, Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ. Jesus. But amazingly, Christ's humility doesn't stop there. His humility, he is going to humble himself even further, according to the next verse. Notice what it says in verse 8. And being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient to the point of death, even the death of the cross. It says, being found as a human being. He humbled himself. What does it mean there being found in appearance as a man. Well, he was it's clothed with humanity. He was found, in other words, it was it was established that he was man. He took on the likeness of man. He was both God and man. It's interesting in the first century they there was really uh problems with both sides of this in the sense that some people would would uh would try to emphasize the humanity of Christ uh to the exclusion of the deity of Christ. Some would emphasize the deity of Christ, to the exclusion of the ma humanity of Christ, and some would say that, well, Christ's body was was was human, but his body was But the re try to make a distinction between his spirit, who was deity, and his body, who was humanity. But no, it was all Jesus is the God man, and it makes it very clear here that that is the case. But he comes and he is obedient. The God of the universe is obedient. John chapter four, verse thirty-four, says this my food is to do the will of him who sent me and finish his work. When Jesus came to this earth, he fulfilled the will and the plan of his father He did not fulfill his own agenda. He didn't do what he wanted to do. He didn't, once he came to this earth, decide that he was going to ascend his way. No, he came and he fulfilled the will of his father to do his work. This was necessary, according to Romans chapter five, verse nineteen. It says this for as by one man's disobedience, Adam, many were made sinners, so as so also by one man's obedience, Jesus, many were made, many will be made righteous. How what was this obedience? Well ultimately it was to live a perfect life, but ultimately it was to die. Isaiah 53, verse 12 says, This, therefore, I will divide him a portion with the great, and he shall divide the spoil with the strong, because he poured out his soul unto death. And he was numbered with the transgressors, and he bore the sin of many, and made intercession for the transgressors. He died for you and for me. Our sin results in eternal separation from God. Death. Jesus came and did what Adam failed to do in living a perfect life And then went to the cross. And what did he do? He died in our place. So that he could, he took on our sin on himself, died in our place. So that we could, if we'll only by faith, we can receive that gift of eternal life. So that we can be exalted because Jesus was abased. But then it says this, it goes further. It points out in this passage, Paul points out that this was a particular kind of Death. This was the death of the cross. And as soon as the the original listeners heard that this is the death of the cross, it would have reminded them of the human humiliating circumstances of this death. The details of this kind of death were utter humiliation. Martin Hengel writing on the crucifixion says this, the last word to be heard of is the word cross. Death on a cross was not a heroic death, a noble death, but a shameful death, a disgraceful death. The cross displayed the lowest depth of human depravity and cruelty. It exhibited most the most brutal form of sadistic torture and execution ever invented by malicious human minds. Roman law forbade Roman citizens from being persecuted. because it was such a humiliating kind of death. Cicero called the death on the cross this. He said it was a most cruel and disgusting punishment. It was the worst extreme of tortures inflicted upon slaves. To bind a Roman citizen is a crime, to flog him is an abomination, to slay him is almost an act of murder. To crucify him is what? There's no fitting word that can possibly describe so horrible a deed. He went to the death of the cross. Galatians 3. 13 says it this way. Christ was redeemed. Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the law, having become a curse for us. For it is written, cursed is everyone who hangs on a tree. Isaiah 52, verse 14 says this: just as many were astonished at you, so his visage was marred more than any man, and his form more than the sons of men. This was the humility of Christ. And he did this for you and for me. When Paul writes these words, he says, Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. You might be saying, well, what kind of Christmas message is this? Like, you know, what happened to jingle bells? I mean, what happened to what happened to, you know, uh the jolly Saint Nick Well, as I've said before, there's cultural Christmas and there's the biblical incarnation. And there's nothing wrong with celebrating cultural Christmas. I mean there can be something wrong with it, but there isn't necessarily anything wrong with so celebrating cultural Christmas. But folks, we better understand that there is a big difference between Cultural Christmas and what Christ did when he came to this earth. And the reality is that we often we sort of mix the two. Songs like What Shall I Give Him? Poor as I Am. If I Were a Shepherd, I would give a Lamb. The song continues, If I were a wise man, I'd do my part. But what should I give him? Give him my heart. And you know what God would say to that? I don't want that. It's deceitful and desperately wicked. The fact is, there is nothing that we can give him. We are completely spiritually dead. We need Christ Christ. We need to receive what only Jesus can give in eternal life. And so in summing all of this up, I'll ask I want to ask three questions. The first question is this. Are you secure in your identity as an image bearer, a created image bearer, and a Christian? I think there's an example here. Christ was able to humble himself, even to the point of death, the death of the cross. If you don't know Christ as your Savior, there is no way for you to be able to fulfill the purpose that you are created. He created you to glorify him. He created you to reflect his character, God did. And you can't do that. Because of your sin. And I can't do that for Christ because of our sin. We are not living out the purpose that God designed us to live apart from what Christ did for us in removing our sin, removing The punishment from our sin, making us right with him, so that now we can live the way that God wants us to live in glorifying him. And once we have done that, we our value comes from the fact that we are created and that we are redeemed by Christ and that you are accepted by Christ and you are valued by Christ. And there are some Christians, maybe many Christians, maybe most Christians, they're still trying to live out their value by what they do Trying to become something instead of realizing who they already are in Christ And realizing that now because we are seated in the heavenlies in Christ, because we are secure cured in our eternal destination, and that we are the sons of God, because there is no higher calling than that, we can now choose the way of humility in this life. We can choose to humble ourselves. We can choose to be, to follow the mind of Christ in this area. And so number two, are you following Christ's example of humble servanthood? This is actually talked about throughout Scripture in Proverbs 15, verse 30 33 it says, fear the Lord and instruction and wisdom, before honor is humility. There's going to be a day where we are, we are going to be Join heirs with Christ, where God will glorify us. We'll have our glorified bodies. But that's not our role. That's God's role. God does that in us once we are we see Christ. For now, our role is to serve humbly. Proverbs 22:4. My humility and the fear by humility and the fear of the Lord are riches and honor and life. Humility and the fear of the Lord Matthew 23, 12, and whoever exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted. Luke 14, 11. For whoever exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted. I just read that from a different book. Seems like it must be important. Uh Luke eighteen fourteen, I tell you that this man went down to his house justified rather than this. Everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbled himself will be exalted. Again, it's an and it In the book of Luke. It's over and over again. It's really throughout the entire the uh the whole idea throughout the entire New Testament is this idea. James 4. 10, humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he will lift you up. 1 Peter 5:6, therefore humble yourselves under the mighty hand of God that he may exalt you in due time. We're going to see the exaltation of Christ. It says, wherefore God has highly exalted him. And giving them a name above every name. But that is not our role to exalt ourselves. In fact, it brings me to number three. Will you die to self-glory? So that you can live the life that God has designed you to live. Will you die to your own rights, your own agenda, your own way, your own honor, our own glory? Will we die to this? Our own name, our own kingdom, and live the life that God designed us to live. Paul seemed to really understand this. Galatians 20 says this, I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ lives in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God who loves me and gave himself for me. And in Galatians chapter 6, verse 14, it says this: But God forbid that I should boast except in the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ, by whom the world has been crucified to me. An eye to the world. He says, another place for me to live is Christ. To die is gain. Paul said, let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. Do you and I have the mind of Christ? Or do we have the mind of the world? And folks, it is so easy. We are all tempted in this area. It is so easy in our lives as we as we work in the world and we're influenced by the culture and our own flesh and our and Satan, all of those things are working against us To cause us to want self-promotion and self-protection and self-centeredness And Jesus says, No, if you're going to follow me, you've got to humble yourself. And the primary way we do that, according to Philippians, which we're going to look at The primary we way we do that is by serving one another. You know, it it's sort of interesting. I mean we think about serving God and we can kind of be okay I'll I'll serve the Lord. Yes, I'll serve the Lord. What I'm doing, I'll serve the Lord. But when you get down to brass tacks, it's talking about serving each other, fellow servants. serving each other. The guy you don't like, you gotta serve him. The girl you think is annoying, you gotta serve her The person you think it doesn't make any sense to you whatsoever, you gotta serve them. And don't look at me like you don't know what I'm talking about 'Cause I I I have the same mind you guys do. I mean there are times I go, uh uh that person's so stupid. And I have to correct myself and say, wait a minute, I'm just as stupid. I need to serve, I need to have my humility. Will you die to self-glory so that you can live the life that God has Designed you to live. This is what we should really be thinking about as we come to the Christian Christmas season. Being awe by the humility of Christ. All by the humility of Christ, and in accepting the humility of Christ and the death of Christ for ourselves, and then ultimately living out the humility of Christ. And if you're here today and you don't know if you've ever received the gift of Christ for yourself, let me encourage you. Talk to one of us after the service. comfortable with and I'll be I I mean I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you have eternal life that you you can live the life that God has designed you to live and if you don't If you do know Him as your Savior, let us let us live this way. Have this mindset. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and we praise you for who you are. We thank you for your truth. And we thank you for Christ's way. It is we are in awe. By what Christ did for us. Being in the highest of heights and plunging down to the lowest possible Position imaginable, the death of the cross. And you did this for us. And Lord, as we come into the Christmas season, Um we can have our times of enjoying cultural Christmas, but Father, may we also take some time to really really think about the profound work that Christ did in coming to earth, becoming a lent man, living a perfect life. And Lord may we also emulate this in our own lives. Teach us how to do that. And learn on a practical level how we can on a practical level have the mind of Christ teach us how to do this. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Gannam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called The Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God. according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us Or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. Or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.