Psalm twenty four. The earth is the Lord's and all its fullness, the world and those who dwell therein. For he has founded it upon the seas and established it upon the waters. Who may ascend into the hill of the Lord, or who may stand in his holy place? He who has clean hands and a pure heart, who has not lifted up his soul to an idol, nor sworn deceitfully. He shall receive blessing from the Lord and righteousness from the God of his salvation. This is Jacob, the generation of those who seek him, who seek your face, Selah. Lift up your heads, O ye gates, and be lift up, you everlasting doors. The King of Glory shall come in. Who is the King of Glory? The Lord of hosts, the Lord strong and mighty, the Lord mighty in battle. Lift up your heads, O ye gates, lift up you everlasting doors, and the King of glory shall come in. Who is this King of glory? The Lord of hosts. He is the King of glory. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and praise you that you are the King. That you're the King of glory. And as we looked at just previously today, that Jesus is the King, we looked at the incredible book of Revelation and in chapter one there of how he is in all of his glory is going to rule and He displayed his glory to John on the Isle of Patmos, and John fell to fell on the ground prostrate as dead because of the greatness of the glory of Jesus. And we are thankful, Lord, that He is our Savior, He is our Judge, He is our King. And Lord, we are living in a day where we have lots of things going on that are difficulties and hindrances and problems. And Father, yet we look to the day where Christ is going to come. And He is going to rule and reign and set everything right. And we look forward to that day. And until that day, I pray, Lord, that you'd help us to worship you in a way that pleases you. And I pray, Lord, that you'd help us to understand from your word, how it is that we are to have a relationship with you, what that relationship looks like. What it includes, and how you carry out your plan despite our unfaithfulness. Father, we praise you that you are a faithful God despite our unfaithfulness. And we confess before you that you are you that that we are unfaithful. That we are not unlike Israel in the Old Testament that very often strays from the things that you want us to do, the focus that you want us to have. And we thank you and praise you for your faithfulness, but I I pray, Lord, also that you would help us. To understand the relationship that we have with you, this love relationship that we have with you, so that we can we can really understand more of what it means to please you and love you. And Lord, as we worship you today, I I pray that you'd help us to do that in spirit and in truth. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Would you bow your hearts with me as we go before the Lord? Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning, Father. Unworthy as we are, we recognize and acknowledge that you are perfectly holy Perfectly righteous and perfectly just, perfect in every way. You are the creator and sustainer of all life. And Father, we know and admit to you, Father, that we can't fully comprehend your holiness. But yet, in your grace and mercy, you love us. And Father, through your Son Jesus Christ, and his sacrifice at the cross, his precious blood, allows us to come before your throne this morning And Father, we are so grateful and thankful for the goodness that we receive from you, the kindness, the mercy, and the grace, how you bring us through each week. And Father, though we go through many trials and illnesses and sicknesses, Lord, and even sin, Father, we come before you this morning and ask that you would forgive us of all of our sins. And this morning, as we open up your word, we ask God that you would grant us understanding. And Lord, that in that understanding you would, by your Spirit, help us to have wisdom to apply what we learn. And Father, we do know, according to your word, that you have called us to worship you in spirit and in truth. Help us to understand that, Father, and not come haphazardly before you or just coming through routine or coming because we have to. But Father, let us worship you this morning in spirit and in truth. And we ask that your spirit will move mightily in our hearts. Help us to set aside all the cares and the concern of this week. That we can fully concentrate upon your word this morning. And Father, we would like to lift up those who are not able to be here this morning. And Lord, there are many reasons And Father, we pray for those that are not feeling well, who are going through trials, Lord, and particularly illnesses, and we ask that you would please keep your good hand upon them. That you would continue to give doctors wisdom and discernment as they treat our brothers and sisters in Christ. And those Father, we ask that your spirit would be working even in those, Father, who do not know you Help us to be that light that you called us to be. Help us, Lord, not to be ashamed of your gospel, but to share it with all those who we come in contact with. with. And I pray, Father, this morning, that you would guide and direct everything that's done here this morning and that it would be to your glory and to your great name and to your praise in Jesus' name. Amen. We will be reading this morning from Exodus chapter thirty-three, and we're going to be looking at verses one through eleven. Exodus 33, 1 through 11. Then the Lord said to Moses, Depart and go up from here, you and the people whom you have brought out of the land of Egypt, to the land of which I swore to Abraham Isaac and Jacob saying, To your descendants I will give it, and I will send my angel before you And I will drive out the Canaanite and the Amorite and the Hittite and the Pharaizzite and the Hevites and the Jebusites. Go up to a land flowing with milk and honey, for I will not go up in your midst, lest I consume you on the way, for you are a stiff-necked people. And when the people heard this bad news, they mourned. No one put on his ornaments. For the Lord had said to Moses, Say to the children of Israel, you are a stiff-necked people. I could come up into your midst in one moment and consume you. Now therefore take off your ornaments, that I may know what to do to you. So the children of Israel stripped themselves of their ornaments by Mount Horeb. Moses took his tent and pitched it outside the camp, far from the camp, and called it the tabernacle of meeting. And it came to pass that everyone who sought the Lord went out to the tabernacle of meeting, which was outside the camp. So it was whenever Moses went out to the tabernacle that all the people rose, and each man stood at his tent door and watched Moses until he had gone into the tabernacle And it came to pass when Moses entered the tabernacle that the pillar of cloud descended and stood at the door of the tabernacle. And the Lord talked with Moses. All the people saw the pillar of clouds standing at the tabernacle door, and all of the people rose and worshiped, each man in his tent door. So the Lord spoke to Moses, face to face, as a man speaks to his friend, and he would return to the camp. But his servant Joshua, the son of Nun, a young man, did not part from the tabernacle. So this is an interesting passage. It is right after the is the nation of Israel has really um messed up. They've I they've fallen into idolatry and God has dealt with them. He has actually uh You know the the the last phrase of chapter thirty-two is so the Lord plagued the last verse actually, the Lord plagued the people because of what they did with the calf which Aaron made. There was really a almost total breakdown of the relationship between God and Israel. And now they were going to have to rest there was going to have to be a restoration of this relationship. Now that as we look at this passage, we're actually going to have to understand some things about it. Some of the things are really going to apply to us, and some of the things aren't. The reason that is is because this is a different covenant. We're under the new covenant, this is under the old covenant, and so we're going to have some differences as we work through this, but I I do hope that we will really see some of the things here as God restores his people, how God restores us as well. And I want to begin by pointing, asking, really asking a question. How, or I guess I'll put it this way, why did God save you? Why did God save you? Well he saved me from so I didn't have to go I don't have to go to hell. Really? Is that why? Well he saved me so I could go to heaven. Really? Can you find that in the Bible that God saved me so I don't have to go to hell? Or God saved me so that I can go to heaven You aren't actually, I'm not saying those things aren't true, but I am saying that you're not going to find that as the reason for why God saved you. Didn't you know that? Actually, we find in John chapter 17, and this is going to become important to us at the end of our message, but in John chapter 17, Jesus as a high priest is is interceding on our behalf, and he actually gives the purpose of why he saves people. In the first verses of this, it says, Jesus spoke in these words, lifted up his eyes to heaven, and said, Father, the hour has come. Glorify your Son. That your Son also may glorify you, as you have given him authority over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as you have given him. And this is eternal life, that they may know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent. The Bible tells us in that passage that the reason that Jesus saves us is that we can know Him. To know God. That is, I'll put it in our terms, to have a relationship with God. God does not save you just so you can get to heaven. He doesn't save you just so you can escape hell. God saves you so that you may know Him. Now that is absolutely imperative that we understand that. Let me illustrate it this way. Suppose two people get married. They had a sort of normal dating relationship and then they decided get married. They say their vows to each other and the vows talk about for for for you know on in in in sickness and health and that there'll be forgiveness and there'll be all these things in the marriage that need to be there and have the they say these covenants and right after the wedding One of the spouses says to the other, suppose you're the- suppose you're the spouse comes to you and says, man, I'm glad that's over. We got that done. And you say, Oh this little interesting, he says that. There's no honeymoon. There's no that you don't even live together. You don't even move in together. You're still got stuff. He works his job, you're still working your job and And uh or she, whoever it is, and and you you finally decide to talk to this spouse and say, um, hey, uh are uh we we got married. Are there gonna be any changes here? Like are we gonna be getting together, doing anything? Is there are we like gonna like You know, what what what's the plan? Uh well, you know, maybe we'll do something like that. I mean we're married now, so you know and and you actually find as time goes on that uh that the spouse doesn't actually have any kind of relationship with you. In fact, they offend you all the time and they do things that are inappropriate all the time as a married couple and you're all They're off doing whatever they want all the time, and when you talk to them about it, they say, Well, we're married now. It's for better or for worse, and sometimes it's worse. And and you know, you say to them, well, like not always, like what that's not this is not marriage. This is not what a a wedding is but you know, this is not like getting married and I mean would you say that you've got a problem there? Like it's not there and but you know somehow sometimes that's how we retra we treat our relationship with God. We have this these quote-unquote vows called a prayer that we pray. And then we all go off and just do what we want, and we think that God's just supposed to forgive us all the time. That we just do whatever we want and God forgives us. And we do more of what we want, and God forgives us. See, God says He forgives us. And He says all the way of His Word, He forgives us. So I can just do what I want and God forgives us. Do you know the problem with that? That is not a relationship. It's just like a marriage that's not acting like a marriage. It's not a relationship. And the problem with Israel now is they're they're in this place. Where they have committed idolatry against God. They've not acted like they're in a covenant relationship with God at all. They've broken their covenant with God. And there has and God had every right actually to destroy them, to wipe them out. And he says to Moses, you remember that conversation? He says to Moses, I could just wipe you out, you know, we could just wipe them out and start over. Moses intercedes on behalf of the people and you know you remember that that whole conversation? But now that wasn't the decision that was made, and now God and Israel are left, and Moses and all the players in this, are left with trying now to restore this broken relationship. And it's very broken. So how does that happen? Chapter 33 is now, if you think of a broken marriage. And how that would come back together. You're going to see some parallels here. Not completely, but it'll give you a way of understanding like up r how to relate to this. It's not like, oh, I forgive you, you forgive me, let's go after. By the way, that's somehow sometimes how how counseling happens. Okay, well let's just forgive and okay you're done no there is a rest if I'm in a broken marriage there is a restoration process that has to occur And the truth of the matter is, in a broken relationship with God, there is a restoration process that has to occur. We don't think of it that way. We think of it as, okay, I sinned, I messed up, God forgive me, okay, I'm glad I got that done, and we good we move along our merry way. That is not a relationship with God. See, here's the thing. We'll get into this passage in a minute, but I want us to understand this. That you you you gotta you gotta get this. That God will carry out His plan in spite of our lack of faithfulness. He will carry out our plan, his plan, in spite of our sin. But our sin does affect it on some level. You say what level? We're going to learn. It's primarily on the relational level. It affects our relationship with him. God will still carry out his plan, but if it affects the relationship. And you're going to see that here, hopefully, as a as a in living color as we go through this. So let's do that. Let's begin here and we're going to see in verses so God's going to carry out this restoration process with his people. How does this work? Well we're going to see three things in this passage as we go through it. Number one, we're going to see that he fulfills his promises He's going to continue to fulfill his promised purpose, but it's actually going to be from a distance. We're going to see number two that he leads his people to mourn. And we're going to see that. And then we're going to see that he restores his people to worship. Okay? We're going to see first he fulfills his promises. But he's going to lead his people to mourn, and then he's going to restore his people to worship. So first of all, verses 1 through 3, God fulfills his promises with his people. He fill fulfills his promises at a distance. And you'll as as Harry read through it He tells Moses, he commands Moses in verse 1, depart from here, leave Sinai. I'm going to give you the land that I swore to your fathers. There's a covenant that was made with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and I'm going to give you that land, and I'm going to do what I said I was going to do. I'm going to fulfill my promises because I'm a faithful God, is essentially what he's saying. So the uh I brought you out of the land of Egypt. We've established that. I'm going to do what I said I was going to do. Even though you didn't fulfill Israel your covenant. He didn't say that there, but it's implied. I'm going to fulfill my end. Verse 2, it's going to be in a different way. See, before what he said to Israel was, I'm going to be in the midst of you, and I'm going to lead you with my presence. But you have a change here now. It's not going to quite work that way for a while. And so what he says, verse 2 is, I will send my angel before you. And I will drive out. He's still going to do it. God's going to do it. By the way, God is always the one that's going to do it. Later on, you see the book of Judges, they're constantly trying to do what they want to do. And do it their way and fight it their their battles their way. And God says here at the very outset, even though they have a have a strained relationship, it's not really restored yet, he's there He says, I'm going to send an angel, and he's still going to be doing doing this. He's going to fight the battle. He's going to win the war. I'll send my angel before you, and I will drive out the Canaanites, and the Amorites, and the Hittites, and the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites Verse 3, he says, go up to a land. And the angel doesn't really say anything by anything else by the angel, but we've seen this before to some degree. We've seen the pillar of and the cloud in the past. So we're going to sort of go back to that, but even it's going to not it's going to be even more distant than that. You're going to see this. Go up to the lamb flowing with milk and honey, for I will But then he says this. This is the catch. I will not go up in your mid. I'm not going to be in your midst. Now, we see a lot about this here, and we're going to look at this in a minute. But he says, I'm not going to be in your midst lest I consume you on the way. For you are a stiff-necked people. I'm not going to be in your midst. Why did God say that? Well, he says this. It's interesting that he says you're a stiff-necked people. This is a very common term that's become, you know, why didn't he say you're an idolatrous people or something else? No, he says you're a stiff-necked people, you're a stubborn people. He keeps saying that you're stubborn. He actually, this is the same word that's used when Stephen in Acts chapter 7 When Stephen is preaching and he says to the Sanhedrin that he's preaching to, the religious leaders of the day, he says, you're just like them. You're stiff-necked too. For from all this time, they continue to be stiff-necked people, by the way. He says, you're a stiff-necked people, and I can't dwell in the midst of you. I can't do that. And he says, here's why. Because it will consume you. There are three three implications from this that I want us to get. Number one, we really we see the reality of God's holiness and justice here. We see that he is a holy and just God that is not going to change. He is unchanging. But number two, we see this. We see that he is also unchanging. God can't go out of character. So he's holy and just. And he can't go out of character. In other words, Israel went out of character. In other words, they went out of what they were supposed to do. Right? They went out of the covenant. But God can't do that. You say, God can't. That doesn't sound right. Did you know that there are certain things God can't do? God cannot go against his nature. He's all powerful. He can do anything he wants with creation, but it is impossible for God to go against himself. He can't go against himself. He can't suddenly go from being just to being unjust. He can't suddenly go from holy to unholy. God can't, we can do that real quick. But God can't do that. And so we see this unchanging, unchanging nature of God, so that there actually has to be an adjustment on the part of the plan of God toward the relationship with his people because he can't move in his character. He can't step out of it. By the way, aren't we glad he can't step out of character? I mean there's a great wonderful truth in that that everybody else might step out of character. You ever said to somebody, that person went I I he stepped the what he did was still out of character for him So that about maybe you say that about your kids. Man, I can't I'm so shocked they did that or something like that. That's so out of character for them. You see somebody God can't. But that means when there is a breach in the relationship, when there is sin, when there's idolatry, when there is whatever sin it is, then there has to be something going on here to restore the relationship on our end. Does that make sense? Very important for us to understand. So number three, there's actually, this is not God is so good and we are so bad, although that's true. Okay, it's not wrong. Some people look at that read this, the unsafe person looks at this, looks look that look at look at this. God so you know an unsafe person might read this, uh a non-Christian might read this and say, this is God like it's stuck up here. No, no. Actually God's merciful here. Did you catch what he says? Why he can't get get in the midst of his people? Because if you do, if I do, you'll be consumed He's actually being merciful and stepping back. He's going to carry out his plan, but he's going to do it from a distance. Why? Because he's merciful. Now there is really something here when we think of the holiness of God that it actually when someone is When someone is has sinned, or when there is sin, it can be consumed by the holiness of God. We don't think of the physical connected with the spiritual in this way, but we see that here. in this passage that if God in his glory and his presence were to be in the midst of the people, in the midst of a sinful people, that you would be consumed. But I want us to see then what the response is from the people. And they really actually respond in the right way here But there's there's a lot here. Notice what it says, and when the people heard this bad news, I mean was it all bad? It wasn't actually all bad. God was going to carry out his plan, his promise to Abraham, but this was bad news to them, and they mourned. Now let me pause and ask you the question. If you read the passage, you can clearly see this. Was it good that they mourned or was it bad that they mourned? Look at the passage. It says, and no one put on his ornaments. That was a custom back then. You know, you dressed based upon how you felt. We do that today, actually, to some degree, too. Not not completely, but we do it to some degree. They wouldn't they didn't put on ornaments, they didn't put on those kinds of things. They were in a in a time of mourning. Most you know, they said that um I could come up into your midst in one moment and consume you. Now therefore take off your ornaments, so this is a command from God, that I may know what to do to you So the children of Israel stripped themselves of their ornaments by Mount Horeb. It was actually command told God said, Take your ornaments off. God was confirming that that's exactly the response that they needed to re needed. They needed to mourn. Now, folks, they were mourning over their sin, and they were mourning over the breach in relationship, and that it couldn't be the way that God intended it for originally to be. This was what God intended them to do. And it was important that they followed through on this. And he says that I may know what to do with you. He based on their response to him. He was going to carry out his plan. But based on their response to this decision, was then going to give him an indication, God an indication of, okay, what kind of a relationship can we have? Do you see the relational aspect of all of this in this passage? And God wants us to have a relationship with Him. It's why He saved us. Now, there are several things in this passage that we we need to get a hold of, we need to understand. I want us to understand this. Let's go back for a minute and let's ask the question. Why did Israel fall into idolatry in the first place? Let's delve into this a little bit, and I think we can glean something from this. Why did that happen? Do you remember Moses was up in the mountain? He was getting instruction from God about the tabernacle. And Israel says. Israel says, What? Moses has been gone a long time, we don't know how long, we don't have anybody represent us, we don't have God had promised back at Exodus 19 that he was going to be in their midst, and they're waiting for him to be in their midst, and they're wanting for God to be in their midst, and it's taking a long time They're impatient, they're stubborn, they don't know what to do, they go to Aaron and you know the rest of the story because we just went over it Let me do you see that that amongst all of the sin there was a seed of desire that was right There was a seed of desire that was good. They wanted God to be in their presence. They wanted to for him to be in their midst. They were looking for this and they wanted that. And that was actually a right desire What happened? They did it their own way. In the midst of a lot of sin in our lives We will find in the background, somewhere in the background, a right desire. And that becomes often, folks, the excuse for our sin. We say, well, I really wanted this. I'm lonely, I really want a relationship. Is that bad? It's fine. We want we're relational people. If I'm lonely, I want a relationship, that's fine. But I can't get it my way. I'm I I I feel unfulfilled in life. Does God want us to be fulfilled in life? Sure, but if I I can't see that my way. See, a lot of stepping out and rebellion and doing what God doesn't want us to do happens from somewhere in there, a desire that gets twisted and perverted, and then we do things our own way. Now, I want you to notice what happens when the people, when Israel does things their own way, do they get, is the desire fulfilled? Answer no. In fact, it brings them, it delays it further. Did you catch that? There is more of a delay now. Now, the good news, folks, is that it won't be this way forever. God will, the tabernacle will be set up. God will be in the prime in in in the midst of them and all that will happen. But this is actually a further delay of what they wanted. And do you know sin does that? When we sin and we do things our own way, it actually delays the good aspect of what we originally wanted. And what we need to do. Do you know what we need to do with all of that? Do you know what we need to do with our sin? Do you know what we need to do with our relationship? That isn't what we want it to be. You know what we should do with the delays and some of the consequences of our sin? Do you know what we should do with it? We need to mourn. Now that is a concept that we don't hear about a lot as Christians. But the Bible actually says, Jesus said this in Matthew chapter 5 Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are those who? Who mourn, why? For they shall be comforted. And brothers and sisters in Christ, and if you don't know the Lord, actually it's the case for you as well. Either way, what God wants us to do with our sin is to mourn over it. You see, what we want to do, our natural inclination when it comes to our sin. What we want to do is we want to dismiss it. We want to not think about it. We want to act like it isn't there. We want to forget about it. We want to just shove it out of the way. Why? Because it makes us feel bad about ourselves and we don't like feeling bad about ourselves. But you know what? What God wants us to do in God's restoration process, we need to mourn over our sin. Why? Because it puts us in a position to be comforted by God. Did you know that? That's the case. Blessed are they who recognize their sin, who understand they are sinful. They're not giving excuses and not saying it's my problem with society, it's a problem with somebody else, or I'm my child. No. They're understanding their own responsibility. They're understanding their sin is an offense against God. And they're going to mourn over their sin. And when we do that, folks, when we mourn that our sin has truly grieved God. There is a restorative process that occurs where we now can be restored to God. We can worship again. And you actually begin to see that in this passage. Once the people are mourning over their sin, we pick up in verses 7 through 11, and we now see that God can restore his people to worship. Look at what it says. Moses took his tent and pitched it outside the camp, far from the camp, and called it the tabernacle of meeting. And it came to pass that everyone who sought the Lord went out in the tabernacle of meeting, which was outside the camp. So it was whenever Moses went out to the tabernacle that all the people rose, and each man stood at his tent, door, and watched Moses unto uh watched Moses until he had gone into the tabernacle. And it came to pass when Moses entered the tabernacle that the pillar of cloud descended and stood at the door of the tabernacle And the Lord talked with Moses. All the people saw the pillar of the clouds standing at the tip tabernacle door, and all the people rose and worshipped, each man in his in his tent door, and the Lord spoke to Moses face to face as a man that speaks to his friend. see the rest of it in a minute. You see what happened there? So God sets up, He sets up a transitional time for them. And what happens is now Moses is the only one that's going to be going out, actually uh primarily what's going to happen is that daily on a daily basis Moses' tent is set out outside the camp. Instead of an elaborate tabernacle of uh a tabernacle with all the priesthood and everything, you really got two people that are handling things at this point. You've got Joshua who stays out at the tab at the tabernacle, at the tab- I'm not sorry, at Moses' tent, which is now called the tent of meeting. So Moses stays out or Joshua stays out there, and Moses goes out, and Moses communes with God, face to face, it says. And then he goes back and he reports to the people. And as Moses goes out, there's a pillar of cloud that goes up, and all of the people, this is really far away, this is a distance They see that this is happening and the people do the right thing. You know what the people do? They turn toward that area. They see at a distance the presence of God and they turn and they worship him. And you know how they worship very likely? They fall flat on their face before God, prostrate before Him, in humility and in mourning over their sin. And now they are able to worship God in the way that God intends. There is actually a great restoration here that occurs in this passage. And they're able to, and it says they worshiped. And it says then verse 11, so they so Moses talked face to face with God as a man speaks to his friend. Now the the the the truth is the the positive of the stor the the positive of the story is that we see this restoration process and I th and I I have no doubt because we have a New Testament reference to the importance of more mourning over our sin that God wants us to do that. But and what we see here is a a picture of a limited intercession. Moses is picturing what a very limited way of interceding for the people. But for the people, for Moses to do this, what has to happen? There has to be a distance. Moses can't intercede for the people as in a way where it brings everyone into together. He has to do it at a distance. What does that tell us? It tells us that Moses is limited in his way, in a way he can intercede. But it actually sets us up for something else. It sets us up for this desire for a better intercessor. And I'd like you to take your Bibles and turn for a moment, and I want you to see this. Turn to John 17. We mentioned John chapter 17 before in the beginning of the message. Now we're coming to the end of the message, and I want you to sit again see John 17 And Jesus is praying before God the Father, and he is the perfect intercessor. And as you're turning there, I want to read another passage for you. Hebrews chapter 7, verse 24 says this, but he, because he continues forever has an unchangeable priesthood, therefore he is also able to save to the uttermost those who come to God through him. Since he always lives to make and make to make intercession for them. Jesus is the great high priest. He is the intercessor for us. But unlike Moses, who has to intercede at a distance, you now have a different high priest, an intercessor on our behalf. Look at verse 20 of this passage and look at how Jesus prays to his Father for us. Verse 20. I do not pray for these alone, but also for those who believe in me through their word. That they all may be what? One, as you, Father, are in me, and I in you, that they also may be one in what? One in us, restored fellowship, restored presence, that the world may believe that you sent me. And the glory which you gave me I have given them, that they may be one, just as we are one, I in them, and you in me, that they may be made perfect in one That the world may know that you have sent me and have loved them as you have loved me. There's more we could say about that as you read through that passage, but here's the point. Jesus, as our perfect intercessor, is able to make it in such a way that God is with us all of the time. That even the Spirit of God indwells us. The presence of God is with us. And for the nation of Israel, there was a delay between mourning over their sin and being able to have a full restoration where God was in the midst. That's not even going to happen. It's not happened yet even. We're going to see where it happens later. But for us as Christians, the Bible says, if you confess your sin He is faithful and just to forgive us our sin and to do what? To cleanse us from all unrighteousness But do you know that what that confession includes, folks? I believe very strongly that it includes mourning. It's not a, oh yeah, I sinned, Lord, forgive me. It's not like this quick prayer thing. Okay, I gotta pray this out. Okay, okay, I I I'm uh um I I I sinned, I know I sinned, I better get deal with this. Lord, uh I confess my sin. And and move on. Folks, that is not true biblical confession. We need to mourn over our sin. And the truth of the matter is we need to when we regret, when we look back on our sin and regret There is a sense in which that is a grace. Because that reminds us of what sin costs us and costs God. It put Christ on the cross to pay the punishment for our sin. And it costs us a relation, a separation and fellowship from God until we were restored to God. But at the same time, we can have that restoration of fellowship because of what Jesus has done for us. As we wrap all this up, there are three things we need to really get a hold of. Number one, we must view God as He really is, not what He wants, what we want Him to be. I want us to understand this. This is so vitally important. You cannot view God as what you want Him to be. He is not a God who adjusts to your sin. He doesn't do that. He doesn't say, okay, well, I'll just adjust, okay, he sins a lot, so I'll just adjust to him. No, no. He's a God who died for your sin. But as you if you sin, there is a mourning that needs to happen in order for a restoration needs to occur. Why? You've got to adjust back to God. Because God is the one who doesn't change. We must view God as He really is. He will by no means clear the guilty. He doesn't just, okay, I'll forget about that. I'll overlook it. No, no. He sent his own son to die for it. Number two, we must mourn over our sin, our rebellion, and our unfaithfulness. We must mourn over it. Don't resist mourning over your sin, Christian. And if you don't know the Lord, if you're if you're a non-Christian or you're not sure whether or not you are, Ask yourself the question as I have I really mourned over my sin? Because I guarantee you, if you've never mourned over your sin, you're not a Christian. Because repentance includes mourning. Repentance includes true sorrow, that my sin is an offense against God that my sin truly grieves God. And a true Christian cares about that, by the way. Number three, we must realize our desperate need for Christ's atonement and intercession on our behalf. We don't see we we see here that there's got to be a delay in all these things that occurred where Moses is interceding. We've got all these things happening. But what it should teach us and show us is just how much we need the intercession of Christ, how much we need the atonement of Christ. There's this nagging need that this passage leaves us with that's fulfilled entirely by what Jesus did for us on the cross. And I would say this: that if you don't know the Lord as your Savior, you need to understand that God is holy, that you have sinned. That your sin is an offense against God, that your sin separates you from God. The Bible calls that spiritual death. But that Jesus Christ died in your place, took your sin on himself, died in your place so that you can have your sins forgiven. And that he could give you his righteousness. And he rose from the grave victorious over sin and death so that we could be forgiven of our sin. So that we could be a child of God. And that's what God says about our sin. And that's what Jesus says. We must realize our desperate need for Christ's atonement and intercession on our behalf. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you this morning. We thank you for who you are. We praise you because you are a great God. You are a God who is holy and righteous, and you can't overlook sin, but you're a God who's so loving that Jesus Christ died to pay the punishment for our sin. And we thank you for that, Lord. And Lord, I pray that you'd help us to understand this restoration process And we are thankful for the immediate restoration that we have because of who Jesus is. May we know what it is to mourn over our sin, but may we also know what it is to receive grace and to understand That we are right with Him. He is faithful and just to forgive us our sin and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone. or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call, so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us Or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273 or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.