Our scripture reading today will be in 2 Timothy, and we'll be reading verses 6 through 12 of chapter 1. 2 Timothy chapter 1. verses 6 through 12. And let's go to the Lord in prayer. This will be Vitelli's text when he comes, so we'll pray. read the scripture reading and then Batelli, you can come right after the scripture reading. Let's pray together. Lord, we come to you and praise you because you are a God that we That you are completely worthy on every level to bow the knee. That should be our attitude and our posture toward you. We thank you that you are a God who is so transcendent, so far above your creation, and yet so eminent that you are Are close to us and desire to be close to us. We thank you that you take the events of this world. We thank you that you take our circumstances, our suffering, and you You have great meaning to them. You attribute great meaning to them. That there is nothing that a Christian goes through that does not have meaning. is senseless. And although without you, there are many things, in fact life seems entirely senseless. But with you, life has meaning and purpose. Even our death has meaning and purpose. We have eternal life in Christ, and we thank you for that. As we look at your word this morning, as Vitelli comes in a few minutes, I pray that you would help him to be able to communicate. Communicate your word clearly, and may our hearts be receptive to it. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. 2 Timothy chapter 1, and we'll pick up here in verse 6. Verse 6 says, Therefore I remind you to stir up the gift of God which is in you through the laying on of my hands. For God has not given us a spirit of fear, but of power and love and of a sound mind. Therefore, do not be ashamed of the testimony of the Lord, nor of me his prisoner, but share with me in the sufferings for the gospel according to the power of God. who have saved us and called us with a holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and grace, which was given to us in Christ Jesus. before time began, but has now been revealed by appearing of our Lord, of our Savior Jesus Christ. Christ, who has abolished death and brought life and immortality to light through the gospel, to which I was appointed a preacher, an apostle, and a teacher of the Gentiles For this reason I also suffer these things. Nevertheless, I am not ashamed, for I know whom I have believed and am persuaded that he is able to keep what I have committed to him. Um, under that day for telephone. Good morning again. I was planning to read it myself. Because I have it right here. But I just Just move the the words a little bit around uh so that it kind of flow uh gives you the flow of thought of uh Paul as he talks. Uh but uh he uh reminds Timothy to stir up the gift of God. And then we have read this all together. But before we dive into the text I actually wanted to ask you a question. Uh if you know what is hypothetical, what hypothetical means. When something is hypothetical, it is uh either imagined or suggested, but it's not necessarily True or real, right? But could be true, but not necessarily. So let me give you an example Hypothetically, suppose God tells you today to sell everything and go to Ukraine and be a missionary there. Just imagine that. Uh will you go? Why yes or why not? So it's just hypothetical and uh but I can continue this illustration. Uh suppose I will tell you that I cannot return to Ukraine now because I still uh have a Russian passport And uh I'm not welcome there at this time. But you sent me to be missionary in Ukraine, right? So I served there, but when the war started I had to leave. And so hypothetically, God tells you today to sell everything and move to Ukraine Uh got one-way ticket and go there and do the job that you sent me to do there So now it's your task. Americans can travel to Ukraine. They don't need any visa. Ukrainians don't like Russians, but they like Americans. So they will listen to you. So it's now it's your time. Will you go? Life threatening, right? Uh a trip into the unknown. It's scary, right? So change in life when everything seems uh to be in order, uh this is not what you want. Uh not everything is comfortable there while everything is comfortable or used you're used to here They're in Ukraine, everything is uncomfortable. So there is a fear of change. There is a fear of unknown. There is a fear of losing comfort. Fear of people of a different culture who speak a different language and they will not understand you in your native language, English. Uh there is also a fear of suffering because there is a real war happening there. So they they are shooting real bullets there and uh every night Russia sends its missiles all over Ukraine. And so there is a fear. And in Second Timothy we encounter two people here. This dialogue or monologue of Paul, the author of the letter, Paul the Apostle, and the recipient of the letter, Young Timothy. And Paul has already managed to experience many troubles in his life because of his ministry. His entire Christian life was a big trouble. So I will uh show you a text and probably you cannot read it, but I will read it for you. This is how he describes his Christian life. I was imprisoned, often beaten. I was on the verge of death more than once. From the Jews, five times I received 30 stripes minus one. Three times I was beaten with rods. Once I was stoned, three times I was shipwrecked. A night and a day I have been in the deep, in journeys often, in perils in waters, in perils of robbers, in perils of my own countrymen, in perils. Of the Gentiles, in perils in the city, in perils in the wilderness, in perils in the sea, in perils among false brethren. In weariness and toil, often without sleep, being hungry and thirsty, often without food, in the cold, and lacking clothing When Paul was heading to Jerusalem for the last time, he had many prophecies about more sufferings ahead of him. There was a prophet named Agabas. He came to the house where Paul was staying and took someone's bell. And he began to bind himself. He first tied his legs, and people were watching him closely, and they were wondering what he was doing. Then he uh tied his hands and believers kept silent. They waited for Agabus to speak. They knew he was a prophet and there was something behind what he was doing. And then finally Agabus spoke. He said, Whose belt is this? And uh because the owner of this belt uh he said will be chained by hands and feet. Well, the belt, as you know, belonged to Paul, our brother Paul. When brothers and sisters heard this, They begged Paul not to go to Jerusalem. They began to weep. They cried. They hugged their beloved teacher. But Paul said to them Why are you weeping? Why are you weaking weeping and breaking my heart? For I am ready not only to be bound, but also to die at Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus. So now in 2 Timothy Paul is in prison. And this is his last prison. He has been to prisons before, but this one he is not getting out alive. So and I'm just telling you about moving to Ukraine and also hypothetically. Paul was ready to endure humiliation, persecution, torture, beatings, and even death So where does your strength come from, Brother Paul? How do we get such strength and willingness to serve? To suffer, to burn bright and to burn to the end. So in this passage we meet both Paul and Timothy and I suggest that we first look at Brother Paul. And then if we are not persuaded to burn bright to the end of ourselves, then we will look Look at the example of Brother Timothy. So let's look at uh the example of Brother Paul first, and these are verses 9 through 12. 9 through 12. God has saved us and called us with his holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and grace. which was given to us in Christ Jesus before time began, but has now been revealed by the appearing of our Savior Jesus Christ Christ, who has abolished death and brought life and immortality to light through the gospel, to which I was appointed as preacher, an apostle, and a teacher of the The Gentiles. For this reason, notice this for this reason I also suffer these things. Nevertheless, I am not ashamed, for I know whom I have believed, and I am persuaded that He is able to keep what he what I have committed to him until that day. So just try to follow Paul, Paul's logic when he describes why he survived Serves God so passionately. Do you remember the first words that Paul said when he was thrown off the horse on the way to Damascus from Jerusalem? Uh well he first asked who who this was, who are you Lord? But then uh he said, What will you have me do, Lord? What will you do So what w what can I do now for you Lord? Uh what are your orders? I I'm ready to follow your orders. And from then until death, Paul did exactly what the Lord commanded him to do. So What's the logic behind Paul's fanatical, tireless, and reckless following of the Lord's command? What was the driving force behind it? Why was Paul not afraid of being beaten with rods? Why was he ready to get hit on the head with stones? How could he put up with dirty and cold prison cells and continue to preach in Christ, continue to preach Christ uh fanatically even from behind the bars? Maybe we can learn something from him. So in verse twelve, Paul says, For this reason I also suffer these things. So in other words, he he had a reason. He had a reason why he was ready to endure all those sufferings. So he had a reason. And maybe this is exactly the reason that we need, that you need, uh in order to sell everything and to move to Ukraine. Just hypothetically. So the first reason that we see is that God saved Paul and called him to ministry before the foundation of The word world. This is verse 9. God has saved us and called us. It says here With the holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and grace, which was given to us in Christ Jesus before time began. Before time began. So we are not really uh going to talk uh pay attention here that uh this passage is talking about us because Because as we read, there are many words like us and our. It says here, God has saved us and called us, right? And not according to our works. And uh which have uh the grace that was given to us. Uh so we are not going to think about us, we are going to observe Paul, the apostle, our brother Paul. So we just want to follow the logic of our brother Paul. We just want to understand his reason why he is so fanatic. Running to the front line, being ready to suffer there and even die. So God saved Paul and called him to ministry before the foundation of the world. Why am I talking about salvation and call to ministry in one sentence? Well, because it happens all together. God saves us for himself. God saves us to serve him. Remember that question that Paul asked when he fell off the horse? What will you have me do, Lord? What will you command me to do? This is the most important questions we can ask once we repent of our sins and get saved. What will you command me to do, Lord? In verse 9, God has saved us and called us with a holy calling, not according to our works. So he called us, he saved and called us. But according to his own purpose and grace, which was given to us in Christ Jesus before the time time began. God saved us and called us. And I think we all understand that Jesus, what Jesus saved us from, right? From our sins. But what did Jesus save us for? What is the purpose that He saved us? Uh I think this uh verse is similar to the one that you probably learned once you became a Christian in Ephesians. Uh chapter Chapter two verses eight through ten. Many times actually we learn uh eight through nine, but ten is a also important. Um For by grace, for by grace you have been saved through faith, and that not of yourself. It is the gift of God, not of works, lest anyone should boast. For we are His workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works. So we are saved, and also it says here it's not of ourselves, like like in the passage that we study But also it says here why we are saved, for what reason we are saved. God has some good works for us to do And this is the reason why he worked so hard uh to to bring us to himself, because we can bring him glory. And glory not just in our words, but in everything that we do Like Paul did. So what will you have me do, Lord, is the right questions one question once we get saved. And each one of us uh should ask this questions uh this question. Uh and we should understand that serving God is a privilege. It's nothing that we did. Uh we all we we deserve this to be punished, but God chose to save us, to wash us, and to make us clean so that we uh uh are a good vessel, uh a vessel ready to be used for good purposes. And this is a privilege. And I think Paul would be the one the first one to agree that he was not ready and he was not worthy to be used. But God saved him and God hold him to the ministry by his goodness, by his grace, and for his purposes. And this is the privilege that is given to us. We did not deserve it. We could not deserve it. So God saved and called us to ministry before the foundation of the world. The second reason, God gave Paul a whole new, different life That's in verse ten. Let's read verse ten. Purpose and grace, uh, but has now that that has now And both life. Just a second, verse 10. This grace has now been revealed by the appearing of our Savior. Jesus Christ, who has abolished death and brought life and immortality to light through the gospel. So he has given us a whole New different life. And the same happens to us, of course, not just Paul. Uh we've got a fundamentally new life too, but we are not talking about ourselves right now, right? We are talking about Paul Uh and we want to understand the reason why Paul was so different from others in serving Christ. But in order to be exact, we also have to admit that this text does talk about others. So God gave us all this new fundamentally different life. Not the life that we lived before meeting Christ. And uh we we lived before. Uh we we were alive. Now that people cannot be saved, right? So we were alive And he didn't give us this he didn't die so that we can improve our previous life, but to give us this completely new, completely different life, which is not like the previous life. And you can say, well, maybe it's the eternal life. Yes, it is eternal life. And and uh yes, he wants us to have eternal life, but this eternal life has begun already. It's not that we are waiting for our eternal life to start after we die. It has begun already. So this new completely different uh in-quality life has already begun Do you understand what I'm talking about? Uh we were alive before we believed in Christ, right? And so Why do we talk about new life if our lives have not changed? If we continue to live as we lived before, then why say that Jesus gave us life? After all, we have lived before this, right? But Jesus gave us this new, completely new, different life And Jesus said that in order for us to live this whole new life, we must leave the old one behind. This is what he said. Whoever desires to save his life will lose it. So the previous life. Whoever desires to save his previous life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. And our brother Paul the Apostle he accepted this new life. He lived this new life to the fullest. He describes it this way. I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ lives in me. And the life which now I live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. So he says here that he also lost his life in order to live this new life He discarded his old life. The old life and his past achievements, they were like garbage is uh he lives by faith in Christ. And in Philippians he says, y, yet indeed I also count all things lost for the excellence of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and count them as rubbish. that I may gain Christ. So he found something more excellent, right? He had a life before, but he found something more excellent And he was ready, like Jesus said, you lose your life. He considers it as rubbish He suffered the loss of all things just to gain this one thing, that to gain Christ, to live in Christ and to live for Christ. So this this new life is is completely different. And this is what he got. That's why he he was that that that is the reason uh he was so Much excited about serving God and willing to suffer. And plus, uh as we Mentioned uh he got immortality. Uh God gave Paul and God gave us immortality. So it is eternal life. It started now, but it is eternal life. So if you find yourself in prison and you are sentenced to death, you are not afraid anymore. If radical Muslims want to cut off your head, you are not afraid. Do you know that Christians are suffering in Ukraine right now where the Russian liberators came Russians first began to seize territories in Ukraine back in 2014. And right away believers began to experience the love. in of the Russian world. On June 8th, 2014, Russians broke into one of the Ukrainian churches In the city of Slavansk. It happened right during the worship service. People were kicked out of the premises, and the invaders seized four Christian brothers. including two sons of the pastor. Then they were tortured for a few days. The tortures were so intense that brothers could not survive They died in the process of torture. And these are our four brothers, Christian brothers, in 2014. Then Russians put them in a car and set it on fire. They wanted to hide the traces of the torture. And the case was only solved after deliberation of Slavensk the same year, 2014, by the Ukrainian troops. And one of those brothers, he had eight children. Another one had three children, and the pastor's sons, they were not yet married. Another example. Last year, when the large-scale Russian invasion of Ukraine began, Christians of Novokahovka, that is that that is the hur Hersan region that is uh still under the Russian occupation. Uh they buried the the pastor. He was buried together with his 19-year-old The family actually had seven children. Russians came in the night and took the father and the eldest son from the house. Then they brought them to the woods and tortured them until And when their disfigured bodies were finally discovered in the woods, it was almost impossible to identify them And that happened in November of last year. But you know, not only Christians suffer in Ukraine. the entire civilian population suffers. So it doesn't matter if uh you're when you're in the war, it doesn't matter if you're a a Christian, a Muslim, or an atheist Uh they all suffer equally and there are thousands and and thousands of stories like this one in Ukraine But there is a big difference in the death of Christian people and non-Christian people. Christians are promised immortality. You are promised immortality God bought immortality for you and death when it comes has no power over you So our brother Paul says, for me to live is Christ and to die is gain. But if I live, if I live on in the flesh, this will mean fruit from my labor, yet what shall I choose? I cannot tell. For I am hard-pressed between the two, having the desire to depart and be with Christ, which is far, far better. To depart and be with Christ. Nevertheless, to remain in the flesh is more needful for you. And being confident of this, I know that I shall remain and continue with you. you all for your progress and joy of faith. So Brother Paul was ready to live this life and be with Christ. It's uh incomparably better. But it was important for him to stay. And can you tell me from this text what is the only reason That he was willing to stay on this earth and not go and be with Christ He said it was like for your sake. Like it was for the sake of the disciples. The only reason he was alive and he wanted to stay alive is for others, not for himself. Not for his life. He he he said goodbye to his life long time ago. So it's for the sake of you You and me. And why could he say so? Because he was immortal. So these are the reasons Paul was willing to burn bright and to burn down. To serve and to suffer, because he believed. In verse 12, he says for this reason I I also suffer these things. Nevertheless, I am not ashamed, for I know whom I have believed. So he believes, and I'm persuaded that he is able to keep what he what I have committed to him. him until that day. He believed. Do you believe? Do you believe that God saved you not just from something but for something, for service? He saved you for service. That's a great privilege to serve Christ. And only by His grace can you serve the King of the universe You don't deserve to do that. Do you believe that? Do you believe that God gave you a completely new life, not the one that you had previously, not to improve your previous American lives Your previous life needs to be thrown away. In order to live this new life, you have to give up your American dream. And do you believe that God gave you immortality? Do you believe that death is gain? Because you pass into immortality, you pass into eternity with Christ Therefore, it's not a pity to burn down here, to burn here so bright that you burn down completely without a trace So suppose God tells you today to sell everything and move to Ukraine. Will you do it? Does that persuade you? Okay, let's look at the example of Timothy. Timothy was also called to serve. He even received God's special gift, uh, we read in verse six. Therefore, I remind you to stir up the gift of God which is in you through the lay. It doesn't say here. We only know that Paul laid his hands on T Timothy and probably prayed for him. And then it became obvious that that God gave Timothy some special gift to serve people. Now Timothy needs to stir up this gift. To stir up. Paul wants Timothy to rekindle God's gift. In other translations says rekindle to fan it into flames. He wants Timothy to burn bright with his life of serving people. And you know that fire tends to go out, right? So if you observe uh the fire, if you throw a lot of wood into the flames, uh then the flames would uh burn very brightly. But if you are late to add more wood, then the fire will begin to die out. So you have to put some effort to fend those flames bright. And I think it's good that we don't know what exact gift uh Timothy received from God, at least not from this text. Because if Paul named uh Timothy's gift here, you would relax and say, Good. Well, it's so good uh that Timothy had this gift but it's not mine, so I can relax. These words do not apply to me. But these words do apply to you. Because God gave you gifts of serving to serve others just like He did uh give gifts to Paul and He gave gifts to Timothy And God tells you to keep the fire of God's gift burning. God wants you to burn bright with your gift. you have been entrusted. So as for Timothy, I think Timothy had exactly the same gift as Paul. God gave him the privilege of preaching the gospel. But Timothy was different from Paul. He had a little problem. He had fears. He was afraid of people. People were intimidating to him. It would be much easier for him to serve behind the closed doors when where there are no people. But the problem is uh when you serve you have to serve someone, right? And and so our ministry, when we serve other people, it's always serving people. We just can't get away from them. So in this in this text we can observe two different people. On one hand, we have our brother Paul who has no fears whatsoever On the other hand, we have Paul's timid disciple Timothy. And God has given this man the same gifts, but they are two completely different personalities. They're not alike. Maybe just like we are not alike, Brother Paul. So Paul reminds Timothy that even though they are different They have the same spirit of God living in them. This is verse 7. So in addition to God's gifts, Timothy also received God's Spirit For God has not given us well, I I have reworded a little a little bit. For God has not given us uh has given us not the spirit of fear but a spirit of power. spirit of love and the spirit of sound mind. Let me ask you a question. Are you more like Paul or more like Timothy in your personality? Actually, it doesn't matter. Paul says to Timothy that they both have the same spirit of God. The same Spirit of God. So it's just like you and me, right? We also have the Spirit of God. And so God's Spirit lives in us. And Paul says that whoever does not have the Spirit of God does not belong to God. And so now Paul reminds Timothy that he too received the Holy Spirit, just like the Spirit that lives in you and me. me and this spirit we read it's not the spirit of fear so it doesn't matter if we are fearful timid like Like Timothy or bold and fearless like Paul, we have the same spirit that lives in us. And the result of God's spirit is supernatural courage Supernatural power, supernatural love, supernatural understanding, and I will not expound on those but if you have supernatural love then you cannot just avoid people because you really love them And it comes not from you, it comes from the spirit. And if you have this supernatural understanding that these are not just people that intimidate me, but these are the people that have eternal destiny and they are going to hell, then you cannot just pass by those people. And then of course you have the power of the spirit to go and the supernatural courage. And uh also Paul in verse eight uh he gives Timothy a universal remedy for fear. In verse eight, he says, Therefore do not be ashamed of the test. Testimony of our Lord, nor be ashamed of me, his prisoner, but share with me in the sufferings of the gospel according to the power of God. Timothy was not only afraid of people, but he was afraid of the consequences of his ministry. First, we see do not be ashamed of the testimony of our Lord. So he was ashamed of what people would think about him, but he was also afraid of suffering. And he didn't want to feel the rocks on his head. He didn't want to get stoned on the head. He didn't want to feel the knife blade on his throat. He didn't want to feel the flames of the fire when you are the one tied right in the middle to the pole right in the middle of that fire He didn't want to rot in alive in prison. And who would want that? I don't But look what Paul says to Timothy in verse 8. Do not be ashamed, do not be afraid. On the contrary, you join my suffering. You know, I I don't like cold water. I really love to swim, but I don't like cold water. And so it takes me a long time to get into the water I just step a little bit and I'm already cold. And so I have to stand there and just wait for a while to get adjusted and then and then I make a next step. And so it takes me like half an hour to get into the water before I start swimming. Uh but I found the solution. If you run and jump, yeah. Uh with your head first into the water, uh it will be cold for about three seconds. Then you can swim for really. And so Paul says the same here to Timothy, like I know that it's hard for you. You are scared to death. But so you just jump right into my sufferings. Like join me. Just jump. And then rely on the power of God to keep you strong. So, did you get this remedy for fear from Paul to Timothy? You are standing on the edge of the cliff and you're afraid to jump And uh what is the rem remedy? Close your eyes and jump. Just jump. And you will see the power of God that will hold you and Bring you through those trials and sufferings. In Ephesians, Paul is praying for believers to understand and experience the power of God that lives in them. He says that this power cannot be measured. He calls it immeasurable power of God. And it lives in us. And he says, this is the same power that raised Jesus from the dead. This is the same power that made Jesus ascend into heaven and sit at the right hand of the Father. And this is the same power that lives in you. And so he says, share with me in the sufferings of the gospel according to the power of God. So the power of God will be with you. You have the power, just jump. And Timothy did jump. He also went to jail for preaching the gospel in Hebrews 13. We read that our brother Timothy has been finally set free. So Timothy was in prison and then he was released. He did jump and joined Paul in his sufferings, and guess what? The power of God sustained him. He eventually was out of prison and back in the ministry again. So well, suppose God tells you today uh to sell everything and go to Ukraine. Will you go? It's just a hypothetical question How many of you heard the voice of God today to sell everything or to go to Ukraine? Probably not None of you. You can relax and uh God is I'm not God, I'm not talking to you uh from the name of God, yeah. Uh so breathe freely I don't urge any of you to go to Ukraine. But what did God tell you today? God did tell you today that you need to use your gifts to the fullest. You need to stir up your gifts. You need to rekindle your gift and start burning with new power. You need to burn so bright that uh you do actually suffer and burn down like Paul or like Timothy or like Jesus. So what will you do now Do you know what kind of a gift you have from God? Many people don't even know their gifts. Let me tell you about one of the gifts or many gifts that uh you already have from God. First of all, God gave us all uh those people that serve the church. He gave us Paul's and Timothy's. And why do we need Paul's and Timothy with their gifts? In Paul's letter to Ephesians, we read, and he himself gave some to be apostles. Some prophets, some evangelists, and some pastors and teachers for the equipping of the saints. Equipping of the saints for what? Well, uh it continues for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ So it's not uh pastors and deacons and uh other servants of Christ uh who are in leadership positions that uh are to serve. This this is us And and and so we are given Paul's and Timothy's just for one reason, to be equipped to start serving. And uh in Hebrews it says, for though by this time you ought to be teachers, you need someone to teach you teach you again for the uh again the first principles of the oracles of God. So uh the author of Hebrews is like upset with with those recipients. He says like you guys you have to be teachers already. And you are you are sitting here and once again listening to the to the first uh principles of faith. So, in other words, God gave us pastors, preachers, teachers, evangelists so that each one of us could become a pastor, a preacher, a teacher, and an evangelist. And it doesn't mean that each one of us have to go and and start a new church somewhere, but it does mean that each one of us uh can already be an apostle and a prophet to those places that uh Your pastor doesn't go to. To the places where you live and where you work and where you recreate. You are to be teachers and preachers by now in your circles of influence. Judging by the time, you all should be teachers. So why are you sitting here today? By this time you should already be a teacher. What have you heard here? What you've learned here? You must have passed it long ago to people who do not attend here You already have enough knowledge to raise new disciples for Jesus Christ. So This is one of the gifts, like maybe like Timothy, Paul speaking to Timothy. I have given you this in front of many other witnesses, and now what do you do? You give it to others who are able to teach others What are you going to do to keep your fire, the fire of your gift, alive? How do you make the fire of your gift burn brighter and brighter? Let's look at verse 8 again. In verse 8 he says, Do not be ashamed Of the testimony of our Lord, nor be ashamed of me, his prisoner, but share with me in the sufferings for the gospel according to the power of God. So he says jump. Timothy, what what should what should Timothy do? What should we do? We need to jump, we need to join polls. So the first application for us today, you need to find Brother Paul and join him. That's simple, right? Find those who are burning really uh bright right now. Do you know them? Do you know such people? These are people who are extremely passionate about serving others. Find them. And I'm not speaking hypothetical anymore. This is your homework. This is what God wants from you today. This is the practical assignment as the result of this sermon. What are your polls now? What are their names? Who is fighting against drugs and trafficking now in this world, in your country? Who saves women and children from sexual slavery now? Who feeds the hungry in this world now? And at the same time preaching the gospel to them? Do you know such people? I'll give you some hints. Uh what is your pastor doing besides preaching on Sundays What is his passion? Join him to serving the community around you. Who are some crazy people in your church that serve people? and bring them the gospel. They are crazy, but join them. You don't know such people in your church? One more hint, Google knows them. Google knows uh where to find them and so just get your smartphone out and and learn what ministry. You can join. What is your personal passion about serving people? Then once again open your browser and find people like you who are already doing something and join them jump do you have a pen or maybe a good memory Uh I have one uh documentary for you to watch on YouTube. It's called Almost Holy. So write it down. Almost holy. It's about a guy in Ukraine who decided to adopt a kid and then he couldn't stop And as he kept saving kids uh from the streets he became involved in uh fighting drug dealers in the city. Then the movement that he has started spread through to other cities. And this guy uh began became known throughout the Russian speaking world, uh both in Ukraine and other Russian speaking world, other Russian speaking countries. and this guy is still alive, he is uh uh still there in Ukraine and his his kids, uh many of them have grown up already and they're serving uh at the front lines uh during the war. As as uh chaplains. So this is the guy that we should join and follow These are the guys that we should look for who are burning bright and are willing to burn down. Just think of Brother Paul. He was on fire. He used his gift to one one hundred percent. So join those uh who are doing something right now. Then you can also use your gift one hundred percent And you will burn bright too. And when you burn bright, you will burn down. But it's worth it. Think of Jesus. He burned bright and he burned down for you. So that you may have a completely new different life here and immortality. Think about it, immortality. You have nothing to fear. You can burn like Jesus and burn down. Think about Brother Paul. He burned with the fire of the ministry for Jesus and he Two he too he has burned down. But it was a full life. It was life full of meaning. This is what he says in the same 2 Timothy later. I have fought the good fight. I have finished the race. I have kept the faith. Finally, there is laid up. Up for me the crown of righteousness which with which Lord which the Lord the righteous judge will give to me on that day. And not to me only, but Also to all who have loved his appearing. Believe me, God did not save you that you wouldn't smoke Smoke, swear, and go to church on Sundays and maybe tithe to support your church. God gave you the church and your pastor and those crazy poor Walls who are out there that you can learn how to serve, how to burn bright and how to burn down. So first of all, what you need to do is to Oh. Okay. So the second thing, uh first thing is that you need to find Paul and to join him. The second thing you need to become Paul to other Timothy. So it's about time now. Yes, if you have been to church More than three years uh and you are just uh coming on Sundays, then you're losing your time and Paul is saying by this time you should have become teachers already And if you are sitting here and you're not burning bright uh and not burning down that you have nothing to teach your Timothy also So you first must find Paul and join them to become a Timothy. And very soon then you will become Paul to other new Timothy. This is your purpose. This is what Paul said. That's the only reason I am going to stay here on this earth. It's much better for me to die and to be with Jesus. But the only reason, the only reason I'm here It's for you to serve you. That's the same reason for us. The same reason why why we are left on earth. Why didn't he take us to heaven right away? To serve us. others to burn bright and to burn down. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you. That message from God's Word, very challeng challenge challenging to us to uh to be to be discipled and to disciple others. That is why we are here to make disciples, why God created all of us and why we he saved us. Very, very helpful uh reminders for all of us. So practically looking at it this week, how are we gonna apply the this. This is something we should always be thinking about. Let's go ahead and sing together in Christ alone. And this is why we live and move and have our being for me to live is Christ and to die is gain. 239. Let's all Hello, my name is Jim Gannam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can Can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.