And Father, we thank you for the grace and the mercy that you show us. Well, that's exactly why people flatter. It's the same concept. Do we think of our world that way, that the whole thing is enslaved to corruption? And Peter says it's a travesty that these false teachers are hooking Christians and bringing them by means of their flesh into a place where they're good they're enslaved to the thing that Christ made them free from. So what is the effect of liberty's lure? It's very, very clear in Scripture. And he uses another common illustration that people would gather, very likely, of a s uh a pig who's been bathed who just likes to wallow in the wallow in the mud. And when we love the Word, we love Him because we see His love for us, His redemption we don't deserve, and then we're able to love Him and love others. And uh ask God that you'll just lead and guide him. You know, if you're s fishing a stream you'll you'll cast it in such a way where it it is flowing along like live bait. And if Sal returned having washed to her wallowing in the mire. He's going to be going in for his uh uh surgery. on them today. of of what this passage is saying is that they are never they were really never saved in the first place and we'll understand that more. It was used even in the first century for fishing. the faith. Then we're going to see the effect of Liberty's Lure, and finally we're going to see the demise of Liberty's Lure. Now he summarizes in this verse the very method that these false teachers are using to lure, to hook these believers. So first we'll look at the method of Liberty's lure. your tone needs to be offensive or that your n you know what you're s you know that you need to be your your personality is uh talking about I'm not saying that. And yet what they were doing were actually, they were actually speaking these grandiose words, probably grand promises. We do bad things because our hearts are bad. and given us a new nature, and now we're, if any man be in Christ, he's a new creation, all things are passed away. When Christ comes into our life and saves us, then we have a genuine desire to please God, but that desire to sin stays there. And what these false teachers were doing, they were hooking them, they were hooking the flesh. Because the creation itself also will be delivered from the bondage of corruption. It will destroy us actually ultimately. And do not present your members as instruments of unrighteousness to sin, but present yourselves to God as being alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness, for sin shall not have dominion over you. Or of obedience leading to right, leading to righteousness. And having been set free from sin, you become slaves of righteousness. For just as you presented your members as slaves of uncleanness and of lawlessness leading to more lawlessness, but so now present your members as slaves for righteousness, for holiness. Timothy chapter 6, it's actually you obey the gospel, but we'll we'll move on from there. animals that's how it describes. It's not by living the life of a return of godliness that they receive the reward, but someone who lives out their lives in opposition to God, that person The Bible says it. If there is a struggle in your heart when sinful stimuli comes, when you are attempted in a certain way and you're resisting Because you succumb to sin. self wart righteous in the law? And you can understand how much he loves you. It is called the Exchange. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. uh when we know where we are going when we die that we don't have to worry and fret. would uh be able to do the surgery uh uh and Lord it uh there would be no complications, no infections or anything in that Blessing upon him. or that they would lose their salvation, but that they would lose uh their ability to grow in Christ and be useful for the purpose of God's kingdom. Conceited. Which is a really a parallel passage to this. And so we should be very careful about somebody who will not tell us the truth, who only will tell us what we want to hear. Therefore testify in the Lord that you should not law no longer walk as the rest of Gentiles walk in the futility of their minds. If we can gain a hearing, if we can get other people to go with them, we feel a little better about it. And perhaps, I don't know that for sure because it's not in the text, but perhaps that was that was one of what was going some of what was going on here. So you set the hook and you reel it in. Walk in the Spirit, and you will not fulfill the lust of the flesh. What are spiritual desires? I shall mourn for many who have sinned before and have not repented of uncleanness, fornication, and lewdness which they have practiced. That's all creation was subject to futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it in hope. by which Christ has made us free and do not be entangled again in the yoke of bondage. But one day we'll be delivered. you have that what God is doing in the world is He is liberating it situation. He doesn't mention the law. Who have actually what? That was against God's law. It all should, as New Testament Christians, it all should compare to the gospel. bring them back to the gospel, not to swing over to self-righteousness or swing over to licentiousness. We're I'm not gonna do that, I'm not gonna do that, I'm not gonna do that, I'm not gonna do that, I'm not gonna do that. after they escaped the pollutions of the world through the knowledge of the Lord of the knowledge of the Lord and Savior Jesus. ought to think in terms of how how my life lines up with the gospel of Jesus Christ You can't mess around with it and then say, okay, I'm just going to mess around with it, but I'm not going to be, you know, I'll just keep my distance For you are not under the law but under grace. But he's saying the same thing Peter said over in the other passage. whom you present yourselves slaves to obey, you are that one's slaves whom you obey, whether of sin leading to death. Sin will hook you, it will entangle you, and it will control you, but you are freed by the grace of God. For we know him who said, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord. Neither shall any man pluck them out of my father's hand. In fact, we don't really know where it comes from, but it's possible there is a pretty there there is a a a well-known um A well-known st it was called the story of Ahikar. how to do that. Galatians chapter 5, verse 1 says this. What is the how do you what is the answer here? And be free at the same time and do what you want. understand it. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. That you may do what you want to do in and through us, that we would be willing vessels him and we think of Berta and uh her family and we ask comfort for her Lord as uh she has uh lost her brother this week and Father we're thankful that um for many years and I do understand that he's been listening to uh the preaching here. Uh chapter two, verses eighteen through twenty two. For if after they have escaped the pollutions of the world through the knowledge of the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, they are again entangled in them and overcome the latter end. people look like how they you know what they are and all that uh the tactics that they're using and and uh we've Upon your word. You are trying to position the bait in such a way that it will look very much like the real thing. And they would get to a place where they are no longer living out the gospel, living out the faith in their lives, and they live lives that are useless for the kingdom of God. is the idea of overinflated. Swelling words of emptiness. of that one chapter book there. to gain advantage. And that's exactly what these false teachers will do. He says this. And you're trying to catch the lift. So what's the bait? The bait is a license or a liberty. The word liberty is really an interesting word. That's the way freedom and liberty is a temptation to Christians today. And you'll see this as we go continue to go more. Okay? I mean he says it's lewdness, he describes it that way, but he's not, he doesn't use the standard of the law, the association of the law, to deal with this problem. to self-righteousness, which is what we do. And what we need to do as Christians is learn that in life when we when we are living our lives and behaving and and and thinking and all that pointing out the irony that what was actually going on, they're promising, hey, you can be free. Is that not a temptation for us? who enlists enlisted him as a soldier. to these uh false teachers. And Peter is actually saying here that it would have been better that they never they never been were never exposed in the first place. through thirty-nine. of how much worse punishment do you suppose will be thought worthy of ha uh uh who has trampled the Son of God underfoot indignation which will devour the adversaries. Notice the illustration. It was in Syriac and it read this, you were to me my son, like a swine which had a bath, and then it saw a slimy pit, went down and bathed in it. They remind us that walking the aisle, making a profession of faith, making a decision for Christ, or Christian baptism do not ensure a future destiny in heaven. Understand that that struggle is of God, your spirit is warring against your flesh. And get a hold of you and will not let you go, and you will look back someday and you will say, why did I get into that? It entangles and it controls. And when I realize God loves me, I love him because he first loved me. Don't you want us, you know, that struggle of being of living for Christ, that struggle of pleasing God, come on over here. How do you do that? He says this, for you, brethren, have been called to liberty. But through what? And that keeps me in this place. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. But because we love him, because he first loved us. But we really would love to meet you in person. Pray that you will continue to heal them back to good health. As we see those, Father, who have struggled with health issues with COVID and all, and we're just thankful that you have brought healing upon them. You will continue to bless her and uh be with her husband John back home. uh learned a lot about these kind of people and we've learned that really whether whether in in some form or another we have this in our culture all over the place. And if you're not using live bait, you're using, you know, uh a lure or something like that is what they're called. By the way, have you ever met speakers like that? Not even just maybe politicians who are grand and conceited and blown up, swelling words, and then when you actually go back and listen to their listen to what they said, they have very little content. And that's what the apostles were doing. no particularly helpful or redeeming objective. That's the way sin is, by the way. fly fishing or you're sort of surface fishing, what's your what do you what kind of what are you trying to do? A slave does not abide in the house forever, but a son abides forever. There is going to be one day where the co-creation will be delivered from the enslavement of all of the corruption. What's happening, what's happening as you are enslaved to sin is it's pulling you away from what the gospel does for you. How shall we who are dead to sin live any longer therein? And we when we submit to Christ as our loving, benevolent Master, when we take his yoke upon us Counted the blood of the covenant by which he s he was sanctified a common thing, and insulted the great the Spirit of Grace And then you walk away from it and you leave it. Notice what it says. Proverbs, the dog returning to his vomit. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. And we pray, Lord, that you would work in our lives to bring us to a um to keep us centered on the gospel. or email us at info at bbcofmd. And we pray, Father, that you would guide and direct our paths, that we would have willing hearts to surrender to obedience to your will. While they promise them liberty, they themselves are slaves of corruption, for by whom a person is overcome. But it has happened to them according to the truth proverb. What we have in this passage is there's an interesting word in the very first verse of this passage that we're looking at today, verse 18, where it uses the word allure, and that is actually a fishing term. It's a lure into a place that is that ends up in someone being tempted to leave. Everybody knows that. These people are these false leaders are apostate. There's really not a lot of specifics in what they say. Hot air. And we need to be aware of teachers that are just full of hot air. Which doesn't care, uh the preaching of God's word does not care who it offends, very frankly. I suspect that they were feeling guilty. And he and that's exactly how they did it. Now, Galatians tells us in Galatians chapter 5 that we have, every Christian has within him, there are two sources of desire. 3 verse 17 it says this, now the Lord is the Spirit, and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty. What they did is immoral. Paul does the same thing. In a very, very important way. And what God is saying is, you've been freed by the grace of God. Don't get don't uh don't yield your members, he's actually talking about your their body, don't yield your body to sin because it its very nature is enslaving, and you have been freed from that The master's not self. Titus 3. These people now have turned away, they've left the faith that they once professed that God genuinely saves your soul and then you walk away from the faith and then you end up in torment. We find all over the New Testament there are many times in Scripture that says that once God has genuinely saved us, that He will keep us. Okay. A dog's gonna go back to its dogness. There is within us a tension between the flesh and the spirit. It is realizing God's love for me because of the gospel. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. Things that we have been going through this week, things that we're planning even maybe tonight or tomorrow. is worse for them than the beginning. And these people that he is referring to, these false leaders, these false teachers rather, from everything I can tell from the evidence of So this kind of the kind of speech that this this that these people have are those who are flattering. You get one place or another to try to and and you you were you work your way in but through flattery. In Galatians, which really is is uh another another book that deals with um Peter describes the Christians at Christian as in the midst of the corruption, of the enslavement of the world, Christians have escaped it. When heek appeals to them, here's what he doesn't do, and it's really interesting. Now he had he would have he would have if he would have said that look what you are doing or tempted to do and what the false teachers are doing are against God's law and left it at that, if he'd have done that, that wouldn't have been wrong And we're resisting it is because we're trying to resist it with the law. And the and the enslavement of sin and the freedom that the gospel brings. Okay, you did not have household pets as dogs. Perseverance and the mark of genuineness, as Peter taught throughout the letter, only those who continue to live a life of godliness will receive the reward of eternal life. Professed but did not possess. And there is a warning for us. And God wants us to learn it and know it and understand it and meditate on it and just love it Help us to recognize the bait of liberty and understand its bait and not real. Help us to stay free and stand fast in the freedom wherewith Christ has made us free. For when they speak great swelling words of emptiness, they allure through the lust of the flesh, through lewdness, the ones who have actually escaped from those who live in error. It warns us to be to be careful about flattery. We find the hook is the idea of alluring. The whole thing is under slavery. We're enslaved to this, to the corruption of the world. One day God's going to do it all at the second coming forever for the all creation, but for now, we're the ones who have escaped it He uses the gospel. It is through the knowledge of Jesus Christ. The the application I just want to get across here, and I'm kind of harping on a little bit, is that we as Christians, as we think about our living our lives to please the Lord, that's the goal, to glorify him, to please him. Verse 20 again, it says this, it says, the latter end is worse than the beg for them than the beginning. Talking about these false teachers, he's saying that look at verse 21, it says this, for it would have been better for them not to have known the way of righteousness. He says, these false teachers apparently made professions of faith. Of course, we know that those who don't know Christ as their Savior, they will go to an endless eternity in hell. He is actually saying in this passage that if you are exposed to the gospel and you accept it by your own strength, So it must have been a very familiar picture that Peter uses. Don't do it. And number three, we do not need to be liberated from the gospel, we need to be liberated by the gospel. Galatians chapter 5. Where we're pleasing him, not out of guilt, over here, and not just giving up over here. And Father, we do lift up those who are not able to be with us because they are shut in or can't get out, and and Lord, those who are maybe traveling. That kind of that kind of talk. For by whom a person over is overcome by him also he is brought into bondage. That's what sin does. Then having known it, to turn from the holy commandment delivered to them. They they apparently at one time made a profession of faith. And I give unto them eternal life and they will never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. And you will learn it one day, unfortunately. Isn't it wonderful that we can rest in the Lord? So how is liberty a lure? Sorry, when they speak great swelling words of emptiness, they allure through the lust of the flesh, through lewdness, the ones who have actually escaped from those who live in error. And of course, the answer, you know, the initial response is you've got to be very careful to discern what desires that you have that are fleshly desires and what are not. Liberty. Happens with our tempers, happens with sexual sin, happens with all kinds of things. Now, he then says this. Now, is he saying by this that you can genuinely accept Christ as your Lord and Savior? A sow having washed to her wallowing. Yes, I prayed a prayer sometime before, or I went down an aisle or I raised a hand or I wanted to have some sort of magic for me, but I don't really know God's love for me. than having known it and to turn from the holy commandment delivered to them. Now, what Peter is going to say in this passage is that these false teachers are hooking Christians. Now, I want to mention before, we've talked about this before, that the whole point, what Peter is warning about is the possibility of apostasy. The nature of sin is it entangles you. This really spells all this out in verses 12 through 19 of Romans chapter 6. Now, you take those two illustrations and just think about them for a minute. Loving you and loving others and serving out of love and obeying out of love. And you're going to f this is going to be interesting. You're not trying to gain an audience. In Romans chapter 8, verses 20 through 21, this is a very, very important verse when it comes to this issue of true liberty. The opposite issue that we're dealing with, which is self-righteousness, and we'll we'll look at that in a minute, we have several times this word is used. And if you get caught by the lure and you go down that road, it is going to put you in a very serious situation. But what we don't want to do is please God in our own self-er-self-effort by the moral law. Now verse 20 really shows us what the comparison is. And if you allow it to be dominant in your life, it can deceive you into thinking that it controls you, but it really doesn't. then we are in the place that God wants us to be and we're genuinely able to please Him. But a certain fearful expectation of judgment and fiery indignation which will devour the adversaries. Dogs were not good things back then. You've got 66 books that give you all kinds of different facets about the gospel. Then know learn the gospel more. And we also thank of Enrique's mom and uh pray that uh so thank you for bringing her safely thus far uh from Australia to here and uh we pray that uh And just like in fishing, you can have you can have the real thing or you can have a lure Now let me just look at then with all that in mind, look at the passage again, and I want you to notice how Peter describes this in verse 18. Escape from those who live in error. They are in sin. And this passage teaches that the severity of punishment we find here in Hebrews 10, verse 25. And it is a willfully entering back into sin that says this, that there is a fearful expectation, a fiery They're deceptive. Now it doesn't mean that these false teachers were stupid or unintelligent, but really they were purposeless. Second Corinthians chapter twelve verse twenty-one says this lest when I come again my my God will humble me among you Hebrews chapter 13 says this, I will never leave you nor forsake you. then you cannot lose your salvation. Stand fast in that liberty and do not be entangled again with the yoke of bondage. Even if you've never fished before, you know that. They were speaking all kinds of fables when they talked about the the coming of the literal second coming, the coming of Christ I want us to put this in perspective. Finally, Peter now turns and he wants them to understand in very clear terms what's gonna go what's gonna happen to these That is not dependent upon us. So really you think of pig, you think of dog, pretty much the same kind of thing, you know, like a rat. Help us to stand free in your love for us. Heavenly Father, we come to you this morning with grateful and thankful hearts. 3 says, For we ourselves were also once foolish, disobedient, deceived, serving various lusts and pleasures, living in malice and envy, hateful and hating one another. That's not freedom over there. Father, we ask that you guide us now in Jesus' name. In fact, one of the con one of the the uh the commentators used that as is describing the word and and I think it was I think it was Schreiner who said it's hot air. But here is what Peter doesn't do. Uh and you know, fluffy w was not even a thought. Or a license to sin, licentiousness. And if you are warring that way, understand you're exactly where God wants you to be Do not let sin entangle you and control you. And Father, we ask that your Spirit would move mightily in us to grant us understanding and ability to apply what we learn. It's those kinds of words. So how is liberty bait? It displeased God. Well, there's a lot of verses in here. The bait is liberty. They promise liberty. For example, in John chapter, the concept of liberty is in John chapter 8, verses 24 through 26, it says this, most assuredly I say to you, whoever commits sin is a slave to sin. We live in the enslaved world, and yet we as Christians have been freed from the enslavement of sin. It takes us over. Then understand that a dog is going to be a dog. Be careful about the temptation of liberty. And he's saying in that passage that when you are born with a s a desire to sin, we're all born with that. Entangles us, and then ultimately, through its entanglement, it overcomes us No, you will enter into a new kind of enslavement that will entangle you These false teachers are basically anti-law people, anti-rule people. He doesn't mention lawlessness. Paul in Romans 6 wants them to understand, wants the believers there to understand the nature of sin. No, I'm aligned with the gospel because he loves me and I'm constantly knowing the gospel, learning the gospel. The perfect catch is not when they swallow the thing. One of uh uh Thomas Schreier in his commentary said this, Thomas Schreiner said this, not Schreier, uh anyway, Thomas Schreiner said this And yet we're flattering people, hey, you're a really good person, you're really great, you know, yeah, you do all those sinful things, but that doesn't matter. He's drawn away of his own di desires, and he's hooked. We've got the hook, we've got the lip, that's the flesh. So let's summarize all of this. Would you take your Bibles and turn to Galatians chapter 5? So what is the process of this luring that takes place? The creation will be delivered into the glorious liberty of the children of God. Do you ever find yourself resisting in the flesh one way or the other? And the reason we can do it, the reason we can look at it this way is because what Christ did for us on the cross. You go over here under the law, the master's self. Hebrews chapter ten. For if we sin willfully, after we have received the knowledge of the truth, there no longer remains a sacrifice for sins. It says, but it has happened, verse 22, first of all it says to turn from the Holy Commandment delivered to him. This is the hope of the believer. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible In fact, it says, faithful are the wounds of a friend and deceitful are the kisses of an enemy. Well what's the lip? We won't take the time to look at that, but Galatians chapter 5, verses 16 through 26 really, really fleshes all of that out. They are in sexual sin. What they're doing and is immoral, but what they're doing is lawless, and what you're tempted to do is lawless and is and immoral. So we see now the demise of liberty's lure. I hope I'm not one of those. Look at verse 19, it says this. Now does that mean somebody can't die in their sin? But it's really interesting that what he actually does is he doesn't swing them back. The apostles were doing that, and these people were saying that they were He actually is going to bring them back to the gospel in Galatians. And realize the hook, the bait is come on over, there's freedom over here. If you look at the Old Testament, if you look at first uh look at Proverbs, and it it says, beware, be careful of the person who flatters with their tongue. Now, that is exactly the opposite. You have this protection from the father and the son that no one can pluck them out of their father's hand, even themselves. Come and talk to me about that. We thank you, Lord, for him and his family and his steadfastness, Lord, in rightly dividing your word. Sin entangles us. But God be thanked that though you were slaves of sin, yet you obeyed from the heart the form of doctrine to which you were delivered There's a sense of self-importance, overly bombastic, very com Stand fast therefore in the liberty by which Christ has made us free. What is it what's the word? Verse 28, and anyone who rejected Moses' law dies without mercy on the testimony of two or three witnesses. Don't believe that lie. Now that doesn't sound so bad, does it? In James chapter 1, verse 14, it says, But each one is tempted when he is drawn away of his own desires and enticed. For the lust lust is against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh, for they are contrary one to another, that you can't you do not Now, I want us then to move to this reality, as we go into the next part of this, which is the effect of Liberty's lure. They did not come in your house. A pig's gonna go back to its pigness. I just want to give you one simple part of the picture. That's really the question you're asking. But what you may not be aware of is that there are different severities in hell. And I want us to know this verse 1 and then verse 13, and then we'll be done. Love. We ask God that you would go before him, give those doctors and uh surgeons all wisdom and accuracy. And it's used as well uh in another place in the book of and we'll look at in a few moments. It draws you away, just like a fish goes toward the bait and it draws you away, and then the line is the hook is set in the lip. When Peter is dealing with this, and he's dealing with how they are pulling Christians away and tempting them and hooking them and all that. Christ said to pe to a group of people, he said, My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me, and I give unto them eternal life, eternal life, not interrupted life by my by something. This is not in scripture. Now then, okay, for those of you who are particularly like trout fishermen, when you're when you're fishing, maybe you're doing um We go from we go from here self-righteousness, we swing over to lasciviousness. Sin enslaves. Jude's dealing with the same kinds of people. It is, it is, he is, Peter is extremely, I hope you're reading this in the passage, he's extremely grieved about this. I took the word liberty, the Greek word liberty, and I traced it all the way through the New Testament. That is the nature of sin. And if you don't know him, if you don't know his love, if you say to him, I don't uh his love is foreign to me, I don't even know Know the gospel more so that you can truly know the love of God You're trying to be faithful to the audience of one. He doesn't even say that what all this is immoral. Now we find the same kind of thing in Romans chapter 6. Number one, leaving the faith often involves temptation of liberation. It's not self-righteousness over here, it's not that. It keeps me uh aligned with the gospel, not enslaved to sin, not We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. That is, they have left the faith. Therefore, if a son makes you free, you shall be free indeed. What's the bait? There's a couple of things he's saying here, but one of which is you will in in torment, you will have greater punishment. That's the nature of sin. It's bragging about grand things and actually not really having anything of serious substance. Have you ever met speakers like that? They really, it was all a lot of selfishness. You know, it's true, I mean this is really true in life. He says, here's how they're being enslaved. Now the first there are two illustrations here that are given. You look at the Old Testament and you find that dogs are never described in a good light. And the Bible tells us that the only redeeming thing about us is the fact that we received the gospel and Christ has come into our lives. And then you have also uh you ha you also it says a sow or a pig having been washed going back and walling in the mire. When you're hooking a fish, there are a variety of methods and tools that you can use, but usually as you hook a fish There's not a lot of it's just a lot of These are grumblers, complainers, walking according to their own lusts. There are things that obviously don't please God. They were dirty and mangy and disgusting. You have been so kind and so gracious. And we think of Jonah this morning. What's the method? Peter does not, he doesn't come over here and say, what they did is lawless. If you want to know whether God loves you, look to the gospel. For it would have been better for them not to have known the way of righteousness And he's going to use this word escape twice more in this passage. When they promise them liberty, they themselves are slaves of corruption. We come to verse 12 of Romans 6. This is extra-biblical literature from that time period. Don't learn the hard way. Serve one another. I'd be glad to help you take a Bible and show you how that all works. Swelling words of emptiness. What am I doing? And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. Now, when it does that, we are going to be pleasing God, which we find how to please God by the law, by the moral law. In other words, folks, sin does not control the Christian. You're not under it anymore. And this passage would be would be consistent with that. Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. The bait is liberty. Or what is the lure of liberty? Now that's actually really important. It's a whole different way of looking at it. I speak in human terms because of the weakness of your flesh Pray for him too, Lord, that you will comfort him and protect him. It's like a boa constrictor. The flesh wars against the spirit and the spirit against the flesh. org. Verse 18. He says this is against the knowledge of Jesus Christ. He uses a biblical illustration of a dog returning to his vomit. I'll just mention this as it's kind of in passing, but that is exactly the opposite of the preaching of God's Word. We sort of absolve our guilt because we can convince other people of the way that we're going. And again, the Lord will judge his people. The lip, if I could say it that way, is the lust of the flesh. That's what God says about it. He compares it to the gospel. Amen. Because it's not the real thing. I am relying on my Instead of realizing that the reason we don't want to touch sin is because we're going to be enslaved by it. Verse 22 it says this But if but it has happened to them according to the true proverb, a dog returns to his own vomit. And may we show it in our love for others. A dog returns to his own vomit, and a sow having washed to her wallowing in the mire. It says of emptiness, of futility. You can't play with sin And he says, if you recall in verse 1 of Romans 6, as you're turning there, he says, What shall we say then? I meant I ended the same way last week Now later in verse 9, this goes along with it. May the Lord richly bless you. What's the bait? The bait is liberty. In 2 Timothy 2, verse 4, it says, No one engages in warfare, entangles himself in the affairs of this life, that he may please him. My father is greater than me, is greater than all. Okay. It will hook you, it will entangle you, and it will control you. The method we find in verse 18 it says this, for when we speak great swelling Behold, all things are become new. The master's self over here under sin. But it has ha happened to them according to the true proverb. This is the wonderful truth that we will not, you know, and you know, the older I get, the more I feel this in life. By the way, the idea of a dog being a household pet was a foreign idea in Scripture. Only do not use liberty as an opportunity for the flesh. Do we think of creation that way? Peter's trying to prevent us from that. The method, the effect, and then the demise. They were hooking that source within them that desired to sin. So Father, we ask that uh you would comfort Berta and her family. But do you know we can flatter ourselves, we can think, you know, I I know I do a whole lot of bad things, but I got a really good heart. Okay, it's not the comparison to the law. Certainly they can. You are not free Or listened to preachers or speakers Well you're trying to set the hook. You will constantly be learning about this for eternity. Well, we need to understand this. And God says that the one day the creation will be delivered. These were these were mangy, disgusting, and That is the nature of sin. And let me just pause and ask point this out to you. And the reason that we find sin to be a bondage to us We have the demise of Liberty's lure here. These people, these teachers, though they professed to be saved, they were not saved. We ask God that you would be with him also and bring healing upon him. Help us, Father, to concentrate this next hour So we've been going through this passage, um, this particular section of 2 Peter where it's a description of these false teachers Um that's usually how I end up catching them. Look at it with me, for when they speak great swelling words of emptiness, they allure through the lust of the flesh, through lewdness, the ones who have actually what? But what here's the question. What is this about? Both Peter and Paul addressing two different groups of people. Um you uh you're still trying to position sometimes you want it to look this like live bait, you'll you need to In his very short epistle, he says in verse 16 that Own flesh. It says this Therefore do not let sin reign in your mortal body, that you should obey it in the lust, in its lust You're not enslaved, and yet the nature of sin is that it is enslaving, and so he's saying, don't These are these false teachers are flattering Because people do use flattery to get places. James chapter 1, verse 25. I will not hit be long on this. And then I am able to sh love others. Well, number one, we find and I'm going to use fishing terms because this is a fishing term that here, this word allure. The bait is an is the next word here. Verse 15, what then? Now this is a concept that perhaps you you're not really all that familiar with. Now, this is not saying if we sin one time willfully or sin one if we enter back into sin. They're swelling word swelling words of emptiness. They're obviously going against the moral law of God. But these people He says it's enslaved to corruption. We will be reading this morning from 2 Peter. He's saying this, that it is very, very possible to profess Christ and not to possess him That's not not what it's saying either. The word swelling There is a temptation, brothers and sisters in Christ, there is a temptation to say, oh, I just want to be free That's enslavement of sin. And uh I'm not certain about uh Berta's brother, but we've been praying for him for We're going to look at three things. You're trying to you'll you'll get hits on your line and then you're trying to set the hook, right? We swing back to righteousness. Verse 13. We thank you for answered prayer this morning. It's false liberty. It may even you may even make it smell like live bait. And the the threat to the the Christians that he is speaking to, the genuine Christians, is not that they would necessarily It's all positive. It wraps itself around you and you can't get loose. Can I say it this way? It is a fearful thing to fall under the hands of a living God. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. Help us to know at its help us to catch sin at its first movements. Live that way You have very clear statements in the New Testament that teach us that once God genuinely saves you, Father, we ask that your will would be done on earth as it is done in heaven. Would you take your Bibles and turn to Romans chapter 6 for a moment? It was a Syriac That doesn't mean that you're Creation itself. Now I'm not going to go a lot of detail about what that's saying there. And you know what's going to eventually, oh I gotta be free from this, and we go do it. Look no further than the cross. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this We hope to see you soon Thankful that He has provided that way. And here's what will happen to us as Christians if we're resisting in the flesh and we're using the flesh to resist to the flesh. Number two, send hooks. Now it's really amazing what's said here, almost daunting. It's not enslavement to sin over here, it's not that. Look at verse, I'm sorry, verse 19 rather. He says, just think about it this way. What does he do? What happens sometimes is is when we cross lines we shouldn't cross and do wrong things that we shouldn't do How did they escape the pollutions of the world? In Ephesians chapter 4, verse 17, it says this, this I say. Okay They are being entangled. Now Let's pray together. The question is what's the bait? And it's going to land where it lands as you preach the Word of God faithfully. It's coupled with uncleanness and fornication. Antinomianism. So it's really interesting as he lays this out. Shall we sin because we are not under the law but under grace? It doesn't say this in the passage. No, Christ is our benevolent master. One comes from the book of Proverbs. What is he saying? We actually need to understand that liberty is a lure. So they're luring them into something into enslavement with them is essentially what the passage is saying. He says this, for after that We're going to see the method of liberty's lure. They're swelling words, and they flatter to gain advantage. And so We do not need to be liberated from the gospel, we need to be liberated by the gospel. They mouth great swelling words. The bait is license. It's just I don't have time to look at all over the place you have It's really interesting he does it this way. Licentiousness, uh uh law uh now we're self-righteous. I just want us to really close this way. I'm simply saying that when you preach faithfully the word of God It says this, for the creation All these terms of liberty are positive terms. They went down the aisle. Father, we ask as we come to your word this morning that you would remove all those distractions. In some cases it might be the real thing if you're using live bait, but it's got a hook in it. It's a lure. You could free be free from all that. Now how does that strike you as a first century Western Christian living in the United States of America? Look at what it says here. We pray all of these things in Christ's name. But when you think of fishing, obviously the point of fishing, the goal of fishing is to hook a fish. Is that what he is saying? Father, we thank you for your word this morning. Uh it's more it's more when when they're they're hooking on the you know, when you're able to set the set the hook. What is this lewdness? There is going to be one day, the second coming, by the way. Now, to understand this, would you take your Bibles and turn to Hebrews chapter 10 for a moment? And do you know that most of the time this word liberty is used positively in the New Testament? Look, this entire book is about the gospel They're slaved. It's simply saying, particularly if you are going to be a false teacher and teach lies to people. The entire creation, God says, is enslaved right now to corruption. There is no doubt about that in Scripture. It is lewdness. In 2 Corinthians chapter 3 Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. And we've been going through this and Peter has been describing what these They would they would leave the faith for a time, potentially And he says this about these false teachers. We're still in verse 18. And I'd actually like to put it in these terms. Why? What is he saying here? Be careful with sin. They were futile in their thinking. Good morning. Look at verse 19, it says this, while they promised them what? It's not the real thing. And we pray that you'll continue to keep your hand upon I suspect though that their motivation was guilt. Because he's a pig. You're doing everything you can, but of course there's a hook in the bait It's not something that you can just mess around with. They were considered almost like vermin. It should be doing exactly the opposite, but that's what it that's what uh often happens A dog returns to his own vomit. And also Lord uh I think also of Ed Puckett this week as he You've got a really good heart. Galatians 5. You're not under its power. This is the comparison. Happens all the time in politics, doesn't it? Well, the answer is no. Uh, if you bow your heads with me this morning as we go to the Lord Father, we just ask your hand of blessing upon us. What's really going on behind the scenes in their minds is a lot of emptiness. You know it, I'm sure you've heard of it before. Certainly not. They raised a hand. This is the place that God wants us to be. It says verse 16, I say then He's saying a rat's gonna go back to its ratness. You could be saved. But what should we do with our liberty? Notice what it says here. Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? By him also he is brought into bondage. And I pray you'll continue to be with Brother Jim. It's that kind of a thing that's being mentioned here 1 says, stand fast, therefore, in the liberty He says. Uh Lord, that they Do you not know that whom the That doesn't come from the Old Testament, doesn't come from anywhere in Scripture We thank you for your truth. Jude 16 There's no way of getting around it. Actually no, all of our hearts are deceitful and desperately wicked and we Amen. It is bad for us. They prayed the prayer. And he begins by saying that they use They had no That Holy Commandment is actually probably talking about the gospel according to 1. It frees you. So you do have a master. They flatter people to gain advantage. Do you know what he de- he does? And we keep going back and forth. It's love. The ones You can't sugarcoat it. It is one of the most disgusting Now very practically I want to hel Happens all the time down in DC. And you're hooked. Hebrews 10 verses 26. And Peter does not want that to happen. I suspect. God forbid. I look around and I