Would you bow your heads with me as we go to the Lord in prayer? Heavenly Father, we come together this morning with such grateful and thankful hearts. You are so gracious and so kind. And Father, we experience and recognize your mighty power in different ways throughout the week, Father. And we thank you that you still Hear our prayers and answer them, Father. I am grateful this morning just for your goodness and your kindness. And Father, we think about what Christ has done at the cross, this wonderful hymn we just sang, Father. reminds us of the cost and the price that you paid on our behalf. Might we be grateful and thankful in our hearts and our minds today. And Father, we are thankful that we can come together freely here this morning as your church in this area. And Father, that we can worship you still. And that we can pray to you and that we can sit under your word. We're grateful for these freedoms that you've given us. And Father, I lift up those who are not doing well this morning Uh there are several that I'm aware of, Father, and I would pray for comfort for them, wisdom for the doctors in dealing with those who are in the hospital and some with COVID. And Father, we do pray for those who have lost loved ones that you will comfort them. And be with those, Father, who are unable to make it out. for whatever reason this morning. And I pray that they would be able to hear your word this morning, that they would be encouraged and challenged. And Father, may you work in our hearts this morning. Open our ears, help us to set aside all the busyness of the past couple weeks and all the wonderful things that we have been able to enjoy and help us to open our ears and our eyes to your word this morning. And I pray, Father, that by your word and by your spirit, we will be changed more and more into your image as we leave here today than when we came in. We ask in Jesus' name Amen. We will be reading from 1 Corinthians chapter 11, verses 17 through 34. If you want to follow along. First Corinthians eleven verses seventeen through thirty-four. Now in giving these instructions, I do not praise you. Since you come together not for the better, but for the worse. For first of all, when you come together as a church, I hear that there are divisions among you. And in part I believe it. For there must also be factions among you, that those who are approved may be recognized among you. Therefore, when you come together in one place, it is not to eat the Lord's supper. For in eating, each one takes his own supper ahead of others. And one is hungry, and the other one is drunk. What? Do you not have houses to eat and drink in? Or do you despise the church of God and shame those who have nothing? What shall I say to you? Shall I praise you in this? I do not praise you. For I received from the Lord that which I also delivered to you. that the Lord Jesus, on the same night in which he was betrayed, took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it and said, Take, eat, this is my body. which is broken for you, do this in remembrance of me. In the same manner he took also the cup after supper, saying This cup is the new covenant in my blood. This do as often as ye drink it in remembrance of me For as often as you drink, eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death till he comes Therefore, whoever eats this bread or drinks this cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty of the body and blood of the Lord. But let a man examine himself, so let him eat of the bread and drink of the cup. For he who eats and drinks in an unworthy manner eats and drinks judgment to himself not discerning the Lord's body. For this reason many are weak and sick among you, and many sleep. For if we judge ourselves, we would not be judged. But when we are judged, we are chastened by the Lord, that we may not be condemned with the world. Therefore, my brethren, when you come together to eat, wait for one another. But if anyone is hungry, let him eat at home, lest you come together for judgment. And the rest I will set in order when I come. So we will return to Matthew very soon, but uh I wanted to on this first Sunday of the month Um and thinking about and then of course we're having we're scheduled to have communion. I wanted to, as I have done before, preach on the importance of of the Lord's Supper. And this passage of course is sort of the the classic passage on the Lord's Supper. Um really actually uh also First Corinthians ten Uh there's a section in there that we'll be referring to a lot as well that talk about the Lord's Supper and the importance of it. And uh I I uh it is so easy for us as uh people of God to to not really understand the significance of communion, the significance of the Lord's Supper, the value of it. it be can become ritual or trite. And uh and so I wanted to take some time this morning uh to to uh to look at this. So let me ask you all a question. How many of you all are are sick of junk food? How many of you are like like you're saying, okay, uh how many of you started today, you said, okay, today or maybe yesterday, I am I am going healthy. Or maybe tomorrow, like you're going through the weekend. I'm going healthy. It's like it's funny, some of you put your hand up first time, the second time. I got I hit most of you, or at least those of you who are care about health at all. Um I'm joking. I'm kidding. Um no, uh I so so I you know it's funny yesterday I was um uh decided that we were I was going to be healthier and so for lunch I looked in the refrigerator to try to find something healthy. So I got we had we had uh Uh I had salad or had uh a spinach salad. I I had about I took as much spinach as I could fit in a bowl, like three and a half three and a half cups of spinach in a bowl or maybe f whatever I could fit in a large bowl. And I had all ki I put all kinds of I had we had some beets, I had some uh you know, artichoke hearts and all kinds of stuff in there. And uh went down to my office, I was studying at about two o'clock and I went down to my office and I I started eating I usually eat while I work because I'm I just do. And so anyway, um so I'm eating and uh and I gotta tell you that salad tasted so terrible. Like I actually eat very frequently salads. It's kind of part of my normal routine in the middle of the day. Either I eat a protein shake or a a or a salad throughout the year. That's usually what I do. Uh and uh and it this salad tasted horrible. And the reason it tasted so bad was because I've been eating so much sugar. And so much junk. And then my and then my wife had a bright idea last night and she said, uh uh as our last treat, let's make cookies tonight. I'm like, No, what What in the world is gone? You gotta be kidding me. So my daughter brings two I'm studying last night and my daughter brings two cookies down to me with a glass of milk and of course I I had to eat 'em, my daughter brought them to me. I you know Anyway, but no more of this week. Anyway. Um you know the truth of the matter is we really we really if we're not if we're honest with ourselves, I think sometimes we really do not value The Lord's Supper. The nourishing aspect of the Lord's Supper that God intended. And why is that? Well, let me suggest to you, perhaps it is because we have too much junk food. I think sometimes the the the the reason we don't value this extremely important ordinance, God only Christ only left us two. We don't value this is because we are we are searching for so many other things to whether it's drama or videos or movies or all kinds of other things and none of them are wrong necessarily but Um and and so the simple thing where we partake of of uh juice and bread together, the simple thing just it doesn't have the same we just don't see it as very valuable. If we're really honest with ourselves. And I want us to recall from Scripture and really review some things from Scripture to see just how valuable this really is In the first century, this was something that was at times practiced daily as they assembled, but certainly on the Lord's day they practiced this ordinance in conjunction with assembling together. In Acts 2. 42 it says, and they continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine On fellowship and the breaking of bread and in prayers. All of those things they preached. There was prayers There was also the breaking of bread, that is the Lord's Supper, and they did all of these things in fellowship, they did all of these things together in their time of worship together. And it is something that is vitally important. And really the assembling of the saints with the Lord's Supper are inseparably linked. And I think we'll see that together today as we go through this. So Christ gave us this ordinance really as a wonderful gift to his church. For when he would leave him, leave them, he left the apostles, he left them with this meal, he left them to feast on this meal, this spiritual meal. until he comes again. And we're going to see how this is all going to work together. So what is it? How do we come together? And that's the wording that's used in this passage. Coming together. We are coming together to feast on the Lord's table. How do we come together in a way that the Lord intended? And we're going to look at three three aspects today. First, we're going to see we unify around the body of Christ. Secondly, we'll share in the body of Christ, and then we participate in the body of Christ. We unify around the body of Christ. We share in the body of Christ. And then we participate. Unify, share, and participate. in order to really uh have the Lord suffer together in the way that God intended for us. So we'll start off with we unify around the body of Christ. And you'll notice from the the text that Harry read He read the text and it said that the major problem, the basic problem that had there basically was that they were not unified when they came together. It says When you came together, and we're going to look at that in a few minutes, of what the problem was in 1 Corinthians 11, but the the basic problem was that they were not unified Back one chapter prior in 1 Corinthians chapter 10, it says this. Therefore, verse 14, 1 Corinthians 10, 14, you can flip a page back. Therefore, my beloved, flee from idolatry. I speak as to wise men. Judge for yourselves what I say. The cup of blessing which we bless, is it not the communion of the blood of Christ? The bread which we break, is it not the communion of the body of Christ? For we, though many are one bread and one body, for we all partake of that one bread. In the very symbolism that God that Christ left us, we are to be one bread or one body together, unified together, and frankly, assembling together as well. In Hebrews chapter 10, verse 27, and we're going to see some connections with this in a few moments, but In Hebrews ten twenty seven it says, For not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, as the manner of some is, but exhorting one another, and so much the more as you see the day approaching If you just read through 1 Corinthians chapters 10, 14 through 22, as well as 1 Corinthians chapter 11, that you'll see that coming together and assembling together as one body together as a local church is inseparably linked to feasting on the Lord's table. That these two things go together. That they really cannot be separated. That means that a camp should not be doing the Lord's Supper, for example. Or even a Bible study should not be doing the Lord's Supper. A family in and of itself should not be doing the Lord's Supper. These things are you read through the text and you see, in fact, Paul says, when you come together and then says the Lord's Supper and then explains the the practice of the Lord's Supper. These things are absolutely things that are necessary that when we come together, that's when it's then appropriate for us to do uh the Lord's Supper. And there is it is absolutely necessary for there to be unity. So why is that so important? Well, Paul is going to deal with that in 1 Corinthians. Do you remember that? In 1 Corinthians, over and over and over again, he says there are divisions among you And he points that out in 1 Corinthians 11, 17 through 22, which uh which uh Harry has already read. Well to really understand what's going on, let me give you a little bit of background. In the first century, the the more the the the church members that had more wealth uh probably had a house, uh not probably, they did, they had houses that were set up like the normal Roman houses. And in these houses there was there was a room called the Triclinium. That particular room was a room where the honored guests would be. They would have you know, parties or those kinds of things, the Romans would they have the most honored guests and and in those in that triclinium they would have Usually couches that were laid out. It was a larger room. And you could only fit probably, you know, a dozen, give or take a few guests in that particular room And then they had another room that was slightly smaller, but didn't have all the couches and everything, called the atrium. And in that room you could fit about 30 guests or so, depending on the different size of the houses, but usually about 30 guests, you could fit more guests, but they were sort of considered to be not the honored guests Now, these houses by these wealthy, uh more wealthy Christians, they own these houses, and we have examples of that in the New Testament They were used for assembling together, and they partook of the Lord's Supper when they assembled in these houses. The problem was that they were treating some guests as better than others. The more wealthy guests they were coming in and they were eating rather sumptuously in the triclonium while the more poor guests, this is in the body of Christ, the more poor guests, were coming into the atrium and were eating at a separate time And they were all assembling together and partaking of the Lord's Supper actually at separate times, with some being in one in the more honored area and some being in the less honored area. And this is absolutely not the picture of the unity of the body of Christ. And this is what Paul is dealing with. Paul is saying, basically, you're doing it wrong. He he's saying that this there should not be a difference between you know there should not be division, you shouldn't be eating at separate times, you shouldn't really be focusing on eating, that's not the main point. of the Lord's Supper and assembling. There should not be the the the elite with and then some of the poor that everybody is equal in Christ. You are messing up. the picture of assembling and you're messing up the body the what's the the picture of unity in the body of Christ and partaking together in the way that you're partaking together. And so the main problem was the manner in which they were doing it was in in disunity. And God says that if you're going to have if you're really going to gain the benefit from the Lord's Supper that you should gain, it is as you assemble together in the body of Christ together, everyone being co-heirs and co-equal in the body of Christ. and everyone partaking together at the same time in the same place. Paul says this is how you ought to do it, because that pictures the unity of the body Of course, there are many problems of divisions, and in the very first chapter of 1 Corinthians chapter 1, he points out these divisions, and he says, Now I plead with you, brethren, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you all speak the same thing. And that there be no divisions among you, but that you be perfectly joined together in the same mind and in the same judgment For it has been declared to you to me, according to you, my brethren, that those of the house of Cloud of Chloe's household that there are contentions. Now I say this that each of you says I am of Paul or I am of Apollos or I am of Cecus or I am of Christ. They began to have contentions and divisions as to who they were, who they were following and who they were of, and all those kinds of things. And Paul says, no Be of the same mind, be in unity one to another, and when you come to the Lord's table, it is to be an expression of unifying around the cross of Christ. Do it in unity. And there's an implication here that if you don't do it this in unity together, that you're not really going to receive the blessings and the benefit of the Lord's Supper as well. This is very important for us to understand as we look at the Lord's Supper. In First Corinthians chapter eleven, verses twenty through twenty-two, then it informs us that the background and everything, he says this, therefore you come together in one place. It is not to eat the Lord's supper. The focus is not eating. That's not the focus. For in eating each one takes his own supper ahead of others. And one is hungry and one another is drunk. You've got people leaving saving some of the best food and some of the best drink for the better people and other pe for the for the more wealthy people. He said this is all not the point. He says in number uh verse twenty-two of that passage, verse eleven chapter eleven, do you not have households to eat in, houses to eat in and drink in? Do not despise the church of God and shame those who have nothing. What shall I say to you? Shall I praise you in this? I do not praise you. Now the word despise is an interesting word. It means mindless or to think little of. What was the problem? They were elevating eating of food and all these different things, and they were not elevating the things that they really should be elevating. They were mindless and not really focusing in and thinking about what they were doing as they assembled together and as they partook of the Lord's Supper together. And we can just as easily have that kind of mindset as well, where we are sort of ritualistic or mindless about what we are actually doing. And God says he does not want us to do that. Now the unity of the body of Christ is so obvious in this passage, both in 1 Corinthians 10 and in 1 Corinthians 11 that toward the end of 1 Corinthians 11, Paul is going to point out this passage. He says, For this reason, many are weak and sick among you, and many sleep, for if we would judge ourselves, we would not be judged. But when we are judged, we are chastened by the Lord that we may not be condemned with the world. Paul is pointing out that there were some in their midst that were actually in open unre uh unrepentant sin. Now this is this there are several different interpretations of this passage, but I think the most uh the most uh uh compelling interpretation of the passage is that they were an open unrepentant sin and they were still allowed to partake In 1 Corinthians, in 2 Corinthians chapter 5, Paul is going to deal with one particular couple of people that were in open unrepentant sin. And he says you need to practice, essentially, you need to practice church discipline so that they can be either restored to the body of Christ or excluded from the body of Christ so that you can have unity once again in the body of Christ. If you have people in the in the midst of an open, unrepentant, verifiable sin that are just you know the the example actually in second corinthians is incest. When you have that, you can't truly have unity in the body of Christ And so that's actually the point here. And actually what it says is Paul is saying that in some cases many are sick among you, and many sleep. In other words, Christ is chastening them and taking some of them home to be with him. because they are in open unrepentant sin and and whom the Lord loves he chastens and he's he's dealing with it that way. But he's saying to the church, you should be dealing with this. That really is the point of the passage, is that there has to be unity that is maintained in the body in order for there to really be the value of the Lord's Supper gathering as we gather together. Now, the truth is this. We really do underestimate the importance, the encouragement, the strength. and the assurance that is here when we come together, when we assemble together And particularly when we partake of the Lord's Supper together. It is something that we often very much underestimate. And the truth is we are living in a day, folks, where we go out into the world day in and day out, and there are great temptations toward idolatry, there are great temptations toward There are great temptations toward living for self. And it is so important in our day and age that we gather together to assemble together. In unity, because what happens when we assemble together in unity is that there is genuine encouragement. There is genuine you know you go out to the world and you are rubbing shoulders with the world every day And we come back in here and we're reminded that we all believe this together, that we're standing together, that we're encouraged together, that we're challenged together, that we're all in this to And there is this encouragement that is intended to happen. And it all is centralized in this Lord's Supper. So we need to unif in order to have the Lord's Supper the right way, we need to unify together. We are living in a world where the spiritual current of our world, or the evil current of our world, pulls us away from Christ. And it is absolutely essential. That we assemble together so that we can not be pulled away, so that we can resist that evil current. And I will just say this, that there are many people that have professed the name of Christ and have named the name of Christ, that they have decided on, for one reason or another, that they are no longer going to assemble. This is happening a lot in our country. But they're no longer going to meet together or unify together that now I'll just have my own di Bible study in my home. Or I'll just watch watch a sermon online. I'll just do you know, I ha my relationship with God is enough, and that's what I'll do. Those are people that end up bankrupt in the faith. Those are the people that that because of the evil current of our world and the evil current of our day are not going to be able to stand God gave us the assembling. God gave us the church. He gave us the Lord's Supper. He gave us these things so that we can encourage one another. And I suspect that the reason that at the first century they assembled every single day together and they took of the Lord's Supper so often and so frequently together was because they were under intense persecution and they knew they needed it Brothers and sisters in Christ, you and I need to realize how much we need this. That is absolutely vital, that we must have it. Now, what was going on in 1 Corinthians chapter 10 brings us to our next point, which is that we share in the body of Christ. So we're going to be looking at this next point is really derived from 1 Corinthians chapter 10, and I want to give you the background of what's going on in 1 Corinthians chapter 10. One of the other things that the Church of Corinth was dealing with was the problem of idolatry. Particularly, they were participating in the sacrifice to idols. This was such a cultural thing for them that they felt that if they were going to be accepted by the culture in Corinth, they were then going to have to participate in the sacrifice of idols. And they came up with this idea that as long as they also partook of the Lord's Supper, that it sort of hit the reset button for them. And they could participate in idolatry during the week, in the sacrificing of idols during the week, as long as they came together and and participated in the Lord's Supper, then it sort of was almost like this magic cure. Like this this sort of um thing that just sort of set everything right. Have you ever taken the Lord's Supper that way, by the way? Not quite that way, but you sort of said, okay, well this is my one time a month to get everything right. Uh this is sort of my magic time to sort of get everything right and clean and like tomorrow it'll all be all over again, but at least once a month I've got this right. Well that would also be a wrong way to deal with this. But that's that's how they were taking it. They sort of said this was like a magic antidote to idolatry Well, Paul Paul is going to deal with this. He's going to say, in one sense, you are overestimating what the Lord's Supper does. And in another sense, you are underestimating what the Lord's Supper does. And you're going to see that in this passage. So let's look at the passage And we'll see this played out here in 1 Corinthians chapter 10. Thinking about verse 14, it says this, observe Israel after the flesh. Are not those who eat of the sacrifices partakers of the altar? What am I saying then? That an idol is anything? That an idol is anything, or what is offered to idol idols is anything? Pause there for a minute. That's what they were saying. They were saying, you know, I can I can sacrifice to idols because I know an idol is nothing. So they literally would say I would during the week to be accepted by people, I would sacrifice to idol, because I know that fig that idol is not anything. And in our Western culture we say, well that is just so stupid like sacrificing the ultra. But you go to other you go to the Eastern culture, for example, and you know, I was in Hong Kong uh for a a while and literally you're walking along and you see temples with idols. They still have it to this day. It's just not here in the Western we have other idolatry that is just as bad uh uh and and just as harmful but uh it's a different kind of idolatry Uh but that's what they had back the uh that that's what they had in the first century, and they they did this as a matter of saying they sort of in their mind rationalize it by saying there's nothing really there to be idle And Paul says essentially, yes, in one sense you're right, but in another sense you're really wrong. Look at verse 20. Rather, that the things which Gentiles sacrifice, they sacrifice to demons and not to God. Whoa. Did you catch that? And do not want you to have fellowship with fellowship with demons. Now, what is this saying? Paul is saying. That when these folks sacrificed to idols, they were in the presence of demons. Now I I am not one that gets particularly mystical. I think you know that by now. I am not one that sees a demon on every corner around every corner and and you know there's there's people in our uh in our circles years ago that suggested that you know every cabbage patch doll had a demon. Well that's a you know nonsense and I mean really that actually was so a thing which you know kind of blows my mind now that anybody actually thought that. But anyway, uh so I want to be careful about this, but Paul says it. He says that when there is idolatry, there is the presence of demons. Now what he says here then is this He says, look at verse 21, you cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons. You cannot partake of the Lord's table and the table and the table of demons. What is he saying there? Well, he's saying that you cannot be in the presence of demons. and also be in the presence of the Lord and for these things to work together. Paul is implying two things. Number one, that when you sacrif when these people sacrifice to idols, They were putting themselves in the presence of demons. He is also saying this, he's implying this, that when you partake of the Lord's Supper, You are putting yourself in the presence of Christ. Now let that sink in for a minute. This is inseparable to assembling together. We are unifying together. And this passage is implying at least that what is yes, these are just elements. These are just little pieces, little things of juice and little little pieces of bread. But actually there's there in the there's an in there indicates in scripture, there's an indication in scripture here that there is a special presence, that when we come together this way, that we are partaking of the presence of Christ in a special way. Now you say, well, I don't know if I've ever heard that before. That is something in church history that has been esta that has been established. It's not something I just came up with. It's not something But let me just give you uh some some evidences of this in Scripture. If you disagree, that's okay, but but understand that there are some evidences of this. First of all, evidence number one The connection to Exodus, the presence of God and the Passover. I'm going to make some connections for you here. First of all, do you remember in Exodus twenty-four, quite a while ago we we went through the book of Exodus and you remember how often we spoke of the presence of God It was very, very frequently that we spoke of the presence of God. It is a very common thing. Once you go up to Mount Sinai And Moses goes up to Mount Sinai. The presence of God is there, and there was clearly levels to the presence of God. Do you remember that? that that the the congregation had a certain level of the presence of God, but as they went up in the mountain there was a a a greater level of the presence of God and then there then only Moses could go up a little bit farther. Do you remember that that there were le there were these levels of the presence of God. Well in one of these this this one passage, you remember that Moses took several people up with him, 70 elders in fact. And here's what it says, 24, 9 through 11. Then Moses went up. Also Aaron, Nadab, and Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel, and they saw the God of Israel. And there was under his feet, as it were, a paved work of sapphire stone. And it was like the very heavens in its clarity. It almost sounds like revelation, doesn't it? This is the kind of this they're really Seeing more, you know, a special closer to the presence of God here. Verse 11 says, But on the nobles and the child children of Israel, they did not lay his hand So they saw God. And then it says this, and they ate and drank. They had a meal up there. They're in the presence of God, they see God, and they eat and drink. Now, with that in mind, let's think of what the Passover is. Do you remember the Passover? In Exodus 12, verse 14, it says this: So this day shall be to you a memorial. And you shall keep it as a feast of the Lord throughout your generations. You shall keep it as a feast by an everlasting ordinance. Now, then it says this in Scripture in Isaiah 58, 1. So you have the Passover that is established as an ordinance. What is the Lord's Supper? It's an ordinance. Okay. In Isaiah 58. 1, it says this: Cry aloud, spare not, lift up your voice like a trumpet, tell my people their transgression in the house of Jacob their sins Yet they seek me daily and delight to know my ways as a nation that did righteousness and did not forsake the the ordinance of their God. They ask of me the ordinances of justice. They take delight in approaching God There is a connection in Isaiah between partaking of the ordinance and approaching God Now, we get to the Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. And Jesus is about to go to the cross, but before he does, he has a meal. What meal is that? It's the Passover. And he makes a very clear connection in Ju Luke 22. In fact, take your Bible and turn there. Look at Luke 22 for a moment. Keep it Finger in 1 Corinthians will be back. But in Luke 22, verses 14 through 20, we're going to see Jesus and he makes a very clear connection between the Passover, and then we're also going to see that First Corinthians makes another connection to the Passover. So you cannot, of course there are differences between the Passover and the Lord's Supper, which we'll look at in a minute. But for now, notice that there is some connection here between the two. Luke twenty-two, verses fourteen through twenty, it says this. When the hour had come, he sat down and the twelve apostles with him Then he said to them, with fervent desire, I have desired to eatest eat this Passover with you before I suffer. For I say to you, I will no longer eat of it until it is fulfilled in the kingdom. Then he took the cup and gave thanks and said, Take this and divide it among yourselves. For I say to you, I will not drink of the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God comes. And he took bread and gave thanks and broke it and gave it to them, saying, This is my body which is given to you, this due in remembrance of me. Likewise He took the cup of the supper, saying, This is the new covenant in my blood which is shed for you. So he makes this connection between the Passover meal and the Lord's Supper. But then he also says, The Lord's Supper is a is a new covenant. Which we're going to get to in a few moments, what that means. So we see this clear connection. And then in 1 Corinthians 10, verse 16, it says this: the cup of the blessing which we bless. is not the communion of the of the body of Christ. That is a reference to the Seder, the Passover Seder. The very first thing they did was they were to bless the cup. And Paul makes a connection then between the Passover and the Lord's Supper there. Well, that is one clear evidence. The Exodus, the presence of God, and the Passover, and all of those connections connecting with the Lord's Supper. But then also notice this, evidence number two The promise of the indwelling is a corporate promise. The indwelling of the Spirit of God, when we think of it, oftentimes we think of only in terms of individual. And it certainly is. If you know Christ as your Lord and Savior generally, the Spirit of God has come to indwell you. But in 1 Corinthians chapter 6, verses 18 through 20, we actually see that it is both individual and corporate. And I'm actually going to read here from the King James Version for a very simple reason. It actually shows this. The King James Version uses the second person plural. Where we don't have a distinction in the second person plural in this in in uh in modern translations. Let me put it to you more bluntly. You don't have the word y'all Okay? That's why b occasionally my kids will say, Dad, why do you say y'all sometimes? Because it's useful. I'm not from I I I I was born in Yeah, I was born in Texas, maybe that's it. Uh but I was raised in Maryland. I'm not I don't really have a southern draw or anything like that, but y'all is actually fairly useful. Or a lot of times I'll say you all just because I don't want to be You know, I don't you know, win in Rome and stuff. But um but really uh y'all is useful because we don't and and it's funny, in all different kinds of the country, up in Pennsylvania they say ewins. And in there in New Jersey they say use. So we're all trying to find this. Well in the King James it says ye. Now, notice that in 1 Corinthians chapter 6, verses 18 through 20, flee fornication. Even sin that a man doeth is not uh is without the body, but he that committeth fornication sineth against his own body. What? Know ye not. That's plural, second person plural. Know ye not. And by the way, I checked it in the Greek. It is second person plural in the Greek. That your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost which is in you, which you have of God, and ye are not your own, for ye are bought with a price. Therefore glorify your God and your body and your spirit, which are God's. It's actually the indwelling of the Spirit of God is certainly an individual truth, but it also has a corporate application. Now then finally, number three, evidence number three, the specialist princes of God during the gathering. We find this in Matthew chapter 18, verses 19 through 20. It says this in the context of church discipline. In the context of church discipline, it actually says in verses 19 through 20, again I say to you that if two of you agree on earth concerning anything that they they ask, it will be done for them by my Father in heaven. For where two or three are gathered together in my name, I am there in the midst of them. Now that is clearly in the context of church discipline. However, let me ask you a question. Let me point this out, first of all. The word gathered. is the same word as assembly. It's the same word over in Hebrews chapter 25, Hebrews 1025 where it uses the word assembly. It's the same word as gathered there. Now let me ask you a question. Do you suppose that that there he is in the midst of them only and exclusively refers to people that are to a situation where the church is practicing discipline. Is that only the time that Christ is in the midst of them? And I would suggest to you that that's not the case, that it's actually a reference to the fact that when God's people gather together, that there on some level seems to be a special presence of God there. That nourishes us and encourages us and strengthens us. Now, we then see this. That the presence of God nourishes us. And just think about the Lord's Supper. Why did Christ use use the and call it why why is it called the Lord's Supper? Is it because we are supposed to really enjoy eating together. No, we know that that's not the case. Why? First Corinthians 11 is clear about that. It's not about eating together. I'm not saying it's wrong to eat together either. We all like to eat eat together. But that's not the point No, what is it talking about? It is actually it is actually implying that when we partake of the Lord's Supper together, when we're doing it purposefully and thinking about what we're doing and doing it the way that God attends That there is actually a spiritual nourishing that takes place. That our souls and our spirits are nourished By the word of God, by the presence of God. Now, let me pause and just be clear. We are not talking here about transubstantiation. or consubstantiation. In in the in during the Reformation time, those two things were were uh in view, the the Roman Catholic Church uh spoke of transubstantiation and there are two problems with that. One it says it it it it suggests that there that uh the elements become the body and blood of Christ And the other problem with the transubstantiation is the idea that it actually that there is a sacrifice occurring over and over again And that is clearly unbiblical. Clearly Scripture says that Christ sacrificed once for all. And so there's no question that Christ sacrificed one time. for us and that is effective for the believer for all time. So clearly transubstantialism is uh is entirely unbiblical. And consubstantiation focuses in on the elements. That the elements are um uh are are somehow uh uh cause sort of sort of mystical thing where Christ is in the elements, sort of spiritually or mystically. Well we see no example, we see no no uh uh evidence of that in scripture either. Um it's not as destructive as as transubstantiation But it still is problematic because Paul actually indicates in 1 Corinthians 11 that the that it's really not about the elements. That's not the main thing there And so that's important to understand. We're not talking here about the elements. We're talking about as God's people gather together, and as we partake of the Lord's Supper together, symbolic of the nourishing presence of God. that we are we are spiritually nourished. Now what does that include? What what does it mean? And I you know as I was studying this and re I was really challenged by a pastor friend of mine to really research this more, to understand it and study it out more. And that's one of the reasons why I bring this to you now. I thought through it a little bit and I just thought, okay, well how is it that when we come together we are nourished spiritually And particularly, how is this separate from just intellectually or academically hearing a message? And there is a difference. If I'm academically or intellectually hearing truth, I'm listening to a sermon, which by the way, I listen to a lot of sermons Um I run during the week and a lot of times I'm listening to a sermon while I run. I get I running is the most boring thing you could ever do. You should listen to a sermon when you're running Right. Um I I'm not saying you ha you should, but anyway, it's a good idea. Um so I listen to sermon. But there is a difference between listening to a sermon while I'm running and being with God's people as we gather together and we and we participate in the things that God said to participate in. There's a difference. Now what are the what's the difference? What are the things that we might gain? How does, in other words, how does the presence of God in the assembly nourish us? Well I wrote down five, and these are all suggestions. These are just things that I would suggest. Number one, I think we are encouraged. We come together, we're encouraged. We're out in the work, we we the presence of evil is everywhere around us, and we come back together and we're encouraged. If we're really meaningful about what we're doing, we're motivated. We're motivated to go out and serve the Lord again. We gather together, we assemble together, we're motivated, we're strengthened. As we are motivated, we are also spiritually strengthened. We're assured. Do you ever doubt the the gospel? Isn't it true that you have people in your life, perhaps, that are going to question help cause you to question when we gather together, you assemble together, This is why God said, This is why Christ said, don't forsake this. And so much the more as you see the day approaching, do not forsake the assembling of yourselves together. Because there is an assurance and a strengthening and an encouragement and a motivation, and I think also perhaps a refocusing. Like you know, you go out in the world and you're a you you you're you're you're distracted by this and you've got this to do and you got that to do and you that to do and for As we gather together and assemble together, we're refocused. And I think that refocus on what's really important, that refocus on the kingdom of God and the work of the gospel and what Christ did and what we're supposed to do as a result of what Christ did. It motivates us and encourages us to have our own personal individual worship times. The idea that my personal worship time is enough and I don't need the assembly is a foreign idea in Scripture. We need each other. If you have a personal worship time, it's going to help you to appreciate and encouragement, encourage, be encouraged in the assembly. And if you are encouraged in the assembly, it will help you in your personal worship time. They go together. So encouragement, motivation, strengthened, assured, refocused. So communion is not, on one hand, this sort of magical antidote to idolatry, but let me just say this: it is a nourishing presence of Christ that does strengthen us to resist idolatry. And that's actually Paul's point. Paul says Resist idolatry and realize that this is where you ought to be getting your strength from, not from idolatry. Can you get strength from idolatry? You absolutely can. You ever felt uh down or despondent or despairing or depressed, and you run to some sort of idol in your life? And that makes you for a temporary time feel better. It it medicates you. It causes you to sort of be motivated to live longer, to live at all. That is the kind of thing that an idol will do. And Paul says, no, no, you don't need that. That's wrong. Flee that. Get away from that and realize there is a strength. And an encouragement and assurance as we unify together in the assembly and we partake of the Lord's Supper together. Number three then, and this really it just really leads us to this, how do we do this the right way? I mean if if all of these are if we've noted the benefits of gathering together We've noted the benefits of all this. Well, how do we participate in the body of Christ? How do we do this in the right way? Well, number one, we are going to we need to remember the sacrifice Christ made. We need to remember. The Bible is clear in 1 Corinthians chapter 11. It says we do this in remembrance of him. So what exactly does that mean? I love what Anthony C. Fistleton said in his commentary. He said for cr Christian believers who participate in appropriating the bread and cup in remembrance of Christ's covenantal death and shed blood. The remembrance is a dramatic involvement or an actualization of placing ourselves there. at the foot of the cross, just as to eat the Passover was not simply to think about it, but to be there as one who took part of the remember uh Took part in the remembered membered events. You think of a reenactment, a battle reenactment. You think of reading it in a history book on one hand or going and and reenacting it on the other. The Lord's Supper and the assembling together is intended to be sort of a we we we want to be there, to put ourselves there. This is simply a symbol a picture that is supposed to sort of transport us back to all of what Christ did for us and to really consider it. It's kind of like, and I've used this illustration before, but it's kind of like certain pictures. Actually Uh I don't know how this works. I just I know what pops up on my phone. Like I'll have um like like I have an iPhone and the photos will pop up with like these memories. I don't really I don't really I think Facebook does it too. I don't really use Facebook all that much except for selling stuff. But other than that I don't really use it that much. Um uh z so so occasionally I'll post something on there. But but this it'll pop up and it'll say memories from the past, you know, decade or you know, and I'm like, man, my kids were really young back then. And so and if you if you look through that, it's like sometimes there'll certain be certain pictures that if you focus in on it, you can remember being there. It sort of transports you back to that place. There's one particular picture in a scrapbook that my wife has, and every sometime I I'm standing on the edge of a river drenched And my wife is stand well, it wasn't my wife at the time. My girlfriend was standing at the no, she wasn't even my girlfriend at the time actually. We were just friends. Um anyway. It's a whole nother story. But um but uh uh we were I I had told she uh we went on a dating outing together. It was a canoeing trip, and I told her, ah, we don't you know we won't capsize, I've been in canoes all my life. It's not of a deal. And we just and I can literally remember, I can think through every aspect of that. I can pl just by seeing the picture, I can place myself there. And that's a trite illustration for what's supposed to be happening when we partake of the Lord's Supper together. It's like we are to transport there to really consider the suffering of Christ, to consider him being separated from his father, to consider the the sin that he took on himself and the righteousness that we have. All those things we are supposed to it's not just, oh yeah, Christ died for me and let's go No, there is there is to be serious focus and consideration of these things and remembering these things and putting them in the front of our mind, undistracted The word means to take it from the back of our mind and put it to the forefront of our mind so that we are encouraged and strengthened by it. That is our role, remembering the sacrifice that Christ made for us. The spiritual were you there when they crucified my Lord conveys what should be happening there at the Lord's Supper. Number two, affirming the new covenant. We are to affirm a new covenant. Jesus said, and Paul reiterated, this is the new covenant in my blood. Well, what does that mean? Well, I won't take a long time to explain this, but basically when Christ died and shed his blood, he ratified a new agreement. The old Mosaic Agreement was done away with, Christ fulfilled that, and now there's a new agreement, and that new agreement affords us all kinds of benefits, like eternal life and uh and a right relationship with him and all kinds of benefits, uh right standing with him and co-errors, co-equals there's all kinds of benefits Spiritual benefits of the new covenant. And we are reminding ourselves that we are partakers of this new covenant in Christ. We are to affirm the new covenant. And then finally, we are to proclaim the gospel. When we are doing this, we are affirming together, unified together, that we believe in the gospel of Jesus Christ. We believe that Christ died, buried, rose from the grave, and is coming again for us. The death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. And we are proclaiming that we believe this. This becomes particularly important in the first century and in other centuries and under persecution, where people came together to do this under the threat of persecution. Like literally, they knew that this would identify them as a Christian, and they still did it knowing it would mark them, and they were willing to do it in spite of persecution. Do we have that kind of resolve today? That we're going to assemble? Even if there's persecution? Even if there's risk of different kinds? It is something really for us to consider. The proclaiming of the gospel until he comes. So You know, you say some people say, well, I I don't know if I really gain all that I should from the Lord's Supper. Well well it's our role is this Remembering what Christ did, affirming the new covenant, proclaiming the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ, realizing that what we're doing is marking ourselves As Christians, as we do this together, there are two ordinances that do that. It's baptism marks myself as a Christian. Doesn't make me a Christian, but baptism marks myself as a Christian. And the Lord's Supper continually, I'm marking myself as a Christian, as a follower of Christ, as I do this together, proclaiming the gospel until he comes for us. So in summing all of this up, let's remember three things. Number one, this is a gift of Christ. And we must unify around the body of Christ rather than to succumb to the evil currents of the world. We must unify around the body of Christ rather than succumb to the evil currents of the world. We must share, number two, in the presence of Christ rather than share in the demonic evil through idolatry. Idolatry brings demonic influence. Worship of the true and living God together in the assembly brings Christ's special presence. And number three, we must fully participate in it through remembrance, affirmation, and proclamation. Remembrance Affirming that we are in the new covenant and proclamation. We are proclaiming the Lord's death until he comes. When we participate in this day, in this way, together, then we can be assured that we are going to we're going to benefit and be spiritually nourished by the Lord's Supper. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you, Lord, for your goodness to us, and we thank you for your word. We thank you for your truth and your grace this morning. We pray, Lord, as we partake of the Lord's Supper together, that you would help us and cause us to uh be in be uh th th this would happen that the as the presence of crisis here in the assembly uh in a special way that we would be nourished by the truth that we proclaim and that we would remember what Christ did for us on the cross. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. To have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273 or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.