Well good morning. I want to tell you, especially you men, did I get fired up yesterday and well the weekend. I thought that was a really great men's retreat. There were so many one liners and I'm thinking, you know and it ended up the question, am I a soldier of the cross? Are you a soldier of the cross? And man, he brought out so many things that made me re think my whole walk with the Lord. And uh he one of the things he started out with, if you don't know where you're going, you may not get there. And uh so I I thought he was really good and I was I really got fired up through it. But anyway. Um let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we are grateful this morning, so grateful. We just want to praise you for Who you are, Father. You are the great I am. Only you have that title. You are everlasting to everlasting. You're almighty, you're all-powerful, you're all-wise You know our rising up and our lying down. You are an awesome God. And Father, we love you this morning and give you the praise. Praise and the honor and the glory for who you are and all that you have done, all that you are doing, and all that you will do. We thank you for sending your son, your only Only begotten Son, to go to the cross in our place willingly, laying down his life on our behalf. And Lord, we're thankful that He satisfied your Just the man for sin. And the fact that he was he died on that cross, he was buried in the tomb, but on the third day he was resurrected up out of that grave. And Father, we're grateful because He had conquered sin, He conquered death, and He conquered Satan. And those of us who will be willing to put our faith in What an awesome Gospel. And Father, we have been called by you to further this gospel throughout the world. That's our calling here. And Father, I pray this morning that you will guide and direct us by your Spirit. As we sit under your word this morning, may we be a uh may our eyes be open. May our hearts and our minds be open. To you, Father, and not just hear it and walk out of here and do nothing. Father, help us to know your will and help us to be willing Willing, willingly to go and do what you called us to do. I pray for those who are unable to be here with us this morning. Some are unable because of health and age, and Father, we just lift them up to you. And ask that your spirit be working in them. And prayerfully they are listening to the message this morning. And Father, we ask that you encourage them, to strengthen them. Strengthen them and comfort them. And Father, we ask this morning, we all came in here, Lord, with different thoughts and attitudes and whatnot on our mind. May we set them aside. May we concentrate fully upon your word this morning. May your spirit have its way in us. I pray for Brother Jim as he brings Your message this morning, Father, that you will give him clarity of speech and thought as he presents your word. And Father, we ask that in all things that you be glorified, that you be lifted. We are in uh Matthew twenty-four. We are going to be reading Reading from verses thirty-two to fifty-one, if you'd like to follow along in your Bible. Matthew 24, verses 32 to 51 Now learn this parable from the fig tree. When its branch has already become tender and puts forth leaves You know that summer is near. You also, when you see all these things, know that it is near at the doors. Assuredly I say to you, this generation will by no means pass away till all these things take place. Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will by no means pass away. But of that day and hour no one knows, not even the angels of heaven But my Father only. But as the days of Noah were, so also will the coming of the Son of Man be. For as in the days before the flood, they were all eating and drinking and marrying and giving in marriage until the day that Noah entered the ark. And did not know until the flood came and took them all away. And so will the coming of the Son of Man Then two men will be in the field, one will be taken, the other will be left. Two women will be grinding at the meal, one will be taken, the other left. would come. He would have watched and not allowed his house to be broken in two. Therefore, you also be ready for the Son of Man is coming at an hour you do not expect. Who then is faithful and wise servant whom his master made ruler over his household, to give them food in due season. Blessed is the servant, who his master when he comes, will find him so doing Assuredly, I say to you that he will make him a ruler over all his goods. But if that servant, if that evil servant says in his heart, my master is delaying his That he is not aware of, and will cut him in two and appoint him his portion with the hypocrites, there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth I too, like Harry, really appreciated the uh the men's retreat and the preaching was um you know certain things for men but it really was really for everybody. It wasn't I'm there wasn't too much that was real men specific. It was all of us basically but uh Certainly certainly very helpful and I almost to the point where I thought well maybe I should change what I'm gonna preach about and and uh because I really think that some of this is helpful. And then I began to think about the message I'm preaching and the passion. passage I'm preaching from and realizing that there's probably uh there there is a a clear uh there's a lot of application and I can actually bring out and you're gonna hear that as we think about uh our message today. And the fact that we are dealing with, you know, we're we're in it's Veterans Day weekend and we appreciate all of what the veterans did. One of the illustrations that was presented as uh probably one of the sermons that I heard was um was this picture of Iwo Jima. That was uh that's sort of a a not sort of it is an a iconic picture, uh the monument uh of that picture. That's the actual picture of of it, but um of them uh you know all together striving together for uh for this country, uh as a symbolism for the Marine Corps, I believe, and uh and just a wonderful picture of fighting together. And he pointed out as an illustration that that that's exactly the way the church needs to be. Do we really see ourselves that way? In Philippians chapter 1, verse 27 it says Only let your conduct be worthy of the gospel of Christ, so that whether I come and see you or am absent, I may hear of your affairs that you see Stand fast in one spirit with one mind, striving together for the faith of the gospel. Is that how you view church? Is that how you view our church? We are striving together for the faith of the gospel. We are soldiers of the cross. We are on the front lines striving together for the faith of the gospel. What is the condition of many churches today? Are the what is the condition of our church? Do we really think that way about our church if If we think about what is the core of our church and what we're doing and and what our goals are as a church, are we content with having, you know, nice services and nice music and you know places you know, nice activities for the kids and you know I can come when I want to and other times if it doesn't work out that's okay. I mean it is that the mentality that we have as a church or is there a mentality that we're soldiers I was talking with uh this week uh with one of the guys and we he was talking about how can I he was asking a uh an honest question about how how can I um really really live out the gospel and preach the gospel in my particular vocation and he said something to me. He said, you know, in in your vocation and as a pastor, it it's a lot easier. It's so straightforward. In mine it's a lot harder. And I actually said to the to the man, I said, actually it's it's it's the opposite. You are on the front lines. I am sec I am behind the front lines. The responsibility of the pastor is to equip the saints for the work of the ministry. That doesn't mean I'm not on the front lines too. I am to some degree. But you the the church is on the front lines. You go out every single day and you face the enemy. And ch uh moss, you say, Well, I'm just dealing with my kids. You go out every single day and you face the enemy. Because your kids, your kids are born sinners. And your kids are born rotten. And you know it. And they're disobedient. And you gotta deal with them. And you gotta try to be the right kind. You are in spiritual warfare, Moss. You're in spiritual warfare workers. You're spiritual, whatever vocation you're in, if you are interfacing with non-Christians, you are in spiritual warfare. And it ain't getting any easier. And so and so I was really reminded of this and really I did some own my own sort of rethinking about some things when it comes to our church and and how how we view our church, what is the, you know, the desire, the goal, frankly, should be That you go out on the front lines every day and you can't wait to get back here. Every chance you can get to get refueled and we re-equipped to be able to go back out and serve the Lord. And to be on the front lines again. That is something that is very clear in the mind of Paul. He mentions on many occasions he used Uses this analogy of being a soldier. He says a soldier that wareth does not entangle himself and the fair of this life. And unfortunately, many churches, we are happy to just be comfortable. We can just, as long as we have everything going right and things are going properly and things are organized, and we're just fine. Is that how God desires for us to be? Now, what's really interesting is that when Jesus is talking to his disciples here in the Passage about the coming of Christ. And they ask him, What is the sign of your coming and the end of the age? What's going on? And he explains for many verses as we've been going through about the wars and the rumor of wars and the abomination of desolation and all of this. And then finally he gets to this place now where he's going to use three illustrations. illustrations and he is going to talk to them about the nature of the second coming. Why? Why is he going to do this? Because it's going to change It's going to cause them to have an attitude, an urgency, a faithfulness in their lives that they otherwise would not have. And the fact is, if you find yourself in a place of fear and hopelessness, if you find yourself in a place of um of uh uh lack of direction in life If you find yourself in a place of a lack of urgency or apathy, if you find yourself in a place where you're not really being all that faithful to the Lord, It is, you are not, we are not viewing the second coming as God intended us to view it. Because a true understanding of the coming of Christ, His coming, the urgency will be there. The hope will be there. The faithfulness will be there. And that's what we're going to see in this passage. Three illustrations we're going to see here. In verses twenty thirty-two through thirty-five, the right the return of Christ is guaranteed so that we should live confidently and and hopefully. The timing of Christ's return is not revealed, so that we should live expectantly. In verses 36 through 45. And the nature of Christ's return will include an accounting of what we have done so we should live faithfully. Verses 45 through 51. We're first going to look then at the return of Christ is guaranteed. The coming of Christ is guaranteed. so that we should live confidently. And we pick up in verse 32, we have this illustration about the fig tree. And Christ has used the fig tree again. It's a very natural illustration to use. There were fig trees all over the place in that region of the world. And so he says here, now learn this parable from the fig tree. When its branch has already become tender and puts forth leaves, you know that it is summer, that summer is near. So you also, when you see all these things, know that it is near at the doors. Assuredly I say to you, this generation will by no means. . pass away till all things take place. Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will by no means pass away. He says, learn the parable of the fig tree. The word learned there, it's the same word that's used in Philippians chapter 4 where it says, I have learned in whatsoever state I am to be content. Learn experientially, he says, the parable of the fig tree. Experience what this means. And he points out that you can see the indications of a fig tree of when it's time for harvest. The fig tree is usually harvested between August and Sept uh between August and September, so the later summer part of the of the year. And when you see the leaves form and you see the buds come out, you see all the different things that are happening with the fig tree. you begin to see that it is going it's going to bear fruit, and now we're going to be able to harvest the fruit from that fig tree. Jesus says, as the various things, the various events come about, as you see various things happening, you can know. It can be a clear indication for you of what is going to take place. There's going to be A harvest. There's going to be a summer. Summer is coming. So he then says, This: Assuredly, I say to you, this generation, verse 34. This generation. What is he talking about when he says this generation will by no means pass away till all these things take place? Now there's a lot of actual a lot of views on this, a lot of confusion about what this means. We've seen in the book of Matthew in the past, this generation is a reference to uh the Pharisees and the religious leaders and those who followed him. For example, in Matthew 12, verse 41. It says the men of Gineveh will rise up in judgment with this generation and condemn it, because they repented at the preaching of Jonah and And indeed a greater greater than Jonah is here. And so he's used this term, this generation, to describe present Israel as it follows the ways of the false teachers and the Pharisees. Is that what he's talking about here? The answer is uh uh he can't be talking about that here because he has something else in view in the context which we're going to see in a minute. And some would but that was clearly in the context actually talking about his tra His transfiguration. So when the word when the when these words are used, this generation and even the coming of the kingdom, these different things things. We have to make sure that we understand in the context what Jesus is talking about. And in this particular context, some people believe that the This generation is a reference to that particular those particular disciples, and what is about to come about is the destruction of the temple in 70 A. D. But that doesn't really bear out in the context either. What is going on? It says, these by no means will pass away till these things take place. That phrase, these things, is very important. What are these things? Well, most naturally these things are reference to what Jesus has already taught. He taught about these things. He's taught about the birth pangs, the wars, and the rumors of wars, and the persecution, and the desolation in verses 4 through 14 of Matthew 24. And then he talked about the abomination of desolation, that time where the Antichrist will assume power and will uh enter the temple and will take oath and will Claim to be deity and all of that in in uh twenty four verse fifteen. He says when these things take place um he says the uh And so clearly it's talking about the generation that occurred that is That is there during the tribulation period. That generation, during the tribulation period, those who are God's people, probably consisting of both Jews and Christians. Christians, but certainly at least Jews, that have come to Christ at that point, they've recognized and they are receiving persecution as a result of it. He's basically saying here in this passage that they will not it will not pass away. They will not pass away. Until everything has been fulfilled. As a group, they'll see the coming of Christ. It's not saying that individuals won't die, because that certainly will happen. Individuals won't be martyred. That certainly will happen But as a whole, that's what we're seeing in the passage, which we're talking about. The generation of God's people that are alive during the tribulation period. He wants them to understand that the coming of Christ will happen. These events will take place because the Word of God declares it to be so. And the confidence that we can have is not in what we see, but in what the Word of God says. So he says, heaven and earth will pass away. And that is a future prophecy, actually. Do you know heaven and earth will pass away? It will. 2 Peter 3, verse 10 says, But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night. In which the heavens will pass away with a great noise, and the elements will melt with fervoat, both the earth and the works that are in them will be burned up And in J Revelation 21, one it says, Now I saw a new heaven and a new earth for the first heaven and the first earth has passed away, and there will be no more sin. Now that's not going to happen until the second coming takes place, and then a thousand-year millennial reign takes place, and then you will have a new heaven and a new earth. Jesus is saying here that understand it will pass away. But he says, my words will not pass away. In other words, everything I'm telling you, the prophecies I'm telling you, it will go in the order that I'm telling you. These events will take place before, because my words, the word of God, the scriptures, will not pass away. You can guarantee it may not always, the prophecies of Scripture may not always be fulfilled in the way we think they will they will be fulfilled, frankly. And they were understanding this. They thought that Christ was coming now and this and didn't realize there was even a second coming happening. And the disciples were quite confused about some of the Old Testament prophecies and how they will be fulfilled. And very candidly, I'm not sure we always get everything right when it comes to future prophecies. But the one thing that we can know for sure is that whatever God says will be fulfilled will be fulfilled. And one of the things that is most clear Without question, is the future coming of Christ. He says, My words will by no means pass away. Now this is a constant theme throughout Scripture that the Word of God will not pass away. Luke sixteen, seventeen says, It is easier for heaven and earth to pass away than for one jot and uh of the law to fail In John chapter ten verse thirty-five, if he is uh if he has called them gods to whom the word of the Lord came, the scriptures cannot be broken. Psalm nineteen nine, the fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever, the judgments of the Lord are true. True and righteous altogether. Psalm one nineteen, eighty-nine ninety Forever, O Lord, your word is settled in heaven, your faithfulness endures to all generations, you establish the earth, and it abides Our confidence and our hope is that the coming of Christ will occur. And even when we look around and we say, well, it doesn't seem like he's coming In fact, 2,000 years has gone by, hasn't it? And the coming of Christ has is still yet to happen. But our trust, our dependence is not on what we see in history or not what we see in our present circumstances. Our dependence and our trust is on what the Word of God says, and Jesus says, I'm coming again. Now that should that perspective should be a perspective that makes us extremely confident and very hopeful. It really doesn't matter what you're going through. You as a Christian should have a sense of hope and confidence because the word of God is true. It will be fulfilled, and it clearly declares that Jesus is coming again. Can I ask you a question? This morning is your life filled with fear and worry or and hopelessness? Or Or is it filled with hope and confidence? The New Testament many, many times says essentially that if you're not hopeful, if you're fearful, if you're worrying, look to the coming of Christ. Luke chapter 21, verse 28 says When these things begin to happen, look up and lift up your heads, because the redemption draws near. Second Timothy chapter 4, verse 8. Finally there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness which the Lord the righteous judge will give me out on that day, and not to me only, but also to all them who loved his appearing. Romans 8:18, for I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that will be revealed in us. Romans 8. 21, because the creation itself also being delivered from the bondage of corruption and to the glorious liberty of the children of God First Corinthians chapter five verse fifty four. So that when this corruption has put on in corruption and this mortal has put on immortality, then shall we be shall be brought to pass the saying which is It's written, death is swallowed up in victory. What does the prospect of the coming of Christ Do in our lives practically. Why did Jesus emphasize this before he went to the cross for the disciples? It changes our perspective. It changes our vision. It changes our lives. I think of the old uh Winnie the Pooh characters. You remember the Winnie the Pooh characters? They're they're uh these these characters you ever notice that all these Winnie the Pooh I don't know I don't know if you've contemplated William Pooh lately, but um they're all extremes. You know, you've got Eeyore on one hand and you've got Tigger on the other, right? You've got the nervous piglet and you've got all these different characters. Well I'm going to tell you, there should be no Christian that's an Eeyore. None Remember Eeyore? Down in the dumps. Oh man, something else bad is gonna happen to me. What's Eeyore's problem? He's too f Focused on himself. He's not focused on others. He's not even focused on other things that are happening. He's got to get his eyes off of himself and focus on others. And frankly, we should never we we don't need to be like that because we have a hope in Christ that He is coming again We need to take our eyes off of ourselves and put our eyes on Christ. And we don't have just a faith that is just, you know, The cross and the and the death and burial and resurrection of Christ and all those historical events which are incredibly important. Our faith also looks forward to the future where our faith becomes sight. We need to keep we need to be uh find our confidence and our hope in the truth of the word of God, no matter what we're going through in our life. lives. And Jesus wanted the disciples to understand this. And when you see various wars and rumors of wars and events going on and Israel being bombed. You can look ahead and say, hey, you know, this is not, this is something we know Christ is coming. This should not take us by surprise. So the disciples knew by now that the coming of Christ was not going to be the way they expected. And Jesus now wants to help them to really understand the nature of the And so we see another illustration here that he uses in verses 36 through 44. And what we're going to learn from this illustration is that the timing of Christ's return is not revealed. The timing of the coming of Christ is not revealed, so we should always be ready. We should always live expectantly. We don't know when it is. So we should always expect it to happen. We should always live expectantly. Now that might sound really weird because Christ taught this 2,000 years ago Why is it that Jesus would teach this 2,000 years ago, and yet are we really, really now, are we really supposed to expect it when it's when Christ has tarried this long? And the answer is absolutely, because it changes it changes our our sense of urgency. It helps us to understand that A sense of urgency in this life, to gain a sense of urgency, and we'll see this as we go. Verse 36 says this, but of that day and hour no one knows Not even the angels of heaven, but my Father only. Now, this is interesting. He starts off by saying this. It brings up all kinds of questions, doesn't it? I mean Jesus is saying to them, as far as the exact timing of the coming of Christ, my coming, nobody knows it. In the Luke passage, in the Luke, the the parallel passage in Luke, it actually says, included the Son of Man The Son of Man doesn't know. Jesus himself did not know when the second coming was going to occur, the timing of the coming of Christ. Now you say, well, wait a minute, that really blows my mind because Jesus is God. Jesus is deity. Did he how he's omniscient? How could he not know? That brings up a lot of questions, doesn't it? What we find in Scripture is that when Jesus came to this earth, he absolutely did not give up his deity. He added, he took on and was clothed in humanity. It says this in Philippians chapter 2 verse 7. But made himself of no reputation, and took on the form of a bond servant, and coming and came in the likeness of man. Jesus came, he is deity, was born as a baby, and he took on humanity so that he is fully God and fully man. And yet it says he limited himself. The Philippians 2 passage explains that he limited himself of his glory. And Isaiah indicates the same kind of thing where it says that there was no form of comeliness about him. In other words, Jesus is walking on the street and you're not going to be able to recognize, oh, that is deity right there. It's not like he glowed or something like that that would tell you that Jesus is deity just by looking at him as he walked the streets of Jerusalem and Israel. He he limited his glory. But apparently, from what we see in this passage, he he limited his knowledge as well. didn't mean that he was no longer omniscient. He had the capacity of omniscience, but he did set it aside. He limited his knowledge in order to become fully human. In fact, we know that he even grew in knowledge. Luke chapter 2, verse 52. And Jesus increased in wisdom and stature and in favor with God and man. And yet, there are other times in the New Testament in the Gospels where Jesus seems to have divine knowledge. He says, for example, in the woman at the well, remember that story? She's He says, Go get your husband to the woman, right? And the woman answered and said, John 4, 17, I have no husband. Jesus said to her, You You have well said you have no husband, for you have five husbands, and the one whom you are you now have is not your husband, and that you spoke truly. Now how did Jesus know that? He had she had five husbands. It's very, very unlikely that he somehow, you know, Googled it. You know. Or somehow knew that she, you know, looked on her Facebook account. Or something. No, no, no, he didn't know. He knew because of divine knowledge. Lazarus, he hears that Lazarus is sick in John chapter eleven. And he immediately says, with divine knowledge, John chapter 11, verse 4, when Jesus heard that, he said, This sickness is not unto death, but for the glory of God, the Son of Man may be glorified And later on he says, our friend Lazarus sleeps. I must go and wake him. Well, he was, Lazarus was physically dead. But Jesus in his divine knowledge knew what he was going to do. So on one hand, he's limiting his knowledge. On other times, he seems to have divine knowledge. He tells Peter, for example, you're going to Deny me three times. How did he know that? He knew that because he was accessing at that point divine knowledge. So how how do you make sense of this? I think we make sense of it of this in this way. What's very clear in Scripture is that Jesus came to do the will of the Father. For example, it says John 4 34, My food is to do the will of him who sent me and to finish his work. John five thirty, I can of myself do nothing. Places himself in deity and clothed with humanity, but places himself in utter dependence on his father. I can of myself do nothing. As I hear, I judge, and my judgment is righteous, because I do not seek my own will, but the will of the Father who sent me. eight says, For I have come down from heaven not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me. Do you know what Jesus did in taking on the On humanity and setting for us an example, he completely and wholly trusted his father. And he said, Father, essentially, he said, Father, you know, I don't know if there's an actual conversation between him and his father. that. But something to the effect of I'm going to submit to you, you give me divine revelation and divine understanding as you want me to have it And apparently, when it came to the timing of the coming of Christ, at this point, the Father did not want the Son to know. That's the best understanding we can come to. Why? Because the Son, the Father wants us all to live in anticipation. And when Jesus taught, he could honestly say, I don't know. I don't know the timing of my coming. By the way, if Jesus was on this earth and didn't know the timing is of his coming, No one knows. Any claim to know the timing of the coming of Christ is so that that guy is so full of it Jesus himself didn't even know the timing. knows it now. Okay. And uh and and so likely that's the case and he he's he he's now taken on his glory again that we know that. And he is still retained his humanity, Jesus is still fully God and fully man. Now he probably my understanding is that he would he would have full full access to the to divine knowledge now. Never again, never lost capacity before. He always had the capacity of divine knowledge, but of his own volition he chose to limit it to limit it And to trust his father with it. But I think that there's something else. I just this is kind of kind of for free a little bit here, but I just think it's so such a blessing when I when I really think about it. share it with you because I I started meditating on these things and thinking about them and how wonderful they are. You know why I think Jesus did this, one of the reasons he did this? Because he really can't The Bible says in Hebrews chapter 4, verse 14, seeing then that we have a great high priest who has passed from the heavens Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession, for we know for we do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses But in all points tempted as we are, yet without sin. Let us therefore come boldly to the throne of grace that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. Jesus can sympathize so much so that when he came to this earth, though he could have access to all knowledge and could do anything, He limited himself so that he didn't know everything. I mean, how much of our struggle is that we don't know what's going to happen? Do you know what's going to happen in your life? I don't know what's going to happen in my life. And every time I try to predict, I'm so dead wrong. I don't have a crystal ball, and neither do you. And apparently Jesus, in his In his humanity chose to be tempted and go through trials in such a way that he didn't know either. What what great Humility. He had to be completely dependent on his Father. And you know what? If Jesus can be completely dependent on He sets a great example for us to be completely dependent on our Father, God. That's what God wants us to do. He wants us in our lives to be utterly dependent upon him because only he knows. It's amazing to me how much people don't know. It's amazing to me how much I don't know. It's amazing to me how much the professionals don't know. I I I'm amazed in the medical world how little uh how little they know about how little they they really they still don't know so much. I'm thankful for our for medical professionals. I thank for what they do for us and I'm I've been through a lot of it with both my mom and my dad with cancer. But it is amazing how much they they're guessing. There's certain things they know, you know, they know blood counts, they understand, you know what's in the blood blood there are l they there's certain things that they're objective and verifiable but they will be full fully admitting well we just don't know about that and we don't know about this. That's why they call it a practice. They're practicing. No, I actually have no idea why they call the practice. It's not that I'm probably, but anyway. But God knows it all. And so what we've got to do in our lives as Christians is trust Him. We've got to trust him with everything because we don't know. And Jesus set the example for how to do that. So Jesus is now going to give this illustration. He wants them to understand. We don't know the timing, but here's what he wants them to know is going to happen before the coming of Christ. He says, he uses this illustration of Noah. He says, but verse 37, but as the days of Noah were, so also will the coming of the Son of Man be. Verse thirty eight, for as in the days before the flood, they were eating and drinking, marrying and given to marriage given in marriage until the day that the that the name the that Noah entered the ark So will will it be when the coming of the Son of Man is. So it will be during that time. So what he's saying he's saying, of course, you know the story of Noah. Noah priests 40 years And nobody paid attention to him, except his own family. And they're too preoccupied with what they're doing and having fun and living their lives and doing what they're gonna do and then suddenly that flood comes and nobody's expecting it. And Jesus says that's exactly the way it is with the coming of God. Christ. Now we're gonna see how this applies in just a few moments, but just keep this in your mind as to this idea of preoccupation with my life so that I'm surprised by the coming of Christ. And he gives this prophecy, verse verse 40, then two men will be in the field. One will take will be taken and another left. He explains the illustration. What's the coming of Christ gonna be? Well one's gonna be taken and the other's left. Same thing, two men are grinding at the mill. Um They had course large millstones and you'd have uh women that would and probably men too, but some m clearly women here We're putting we're uh taking uh grain and grinding it. How many of you all been to the the Museum of the Bible and you s you've seen those big the big illustration of the mill? That's a Great thing to do by the way. Uh good winter kind of thing. January's coming. Go to the Museum of the Bible and they have the whole floor on that you know sort of reenacts um uh what Well, there's this he this is a very common illustration, they would have known exactly what he's talking about, and it takes more than one woman to r to to turn that millstone And so one's there and and one left. Now, the passage doesn't actually say whether one is taken to c to uh and one left the person taken, whether he's collected for election, for the elected or for the elected, you know, with the elect of the saints, with those who are chosen, those who know Christ, or if it's judgment, or these are taken for judgment. I think it's the first. I think that he's he is collecting for those who are truly his. And then uh then we will be ruling and reigning with Christ. It's not clear in the passage, one way or the other, but but that's actually not the point. The point is that the situation when Christ comes, it will be a Total surprise to people. They will not be expecting it. And Jesus says, I don't want you to be that way, disciples. So he gives them two commands. He says, how should you live in light of the coming of Christ? He says, number one, you need Verse 42, watch. Watch therefore, for you do not know the hour your Lord is coming. You've got to watch. You need to be alert. Pay attention This is not a passive keep it keep an eye out. This is uh you gotta you gotta really pay attention to what's happening. Be alert. It's like when you're teaching somebody to drive. Which I've been doing and we'll be doing more of. I look at my future and it appears I don't have a crystal ball and I don't know the future, but it appears that I'm gonna be teaching more people how to drive in the near future. And I'm always like you gotta look around, you gotta pay attention. You can't just look at one thing. You can't just pay attention, you can't just look at the stometer and think And and and they well I don't know what's be no, you've got to look ahead and you can't just look ahead, you've got to look at the signs that are coming, you've got to read the signs, look ahead, look at the sponsor, you You gotta look look you gotta look at your blind spot, you're gonna know how to get out when you're gonna I mean you gotta you gotta you gotta pay attention, stay alert, know what's going on And that's what Jesus is saying here. Stay alert. Pay attention. The con Christ is coming. Watch. And he's going to say this over and over and over again. And he says also verse forty three we need to be ready, ready, prepared for the coming of Christ. But know this that the master of the house had known uh uh uh uh Let me pick up here. Um well actually right here. But know this if the master of the house had come, uh had known what hour the thief would come, he would have watched and not allowed his house to be broken into. 1 Corinthians chapter 12, verse 3 says this, therefore make known to you that no one speaking by the Spirit of God calls Jesus accursed, and no one says the Lord except by the Holy Spirit. Philippians chapter 4 verse 5 says this, let your gentleness be known to all the Lord is at hand. Second Thessalonians chapter 2 verse 5 Verse two says, not uh not to be soon shaken in mind or troubled either by spirit or by word or by letter as if from us, as though the day of the Lord had come. It is still to come. And he says And so we see here the importance of doing that. We need to anticipate the coming of Christ. He could come at any time. Now, I want us to notice what is Jesus Warning us about here and warning the disciples about? Well the parallel passage in Mark really helps us with this. In Mark chapter 13. It says in that passage, verse 36, lest sudden coming suddenly he find you sleeping. And what I say to you, I say to you all, watch. Now that fleshes things out for us. What is Jesus, why is Jesus teaching this? that the coming of Christ could come anytime. And we need to watch and we need to re-ready. He says, don't allow the coming of Christ to find you sleeping. In Luke chapter 21, it says, Lest your hearts be weighed down with carousing, drunkenness, and cares of this life, and that day come to you unexpectedly. Now, let me pause and put something together for you. In the New Testament, in the New Testament In in in the epistles, you actually have this concept of the coming of Christ. This is after Christ has left. He's now ascended to his father. The churches at churches have been started. They're serving and they're all All kinds of things are going on in the first century there. And yet the they're still saying the coming of Christ is will come as a thief in the night. Now you need to To be ready. And that's where we essentially get the idea that there is going to be a rapture. Now, Matthew 24 really doesn't teach on the rapture at all. It's not there. But in as a matter of application, the coming that we as a church are looking for, the coming is the rapture, and it could come at any time. And so the same applications that the disciples should make by the teaching of Christ, those same applications we should make in anticipation of the wrath. And he says that this is some of the things that Paul says, for example. 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, verse 2. For you yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord so comes as a thief in the night. Second Peter chapter three verse ten says, but the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night, in which the heavens will pass away with a great noise, and the elements will melt with fervent heat, both the earth and the works therein will be will be burned up. Revelation chapter three, verse three says Remember therefore how you have received and heard, hold fast and repent. Therefore, if you will not watch, I will come upon you as a thief in the night. And Revelation chapter 16, verse 15, Behold, I am coming as a thief. Blessed is he who watches and keeps his garments, lest he walk naked and they see his shame. So the same applications for the disciples are for us that Christ is coming, we need to be watching We need to be ready. We need to be prepared. And 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 says this, verse 6, therefore, let us not sleep as others do, but let us watch and And be sober. Okay, so then the question is, what does he mean here, Paul and Christ, when it says, don't sleep? Does that mean that you know we shouldn't get a good night's sleep? Let me tell you, not last night, the night before, up at Camp Calvary, I was ready for the rapture the whole night. Like the whole night. I don't I um I will let you know that the men in our church outside of me sleep very well. Um I think everybody I asked I think I I think I asked everybody and everybody's like, Yeah oh yeah I I slept great, I slept great, slept great. I'm like, I don't know what you guys sleep on boards. Is that what it's talking about? Make sure you stay up all night in case the rapture comes. No, it's not talking about that. It's talking about something else Sleep, when it's talking about don't get caught asleep, it's actually referencing Moral moral ambivalence, moral apathy, not really caring. Catch that. That's what it's talking about. This is actually really important. It's talking about moral and spiritual indifference. Are we guilty of that? Oh, we're not we're not maybe going around doing all kinds of sinful, horrible things. Maybe, maybe not But just ap just indifferent. Not really caring what happens when it comes to the cause of Christ, the advance of the kingdom of God. We're so preoccupied like in the days of Noah with our agenda and what we're doing and how it's going to happen that we're going to be caught asleep. Or we can be caught asleep at the coming of Christ. The coming of Christ, understand that Christ could come at any time and find us just morally and spiritually indifferent. Just going through the motions, just doing the next thing and paying no attention or caring about what God is doing in the world or what we ought to be doing in the world. Why is it the churches seem to be to some degree asleep? Because we're not ready for the The coming of Christ. We're not anticipating his coming. We're not ready. And what we need to do is understand That that is the lie of Satan. That is what he wants for us. If he can get us to a place where we're like, ah, I'll do my own thing and not really think about the coming of Christ, not really understand that he can Which tells of three apprentice devils who were coming to this earth to finish their apprenticeship. Ruin men. The first said, I will I will tell them there is no God. Satan said, That will not delute many, for they know that there is a God. The second said, I will tell men that there is no hell. Satan answered Answered, you will receive no one that way. Men know even now that there is a hell for sin. The third one said, I will tell them there is no hurry. Go, said Satan, and you will Ruin men by the thousands. The most dangerous of all delusions is that there is plenty of time. Why did Jesus give this to the disciples? Because he wants us to live in urgency about what we God wants us to do. Why does Christ tarry with God Mentioned this before. Why is Christ hairy? Because there's more people to be saved. So what is our responsibility? To make the sight And there should be an urgency to this because he is coming back. Then finally, Jesus continues here, and he wants to tell them the nature of Christ. Christ's return will include an accounting. So we should live faithfully. It's going to include an accounting, so we should live faithfully Verse forty five Who then is a faithful and wise servant, whom his master made ruler over his household, to give them food in due season, Blessed is the servant whom his master, when he comes, will find so doing. Assuredly I say to you, he will make him ruler over all his goods. But if the evil servant servant says to his heart, My master is delaying, is coming, and begins to beat his fellow servants, and to eat the dr eaten There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. Notice there is the contrast between the faithful, wise serpent and clearly the one who is not. The faithful, wise serpent is the one whom we are to emulate. And it says, blessed. That's the word happy. The word blessed is happy. Happy is the servant. whom his master when he comes will find so doing. The Bible tells us that when he when that faithful servant, when we're faithful And we see this in other places, faithful in small things, he'll give us greater things in the next kingdom. Matthew twenty five, verse twenty three, the Lord said to him, Well done, thou good and further servant, you've been fa faithful over a few things, I will uh make you ruler over many things. Enter into the joy of the Lord. There's going to be an accounting of the things that we have done in the body And we are and God is going to if we're faithful in the things that He has given us in this life, He will give us greater things. And there and if there is if we We are not, then he will not. Second Peter chapter three says it this way Know this first that scoffers will come in the last days walking according to their own lusts And saying, Where is the promise of his coming? For since the fathers fell asleep, all things continue as they were from the beginning of creation There's going to be people that just scoff at the idea of the coming Christ, and certainly we have that to this day And there are people that the contrast is with a person who says, the master's not really coming back. I got plenty of time. I can do what I want. And he beats his fellow servants, he eats and drinks with drunkards, he does all these things, and yet the master, when he is not looking, comes back. And where does he go? He goes, he appoints his portion to the hypocrites. Now it's interesting that Jesus uses this term hypocrites here. Jesus really doesn't like hypocrites. Have you noticed that in the book of Matthew as we've gone through it? What does he call the Pharisees? You hypocrites, you whited sepulchres with dead men's bones, you hypocrites. You he calls them over and over again, you hypocrites. The self righteous, self-made person Who is going to get to God on his own steam? God says, Christ says, You hypocrite. And the person who says, I'm going to live for myself and do exactly what I want to do Really isn't a Christian. That's really what we're hawk talking about here. We're talking about a faithful servant who cares Who has a desire for the things of the Lord, and the contrast is one who actually isn't a Christian at all. And so when he When he he doesn't believe the master, he doesn't trust him, he doesn't believe that he's coming back. And so when he does, he is going to be punished. There is a warning here. for both the the Christian to be faithful and a non-Christian to repent of his sin. Now we find that there's a clear application for us Christians Second Corinthians chapter five verse ten says this for we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, all of us as Christians. That each one may receive the things done in the body according to what he has done, either good or bad Bad. In Revelation chapter or I'm sorry, Romans chapter 13, verse eleven, it says this, and do this knowing the time that now is high time to awake out of sleep For now our salvation is nearer than when we first believed. The night is far spent, the day is at hand. Therefore, let us cast off the works of darkness. Let us put on the armor of light, let us walk properly as in the day, not in revelry and drunkenness, not in lewdness of lust, not in strife and envy. But by but put on the Lord Jesus Christ and make no provision for the flesh to fulfill its lusts. James chapter 5, verse 8. You be also be patient, establish your heart, for the coming of the Lord is at hand. First Peter four seven, but the end of the of all things is at hand. Therefore be serious and watchful in your prayers. If you uh you you you get the pattern here, God has set things in motion so that if we will focus and study and understand And be mindful of the coming of Christ. It will cause in our minds a desire to be faithful when he comes, if we are truly Christians. Titus 2. 12 says this, teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly lust, we should live soberly, righteously, and godly in this presence. Looking for the blessed hope and the glorious appearing of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ. And so I ask you, as we started this morning, Do you see yourself on the front line of a battle? Second Timothy chapter 4 says, No one engaged in warfare entangles himself in the affairs of his life that he may please him who enlists him as a soldier. Do you see yourself that way? One who is engaged in a spiritual battle every day of your life. I really think that it would if we had that mentality that Christ is coming and we have a job to do and we got to report to him someday. That it would really change our perspective a great deal, even about our church, how we serve What attendance there is, when we come, why we come. says this, and let us consider one another in order if you stir up love and good works, not forsaking the assembly of ourselves together as the manner of some is, but exhorting one another in so much the more as you see the day Approaching. You see that day approaching? You see the coming of Christ is going to occur. Man, we need to stir one another up in love and good works together Because we're on the front lines of a battlefield. So in thinking through all of this, the question I would ask is this: are you ready for the coming of Christ? Are you ready? It may be that you say coming at Christ nah, that's not really gonna happen. I'm not really If that's the case, it may be that you really aren't a Christian. If if the Coming of Christ is of no concern to you at all. It may be that you really don't know him. But you can today. The Bible says he's not willing that any should perish and that all should come to repentance. In fact, I really pretty strongly believe that the very reason that he has tarried so long And that he has not yet come is because he desires for all men to be saved. He wants people to come to the knowledge of the truth. But there will be a day where it will be too late. He is humming again. Number one, are you fearful Fearfully working or confidently hopeful. That should be worrying. Not working. Are you fearfully worrying? Maybe you're fearfully working. Are you fearfully worrying or are you confidently hopeful? Number two, are you asleep or awake toward the things of God? Are you asleep or are you awake? See, these questions will tell you how you are per how you are thinking about the coming of Christ. And if you say, well, I'm a little apathetic I'm a bit indifferent to the key to the to the work of the kingdom. Then you need uh you need an adjustment in your perspective when it comes to to the coming of Christ and the urgency that that brings to us. And number three, are you living as though you never have to give an account? Or are you keenly aware that you will one day give an account to Christ? How often do we go, how many days does it go that goes by and we don't even think? about the fact that I'm going to give an account to Christ for this day. I'm going to give an account to Christ for what I'm doing in this body. going to be a day. And you say, well, you know, I I just want my rewards now. I've heard Christians say that. You heard Christians say that? I I want to wait for my rewards. I just want them all now. Either you're not really a Christian, so look out. Or you're going to be really Uh I can't imagine the it the eternal soberness that you would have of coming that we would have of coming to the judgment seat of Christ and looking back and saying, Man, I wish I would have cared I wish I would have cared. You realize that one day you will give an account to Christ. Let's pray to Father, we come to you and thank you for your word. Thank you for for how you set things up in such a way That we understand with clarity that we are living in an age where you have specifically called us To make disciples and to further and advance your kingdom until you come. And I think you know, Lord, you know our frailty. Our human um sinful nature that just tends toward laziness and apathy Indifference. And so you set it up that we don't know the timing of your coming. And you want May we watch and be ready and be prepared for your coming. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for Streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.