Take your Bibles and turn to the book of Matthew, Matthew chapter 14. Our scripturing today is a bit longer passage here, Matthew chapter 14, verses 6 16 to 36. And before we read, let's go to the Lord in prayer. Dear Lord, thank you so much for your goodness to us. Thank you that you are a wonderful Savior. The Savior who sees our needs, the Savior who has compassion on us. Thank you, Lord, that you not only care, but you can do something about it You're not only loving, but you're also omnipotent. And today, as we look at these two accounts of your works while you were on earth, Lord, I pray you'd encourage our hearts. Lord, you're the same Savior today as you were then. Your word says you're the same yesterday, today, and forever. This morning I pray you'd encourage our hearts. Help us to learn to trust you more, to depend on you more, and help us remember what a wonderful Savior you are. In Jesus' name. Amen. Matthew chapter 14, starting in verse. 16. Although how about we start in verse 13? Matthew 14, starting in verse 13. When Jesus heard it, he departed from there by boat to a deserted place by himself, and when the multitudes heard it, they followed him on foot from the cities And when Jesus went out, he saw a great multitude, and he was moved with compassion for them, and he healed their sick. When it was evening, his disciples came to him saying, This is a Deserted place and the hour is already late, send the multitudes away that they may go into the villages and buy themselves food. But Jesus said to them But they do not need to go away. You give them something to eat. And they said to him, We have here only five loaves and two fish. He said Bring them here to me. Then he commanded the multitudes to sit down on the grass, and he took the five loaves and two fishes and looked up to heaven. He blessed and broke, and gave the loaves to the disciples, and the disciples gave them to the multitudes So they all ate and were filled, and they took up twelve baskets full of the fragments that remained. Now those who had eaten were about five thousand men, besides the women and children. Immediately Jesus made his disciples get into the boat and go before him to the other side. Well, he sent the multitudes away. And when he had sent the multitudes away, he went up on the mountain by himself to pray. Now when even when evening came, he was alone there. And the boat was now in the middle of the sea, tossed by the wave, for the wind was contrary. Now in the fourth watch of the night Jesus went to them, walking on the sea. And when the disciples saw him walking on the sea, they were troubled, saying, It is a ghost. And they cried out for fear. But immediately Jesus spoke to them, saying, Be of good cheer. It is I. Do not be afraid. And Peter answered And said, Lord, if it is you, command me to come to you on the water. So he said, Come. And when Peter had come down out of the boat, he walked on the water to go to Jesus. But when he saw that the wind was boisterous, he was afraid. And beginning to sink, he cried out, saying, Lord, save me! And immediately Jesus stretched out his hand. And caught him and said to him, O you of little faith, why did you doubt? And when they got into the boat, the wind ceased. Then those who were in the boat came and worshipped him, saying, Truly you are the Son of God. When they had crossed over, they came to the land of Genasaret, and when they met And when the men of that place recognized him, they sent out into all that surrounding region, brought to him all who were sick, and begged him that they might only touch the hem of his garment, and as many as touched it were made per Perfectly well. So this is a lengthy passage. There are actually two, as you can, as you just read, there are two parables there in the passage, but there are not parables rather, there are there are two miracles in the passage. And um and these two miracles are are very much related as we will see. And the passage really actually is directed toward Jesus. Jesus turned turns his attention toward teaching some lessons to his disciples primarily. You see that Matthew particularly is making that The other uh accounts don't necessarily as much, but you have the disciples coming to Jesus. They're then dis Jesus says in the text that he is distribu he gives them the food to distribute You see the disciples very much at the center of what's going on here and what Christ desires to tell you. teach them both in uh this first uh miracle and then also uh in the second while he's uh when he calms the storm. And the thing that we really see that Jesus is trying to teach is this idea of dependent responsibility. Now, I don't know about you, but I have met many people in the world That know how to be dependent well. They know how to ask all kinds of things whenever they need it. They're not afraid to ask for help when they need it. Um in fact sometimes they really should probably try to do it themselves before they ask. Anybody ever have a well don't raise your hands. But if anybody have a child like that where you know you grow up there young and they They would ask you for help when you know full well they knew how to do it. And on the other hand, you may have had another child that Uh actually they did very well and uh th they actually had the exact opposite problem when they would think they could do it when they really couldn't. I had one child of whose name I won't mention who who when they were young said, uh, I'll do it myself. I'll do it myself. I can do it myself. Anything you want to do, anything you want to help her with, I can do it myself. In fact, one time I was uh my uh mother-in-law came uh to our house and uh and she tried to help this little girl one of my little girls get dressed and uh I s when she went in the room I said now I just want to warn you she's gonna want to do it herself And sh you might not be able to get her to to to do it. Now uh just to be clear, if our parents you know, as parents, if we wanted to do something we were going But anyway, uh but I just warned her and she said, nah, I won't have a problem. And she turned around and walked out the other way. She says, Wow, that was something. So it's sort of interesting how sometimes you have people, you know, you might call them freeloaders who or people that really should be a little bit more depend less dependent. And the people that are that easily depend on others or naturally depend on others, they don't easily take responsibility. They don't see a job and do it. And so the kids that we have that are more like that, we're trying to get them to take responsibility and do things themselves. And the kids, on the other hand, that are think they can do things themselves, but they need to depend on their parents a little bit more, we're concerned about that as well. And the combination is actually pretty difficult to get the two together. But that's exactly what Jesus is wanting to teach. He's wanting them to learn to take responsibility, but in the process of the taking responsibility, he wants them to learn that they must be dependent on Now the lesson that we find in both of these passages, that we're look we're looking at one passage together, but they're really they're really two different uh they could be broken up into two different passages. They are linked by a uh a parallel passage in Mark chapter 6 verses 41 through 52 or 51 through 52 fifty two that says this When he went up into the boat to them, and the wind ceased, and they were greatly amazed in themselves beyond measure and marveled. For they had not understood about the loaves because their heart was hardened. Mark links these two just like John links these two. two together. I'm sorry, that Matthew links these two together. And in Mark, he says that they went from one to the other, and one of the reasons that Jesus Jesus had to walk on the water and calm the storms and all that again was actually because they didn't really grasp what Jesus had done with the feeding of the 5,000, which is actually kind of amazing. Think about it that they didn't really get it, but it says in there in the passage that it was because their heart was hard in Mark six, fifty-one and fifty-two. So what we're going to be learning here is Jesus is through these through these various uh through these miracles, he's going to teach them different. Dependent responsibility. So what does dependent responsibility look like? We're actually going to see five different things here. One, we're going to see that dependent responsibility prioritizes on time alone with God Jesus, by his very example, is going to show that he is dependent. Dependent responsibility realizes the need for God's power. Dependent responsibility steps out in faith. Dependent responsibility requires sustained faith. And finally, dependent responsibility worships Christ. We'll begin then with dependent responsibility prioritizing time alone with God. We pick up here right in verse 13. Thank you, Matthew. Starting in verse verse 13, not 16. It says there in verse 13, for ge uh when Jesus heard it, he departed from there by boat to a deserted place by himself. He knew that he needed to spend time alone with God. Now what had just happened was that there was a opposition from Herod Antipas that we learned last week. Conspiracies and all kinds of things going on. He realized that the region that he was in was Galilee, was his ministry was coming to a close. He needed to make a change And as he began to travel to the next place or began to think about the next location that he was going to go to, he first went and spent time alone. with the Lord. And this was his practice. This was something that was very, very important to Christ. He often did this In fact, twice in this passage we see it after he does it here, and then later on in verses twenty-two through twenty-three, between the loaves and the fishes miracle and the calming of the storm miracle in verse twenty-two it says immediately Jesus Jesus made his disciples get into the boat and go before him to the other side. And he sent his multitudes sent the multitudes away. And when he had sent the multitudes away, he went up on the mountain by himself to pray. And when evening came, he was alone there. Luke 9. 10, parallel passage, says it was a solitary place. Christ himself, the God of the universe, was dependent on his Father And he went to his father to be alone to pray often. Before ministry, and after ministry, and in between ministry. In fact, you see this throughout the Gospels, for example. In um in Mark chapter 6, verse 45, it says, Immediately he made his disciples get into the boat. Oh, same as a parallel passage. In Mark 1 35 it says, Now in the morning, having risen a long while before a long while before daylight, he went out and departed to a solitary place, and there he prayed Before anybody else got up, a long while before daylight, he went and he prayed in a solitary place. Same kind of thing happens in Luke 5. 16. He withdraws himself and goes into the wilderness to pray. The same thing again in Luke 6. 12. He goes into the mountain to pray. Continuing in that case all night to God in prayer. Now there is no one more busy than Jesus. In fact, John tells us at the end of his book that it can't, all of the activity of Jesus, all the miracles of Jesus, everything couldn't be contained. in writings. And yet Jesus found time. In fact, as you look at this passage you find that he is extremely intentional and purposeful. In fact, he's there's a sense in which he works at praying. He is relentless about or uh manipulating time uh manipulating not not not manipulating in a bad sense but creating time manipulating things in a way that he could get along with God Are we that intentional? Do we we are intentional about so many things? Maybe we need to put it on our calendar, pray alone with God. And set it aside. And somebody says to somebody says, well, I I I need help with something, say, uh no, I already have it. I got I got an appointment. Anything wrong with that And I'm guilty of it too. I am. I am not saying I'm not up here saying, boy, I got it all together and I pray all night and and uh you know I have I uh no I read this passage and saw what Christ did, and then and and and and it gives such an emphasis on this. It was such an important for me and an important reminder of the importance of getting alone with God and praying. If Jesus is that dependent on his Father, how much more do you and I need to be dependent upon Christ ourselves? And in Mark six, we find that he not only wants to pray himself But he compels his disciples to pray as well. The parallel passage gives this admon, Jesus gives this admonition. He says to his disciples Come aside by yourselves to a deserted, solitary place and rest a while. For there were many coming and going, and there they did not even have time to eat. So they departed to a deserted place in the boat by themselves. Not only was Jesus intent on spending time alone with God, he directed his disciples to do the same. And there is a real sense in which in doing so he gained the kind of energy and motivation, the kind of strength. And was encouraging the disciples to get the kind of strength that they need to do the ministry that they did So often, I'm guilty of this as myself as well, we're running on fumes, on spiritual fumes when it comes to our ministries. How we're serving the Lord rather than filling our tank up with time alone with God. Matthew 11, just a couple of chapters a few chapters before, Jesus says this, Come to me all you who labor and are heavy laden And I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gently gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls, for my yoke is easy and my burden is light. Why is it that time alone with God gives us strength? Why? Well, I think the answer is found in what Jesus told the disciples. He said, go alone and rest a while. Now let's just think of this in terms of physical rest first. It's not talking about physical rest. I think it's talking about spiritual rest, but let's talk about physical rest for a moment. What do you need in order to get the energy you you need for the day? You need good, solid rest. What happens when you like all of us right now, right? Because we we missed an hour. Okay. Alright. What happens when you don't get the rest you need? You drag all day, right? Or you drink a ton of coffee. And then you crash at some point. So you have to drink more coffee. Sorry, I'm living vicariously right now, anyway But we w so what is rest? What is it when God when Christ says come alone come away and rest a while? I mean probably it did include physical rest. He probably was saying that they couldn't didn't have time to eat. They were pressed on every side. And so, yeah, certainly that may have included physical rest. But I think he's talking more than just physical rest here In Scripture, the word rest, for example, in 1 Corinthians chapter 16, verse 18, or it uses a different word. It says, therefore they refreshed my spirit. and yours. They were refreshed. Same thing was said in 2 Corinthians 7. 13. Therefore we have been comforted in your comfort and And we rejoice exceedingly more for the joy of Titus because his spirit has been refreshed by you all. He was refreshed. Same thing in Philemon 7. For we have great joy and consolation in your love because the hearts of the saints have been refreshed by you, brother. And then Philemon says that Paul says this to Philemon: Yes, brother, let me have joy from you in the Lord, refresh my heart in the Lord. Do you know when when we are going getting alone away alone with God in prayer, God intends for us to have our heart refreshed by Him If we go alone with the Lord and we are rushed and we are in a hurry and we've got to get through this prayer list and we've got to get this done so I get on to all the other things I have to do and I am guilty of this candidly. Now I'm not sure we're going to get the kind of refreshment from the presence of God that God intended. And yet, dependency in the Christian life really begins by being alone with God. It is absolutely necessary. Now we then move here and Jesus is influenced then by the needs of people. So he he move he he escapes, he goes away from where he currently is And then he comes to a region in a sort of grassy area, Gennesseret, and Uh he the the multitudes here, the groups of people hear that he's there, and they follow him. Look at pick up a verse 14. When Jesus went out, he saw a great multitude, and he was moved with compassion for them and healed their sick. So uh the John, the parallel passage in John 6, uh it says that they they uh that they saw they followed him on foot. They saw him, they heard of him, they just began to gather. This is in a region that he wasn't he wasn't at previously Great multitude followed him because they saw signs which he performed on those who were diseased. And Jesus, and and so what did Jesus do? He was moved with compassion on them. It's interesting that he moves, he moves from being alone with God To serving people for the right reason. Not serving out of guilt, not serving out of sheer obligation, but serving people out of compassion. He looks on them. A parallel passage says with uh has compassion on them because they were, Mark 6, 34, they were like sheep not having a shepherd. Previously he had done this in Mar in Matthew chapter nine, verse thirty-six. He was moved with compassion there. It's said fairly frequently in the Gospels of these men. move of compassion, because they were weary and scattered like sheep having no shepherd. They were weary And then just two chapters later in Matthew 11 it says, Come to me, all you who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Isn't it interesting that Jesus is very concerned about those who are weary and he has compassion on them? What can we learn so far? Number one, getting alone with God is imperative. Psalm forty-six ten says, Be still and know that I am God. I will be exalted among the nations, I will be exalted in the earth. I don't know how we can can truly serve the Lord and serve people in the way that God wants us to, out of love and compassion, if we are not first drawing from the presence of God and finding our rest in God. Our ministry should not be just a matter of obligation. It should be out of compassion. The word there, it means to it It's an interesting word. It's uh it's it certainly includes some emotion. Splognidzomi is the word it's always fun to say It is a it is an abundance and overflowing of of uh of motivation towards someone. We need to move on though, because not only do we see Christ getting alone and also encouraging his disciples to get alone, but now Christ is ready to do some ministry. He teaches the people, Scripture says, and he also performs some miracles for them. We pick up in verse 15 and it says this. When it was evening, his disciples came to him saying, This is a deserted place, and the hour is already late They say, hey, we've been here a long time and it's late. We need to let these people go and get some food. Send the multitudes away that they may go into the villages and buy themselves food. Now that's a practical set of disciples, right? I mean that makes good sense. I mean there's over five thousand people there, maybe up to fifteen thousand people, because five thousand people was The men were measured. Send them away. They need to go away. They need to go eat. And what does Jesus say to them? Basically, you feed them. Why did Jesus say to the disciples, you feed them? He says, uh the text says verse 16 They do not need to go away. You give them something to eat. Another the other parallel passages say it a different way. They say, how much what do you have? But Jesus is really getting across, he's saying, I want you to take responsibility for this. And of course, what is the response of the disciples? How can we do that? We can't feed them. We don't have the ability to do that. Verse 16, but Jesus said to them, They do not need to go away. You give them something to eat. And they said, we have have here only five loaves and two fish. It's all we've got Of course, we know from another parallel passage that it was a little boy. It wasn't even them that had it. It was a little boy that had five loaves and two fish. You know what the disciples had in order to fulfill the responsibility that Christ had given them? Nothing. They had nothing. And do you know what God wants us to realize we have in order to fulfill the responsibility that He has given us? Nothing. Absolutely nothing. Nothing in my hand I bring. Simply to thy cross I cling. Christ says, John 15, without me you can do nothing. These disciples had nothing. And they borrow the lunch from a kid, five loaves and two fish, in order to say to Jesus, this is what we got to feed these thousands. Well, Jesus, what does Jesus do then? Now you know the story, and the passage has been read, of course, what Jesus does then Is he multiplies the breath? He says, bring him here, let me do it then. This is exactly the kind of thing that God wants us to understand when we're following him. God can do what we cannot do. God wants us to take responsibility, but learn to depend upon Him within the responsibility. Because we cannot, but he can. This is not that dissimilar from a very familiar Old Testament illustration of David and Goliath. Let me ask you a question. What killed Goliath? The stone or God? Yes. Both killed Goliath. But the truth of the matter is, God used this little stone. And there is a sense in which, folks, God wants to use our loaves and our fishes and multiply them for his purposes and for his glory. And so he commands them, and again you have this involvement of the disciples, particularly in Matthew, in Matthew's gospel, he commands them Go sit down in the grass. Have them go sit down in the grass. And he multiplies these loaves and these fishes. And it says that they were ate and filled. The word filled there in other places is the word satisfied. They're completely satisfied by the meal that Christ provided for them. And then uh then you have leftovers of the twelve baskets full of fragments. Some people suggest that this is some sort of symbolism. for the twelve disciples or the twelve tribes of Israel or something like that. I tend to think it's just twelve baskets. But anyway. What do we learn from this? We learn, first of all, that God, Christ wants us to take responsibility. Some of us say we can't when God says, I want you to. God wants us to take responsibility. But on the other hand, God wants us to understand that we are absolutely inadequate to do what He has called us to do. It doesn't really matter what it is. To do spiritual work, to do something for him, to do something that is going to have any kind of equality eternal significance whatsoever, we desperately need him. Otherwise it's wood, hay, and stubble. We need him to do what we cannot do. Paul watered, Apollos one of them planted, one of them the other one watered, but God gives the increase God is the one who must give the increase to the to the things that we do in order for there to be any kind of eternal benefit. Now we move from that story to another story. Of course, we've already read, we've already noted that Jesus Jesus has now um uh has that in fact what actually happens according to John chapter six is in fact I'll read it for you verse fourteen then those men when they had seen the sign that Jesus Jesus did said, This truly is a prophet who is to come into the world. Therefore, when Jesus perceived that they were about to come and take him by force to make him king, He departed again into the mountain by himself alone. He then again resorts to God alone. And when the evening came, his disciples went down to the sea. Christ was very, very intentional. In Mark chapter 6, we have verses 45 through 42, or fifth of through 52. Immediately he made his disciples get into the boat and go before him into the side to Beth Seda, while he sent the multitude away, and when he had sent them away, he departed to the mountain to pray. He orchestrated He sent the disciples away, he escaped from the multitude, and he goes and he prays to his God Now even now when even came the boat was in the middle of the sea and he was alone on the land. Then he said to them this is in Mark six them straining and rowing for the wind was against them. Now about the fourth watch, that's three o'clock in the morning, he came to them, walking in the sea. And they would have passed by. What is then you, of course, you know the story. What happens? He comes and they're afraid. This is not the first time that they've been in a storm. And previously in the book of Matthew, when they were in a storm with Jesus, Jesus calmed the storm. Jesus wasn't with them this time, but Jesus came to them walking on the water, and of course they didn't know what this was. They thought it was a ghost, and there was fear. And in my mind, actually, I think that that is sort of acceptable. It's sort of understandable. There's some guy walking on the like walking on the water. And they don't know who it is. And they're a little afraid of what's going on. Last night, about nine o'clock at night, I heard the this crazy sound. It sounded like a very, very It sounded like a very shrill kid screaming outside. And it kept doing it over and over and over and over and over and over again. again. My s one of my daughters came down and said, what is going on out there? It was that loud. I think it was a fox. I'm not sure. I went outside and I didn't want to get too close, so I got I took a flashlight, flashed it all over the place, tried to scare it away. Uh I saw two l two eyes, that's all I saw, and scared and and And I gotta be honest with you, that sound made me a little nervous. I was a little scared. I was like, wow, God gave me an illustration right here. Anyway. So I I think I think that this is understandable that they're afraid at this point. But then what happens is is That Jesus says, hey, don't be afraid. It's I. Take courage. Now, when Jesus identifies himself at that point, then they should have said, Oh, gee, it's Jesus. He's here. We heard his voice. We know who this is. But Peter, Peter, I think Peter gets a little bit of a bad rap here, actually, because Peter, what is Peter willing to do? Peter's willing to step out and meet Jesus. And in the text, it's not as though Jesus says, no, don't do that He says, if it's you, would you bid me to come? And Jesus, what does he do? He comes. So apparently he likes what Peter said. And he says, come to me. And Jesus steps out of the boat, I mean Peter rather, steps out of the boat on faith. And began to walk to Jesus. Of course, you know the story, but I just want to say to us that I think one of the things that we need to understand is that dependent responsibility does step out on faith. I think sometimes we are so comfortable that we are unwilling to really step out on faith. And God calls us to do that sometimes. We don't like it. We like all our ducks lined up in a row. We want like everything situated a certain way. And I'm guilty of that too, believe me. Sometimes God says you just need to step out and do what's uncomfortable. Because I'm calling you to do it. And that's what we find him doing. John Ortberg writes this: only Peter knew that when he sank, Jesus would be there. And he was wholly adequate to save. The other disciples could not know because they never got out of the boat. This is the fundamental truth. If you want to walk on water, you've got to get out of the boat. If you want to experience the power of God in your life, you've got to take a step of faith. It involves risky obedience. I mean the truth of the matter is how is it that we are ever going to actually depend on the Lord if we're so measured about everything that we do that that we don't do anything unless it matches our ability? I mean think about it Sometimes we won't do something because we say we can't, and yet God wants us to do it. Knowing that we can't, so that God can show Himself strong in our lives. And I I have to say that there have been times uh there have been times where I've heard people, and I've said it myself Times where I've heard people say certain things that like that, and I'll I'll I'll say, wait, wait, wait a minute. Just because you you need to just because the question should not be necessarily do you think that you have the resources and ability to do it? The question is Do you think God wants you to do it? Now it certainly factors in. You don't want to be stupid. Okay? I'm not saying that if you know you, for example, go into massive amounts of debt to do something, that kind of thing. I'm not talking about being foolish. But sometimes God has given us the loaves and the fishes to start. He's given us the things to step out. He wants us to step out. And he wants us to have the faith to do so. Of course, we know the story. That moves us then to dependent responsibility, number four, requires sustained faith. It requires sustained faith. And we pick up in verse 30 that it says, then those who were in the boat came. Oh, no, no, we don't pick up. Yeah, verse 30. It says But when he saw that the wind was boisterous, he was afraid, and being uh and beginning to sink, he cried out, saying, Lord, save me. And immediately Jesus stretched out his hand and caught him and said to him, Oh, what was the problem? O you of what? Now it wasn't of no faith, right? It didn't say oh you of no faith. He said, O you of little faith, why did you doubt? And when they got into the boat, the wind ceased. Why did you doubt? Doubts are normal. They are something that we all have. But they are something that will distract us from sustained faith. And you probably have heard preached, and I think probably rightly, But the reason that he doubted was he what? He took his eyes off Christ. He looked at the winds around, he looked at the storms around, he looked at everything around, and I think that this Most preachers get this right when they say that he took his he took his eyes off of Christ. And that is why he began to doubt. And that is exactly, folks, the reason that we often doubt. It's because we take our father Eyes off of Jesus. And he says, Why, why do you why did you doubt? It's a rhetorical it's I think it's maybe even a rhetorical question. Jesus knows the answer to that, but he's wanting Peter to really take time to think, why did you do this? It's because he took his eyes off of Christ. We need to f keep our eyes firmly fixed on Christ. In Matthew chapter 7, 17, verse 20, this is one of the times where he says to his disciples, O you of little faith, it says this. So Jesus said to them, Because of your unbelief, For assuredly I say to you, if you have the faith as a mustard sieve, you will say to this mountain, Move from here and there, and it will be and it will move, and nothing will be impossible. Now, Peter did not have sustained faith at this point, did he? He had shaky faith, he had little faith. But I what I love about the story of Peter is that he wrote 1 Peter. And between this story and all the Gospels where he is up and down and You know, one affirming the Lordship of Christ in one passage and a couple of couple of chapters down, he's now denying Christ and all of that. We get to First Peter, and this is what he says, verse chapter one, verse six In this you greatly rejoice. Thou, though not for a little while, if need be, you have been grieved by various trials. But the genuineness of your faith being much more precious than gold that perishes, though it is tested by fire, may be found to the praise, honor, and glory at the revelation of Jesus Christ, whom having not seen you love. Though now you do not see him, yet believing you rejoice with joy, inexpressible, and full of glory, receiving the end of your faith, the salvation of your souls. That's strong, sustained faith. Faith that's tested by fire. Faith that on the other side of that testing of fire, you can look and see that it's still intact, and you can take joy in knowing that Jesus is a very good thing. Jesus has been with you the entire way. That kind of faith. It's sustained faith. And Peter, I think Peter, as he writes these words, he's doing it from some personal experience. in 1 Peter chapter 1 verses 6 through 9. Finally, the disciples get it They really didn't grasp the miracle, the the significance of the feeding of the 5,000. And I still don't really understand how, I mean that it just tells you how hard a heart can be. to see possibly 15,000 people being fed from two from loaves and fish, how someone at at all could uh could not be amazed And yet their heart was hard, according to the Mark passage. We pick up in verse 32 of this passage, and it says, Then those who were in the boat came, and what did they do? They worshiped him, saying, Truly, you are the Son of God. They worshiped him. Matthew, that is a sub-theme in the book of Matthew throughout the book of Matthew, this concept of worship. It starts all the way from Matthew 2 verse 2. You remember all the way back then where they're going to work the Magi are going to worship Jesus and it goes all the way through Matthew 28, 17, where it says they came and worshiped the resurrected Christ. And throughout Matthew you have a worship, they worship, worship. Worship is a very, very important thing. And what did what were what were they trying what did they worship over? When were they able to worship truly? What did they say? Truly what? You are the Son of God. They finally realized, they finally understood that Jesus is God the Son. And they worshiped him. They worshiped him as a response to seeing what he did and who he was. And folks, that's exactly why we ought to worship Christ. We worship Christ because of who he is and what he has done for us. And if we don't worship Christ, if we are lacking in our worship, if we're lacking in the fervency of worship, What does it tell us? It tells us that we're not really valuing and seeing who Jesus really is and what Jesus really has done. How do we respond to worship? Or how do we you know somebody might say, you know, I I really struggle. I don't worship the way that I should. I don't w in my own personal devotions and my worship corporately. I'm just going through the motions. I'm just, you've got to know Jesus and know who he is and know what he's done. Of course, the greatest thing he's ever done was the death, burial, and resurrection. And when we when we begin to really appreciate Who Jesus is and what he has done. And our hearts are not hardened, but we see what we need to see, then we will no doubt respond in worship to him And that's exactly what we see here from the disciples. And then they're back in the ministry. It's sort of interesting that the next thing you see in verses 34 through 36 is just this very few verses that Indicate that they're back in doing more ministry now. They're serving and they're doing all kinds of things and and and the people are believing that all they need to do is get close to Jesus, touch the hem of his garment, and they'll be healed. They begin to serve once again. In summary summarizing all of this, what can we learn? Number one When is the last time I ask you this question? When is the last time you've gotten alone with God and rested in Him? Just got and I'm asking myself this question as well. When's the last time you literally spent And I'm going to say hours. Spent some time, unhurried, unrushed, not looking at your clock, spent got alone with God, and spent time with him. And rested in him. Became fully satisfied in God. Rested in God. Rested in the presence of God. When's the last time? Number two, as followers of Christ, God calls us to do much with little while relying on His power to multiply what we have. It's the way it's the way it always is with serving the Lord. He wants us to do much with little. I don't see a lot of good, solid, Bible-believing churches that are just rolling in the dough. I don't. I mean, maybe they're out there, but I don't see them very often. And and you know, where you know there's always strains with budgets and strains with people people enough people to do what we need to do and there's strains with all and you know all these kinds of things in order to be able to serve and we there's all that kind of thing And God yet God that's the way he wants it. Candidly. He wants us dependent on him. He doesn't want it as it were fat and sassy. That's something my Number three. Do you have trouble either stepping on out in faith or having sustained faith? Are you so comfortable that you're not willing to step out and do what God's called you to do? Or are you in the midst of doing what God has called you to do and you're just looking around at everything else and you're not depending upon the Lord? And number four, are you in awe of Christ's work and his person? Are we in awe of the person and work of Christ? May we respond to him in worship. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Because you have through your great wisdom A wisdom that the world sees as foolish. Through your awesome wisdom, you have a way of taking your followers And calling us to take responsibility but to do so dependently. Lord, would you cause us as your followers to just remember Remember that and to to know what that is to to be dependent and responsible at the same time. We take responsibility for the things that you've called us to do, but we do so knowing that we don't have what it takes to do it Lord, may we learn this. And for some of us, Lord may we have may we choose, may we make even today a decision to as soon as possible get alone with you. It's really where it all starts. To get along with you in an unhurried manner. And with an open Bible and time and prayer, we spend it being satisfied and resting in you. Lord, I pray that many of us would purpose to do just that, and that we as would follow Christ's example In del in being very deliberate and purposeful about our orchestrating and arranging our schedules and our situations to be able And Lord, we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273 or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.