And uh Father, I pray that uh as Brother Jim presents your word this morning, I love the hymn we just sang, Lord, and I pray that you would enable us, Father, to grasp and understand your truth He's going to focus them on his message in verses 26 through 31. He's saying, What I'm teaching you now, some of which they really didn't didn't even understand yet. I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God to salvation for everyone who believes, for the Jew first, and also for the Greek. The truth is that into the first century, as the apostles preached to others and they came to Christ, and they're preaching to others and coming to Christ uh to do my best to to to make wise decisions and right decisions and not to fear man. And there's such great wonderful wisdom in Proverbs, and it says this over and over and over again in Proverbs that the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom And what we find is that there is an emphasis on the soul in 1 Peter as well. And whoever denies me before him men, him also will I deny before my Father in heaven. And Luke 9, 26 says this, for whoever is ashamed of me, says it that way instead of deny, and my words, of him the Son of Man will be ashamed. Isn't it true that the greatest affections that we can have are for our family, to the point that we actually have greater affection for our family than God? I need to be devoted to Christ. Isn't it true, brothers and sisters in Christ, that if we're not careful, we can be preoccupied with e with temporal rewards. He was one of the what? When is it going to become clear? What's enduring is when you do anything beyond that as well. And maybe really that's the key, prayer. But anyway for me I remember you know you know the Reagan and and and uh George uh Bush the first the first, you know, that was a pretty pretty good days in our sort of just sort of skirted things and didn't deal with issues and those kinds of things. And the fear of the Lord is not the kind of uh trepidation that we would think of when we think of fear sometimes, but the fear of the Lord is an awareness of the presence of God And realize this. You know, what vocation should I do? Is that when we come to John chapter twel twenty and Peter is in front of Jesus and uh and Jesus says, Do you love me more than these three times? My my parents grew I grew up in a in a in a Christian home. I think my family, the affection that we have for our family, Jesus is saying, your devotion to me has got to be you've got to love me supremely. I can become we can become worried and anxious over that. If you go into they wouldn't I mean they wouldn't do that. And the king will answer and say to them, Assuredly I say to you, inasmuch as you did it to one of the least of these my brethren. Notice what it says here, that he himself will be saved yet so as through fire. You need to muster up your own boldness in your own flesh. In a sense even a sermon is this way, um you maybe you've hold the heard the old a adage, you tell them what you're gonna tell them, you tell them, and then you t tell them what you told 'em We're just not as aware of it as we ought to be. good old days. This is more recent than that. You've got other churches that weren't experiencing the same level of persecution, and they're going into apostasy, or they're losing- they're leaving their first love. The New Testament is really the exposings, the exposing of the teachings of Jesus W the the seedbed for this was done in the three and a half years of Jesus' ministry, some of which we have, and probably some of it we don't have in the Gospels, but we see the teachings clearly laid out. And he verified the truth of the Old Testament, the law and the prophets, that's the Old Testament, and he is now verifying the truth of the New Testament In the book of Proverbs, that says this, Proverbs 29, 25, the fear of man brings a snare. And Peter says, get your attention off of what will affect your body, because they were up against persecution there. In verses 29 through 31, we pick up here, and it says, And are not two sparrows sold for a copper coin? that you're going to get from a sparrow and eat it. He talks about his disciples and certainly about us as well. And he moves in to this whole idea of the nature of the gospel next. and their parents before them and grandparents and great grandparents. You know, Buddhism, Hinduism, all all those other ones, all of them, they they really are tied to their family heritage. It's going to go out to every family, but it is going to divide families. sort of a secularized culture that that sort of makes it a little bit distinct makes quote religion unquote distinct from family that's very much different in other cases. and then looking back and wondering if you're going to regret what you're living. He makes this connection. And he who receives a righteous man in the name of a righteous man shall receive a righteous man's reward. and say all kinds of evil against you falsely for my sake. uh it's it's it's so nonsensical on so many levels I I don't won't I won't take the time to go over all that because most of you intuitively know it makes no sense. Jesus verifies them. receive the righteous man's reward. And the same thing with others. If we are supporting and giving to the least of the followers of Christ, even with that which is very, very minimal, like a cup of cold water. 3. In 1 Corinthians 3, verse 10, it says this: According to the grace of God which was given to me as a wise master builder, I have laid the foundation. Servant. Really been a blessing, and I'm continuing to read through it. We receive and follow the teachings of the New Testament, but also express our followings through tangible means. If you're not sure about where you stand with the Lord, please come and talk with me after the service. for us. can possibly have. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. Before my Father, who is in heaven. Truth. in our country. That the disciples were going to encounter, and he wants to prepare them well. And whatever you hear in the ear, preach on the housetops. of his commission and he's saying, whatever I'm telling you in secret, whatever I'm telling you now, you are to proclaim that. amplification systems back then at all. You def you find that that's exactly what the apostles did in the book of Acts. have spoken in the dark will be heard in the light, and what you have spoken in the ear and uh in the inner rooms will be proclaimed in the house tops. And he tells the disciples, sort of reminds them again of their role, even after he dies, and presumably after he rises from the grave and ascends He says this, but the helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things and bring to your remembrance all things that I said to you. And so Jesus, that's another indication that what we find in the book of Acts and we find in the epistles, all of this wonderful teaching was And he has already mentioned, and we've already seen in the book of Acts, that there are essentially two types of people. The discipleship is happening, and Matthew 28 is being carried out. the message of the gospel. doesn't represent Christ well. Don't tear those who impose physical persecution on the body, but cannot kill the soul. The opposition will be exposed eventually. We talked about that last week a little bit, so we'll move on to the next one, that the disciples' eternal destiny, number two, is secure. senior pastor. that he is watching you, and that you are one day going to stand before him with for the decisions that you make. Fear him who can destroy the soul in hell. And that should be our focus rather than the focus of the physical, what happens physically to us, as a matter of what man might impose on us. that Peter is that epistle with which that deals with the whole subject of suffering for righteousness' sake, suffering under persecution, and Then in 1 Peter 2 verse 11, he says this, Beloved, I beg you as sojourners and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lusts. will affect our bodies, but we are not nearly aware sometimes of what will affect our souls. to do in doing good as a faithful creator. Is that God promises faithful provision for the disciples? And he begins by saying, he asks a question. And yet God knows everything. happen apart from the will of God. You have hedged me behind and before. Who could destroy those things can destroy and judge in hell. And he who loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me. Well, the prophecy of Christ came true after but you know he denied him three times before the cockroach. saying this that given given uh being put up to the test of of of identifying with Christ nor is there salvation in any other, but there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. Now, he is not saying that if one who accepts Christ will not receive internal peace. These parables and he departed from there. But Jesus said to them, A prophet is not without honor, except in his own country and in his own house. Is this the carpenter? um you know, affection for Christ than I ha than than than other you know, other people or other things or some sort of hobby or some sort of then things tend to be tend to work out in in in figuring out priorities much better. teens and twenties, you're not spending a great deal of time usually thinking about, well, I better live this in a way that I look back and I don't have regrets. you know, twenty or forty years from now. concentrates on eternal rewards. or vocation or whatever it is, all those things that I'm doing are submitted to devotion to Christ, then I can live my life that way with a singularity of focus Teachings of Jesus, but you know, these apostles, these other epistles, I I I really don't go. So that you have got to get the whole b the whole counsel of God. In the name of prophets shall receive the prophet's reward. That there are some false prophets in the Old Testament that were not righteous. In the name of the disciples or for the disciples, it's talking about here a disciple, the least of the disciples. food. skinny kid, but I wasn't head super heavy either. You won't lose your reward for that. In Matthew 25, 31 through 41, it talks about a cup of cold water. children by giving to his followers, even the least of them. Folks, do you realize that what it's saying here is that there is this possibility of a true Christian who has the foundation of Christ? strengthen other followers of Christ. uh uh uh so that they come to Christ and they become followers of Christ. To give and to preach the gospel, knowing that it is going to divide. on life. assurance of knowing Christ this way. Well that's what Jesus says. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. name. before my Father who is in heaven. For there is nothing covered that will not be revealed, and nothing hidden that will not be known. And that's kind of what you're seeing here at the end of this passage. He's told them and now he is summarizing and focusing in again on what he just told them. And even though we've had some issues in our country with that, and it certainly is entirely possible that we will have more severe problems in the future A man by the name of Oswaldo Bagdagle. He's a Filipino pastor, uh maybe I'll just say Filipino pastor from now on, whose house had a house church in Saudi Arabia. Uh this area, this man was taken into custody and he was tortured. You have great sacrifice simply for naming the name of Christ. You don't have a lot of people saying they're Christians and are not when they know there might be that level of sacrifice for naming the name of Christ. In verses 32 through 39. For there is nothing covered that will not be revealed, and hidden that will not be known. um sort of sort of elevated level or in this case he says go to the house tops and proclaim this. You need to b be very uh to proclaim this message to all. It was done as well in writing, and that's how we have the New Testament, in fact. as well in Luke 12. in the epistles. the very message that he wants these apostles to preach on the housetops. He says, do not fear. In that the message of the gospel, Paul is going to say in Romans 1. Don't allow the fear of man to hinder you. Essentially is this that opposition eventually will always be exposed. who persecute believers. God warns us about the fear of man. this contrast between the body and the soul. What happens to the soul? Abstain from them, abstain from the desires of the world, abstain from them. Than many sparrows. Did you catch that? David, the psalmist here is going to say this, or he does say this. Numbers, the very hair on your head. It's all known by him. With this, what does Jesus do or what does the Lord do? He says, God, he not only knows you better than you know yourself, he not only knows every detail about you, but he knows you, but he values you. Do not think that I came to bring peace on earth. And a man's enemies will be those of his own household. to Christ, to confess my faithfulness to Christ. Who disown me or be ashamed are ashamed of me, I will disown them and be ashamed of them. to demonstrate uh the the reality that it is it is only as the as God empowers us and strength And believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, you'll be saved. That if you will confess you you know you got you need to literally go on top of a mountaintop and and and preach the gospel in front of everybody and then you'll be saved. He's not talking about a physical sword. That is going to divide and through and throughout history it has. Jesus says, not me, not my gospel. And they have been for thousands of years. with a sword. He says something very similar in Luke 12, 49 through 53, as a parallel passage to that as well. Where then did this man get all these things? No one does anything in secret while he himself seeks to be known openly. Uh Jude, who was a half-brother of Christ, did, and James did. You know, we're I'm I I personally can tell you that I am extremely blessed. I became a Christian and chose to follow Christ. The question then we have to ask ourselves is, are we truly devoted to Christ ourselves? Isn't it true that that family is probably among people that you know that that are kind of clean living people and trying to do the right thing? But he who loses his life for my sake will find it. And we will have regret, and we will, there is a possibility of a wasted life. But when you hit middle age, you can actually look back enough and have regrets, right? 'Cause it's gonna it's not gonna be uh there'll be time where you can't and um and it's there's truth to that, right? If he is my greatest affection, if he is my greatest devotion, if he is my greatest focus, and all that I am doing, whether it's with family or ministry, eternal rewards. There are rewards for the future of those who are faithful to Christ. You receives me. He receives you, apostles, receives me, and he who receives me, Jesus, receives the Father. who was trying to make an argument that the Bible, that Jesus, um, Jesus, that that pr the pro-life stance is kind of you know, uh and Ezekiel and all these different prophets of the Old Testament, many, many different different prophets, that they if you didn't accept what they taught What the apostles said, you've got to follow, or you won't follow me. Which was a precursor to the gospel, clarified in the New Testament, then you're not accepting what you need to accept to receive the gospel. And he's also pointing out that really that was some of what they were doing, not interpreting the gospel correctly, not interpreting the Old Testament correctly in light of the New Testament in the first century. Assuredly, I say to you, he shall by no means lose his reward. And the truth of Christ as taught in the New Testament. Sometimes the emphasis of eternal life is on quant is on uh is on quantity of life, but sometimes the emphasis actually of eternal life is on quality of life. And in Middle Eastern culture in general, I grew up in a uh in with my dad's dad, they're very hospitable and you know it's uh they're so hospitable you can't not you can't go there and not eat. And she would be like you need to eat, you need to eat. the whole concept of rewards here, and you're going to see, you're really going to see what Jesus has already taught fleshed out a bit. Okay? Um but I'm uh I'm short on time. For no other foundation can anyone lay than that which is laid. Folks, those will render eternal rewards. And live for Christ in every era of our lives, we can save our life by losing it to Christ. And certainly great things or greater things, measured from the smallest things, the cup of cold water, up, will continue to It's prioritizing of of um of life. the temporal must be subs must be submissive to the eternal. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. or email us at info at bbcofmd. things. This morning. Matthew 10, verse 26 through the end of the chapter. And uh, you know, it any time you have a you s you know, it's sort of s you are going to give a speech And they considered, of course, uh anybody who renounced Islam to be an apostate. work to get him out of that situation. But back in the first century and back in and and really in other areas in the country and throughout this area, you have and throughout the world and church history And that's why you have, for example, in Revelation chapter 2, you have the church at Smyrna which is persecuted and they're faithful. challenges them with tests of commitment, and finally concentrates his disciples on eternal reward. And also Gentile government, the Roman government that will oppose and persecute the apostles in the future as well. the the the coercion of man and God is very clear about this. And and this proverb came to my mind that the fear of man is going to ensnare you. And so I determined from that point forward that in the ministry I would do my very best, uh, with the Lord's help, uh to say what needed to be said, to take a stand where it needs to be taken. Doesn't mean that you don't take man's consider what man says into consideration, but the fear of man, the Bible says, and this is why this is why Jesus says it this way. And I want us to see in verses 1 through 6 a wonderful passage. of the glorious Psalms you find here in Psalm 139. mind. of commitment that Jesus gives his disciples. The heart attitude that says, amid the potential sacrifice, amid the possibility of opposition, I am still going to choose Christ. And this other way, the denying, those who the word could be translated, disown or be ashamed of. But the command for us to confess is also true as well. Don't remember don't forget that Jesus actually had issues with his own family when he was on earth. So he had he this was a dividing. of me. But when our priorities are right in this area, that supreme devotion goes to the Lord, and then everything else is secondary to the primacy of our devotion to Christ And the only way, folks, that we can live our lives and not look back with one regret or another is to have the assurance of knowing that what I've done is I've lived for Christ Whoever gives one of these little ones, one o uh one's only a cup of cold water, in the name of a disciple, assuredly I say to you, he shall by no ma no means And and he says here, there is there are future rewards, not in j not just in this life, but in the life to come. And I think this will really wrap everything up for us. The foundation of Jesus Christ with gold, silver, precious stones, those are valuable material things. on it endures, he will receive a reward. What's enduring? even small ways to the least of Christ's disciples. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. And he who does not take his cross and follow after me is not worthy of me. relative to other countries and relative to other to historically uh to to the church, we have really experienced a great level of freedom according to reports. Christmas Day, 1992. In the Gospels that were taught to the disciples privately, and now he commands them here to broadcast this everywhere. He says similarly in Luke 12, 2 through 6, it says, There is nothing covered that will be revealed, nor hidden that will be known, therefore whatever you That we do not represent Christ well as we present the gospel. We're ashamed to mention the gospel. There is a kind of fear that is actually bit completely biblical. And make sure you are mindful of what will affect your soul. But the very hairs of your head are all numbered. and are acquainted with all my ways. Every thought, every word, every way, every path, every time you sleep, every time you get up It is high. What is this idea of confession here in this passage? And more, and what it says in the passage: if you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and do what? When he comes to it in his own glory and his fathers and of the holy angels. That when if we come to that time, we have enough examples of church history of true Christians that do not recant the faith. how you receive Christ. Most world religions are inherited. And there are other places. Then we finally we have the second this third test, and we're moving right into it. Why do you suppose he cites devotion to father and mother and even to son and daughter? He who loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me. And it's interesting that when we have our priorities, our priorities aren't right in this area, it is very difficult to prioritize in life in general. If we live our lives for ourselves, we will can't come to the end of our lives. out of um out of the realm of what we should be what Christians should be concerned about because if you look at the red letters of the Bible uh you never see Jesus saying anything about abortion Is only going to come to those who accept the teachings of the apostles in the New Testament and the teach accept the teachings of Jesus and accept the teachings really of the Old Testament because Uh he says here also this, and I think it's important for us to note this. And he says this, even if you give a cup of cold water to these little ones, and then it says Um it's just the way they are. Or wood, hay, or straw, those are still material things. of fire, it purifies metals. Seed beds of thinking that Jesus wants his apostles to have, to focus them and what becomes the church eventually, as we as b uh as brothers and sisters in Christ are contributing and helping one another and providing for one another and supporting one another, realize that if we do it with the right motive in the right way, building on Christ render reward for us when they're built on the foundation of Christ and they are done with an eternal motive and eternal perspective. Settle that in your mind. It is so easy for us to build on the foundation of Christ wood, hay, and stubble, or even precious stones. Of Christ, every day of our lives, is to do what you called us to do based upon an eternal perspective of devoting our lives to Christ. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Do not fear, therefore. For I have come to set a man against his father, a daughter against her mother, a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law, and a man's enemies will be those of his own household. And he who receives a righteous man in the name of a righteous man shall receive a righteous man's reward. on three key really important areas. Fear him who is able to destroy both soul and body in hell. And so what God does here, what Jesus does here in teaching the disciples of the beginning here is he says, you need to be very focused on the soul. Of your souls. Now some of uh for some of us that's not as big of a deal as others. But that's not at all the point. God of the universe who is above all and over all and and he this same God And in God's case, you have all ability to take care of what you know and value. He who finds his life will lose it, and he who loses his life for my sake will find it. Whoever denies me before men, him will I also deny before thy father in heaven. We do. It's going to. And that is to some degree why he says next, for he who finds or preserves his life will lose it. Folks, you can become so overwhelmed with that. He who receives a prophet in the name of a prophet shall receive a prophet's reward. lose his rewards. You won't lose your reward. I really encourage you to turn there. And those things will be incinerated. And when we do that, we will be able to stand before the Lord, and he will say, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. He who receives you receives me, and he who receives me receives him who sent me. in the name of a disciple. You are going to receive some level of opposition just by being just by come becoming a Christian and by showing it in believers' baptism Just by doing that, just by being baptized, you will very frequently be disowned by your own family. When you were baptized, there was no serious sacrifice necessarily. That's where wisdom begins. It tends to just not be an issue anymore. The soul. You know my sitting down and my rising up. He understands the thought, every thought afar off. to either to recant your faith or you're going to have, or you're going to be shot in the head. What he is saying here is that they will do the right thing in those circumstances. I don't know what I would do. And I think one of the things that Peter was learned, and Peter was Peter learned had maybe had to learn more than once and maybe several times, and so do we. It says also here the importance of the other way, which is what? Jesus is saying that he, he himself is the test. But collectively to the other groups, to the nations, to the ethnic groups, and to and to uh the families, But uh I know my dad, for example, was not the case with him. And come to the end of my life and say, Okay, I have no regrets. He who receives you receives me, and he who receives me receives him who sent me. We're constantly meditating on it. Because it will be revealed by fire, and fire will test each one's work of what sort it is. But he hasn't laid anything on top of the foundation that is of eternal reward, of eternal consequence. In fact, he's laid things on top of the foundation of Christ that are temporal and fleeting and in light of eternity not important. Right? Except to be saved so as by fire. Their Muslim beliefs, which are so tied to their governmental law, Sharia law, required them to be head apostates. Now it's interesting that when you come to 1 Peter, Peter really hones in on this, and of course we said last week desires of the uh lusts of the flesh and the worldly influences. We pick up in verse 32, it says this, therefore, whoever confesses me before him, him will I confess before my Father is in heaven. And um and you know I don't I don't remember how you know when you're younger, you don't really think a lot about living life Then we move finally now, and it really segues quite well into the next uh section here in verses 40 through 42, where Jesus Knowing the gospel often divides. Totally devotion total devotion to God. I I you know if you were to ask me if you were to ask me, are you a Christian, I'd I'd say yes. Amen. Are not two sparrows sold a coin copper coin? So Christ is coming to the end of his calling of the apostles and his commissioning of the apostles. And I think that there's probably no better passage that really explains this than in Psalm 139. Fear, fear those things that can harm the soul, like sin. But the truth is this, if a person truly has real biblical faith, that is God-given faith, And even gives us this love for him, this faithfulness to him, that we will truly be faithful until the end. And it causes you, at least it causes me, to look ahead and to say, well, I don't want to have regrets when I look back. In devotion to him. And wrapping all of this up, then let's summarize this with three statements. Hello, my name is Jim Gannam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. his message to the disciples. You are valuable to God. But he wasn't clearly he was not talking about an actual sword. And um my Aunt Naha was her name, uh she would uh she would uh I would eat a l you know like a reasonable portion of food and So the foundation that is laid is Jesus Christ. Give your life to Christ, this kind of devoting yourself entirely to Christ? Thank you, Father. Now, understanding that I think is important. Much more aware of the constant detailed will of God for us and the constant detailed knowledge of God for us. Do not fear, therefore, he says, you are what? For I come to set man against father, and daughter against mother, and daughter-in-law against mother-in-law, and a man's enemies will be those of his own household. And so that is going to be the case. The second test is really who are you devoted to? He who loses his life for my sake, for the gospel's sake, will find it. Pleasure, those kinds of physical temporal rewards. Number two, we need to totally devote ourselves to the Lord, loving him above all else. Might we be changed more and more into your image and might your light shine brighter through us this week as we go through our week. That's the kind of thing around the world that people that Christians go through, that the church goes through. There is a sense in which, with anything, we don't really know what we would do until we're there. Your highest affection, your greatest affection cannot, you've got to that's got to be below your devotion for many They were very easily one of the best places that you could go to announce a message to a large audience. that falls to the ground. And that is the point that he's mentioning in this passage. When you really think about having a gun put to your head and being required In other words, you can't receive the the teaching of Jesus and not receive the teaching of the apostles. We receive with open arms the truth of the apostles as taught in the New Testament. And I pray, Lord, that not only would we understand it, but Lord that we would take heed and apply it to our lives to meditate upon it. And do not fear those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul, but rather fear him who is able to destroy both soul and body in hell He who loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me. our Christi our our thought of Christianity in a different context. Some of you are like the good old days are back in the fifties and sixties, you know, or thirties and forties or whatever you think the good old days are. And the fear of the Lord is an awareness that one day I will answer to the Lord for the decisions that I make. Whether or not you are of the Father or not, whether or not you are going to have eternal life or not is entirely dependent upon And so Father, we are thinking of those who are not able to be here this morning that might be watching by stream or not feeling well. Well, he not only entrusts the disciples with his message and warns them about fearing, he now moves to challenging the disciples with some tests of commitment. The gospel is going to go out to every ethnic group, to every kindred and tribe and nation. And uh I you know I've reached middle age, you know, by definition 40 is middle age and at least. And I just need to say this as well. Lord, would you show us when we've gotten off that path? He then gives three reasons why we shouldn't fear. There was there was in me this fear of man. First Peter 225 then says this, for you were sheep like going as uh like sheep going astray, but I have now returned to the shepherd and overseer, talking about Christ Remember Peter? And he that's what he's saying here. He was one of the apostles, and he's laid the foundation. You know, I was thinking about this a few months ago. Heavenly Father, we are grateful this morning for your goodness and your kindness, for your mercy and for your grace, for your great love we're with you. Because it was very they were very very inexpensive. Is this not the carpenter's son? But even the small things you do for the least of Christ's disciples will carry future reward. Father, I pray, Lord, that you would help us. Um even back then, maybe our country did not uh uh uh doesn't oppose Christian didn't oppose Christians, but you have other places, for example, in Saudi Arabia that there was great persecution. Now then he moves on and and rewards sometimes uh eternal life is a complex actually kind of thing in the New Testament. For the day will declare it. Maybe you're saying, you know, I have had casual faith. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. So, with that in mind, then we need to look at the fact that Jesus was looking ahead to the reality of the opposition and the persecution, but we've already talked about last week and the week before And let me ask you the question, do you ever fear it today? He's already said in Matthew chapter 5, blessed are you who that when they revile and persecute you. We need to be focused on what happens to our souls. He receives me receives him who sent me. Do you realize that? And you know what the Christian says to that? Isn't it true, folks, that we are often keenly aware of what So what we need in dependency on the Lord is and and in prayer and The Bible says these things are written that you may know that you have eternal life. We are grateful this morning that you have provided a place for us to be able to come together and worship you in spirit. I cannot attain it. What's true of Christ is true of his apostles. No one comes to the Father except through me. Father, we come to you and praise you for your word. He did not die and he ended up taking over and becoming the president president of a ministry called Christians in Crisis. And that's important for us to understand this continuity of the Word of God. I might be overwhelmed with fear in a situation like that. that do show courage amid the possibility and reality of even martyrdom. It's the very nature of it. So the section is talking about eternal rewards. We'll be reading from Matthew, and we're going to begin in chapter 10, verse 26 through the end of the chapter. Help us to set aside all the distractions of the week, and help us to open our eyes and our hearts to you and to your word. He was actually sent sentenced to be executed to death on Friday, December 25th And of course, that has been the case over history, over the uh over the history of the church, and we find that clearly in the book of Revelation as well It's not like you'll be able to do this in your own flesh, that you're going to be faithful to the end in your own flesh. When he had come to his own country, he taught them in their synagogue. John 7, 3 through 5 says this. And whoever gives one of these little ones one cup of cold water in the name of the disciple What's enduring is when you give a cup of cold water to a disciple of Christ. 1 Corinthians chapter 3, and we'll pick up in verses 10 through 15. This is just wonderful assurance of the work of the hand of God, of the blessing of God in the life of the follower of Christ. The point is that God knows every detail of our lives. That someone who is truly of the faith will confess before men, will do that. I I would go on you know Sundays and uh sometimes after church we'd go down to Virginia Northern Virginia and they would have this huge all the tons of food, amazing amount of food They wouldn't just offer you a cup of cold water. There are rewards there. Jesus is the shepherd and overseer of our souls. And that is to some degree what Jesus is saying here. This is a constant thing of being a re of receiving this and accepting what we see in the New Testament. Uh and so if you wanted to speak to a loud, large audience, you would go up on a portico, you go up on some sort of And then Jesus adds this in the passage. Most of the time in the history of the church, in most geographical areas, they have experienced persecution. It's inflammatory and not appropriate. At the time, maybe the disciples thought that, and maybe that's why Peter pulled out a sword to lop off a guy's ear, you know, later on in the text. And finally, he's going to concentrate his disciples on eternal rewards in verses 40 through 42. And we pick up in verse 26. Uh what m who should I marry? That's why they're Muslim. In 1 Corinthians chapter 3, Paul is really going to summarize You are more valuable than many sparrows. Assuredly I say to you, he shall by no means lose his reward. In fact, Peter demanded, Peter said, I will never do this. Now the truth is, isn't it wonderful that after the after Christ rose from the grave, several of his brothers did Same thing with the righteous man. And thankfully God uh intervened and um through uh some close associates and a particular organization that You laid your hand upon me. I w I don't think it was heavy at all, but I wasn't like s but you are skinny, you are skinny, you need to eat. In John 14, 26, just to sort of flesh this out a little more, he's going to say this to his disciples. Now we think of the will of God as being very when we think of big things, we think of the will of God If you will receive me, then the Father will receive you. But whoever denies me before men, him I will also deny Do not think that I have came to bring peace on earth. We've been going through Proverbs. So we've got to receive that. And so there's this illustration of that here. Prayer for one another, prayer for ourselves, that we would have a boldness, the unashamedness to He's told them what he's going to tell them in the beginning of this in Matthew 10. Even even back in the good old days, uh like the nineteen, you know, eighties and nineties, early nineties, there was still persecu you know some of you are going, cut and not bog And he gives this illustration of the Old Testament prophets. It was poor people, it was like the poor person's food. He's not talking about them. Don't fear the and of course what he's talking about are those who would choose to oppose him They know the Lord and raised us up and by the by the grace of God alone and the Holy Spirit working in my life through the Word of God, I came became I became a Christian Now he's going to move and we're going to see eternal rewards here. Do not fear, therefore, you are of more value. Look at what it says. The sparrow, the worth, almost worthless sparrow, and yet it's not worthless because God cares even about the sparrow, says. Let me let me just go to this. The day is talking about the day where the judgment seat of Christ. So this is not all that long ago. We're ashamed to take the opportunities that God gives us. He knows them all. The truth of the matter is, to truly be a Christian and to truly follow Christ Now, does that say, well, what about salvation? And I was running one day and thinking about that and praying about that. I mean that was just the way she was. Those things are going to be tested by fire. Now that's exactly something that's very important to us to understand. It was like a penny. And he says this, but the very hairs of your head are all numbered. And there are others like that as well that we can look at in church history that lived their life that way It's been a while since I've had this plea with you. That makes sense, doesn't it? What does the Father do? I don't think any of us can do that. Lord, may we be mindful of the imminent return of Christ, that he could come at any moment. And he promises that that will take be the case. He is the test. The exclusivity of Jesus. Did you know did you realize that? If I am devoted entirely to Christ, I was I was I was afraid to displease people. In fact, this can become y if you're not careful, you can become you can become Well we've got to make sure that we we spend all the time we can with our kids because there's a day that we can't. By the way, there are people that do that. Rejoice and be exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heaven. How do we serve Jesus? And the question is, are not two sparrows sold for a copper coin? I did not come to bring peace, but a sword. You know, it didn't seem to get this from his family. So so we're we're they did eventually, some of them at least did uh follow after Christ, but prior while he was on earth, they didn't. But we need to realize that even the church is persecuted in other places around the world, even to this day. What is the foundation? Totally devoting ourselves. And in fact, we really have the entire New Testament. And I think this I'm I'm sure that this applies to us as well. Bagdangle. When you are focused on answering to the Lord, you're just not that worried about answering to man anymore. The first one has to do with confession versus denial. But when it comes to my wife and my kids and my parents and my grandparents So how do we have eternal rewards? And another, he says, builds on it, but let each one take heed how he builds on it. And then he says this, verse 27: Whatever I tell you in the dark, speak in the light. We need to be focused on what happens to the souls of people Now, if you know something and you value something. So he says, do not think that I have come to bring peace. That's the Father. But the righteous prophets, those people that were faithful to the Lord and prophesied for the Lord, Jeremiah and And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. He says, you can't tie it to a family. And he's I think he's doing this in parallel, the the righteous prophet knowing When you provide and you help and you encourage and you I'm reading a book on devotion to the Lord. I've been going through Proverbs with my kids for devotions org. And he says, therefore do not fear them. But he says something. And Jesus, what does the God what does God do with this knowledge? Jesus is saying, on whatever level you give to the disciples, to followers of Christ If anyone's work is burned, he will suffer loss, but no And he he he prepared them well as we saw last week, but now he's going to focus them. Those are the big things, and we think of the big things as part of the will of God. And then he turns, Jesus turns, and he talks about us. He knows your upright risings. See, this is different from other other faiths, other religions. That is something to really wrestle with, isn't it? Jesus says, focus on those things that are eternal. What a bunch of nonsense. Are we ever tempted to be ashamed of the gospel? He who loves father and mother more than me is not worthy of me. In Romans chapter 10, verse 9, it says this: that if you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus, His brothers therefore said to him, his own physical brothers, Depart from here and go into Judea, that your disciples also may be see the works of your uh that you are doing He was a first generation Christian. Of course he's talking about there about the Lord. It was very, very cheap to buy a sparrow. We need that boldness. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. You have this going on in the body of Christ, and there is always that temptation to fear If you do these things, show yourself to the world. Is not his mother called Mary and his brothers James, Joseph, Simon, and Judas, and his sisters, and are they not all with us? Who are you fully and completely devoted to? And this life of Christ, that is an eternal life, that's the reward there, is also true of the apostles. Like you need to eat more and and you are skinny. And you find, as we discussed last week's um And not one of them falls to the ground apart from your Father's will. It says this, verse 37. Number one, we need the boldness to preach the gospel unashamedly. To really understand how important these areas are, I think we've got to put our minds And I think sometimes we either go to one extreme where we are we are emboldened to preach a gospel that is actually It's talking here about, it really has to talk about, it's really talking about the out of a heart attitude. I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you that or somebody else that you're comfortable with. May the Lord richly bless you. For example, verse 9 of chapter 1, he says, receiving the end of your faith, the salvation of your souls. Don't go anywhere near them. We have a little less we have a little less to number. He says, O Lord, you have searched me and known me. And he says, Do not think that I came to bring peace to the earth, but to bring but a sword. In fact, Jesus himself experienced this in his own family. And just to wrestle with this a little bit, to grapple with this, I think is important. Do you know that? I just go for what Jesus said. Bagdangle. And a kind of fear that, and that fear is focused on God. Because what they're up against is physical persecution. And he says this. Now I wonder what would happen to our lives if we became much more aware of that. It's not they it and and And he mentions, it's interesting, he mentions this area. He says, He receives the prophet in the name of the prophet shall receive the prophet's reward. In fact, I'll just read a just a section of that. Verse 26 begins, therefore do not fear them. He says, Well, I'm teaching you now, you need to proclaim everywhere. They're going to be done away with. Now Jesus wasn't saying only give in small ways to the least of Christ's disciples. 16, for I am not what And the lusts of the flesh, he says, will affect your soul. Uh my grandparents on my mom's side, they're here and they know the Lord. You know what I mean? And he receives. Now anyone, if anyone builds on this foundation, We thank you for its truth and for uh and for its conviction. So this Christian church in And it was I I I just distinctly remember one day the Lord really working in my own heart Fear those things. And believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, you will be saved. And he who does not take his cross and follow after me is not worthy of me. Now what I'd like you to do then is turn to First Corinthians chapter three. If anyone's work which he has built These are the things and what you begin to see is the very, the very uh There are temptations to fear man, the intimidation of man For there is a word on my tongue, there is not a word on my tongue, but behold, O Lord, you know it altogether. Now that is not saying that the condition for being saved is some sort of self-effort. There is an implication here that we're constantly receiving it. And that reception is a total reception. Apparently that's possible. We should not be given to a spirit of fear, but of love and of power and of a sacrifice. He finds this to be extremely important. Number three, there is an eternal reward for those who receive and follow the teachings of the New Testament. You know, I've had a nominal understanding of truth. I remember when I was first in the ministry years ago, that was something the Lord had to really deal with me on. And then in 1 Peter 4:19 it says, Therefore, let us uh who suffer according to the will of God commit their souls to Him. In fact, this has been described as the Himalayas of the Psalms, the highest peaks. To disown or to be ashamed of. Of course there's converts, but many times people, for example, the religion of Islam, they're they're Muslim because their parents were Muslim and their parents But that is, and that happens, and it's wonderful when it happens. Do we have somebody that denied Christ, an example of someone who denied Christ in the midst of fear? And a lot of, you know, there's been there's a lot of things that happen in in families, in my family. There are some people in church history that have lived that way. Or we go to the other extreme where we're ashamed. Of more value than any than many sparrows. Why on earth would we ever fear man? And he does not take his cross and follow after me is not worthy of me. Rather, I said before Father confessed, it's actually Christ confessing before the Father. He was saying that the person of Jesus Christ and the gospel of Christ is going to divide. You're not following me. And I really encourage you to do that today. And not one of them falls to the ground apart from your father's will. The truth will become known. He says, those who received the prophets in the Old Testament is what he's talking about, the Old Testament prophet When we devote ourselves singularly to Christ, We have enjoyed in this country freedom of religion for many, many years now He was beaten and interrogated for 210 minutes and beaten on every part of his body during that time. And this is consistent with Acts 4. What was the foundation that the apostles laid? This is not the you know the Middle Ages or something. You didn't expect that your family was going to disown you. And he is wanting the apostles to understand that what I am You understand my thought afar off. Number one, we receive If anybody was able to do it, it was Peter, and he failed. Some are the Jewish leaders that are opposing Jesus, that will oppose uh Jesus' disciples Each one's work will become clear What about leading people to Christ? It will. And there's a sense in which that purifies the church. He says, notice And you can kind of look through your life and you say, Oh, well, I regret that and I regret that and I regret that. Then he's going to challenge his disciples with tests of commitment. I was afraid that that um if I stood up for what I believe is right that that um I There's some reality to that. If you don't know if you if you say, you know, I don't really have The third reason why we should not fear This is his response. Like in your in your And then he so that's the first statement. How do we give to Jesus? Therefore, whoever confesses me before men, him I will also confess What is he saying there? In fact, I'll divide the family. So they were astonished and said, Where did this man get his wisdom and these mighty works? When he says, he that preserves, saves his life, will lose it. We'll pick up in verse 40 that says this. I heard this week of a man, a politician. And it is only the things that are enduring. He says there is a hindrance to all of this, and that is fear. Avoid them. He knows your down sittings. There may be a sense in which, and I think this would be wise for us to think, there may be a sense in which, you know, I can't do that in my own flesh In Matthew 13, verse 353, it says, Now it came to pass when Jesus finished That is a possibility, even for a Christian. 1 Corinthians chapter 3. There's all these kind of things going on. So we'll first look at the fact that Jesus entrusts his disciples The message from Christ to the disciples is a very, he says is a very, very important message then. There is a real sense in which we cannot follow these commands in our own strength. Uh if you want to look at this later, you might want to. The first one That God will God will do his justice to those Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can We'll come back to that idea. This the great transcendent And you know, there's a sense in which I think that um Boy, I don't know about that. And he finds his life will lose it. And he who loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me. So fear the fear of man is the beginning of w uh the fear uh but not all fear is wrong fear He is the gospel itself What is it saying there? It's really an excellent book. We can come to the end of our life and have nothing for Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. We hope to see you soon. What is the New Testament? Don't fear man. Fear the God. I did not come to bring peace, but a sword Now it's interesting, he also makes this And like Now he did not do many mighty works there because of their unbelief. There's that word reward. There's a lot that I could I could point out here that's really interesting. Whatever I tell you in the dark, speak in the light, and what you hear in the ear, preach on the house of the I say to you, my friends, do not be afraid of those who kill the body. But don't fear man. The thing about that was a little different, he wasn't entirely rejected by his family because in our country, in this culture, you have He who loves father and mother more than me is not worthy of me. And there is a sense in which as we go through life I put it this way because, you know, I I I I I worded it as we need the boldness because I don't want to say, well, you just That you would cause us to realize that And he says, those who will do that, I will confess to my Father in heaven. So they were offended at him. Okay, there's there And if you're not following me, you're not accepted by the Father. The day. Now, folks, most of us have not experienced that in this country. And God says here, Jesus warns, He says, do not fear, do not fear them. But rather fear those But whoever trusts in the Lord will be safe. And it was very very s cheap to then take the very little meat. For I have come to set man against father and daughter against her mother and daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law. For even his brothers did not believe in him. This also helps us get our focus in on what it can be, on what it ought to be. Who is the Word? Now that is that is very consistent with what we find in the Old Testament When you are aware of that, the fear of man tends to just diminish. Abstain from them which war against what? The fact that I am the way and the truth and the life, and no one comes to the Father but by me. The quality of the eternal life that you're going to have is dependent upon what we do in this life. It will become in the light who these opposers are. And you'll see why in just a moment. In fact, he says other places that he will bring peace to those who follow him. Jesus said You comprehend my past and my lying down. So clearly what's talking about here in this passage is the brethren of Christ. And it grew so noticeable in Saudi Arabia that it was noticed by it by Saudi Arabian authorities, and of course I mean it's just their culture. In verse 40, it says And we confess before you, Father, that In fact, probably in most of the world You find here essentially two tests. I think that's included. But man, this kind of He who receives a prophet in the name of a prophet shall receive a prophet's reward. It's still hard, but they tend to work out much better Yet we will still preach it unashamedly. And so he is now going to focus his disciples And not one of them falls to the ground apart from the Father's will. And Jesus says, isn't it true, that it's really cheap to buy a sparrow for food? I'd like you to take your Bibles and turn there for a moment to Psalm 139. And you can't receive the teaching of the He says this: don't fear those who kill the body The sparrows were used as as food for poor people. I will never deny Christ. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. And whoever gives one of these little ones only a cup of cold water. But the Church of Smyrna and the Church of Pergamus, the two churches that were faithful, they were under persecution. And really, there is a connection for us He promises faithful provision for the disciples Such knowledge is too wonderful for me. The gospel will be divided, the families will be divided over this. Rewards of money or position or power or fame or You are I wasn't skin like I was normal. That is the nature of But He is giving them sort of these final words. Okay. Oswaldo Mag Magdangle. You're a sojourner and a pilgrim. Now I'm not saying folks that we ought not to be careful as we present the gospel He is aware of every little detail. He knows everything about you all the time. And often they're also tied to their nationality. And the reward of eternal life. Bow your heads with me if you would while we go to the board. That's the fear of the Lord. And I it finally dawned on me, you know Those 12. You ask me if I have greater affection um You are to go onto the house tops. Now remember, in John 14, this is the upper room discourse, and Jesus is about to go to his death. There is no reason to fear. It says he receives I would really recommend it by Sinclair Ferguson. They didn't have The New Testament, by the inspiration of the Spirit of God through the Apostles and through people associated with the Apostles But first of all, but but that's the kind of things that people will do. I would encourage you And that the focus that you want us to have as the sub The least, it's not just talking about apostles here, it's the least of the followers of Christ. Do you know what you would do? We're going to see that very clearly in the next portion here that we're going to look at. But we really would love to meet you in person. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. We ask in Jesus' name That is a true test of discipleship. We serve Jesus and give to Jesus by giving to his children. You're now bringing people to Christ. Now let me ask you a question. Why? The key statement there is that first statement in verse 40 That's, you know, in Jewish c culture, people are very, very hospitable to one another. Which is Jesus Christ. This is this is not during the Reformation. Let's pray to God And we ask And he's going to focus them on three vital areas Jesus is the Word. This is different So a cup of cold water is like nothing. You don't have a lot of counterfeits. Whoever confesses me before men, my Father will confess in heaven. And I mean I uh people are always telling me that, make sure you spend all the time you can with your kids. There is, I think, a connection there My Matthew 18, 1 through 5 talks about the little ones there and the importance of the little ones. And Father, we just ask your hand of blessing to be upon those We are submissive to it, we're receiving Well, what is it that's enduring? And it was done both verbally to the churches. There's something else that Jesus is doing here with this. Why would Jesus mention those? For so they persecuted the prophets who were before you But here it indicates that the smallest of things don't When it really gets simplified when I just simply say Give And he is saying to them, don't fear them. The Bible says that the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. That's a hard sentence name to say When you keep in mind that God's presence is with you. And he who loses his life for my sake will find it My thought. He makes these connections for us. Message and trust them with a message Well, who is Paul? The housetops were were there were flat houses back then He says, don't fear man who can kill the body. It's gonna the same kind of message that we're gonna see here And he incarnate, came to earth. And I pray, Father, that in all Some sort of self-effort, some sort of work. I did not come to bring peace. But the very hairs of your head are all numbered. Okay, I wasn't as skinny It says right there. God will judge them. He doesn't even say thoughts there, by the way. I was at my first Well, who the who's the brethren of Christ? All of and and it's And what happened Now Loved us. I have not finished it yet, but so far I've It is called the Exchange. This is Eternal life All these things are tied together. I mean that would be the minimal that you would do if you get Jesus just told us. I'm still going to confess. There are eternal rewards to be focused on. Now what is he talking about there? It's anybody who receives Christ. But it's simply Oh well I believe in the T In fact