If you go to a 3D movie and you don't put on the glasses, what does it look like on the screen? No one is born with that perception. Would you take your Bibles then and turn to Matthew 24 for a moment? For you will hear of wars and rumors of wars, see that you are not troubled, for all these things must come to pass, but the end is not yet. And he will send the angels with great a great sound of a trumpet, and they will gather together his elect from the four winds, from one of the If you take that to be the case, then if you look at the parables, they make a lot of sense. I mean I'm really summarizing here. Now there are some that would suggest that these that really all most of the teachings in Matthew, even the Sermon on the Mount and the Parables and all of that You know what God is doing? Well, how did he use parables? It was taken away and given to the people that did use it right. He wanted to continue to offer the truth to those individuals who would be given by God the spiritual perception And so he continued to want to reach those or offer the kingdom those who would receive it. This gets even harder to answer. The truth of Jesus in the Word of God. And come coming in the instant, she gave thanks to the Lord and spoke of him to all those who looked for the redemption of Jerusalem. Who helps us to understand the truth of the Word of God, to see the significance of the truth of the Word of God, we are truly blessed by no merit of our own. Which, isn't it true that we've gone through passages that are hard to understand, even today? If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. Okay, picturing what Christ did. Verse 29, which says this, for to everyone who has must be get more will be given, and he will have abundance And with the without inhabitation, the houses are without man, and the land uh utterly desolate. That's the picture I took, all right, of a railroad track right down next to my house. Behold, the sower went out to sow, and as he sowed, some seed fell by the wayside, and the birds came and devoured them. You can't make distinct you can't distinguish what's going on. s shuffling back there. verses 10 through 12, the reason for a lack of spiritual perception in verses 13 through 15, and then the blessing of spiritual perception in verses 16-2 Why do you speak to them in parables? uh like an agrarian you know uh uh lesson or a lesson on on agriculture. But he doesn't explain much there. It says this, but when he was alone, those around him with the twelve asked him about the parable. Before the foundation of the world. in Daniel chapter two verses eighteen through nineteen. in himself. The dream, and certainly not the interpretation of the dream, they summon Daniel. And he will show them his covenant. The kingdom of heaven. And in Matthew 24, in between those two passages is a lot of parables. And his disciples came up to it to show him the buildings of the temple, and Jesus said to them, Do you not uh Do you not see all these things? Now as he sat on the Mount of Olives, the disciples came to him privately, saying, Tell us when will these things be, and what will be the sign of your coming in the end of the age? What will be the sign of your coming? You don't find the rapture in this passage at all. Then the Son of the Son of Man will appear in heaven, and then all the tribes of the earth will mourn, and they shall see the Son of Man coming in the clouds of the heaven for with power and great glory. At heaven to the other. And there are in all the Gospels 39 parables at least. is that the kingdom that is to come, finally an apocalyptic power, as foreseen in Daniel, has in fact entered into the world and advanced in a hidden form to work secretly within and among humans This is a secret now being revealed in veiled speech to God's chosen Jesus' disciples. as foreseen by Daniel, as in fact entered into the world and advanced in a hidden form to work secretly within and among men. who created all things through Jesus Christ, to the intent that the now the manifold wisdom of God might be made known in whom we have boldness and access with confidence through faith in him. that he has already made on the crowds. has received that you know a live person has received the judgment of God. Then he said to the disciples, The harvest truly is plentiful, but the laborers are few. going wow this is a lot of stuff so let me give a very simple illustration how many of you when your kids were small were were were young talked in code to you to to your spouse or to to somebody some other adult. when I was young, but like I remember as uh when I w we were in the townhouse in Elkridge, the first house that I no, I actually do remember the other one, but basically I think we're I was f five years old, four no, I was I was three or four years old, something like that. You can literally have an entire conversation in code as long as they have something previously as a background. That's essentially what Jesus is doing with the parables. He's struck by the holiness of God, he sees his own sin, he sees he's undone, he's cleansed by the uh uh he's cleansed there in the passage, and then he says Send me. Keep on hearing, but they're not going to understand. And shut their eyes, lest they see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their heart, and return to be healed. Earth the first time was to warn them. Kingdom of them when when he did this, it was both an offer, but it was also a warning And he is again saying to these disciples, look, they have been warned according to Isaiah. In John chapter 12, verse 38 through 40, it says, the word of Isaiah the prophet might be fulfilled, which is spoken lest they should understand with their hearts and turn, so that I should heal them. And in Exodus 9. And you there are some things I said today so far that you may not have fully understood, and that's okay. And did not see, and to hear what you hear, and did not hear. So he came to by the s spirit into the temple, and when the parents brought the child child Jesus to do for him according to the custom of the law, he took Then Simeon blessed them and said to Mary his mother, Behold, this child is destined for the fall and rising of many in Israel, and for the sign which will be spoken again against She was a great of great age, the Old Testament the King James says, well stricken in years, uh, and had lived with a husband seven years from her virginity. Word of God, but there's something within you that wants it. So that he got into a boat and sat, and the whole multitude stood on the shore. And seeing you will see and not perceive. For assuredly I say to you that many prophets and righteous men desired to see what you see and did not see it, and to hear what you hear and did not hear it. 17 here and I'll begin by asking this question. They they're intelligent people, they were listening carefully, they were distracted by a bunch of other things, and yet when you came to the end of the gospel of sharing the gospel with them, it's like it just went over their heads. Our sin? Much better. For who has known the mind of the Lord that he may instruct him? Do you believe the prophets? And he stretched out his hand toward his disciples and said, Here are my bro mother and my brothers, for whoever does the will of my father in heaven is my brother and sister and mother. this parable about the sower and the seeds. Why do you say these things to them in parables? And the answer here then is to know the mysteries of the kingdom. But whoever does not have even what he will be taken away, what would be taken away will be taken away from him. But that's not the only time we see it. set as a plan for uh for mankind, he he reveals in his time and his way to the people that he chooses to reveal it to And his answer was, it is for you to know the mysteries of the kingdom. That they're in a current age, and that there is in a new there is a new age to come. And Jesus, verse 4, answered and said to them, Take heed that no one deceives you, for many will come in my name, saying, I am Christ, and I will deceive many, and will deceive many. Then what you find in Matthew 24, verses 37 through 32 is the coming of Christ. that there is a thousand-year millennial kingdom where the where the kingdom is set up is is literally mediated. If you go through these, who is it written, in fact, who was the who are the gospels written to? So when Matthew is writing, he is writing two churches, these are going to be distributed throughout the churches, and he is giving them In the will of God, and Jesus has just said to his disciples, he has said, well, he really said to the crowd, he has said to the disciples, these are my family. And to make it and to make all see what is the fellowship of the mystery which from the beginning of the ages has been hidden in God. Ephesians chapter 3 there is saying that Christ isn't using parables anymore. But as a whole, as the nation of Israel stands there, as the multitudes, as the crowds, they have been declared in a judicial way by Christ. But from him who does not have, even what he has will be taken away. answer. into that harvest. And I'm like, we're going to a pool. And one day you realize when you're trying to give some sort of secret to somebody else uh that they can actually spell and they're sort of saying, Oh yes, we get to do this or whatever it is that you're trying to do. But there's other ways. Or we could say the heart being hardened. You need the ascent of the mind, the will, and the emotions. Christ does not want to have them hear more truth is because of this, is because their hearts are hardened. and I will return and be for uh and be for consuming a tarmit tree or as uh an oak whose stump remains so there's a remnant a stump remains When it is cut down, so the holy seed shall be its stump. Through the Assyria the Babylonian Empire is going to come and they're going to conquer him. It says this. And these people hear, they listen to they listen to Paul, and Paul preaches the gospel to them, then it's they don't accept it, including Agrippa. Softening your heart or hardening your heart is a very valid question because you are responsible. You know when you got it right when number one, this an understanding of the sovereignty of God and the and the responsibility of man brings you to the to two conclusions. working in your life. And when someone truly realizes that is all of God and nothing of ourselves, we see ourselves as truly blessed Yes, a sword will pierce through your own soul also, and the thoughts of many hearts may be revealed. And a woman was a widow and about 84 years, who had who did not depart from the temple, but served God with fastings and prayers night and day. of all of the New Testament apostles, of everybody that's named in the New Testament, we have been given more than all of them. Eternal life. To demonstrate that in our lives and to tell others. Do things that we could never do on our own. And they immediately sprang up because they had no depth of earth. 30. He answered and said to them, Because it has been given to you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but to them it has not been given. But he who received the seed on stony places, this is he who hears the word and immediately receives it with joy. For when tribulation or persecution arises because of the word, immediately he stumbles. Christ going to the cross to die for our sin as the only payment that would work to satisfy God's justice is so clear to us. It's kind of like a 3D movie. to him, nor can he know them because they are spiritually discerned. the religious leader of the day, he makes this judicial decree that they are, he is, he is essentially, he's moving on. But to them it has not been given. the mystery of his will according to his good pleasure, which he purposed His secret to his servants and the prophets. We find then we move into the into the book of the New Testament in Ephesians chapter 1, verse 9, it says this. Well, here's what we know. He goes over a description of the tribulation period, and then in Matthew 24, 27, he says this: For as the lightning comes from the east and the flashes in the west, so also will the coming of the Son of Man be. For wherever the carcass is, there the eagles will be gathered together immediately after the tribulation of those days. The mystery is a new disclosure of God's purpose for the establishment of His kingdom. The primary audience isn't now. All right. instruction, the disciples are are describ explaining these parables to the church. He says, it's been given to you to know the mysteries of the kingdom, but it has not been given to them, the multitudes, the crowds. to be judged and represented by the religious leaders of that day, which we've gone over before a couple Sundays ago. But also those who do not receive the truth, there is on some level in God's timing, and this is not something we can completely understand, we certainly would want not want to say, well that person But over and over again it says in that passage that God has given them over. To receive it. Matthew nine, thirty-five through thirty eight says this. But when he saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion for them, because they were weary and scattered, like sheep having no shepherd. And then you just say a couple of key words to indicate what what the previous that you're referencing the previous context. Nor do they understand. And in them the prophecy, and it brings up this Isaiah passage. of the people have grown dull. The mind, the will, and the emotions. Now, why Isaiah 6? In our opening, Isaiah 6, the first part of Isaiah 6 is a very, very well-known passage, and you've probably heard a thousand, well, not even a thousand, but you've heard a lot of messages on that Lord, who has believed our report, and to whom the armor of the Lord has been revealed, therefore they shall not believe, because Isaiah said again, He has blinded their eyes and hardened their hearts, lest they should see with their eyes Men and brethren, they have done, I won't take the time to read the entire passage, but basically here's what he quotes Isaiah again. uh present the gospel to them and they don't hear it and he uses this passage again. You have, for example, in Exodus chapter 7, verse 14, it says, So the Lord said to Moses, Pharaoh's heart is hard. And then in Exodus 9. Apart from man's responsibility, as though man is not responsible, because God is sovereign, you have misunderstood the sovereignty of God. You also have misunderstood the responsibility of man. But as you look down, they come together. The will of God and the responsibility of man, of humans, they come together to ultimately accomplish God's will. And you say to yourself, well, how does that all work? initiator of our salvation. And so for me to ask a question like, what is the Word of God doing to your heart? That causes you to have a sober sense of your own responsibility. You can't you're all your righteousnesses and your good things are as filthy rags to God, the Bible says. of Christ. As they accept the gospel, there's no doubt about it. And maybe right now you are like it's opening up to you. Verse 16 it says this, but blessed are your eyes for they see, and your ears for they hear. For surely I say to you that many prophets and righteous men desired to see what you see. Verse 3 it says this. spirit within us if we know him as our Savior. Who did see it? him up in his arms and blessed God and said, Lord, now you are letting your servant depart in peace according to your word. Which you have prepared before the face of all peoples, a light to bring revelation to the Gentiles, and the glory of your people Israel. After the service, I'd be glad to spend some time with you and help you to know more. that we have interaction with, Lord, may as we give the gospel, Lord, would you go before us and would your spirit cause them to understand your truth, their sin, and their need of a Savior. saved. or email us at info at bbcofmd. Creates in us desires to serve you, to live for you, to show Christ to others Therefore, I speak to them in parables, because seeing they do not see, and hearing they do not hear, nor do they understand. Who indeed bears fruit and produces some a hundredfold, some sixty, and some thirty. And he is no longer going to be reaching them. Casting out demons, he finally has this judicial decree to the Pharisees, and also by extension, the crowds that would follow the religious leaders of the day, the Pharisees, the Sadducees, and others Distinction between the religious leaders of the day and his own disciples in Matthew twelve, at the very end you could see it there, verse forty-eight, it says, But he answered and said to the one who told him, Who is my brother, and who is my brothers? Lost in our sin, we're born spiritually dead, and no one, no one seeks after God What then is the mystery of the kingdom? Now, what we then see Carson continues later on, kingdom uh the kingdom is that which comes finally in apocalyptic power. The A. Are now the servants to whom God has given the talents, and God will come, Christ will come for us, and then we will give account for him in the second coming. of Christ. by the church for the principalities and powers and ever and heavenly places according to the eternal purpose which he accomplished in Christ Jesus our Lord. But he's using the church now in a similar way to how he used parables Three different people, three different servants were given talents. To go deeper and deeper into sin. As far as we know, nothing, right? Maybe with their maybe they follow because they feel that they have to, they're compelled to, but they don't, they're not, their whole lives, they're not following entirely out of out of a des a true desire to do so I will uh who will go for us? It won't return void, but to some it will soften and to some it will harden. What's he talking about? Some of it is really dealing with the nation of Israel. And if you want to, you could turn there, but we're s I'm going to go through several passages fast, so you may not want to, you may just want to listen. They wouldn't have known much about the different soils, they wouldn't have known a lot of there wasn't a lot of information there, but they should at least said, okay, how does this apply to me? Understand this, so important. eternal that you can have a relationship with God. on us. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. In the family of God, not by any strength or merit or effort on our own, but all on the work of Christ. And in them the prophecy of Isaiah is fulfilled, which says, hearing you will hear and not shall not understand. It was a clear presentation of the gospel, and they just didn't un they it's like they just couldn't see what you were saying. That they don't have. There is a lack of spiritual perception, that which is needed in order to see the gospel clearly and to apply it. Nine verses, he really does not explain much of what he's talking about there. What he says here is it has been given to you. is that they did not naturally have the perception to be able to understand the truth and the mysteries of the kingdom. They needed that spiritual perception, and it was gifted to them by God. Well, the mystery here, the word is also translated sometimes secret, and it goes back to the Old Testament concept of a secret or mystery that's found In Amos chapter 3, verse 7, this is a a warning of a judgment to come, and it says in that verse, surely the Lord God does nothing unless he reveals of God in the New Test in the book of Matthew and uh and in the in the Gospels, that when it says the kingdom of heaven, it means something different than the kingdom of God. For nation will rise up against nation, and kingdom against kingdom, and there will be famines, pestilence, earthquakes in various places. So what are the parables describing? Right? To me, who am less than the least of all the saints, this grace was given that I should preach among the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ. And we see that very clearly. Whoever has, to him more will be given. Really, to everyone. We get that Philippians chapter 1, verse 6 as well, being confident of this very thing, that he who has begun a good work, he will complete it until the day of Christ. But finally, I think this is important. of that that kind of truth to them. Therefore, I speak to them in parables. Now, let me just let me see if I can suggest this. Right? And the next part of the passage is actually the part that's a little bit more difficult to understand, and yet it's extremely important to understand as well. And now the same thing is going to happen to them, to Israel again. But on the other hand, we have responsibility to accept the light that is given to us. And you are responsible to depend upon God to do what you cannot do for yourself in bringing you to a saving relationship with Him. We have the completed Word of God. Now, this concept of blessed we've seen in Matthew already. And in Luke chapter 10, verses 23 through 24, it says, Blessed are your eyes which see, the same kind of thing. Have you recognized the blessing of God's working in your life lately? And the thanksgiving and the worship and the glory of all that we see in this passage. Because we have the Word of God completed. We thank you, Lord, for the blessing of being able to know your truth from your word. Not because of our own strength and our own willpower, but in the reality of the Spirit working in us today That's why in Acts 26, the Apostle Paul could go through an extended day of preaching the gospel, and he says to King, and King Agrippa says in verse 27 of Acts 26. After much, many, many offering many opportunities to accept him through miracles that he did and through Is that God gives spiritual perception to the people that He chooses and they understand? That's what kingdom is, by the way, isn't it? Now, it says this for verse 12, for whoever has, whoever has been given the perception to see the king the mysteries of the king It says this, he who has ears, let him hear. So that they should heal them. Showing them that they are being judged by God through this. And so I got up on my seat and I live very close to a railroad track and I thought, I'll take a picture. A heart that wants to know more. And I would be really uh you know blessed myself to be able to take some time um and and explain to you how you can know for sure that you will spend I pray, Lord, that you would help us not to walk away from this message and to somehow say that we have no responsibility. But we really would love to meet you in person. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. As we look to your word here momentarily, Father, we pray that you would guide our thoughts to be in tune with what you are saying in these passages May our understanding of truth be more deepened. For whoever has to him more will be given, and he will have abund in abundance. Of riches choke the word, and he becomes unfruitful. And I mentioned that because there as I have mentioned on a couple of several occasions that there is within a passage Well, it's the same way when it comes to the gospel. Whoever does the will of his father. But he will, when he comes for us, when he comes again, he will mediate his kingdom. God gifts spiritual perception. He was saying you need to listen up to what was just said. about the kingdom, about his rule, he wanted to continue to reveal truth to those who were following him. The parable did both. To someone who has not yet received the truth, but they've hardened their hearts to it. And Isaiah's job is simply to warn them. And you have this going back and forth. And man's responsibility. And I think it illustrates just the blessing, the blessing of seeing what others can't see, and perceiving and understanding Do you know of all of the Old Testament prophets, of all of the patriarchs of the Old Testament What is it doing in your life? It should have at least signaled, I think, this. of Jesus. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. And uh it's very uh it it it's it's you know you sort of walk away sometimes. Because they're they're actually really, really dirty. to our lives. Now, what is this whole idea of given the mysteries? That Christ who has completed a good work in you will complete it. Over and over and over again, or maybe uh however many times God decides, uh and he continues to reject it and continues The disciples want to know what that means. to give the parables so that those who understand have a baseline for the truth will understand more, and those who don't, it'll go right over their heads. Also I heard a voice in the Lord saying, Whom shall I send? And in so doing, my heart is softened by the Word of God. Really does compel us, constrains us, pushes us. Spiritual lenses to be able to see God's word. You see then the passage, and we're going to see the question then is how does spiritual perception cause understanding? And when he comes again, those who are servants are to have to give an account for how they have invested the talents. When Jesus said to the crowd, the crowd, he who has an ear, let him hear. Some of his rule that he dis he reveals is about the mediated kingdom of God. I would suggest that perhaps the reason is because in salvation, in true salvation, according to Romans chapter 10, you need And he said, go and tell this people, keep on hearing, but do not understand. So I was sitting thinking through this last yesterday, and I was looking out the window, and it was um it was starting to get dark, and I thought, oh, I've got a good illustration for this. The sheep. And some fell among thor uh thorns, and the thorns sprang up and choked them. He who has ears to hear, let him hear. Now, if you've been saved for any length of time, if you've known, if you've spent time telling others about Christ, you've had that experience where you've seen that occur. is something that God gives us. The Bible tells us in Romans chapter 3 that no one seeks after God. Now that that may be your viewpoint. Now it's not our job to usher in the kingdom. Now, that is a lot to sort of process, right? That's going to come come into become very important in a few moments as well as we as we see all this in just a few minutes. That might be why. So I was thinking about this and the reality that there is a sense in which the will of God and the and the decision that the will of man work in tandem with each other. Verse 25, Luke 2. I'm gonna find out more. Reading now from the text will be Matthew thirteen, one through twenty-three. Okay. He revealed the mystery of his will. Carson agrees. Now, what what about what is at this point let's sort of summarize what's going on here In Exodus 8, verse 32, then it says, And Pharaoh hardened his heart at this time also, neither would he let the people go. Happy are your eyes. And surely we are. It had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he would not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ. So just in concluding all this, I'd like to ask, I'd like to really consider three things. You should ask yourself the question: are you being softened by the Word of God or hardened by the Word of God? Very short parable, we'll get to it soon, 1344, the treasure is hidden in the field, the person buys the field, so that they get the treasure. Let's summarize what Christ's what Christ's goals are. The reason for that is because, as is noted throughout this passage, there is a spiritual perception. But on the other hand, it causes you to be completely dependent on God. I think that's a valid question. Saved forever by the blood of the Lamb. Pastor Jim coming and preaching this passage. Therefore, hear the parable of the sower. So there is then a sense in which there is a spiritual kingdom. He saw the harvest as plentiful. And it came to pass after three days Paul called the leaders of Ju of Jews together when they had come together Same thing is true the other way. You must have God's working. Here's the reality. If there is something within you that wants to know more, it's very likely not you, it's the Lord. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. We thank you, Lord, for the fact that the Father that you give your Son The word heaven is basically a respectful way of refer referencing God. Where the master of the servants leaves the talents with the servants to invest those talents, and then he comes again. Aren't there other ways you could speak in code? 34, and Pharaoh saw the truth, the rain, the hail, the thunder, and ceased. These two things must go together when we're talking about both the sovereignty of God and the responsibility of men. In the passage in Matthew 13, 9 through 10, you see, he who has ears, let him hear. Now, it may be that in this message you have realized that you have never really had that perception to really understand the world. And what I'm gonna do, because they my glasses are actually really dirty. And I didn't realize they were dirty, but these lights, they you suddenly they show up everything. Pick up then in in uh in verse ten where it says this the disciples came and said to him, Why do you speak to them in parables? So, why then does God not give spiritual perception to some? And that's what then Jesus wants to get across in verse 16. And Lord, that love and that great gift of salvation. Searching the scriptures and the truth to know more and more what it looks like to love you more purely in walking in obedience Is our sin any clearer than I mean and the world being fallen? By the time we get to Matthew 24, the disciples are one their understanding that there is going to be a new age to come. Isaiah sees God. The resurrection of Jesus is so clear. There you have the second coming of Christ. God is in the process of collecting and raising up, He is in the process of raising up citizens of the kingdom. even what he ha uh he has will be taken away. Thank you, Lord, for the work of your Spirit in those of us who have understood Christ and the gospel, and we know it's of you and not ourselves. And man hardens his own heart. Then God then you have a responsibility to accept the light that God has given. And Lord, it just causes me also, just by thinking about this, how much we need to pray for others that they that you would give them the spiritual perception. What was he doing with these parables? And that's, by the way, the key. They were longing for the day before Christ came the first time. They at this point realize then that he's coming again. Ready? 12 it says, But the Lord hardened the heart of Pharaoh. They are hearing, but they're not understanding. In Psalm 25, 14, it says the seeker of the Lord is with those who fear him. Remember this, Matthew chapter 9, verses 35 through 38. So you have, let's just imagine then you have two rails. That is probably a case of hardening rather than softening. God wants you to know. We know of a fact, Lord, that when we are bought into the family of God, you keep us. Then the wicked one comes and snatches away what was sown in his heart. But this week we are going to look at the most difficult part of the passage, and that is in verses 10 through 17. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in heavenly places in Christ. The passage that Enrique just read, um we covered most of that last week, the parable parable of the soils and the sea. Remember last week Jesus gives this parable of the sower and the the various the seed and the soils and in the very and the in the first If someone has the perception to be able to understand the gospel and to apply it and to accept it, it is God given. He says this, the mysteries are not that God will establish his kingdom, which was well known, prophetic hope within Israel, but that it has arrived in a form different from what was anticipated. That's just a suggestion. You cannot come to God on your own. And just by way of application, a simple application is this. That is likely going to harden your heart. Spiritual perception is unmerited, undeserved, is an unmerited, undeserved gift. And the sheep hear your name and they listen to the call. I would say read the newspaper, but nobody does it anymore. And he says, I will hear my Lord send me. We would, none of us would be saved if God did not show us. In Matthew chapter 13, this is a passage that just before it, chapter 12, Jesus Isaiah is going to preach to the people of Israel during a time where it's just before they're going to be judicially punished by God. Your spiritual senses are determined by your heart. And of course we discussed this at length last Sunday, Sunday morning. In Proverbs 3, verse 32, for the perverse person is an abomination of the Lord, but his secret counsel is with the upright. Um the dragnet. Keep on seeing, but do not perceive. At some point God says, I'm going to give them over to a reprobate mind. And they're like and my my mom would, Okay, I guess we can't do that anymore, right? Why does God not give that? He did not God Christ continued to want to offer the truth So that I should heal them. You call us to pray for those who don't know you. And he gives them the answer. Or probably the most obvious one in my mind anyway, in in in all the way in chapter 25, which is after 24, in verses 14 through 30, you have this parable of the talents. This is this is a a repeating of a judgment Remember that? It was a a warning. It's not exactly equal the times of each other. We've got the entire book of the entire revelation of the scriptures. Because both are not true. Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. It says it there, and they might seek the mercies of God of heaven uh concerning this secret. The one who buried the talent didn't use the talent. Now imagine being able to give truth that they understand about the coming of Christ, which Christ is going to come and he's going to rule with a rod of higher and him. What's going on there? On the same day Jesus went out of the house and sat by the sea, and great multitudes were gathered together to him Or Paul asks King Agrippa, do you believe the prophets? Now that doesn't mean every individual within the crowd does not no longer has an opportunity to receive the gospel. It revealed the truth to those who had already received truth, and it concealed the truth from those who did not yet receive, who did not receive the truth That's what he's saying here. Lord, if there is anybody here that doesn't know you, I pray that they would understand that as well. It says it this way in 1 Corinthians 2, verse 13. And then the disciples then come to him privately, and now they're going to ask That's going to be later in the New Testament that that's described. Kingdom is the rule. I'm gonna glean what I can understand. Then Jesus went about all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues, preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing every sickness and every disease among the people They've already received the they've already had a perception to receive some of the truth, and what Christ now is going to do with the parables is he is going to continue The word means impervious. And I'll just simply say this: that in Scripture, if you take the sovereign will of God Continue to respond with personal responsibility to the truth of the Word of God. And then the secondarily in principle we can gather things from it. In fact, you can do this with other adults in front of other adults. And we are of all people most blessed. He continued to want he was throughout Matthew you see a missional kind of approach from Jesus. Their ears are hard of hearing, and their eyes they have closed, lest they should see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, lest they should understand with their hearts, and turn If you take the responsibility of man and to the exclusion of the sovereignty of God Let me just tell you, it's still a mystery. But on the other hand, they look and they say that was all God Blessed are your eyes for they do perceive, and your ears because they do understand You have two people here who long to see Jesus. And it works in my illustrations, so that works out okay. The primary audience is in the future thousand-year millennial kingdom. On the other hand, to those who he had said, who had who had judged that he had already judged for not receiving the truth, he wanted to conceal the truth from them. When God truly saves someone God's word will both harden and soften. It's all so clear to us. But those who do not accept the offer of the kingdom, it is at some point judicially taken away. He is now going to turn his attention other way other ways. Well the next question is, what is this mystery it says of the kingdom of heaven? We don't hear anybody asking any questions, right? But either way, what we find is the basis for why It's a wonderful passage. Do you see that? The parables are describing the mystery of the kingdom. Would you take your Bibles and turn there? There is a sense in which I'm actually my glasses are really dirty today, and I'm noticing them. That's not our job at all. And he will have abundance. And God is using is Isaiah to warn them of this. It is and and look, those who know Christ as their Savior, they they make a decision as they It's very, very blurry until you put those glasses on, and then everything is completely clear. Therefore I ask that you do not lose heart at my tribulations, which is your glory. Well, I want you to notice a couple of things here. And the disciples came and said, Why do you speak to them in parables? He's saying that those they hear but they don't really hear. So what is it saying there? And we have, if we know Christ our Savior, the Spirit of God indwelling us. How do you know whether your heart is being softened or hardened? He's given them over. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. And we know from Revelation chapters 20, chapter 20, particularly And so we understand that what he's saying here is that the offer of the kingdom is given. We ask all these things in Christ's name. When anyone hears the word of the kingdom and does not understand it You notice these rail you've got two very distinct, separate rail rails at the bottom of the picture, right? But when the sun was up, they were scorched, and because they had no root, they withered away He answered and said to them, Because it has been given to you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven. Daniel is able to come, and he says that God is the revealer of secrets in that passage. By the way, I don't think that the stump there is the church. For whoever has to him will be given, and he and he will have abundance But there is some that can be applied as well. Because if you if if if God is giving you a light to hear, there is a response a light to see, rather It should have signaled to the people that heard it, at least, what kind of soil am I? Let's pray together. They are seeing, but they're not perceiving. When they're really young, all you gotta do is spell, right? There are not enough works for you to do. I couldn't help but think of two people that were looking for the coming of Christ. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. I pray, Lord, that we would be found yielded to the Spirit this morning Then he goes into immediately then goes into this God is the revealer of those things that are mysteries to man, those things that God had before the very foundation of the world Dragnet net net cat is cast out of the water, collects all kinds of stuff, good and bad, gets to the shore, dumps the bad, keeps the good. They're written to the first century church. And also what God starts, essentially is what he's saying, what he starts, he will finish. We'd not want would not want to say anything like that. The mystery of the kingdom is found in the parables. Behold, there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon. But Lord help us to live in dependent responsibility. But let me give you more. If God is so sovereign and He is so sovereign in your mind that you have no responsibility, you know you're missing something. org. They actually still have those 3D movies, surprisingly. Matthew 24. Verse 13 through 15, the reason for the lack of spiritual perception. They sort of come together. We thank you, Lord, that you will hold us fast. So like look at the look at the internet. Make the heart of this people dull. Isaiah sees God. And when Jesus did these miracles and offered offered the the mystery of the kingdom, the gospel that Maybe you you didn't understand a lot of things that you're understanding. Truly, Lord, all who have come to know you as Savior, we are living for you. And the disciples came and said to him, Why do you speak to them in parables? But blessed are your eyes, for they see, and your ears for they hear It's not the AB. The Bible says there is no one that comes to the Lord unless the Father draws him. I had to do it quickly because I actually did hear a train coming. They were looking for the coming of Christ, and they didn't get to see it yet. Have you ever shared Christ with someone? He's given them over. And it's before this, but I think it his his Christ's desire continues Isaiah is fulfilled, which says, hearing you will hear and not understand, and seeing you will see and not perceive, for the hearts And He's given other believers and teachers and preachers in order for people to know. What's the question? And today we are going to be looking at the meat of the word in verses ten through seven. And yet you tell it to somebody else and they understand the words you're saying, but it really just doesn't sink in I just stuck shoved this in my pocket because I had to get up to the guitar. That is very similar to Matthew 25. Well, let me first say this. Now, how do we apply all this? He sinned yet more. May the Lord richly bless you. Our job is to live under the rule of Christ personally. Or who has started a good work in you will complete it in the day of Christ. But then everybody just stops there. The Word of God will do that too. They were longing for the day when Christ had come. There's something within you that says, I want to know more. But he who received the seed on good ground is he who hears the word and understands it But we have by a gift of God the mind of Christ. In Mark 4, verses 10 through 11, that's the parallel, one of the parallel passages. For example, the treasure hidden in a field. Right. Because seeing they do not see, and hearing they do not hear. Isaiah chapter 6. But anyway, all right. But he who is spiritual judges all things, yet he himself is rightly judged by no man, by no one We, as those who follow after Christ, are to live under the rule of Christ. You know what he's using? But basically you have this back and forth. Do you remember the Beatitudes? We pick up in verse 1 of Matthew 24, it says, Then Jesus went out and departed from that temple. You need all of it. And what Jesus is saying is that that is Jesus's part of Jesus' role as well when he came to this In Ephesians chapter 3, verses 8 through 13, it says this. If we don't understand the truth of God's word, we ought to have a heart that asks questions. Now there's no way around this, folks, that what Christ is saying here The sun will be darkened, the moon will not give its light, the stars will be f will fall from heaven, and the powers of the heaven will be shaken Now, um let me give you an illustration because if some of your And and my uh my my mother spelled P O O L If you have a previous conversation, a previous context God hardened Pharaoh's heart But understand this, that you are responsible to follow the Word of God as you understand it. Okay, we're good. The Lord has removed men far away, and the forsaken places are many in the midst of the land, but yet a tenth will be in it But whoever does not have, even what he has, will be taken away from him. They give me a uh a thing to clean it with, by the way. The mystery, the mystery of the kingdom of heaven. And do you remember in Matthew 25 that the talents, you have the different talents. Therefore pray the Lord the harvest to send out labors. That's still that's still among the Jewish people and Paul is a i and Paul what is Paul doing there? So you could put you could go ahead and put that picture up. May our knowledge of you grow as a result of That's so clear. He just gives the parable. We're going to go all the way toward the end of the book of Matthew, and in between what we're looking at here in Matthew 13. I think there's 39 by one commentary's counting of them. But others fell on good ground and yielded a crop, some a hundredfold, some sixty, some But whoever does not have As far as we know, crowd does what? And who will go for us? He says, go to a people and you're going to preach to them and they're going to and And then in in Acts 28, verses 17 through 27 But in in those passages There is no way around that. If our heart, if if we don't understand Number three. There's more here than that And so those are not two different things. We are looking forward to that time, but right now First of all, he makes this contrast That is, if someone rejects what they hear from the Word of God The blessing of spiritual sensitivity, the blessing of spiritual perception. And we do. Then he spoke many things to them in parables, saying The new truth now given to men and women by revelation in the person and mission and miss of Jesus. Dull or hardened. This is he who received the sea by the wayside. The natural man does not receive the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness We're going to see three things. You uh uh whatever, just look, you're gonna see crisis and meeting his kingdom now But this is something that continues in the New Testament. Both occur. Number one, God's word will both harden and soften. But if, on the other hand, you listen to the Word of God and you go, okay, I don't really fully understand all this, but I'm going to ask questions. Father, we come to you and thank you for your word and your truth. And they say, well, what's the sign of your coming? But then if you go to Ephesians chapter 1, what do you find? Yet he has no root in himself, but endures only for a while He's using the church, which is distinct from Israel. We would not know that. But what is the what do the disciples do? Some of it is before the mediated kingdom of God, the spiritual kingdom of God. Now there was one Anna, a prophetess, a daughter of Fanuel, of the tribe of Asher. I know that you believe. Because it'll help us with the next part part of the passage. Um he's There are not enough good things for you to do. Now he who received the seed among the thorns is he who learns the w hears the word and cares of this world the deceitful That was the original audience of the gospels. And that should remind us of what we have been given so much. I'm gonna chew what I can, I can take what I can even though I can't understand everything What is so clear for us All right. And he makes this decision We see something very similar in Ephesians chapter 1, verse 4, where it says, just as he chose us in him There is a judicial decree by God. What is the answer to the question? Because the Bible says these things are written that you may know that you have And that each one that the Father gives to the Son, he keeps It's the whole passage of the blasphemy of the Holy Spirit there. Now, in Matthew then it says this: this is important. He hardened his Ephesians chapter 1 is all about how we as Christians are truly blessed. Amen. They see but they don't really perceive. Read along with me, if you will, please. And if you think about this way, for example, Matthew 25, and we'll get there eventually, but basically I would take it this way, that we are Then I said, Lord, how long? The God's already made a decree. For example, Matthew 5:3, blessed are the poor in spirit, for there should there's the kingdom of heaven And we pray these things in Christ's name. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming Having made known to us But that does not, I'll just say it this way, personally, make sense to me. Why would Jesus not want to continue to give truth about his coming particularly? God hardened Pharaoh's heart, and Pharaoh hardened his own heart throughout Exodus. It is completely blurry. The issue, as we noted last week, the issue is a matter of the heart being dull. We hope to see you soon. Our own sin, that's so clear. So so the perception that is needed But what we're going to see then in verses 10 through 11, or 10 through 17 rather And remember, the question that was asked of Jesus is, why are you speaking in parables? Okay? What happened? The whole person has to accept Christ as his or her savior, right? The gift of spiritual understanding. Now so here's where we are at this point. Why? And by the way, the Word of God does that And these two rails are God's will. And for you to ask the qu to ponder whether it is In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. Okay. You must have the righteousness We have God's Then I said, Here am I. But anyway, it was really bad timing and those freight trains take forever and I wasn't gonna take all the time to stay there, so I was like, all right. At the end, he gives this indication in verse nine, he who has an ear let him hear that it's more than just But in Romans chapter 1, verses 24 through 28, which we've looked at before, we won't take the time to turn And there is a sense in which What's it doing? If if you are listening to the Word of God and you go, so that's just I you know I just don't get that and I'll just move on To say, well, this is exactly how it works, here's what we know. And this man was just and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel, and the Holy Spirit was upon him. I have this question: are you an inquisitive follower for this reason? And their ears, uh their ears heavy I think the stump there is Israel during the millennial kingdom. This is the same kind of thing that happened to Isaiah, and they were punished by Babylon through Babylon, or they were chastened through Babylon. The work of your spirit in our lives Some fell on stony places where they did not much have much earth. And he said to them, To you it has been given to know the mysteries of the kingdom. One commentator says this. Until they learn to spell. Family members and friends What was he saying? Does that make sense? Let me suggest this. There were two people who finally were given the perception to see. The disciples understood there was it there was more there, and what did they do? And then King Agrippa says, you almost persuade me to become a Christian. Doesn't mean that there is Christ mediating his kingdom on earth now. And on the other hand, not to walk away from this message and to think that we have so much responsibility that it actually depends on the But anyway, there's a sense in which God gives people, certain people, his Alright. All these are the beginning of sorrows. Now we read this in our opening Would you take your Bibles and turn to Luke chapter 2 finally in verses 25 through 38? The truth is some of it can't be applied. So what is, what is he talking about there? Aren't you thankful for that, by the way? The heart is the problem. Assuredly I say to you, not one stone shall be left here upon another that shall not be thrown down. In fact, if you go back to the book of Exodus, you find this. And you're going through God's Word, and there's sometimes there are things that you're understanding, and you didn't understand them before. And here's when you know you've got it right. For my eyes have seen your salvation It was the r remember the uh Nebuchadnezzar had a had a dream, and that dream he actually couldn't remember But what is he talking then about the kingdom, this mystery of the kingdom? Bottom line is they don't understand. All right, so that's And Joseph and his mother marveled at those things which were spoken of him You shared it clearly? Some would make the argument that there is a difference between the kingdom of heaven and the kingdom And so am I. And if you're listening to the Word of God week after week and you're just sort of dismissing it, That's the primary audience. Because it is true that God does harden the heart. I've got it here, so don't it's they're actually Now So the question, why do you speak in parables? And so I'm actually going to clean this right in front of you. That's the opening question. This is just a suggestion. They are the Babylonians are coming Everybody's sin, that's so clear. Number one, he wanted to continue to reveal truth And he answered, Until the cities are laid waste And we are blessed if God has given it to us. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Amen. The reason. He refuses to let the people go. No one. The kingdom of God is mediated. And what is the end of the age? I'll I'll never forget the time that my m m I actually it's so weird I have these weird memories. And then in verse 22 it says this, but we desire to hear from you that you what you think. We have absolute responsibility to do that. Now, if you take Blessed, happy the word is. Receive and apply the truth that you know from God's Word. The eternal purpose. Because the Bible says, Christ says, without me you can do Look at verse, pick up verse 13. And if it is, let me encourage you to come and talk with me Pick up then in verse 8. And I would just simply say that that is that is I do not believe that that is the case. This is my opinion. We're born estranged from God. He's the revealer of these mysteries. The beginning of sorrows we'll know, I'll just mention, I'll just say it this way, is the tribulation. That's the question. We don't know when that happens, how that happens. 39 parables But either way, he wanted to continue to give those kinds of They're not understanding the truth And then there are others that did What is the kingdom? In verses thirteen through fifteen, which we're going to see in just a minute. You've felt like you know Certainly at the coming of Christ, it's taken away. We know that God is, without question, the Now And they following And by the way, we are all born with hardened hearts. The need for redemption is so clear to us. It says this. Look at verse 9 for a minute. It is called the Exchange And w um Number one Paul is essentially We're born We're going to see this Answer, no. Almost. I'm really paraphrasing here, obviously. Now Chapter 13. They went and asked questions. We're That is God. Look around. Anyway.