All right, let's turn then to Psalm forty-six and begin our worship time together. Psalm forty six. God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble Therefore we will not fear, even though the earth be removed, and though the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea, though its waters roar and be troubled, though the mountains shake with its swelling. There is a river whose streams make glad the city of God, the holy place of the tabernacle of the Most High. God is in the midst of her, she shall not be moved. God shall help her just at the break of dawn. The nations raged, the kings were moved, he uttered his voice, the earth melted. The Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our refuge. Come, behold, the works of the Lord, who has made the desolations in the earth. He makes wars to cease to the end of the earth. He breaks the bow and cuts the spear in two. He burns the chariot in the fire. Be still and know that I am God. I will be exalted among the nations. I will be exalted in the earth. The Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our refuge. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you this morning and we praise you because you are our refuge. You are our strength. You are the one in the midst of of warring nations in the midst of dangers and threats. You are the one who is our refuge and our strength and um and our help. And ultimately we thank you for the promise that's in your word here that you will be exalted. We're thankful for that, Lord, because sometimes it feels like you're not very exalted in our culture. In fact, it seems as though we have turned our our back on you. And we think of yesterday being 9 11 and the twentieth anniversary of that, and I recall vividly the humbling of this nation twenty years ago, and on the twelfth of September, there was much talk about prayer. There were people that probably hadn't prayed for a long time that were praying. Lord, we confess before you That when calamities happen now, our nation does not seem to be turning to prayer. When problems happen now, that doesn't seem to be what we turn to. And us as individuals, we as Christians, Lord, we confess before you that often we look to our own strategies, we look to our own methods. to to uh do what really only you can do. Our methods and our strategies are not our refuge. You are our refuge. You are our strength. Lord, would you help us to remember that? Help us to live in light of that. Help us to know that the safest place we can possibly be is in your will. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Would you bow your heads with me as we go before the Lord? Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning. You are the great I am. You are the creator and sustainer of all life. All of your ways and thoughts are so much higher than ours. And Father, as great, we can can't even exclaim completely. But we are grateful this morning that in all of your greatness and all of your holiness that you reach down And showed your love toward us by sending your only begotten Son Jesus to die on a cross in our place, taking our sin upon himself. And you raised him up out of that grave, and there was victory Lord, and we thank you. We thank you for the victory that's in Jesus Christ. And Father, I thank you this morning that we could come out today. I thank you for everyone that's here. And I pray for those, Lord, who are unable to make it, and those who may be listening by stream. I pray, God, for your Holy Spirit. Spirit to be working in them and encourage them and bless them. And Father, I pray for healing for those who have uh not been feeling well, and we pray, God, that you will heal them up and bring them Back to us. And Father, we pray this morning that you would open our eyes and our ears to your word. And Father, might we learn today the security that we have in you You. And Father, the evidence is very clearly given last week, and we're so grateful that you show us these things that we may know that we are secure in you. And so, Father, I pray that as we uh come to your word this morning that we would set aside all the distractions of this week, all the cares that are going on. And help us to concentrate upon your word this morning. May your Holy Spirit be working in and through us. for your praise and glory. And we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. We're going to be reading from 2 Peter chapter 1. uh at the beginning and we will be reading verse ten through verse four fifteen. Sorry. Second Peter chapter one verses ten through fifteen. Therefore, brethren, be even more diligent to make your call and election sure, for if you do these things, you will never stumble So, for so an entrance will be supplied to you abundantly into the everlasting kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. And for this reason I will not be negligent to remind you always of these things, though you know and are established in the present truth. Yes, I think it is right, as long as I am in this tent, to stir you up by reminding you, knowing that shortly I must put off my tent, just as the Lord Jesus Christ showed me. Moreover, I will be careful to ensure that you always have a reminder of these things after my decease. And then we're going to look over at chapter three, and we will be looking at verses fourteen through seventeen. Second Peter chapter three, fourteen through seventeen. seventeen. Therefore, beloved, looking forward to these things, be diligent to be found by him in peace without spot or blemish And consider that the long-suffering of the Lord is salvation. As also our beloved brother Paul, according to the wisdom given to him, hath written to you. As also in all his epistles, speaking in them of these things, in which are some things hard to understand Which untaught and unstable people twist to their own destruction, as they do also the rest of the scripture. You therefore, beloved, since you know this beforehand, beware lest you also fall from your own steadfastness, being led away with the error of the wicked. But grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To him be the glory, both now and forevermore. Amen. So we're going to begin today our series in the book of 2 Peter. We finished 1 Peter last week, and now we're going to move into 2 Peter. Peter today. And uh this is the introductory message on this. So we're going you're gonna need your Bibles a lot, and we're gonna be looking at various verses throughout this book. And um and you'll see how this works as we as we go on. Perhaps, um no doubt, the words will be familiar to you. Prone to wander, Lord, I feel it. prone to leave the God I love. In seventeen fifty-eight, these words were included in a hymn called Come Thou Fount of Every Blessing. The man who wrote this hymn was a man by the name of Robert Robinson. And he wrote these words as a young man in his twenties, a couple of years after his conversion. He was a man who was first in Jonathan Edwards under Jonathan Edwards' preaching for a while, but he wasn't converted until he was under the preaching of George Whitfield in a revival. And during that time he came to Christ. And after that point, God called into the ministry. He had a very unique ministry in Cambridge. He started off with 34 people, and that ministry grew to uh over 200 families. Robert wrote these words, Robert Robinson wrote these words. Prone to wander, Lord, I feel it, prone to leave the God I love. Unfortunately, Robert Robinson, it looks like he did do exactly that. He did leave the God he loved. It's a little bit sh sketchy toward the end of his life. He died in his 50s. But a man by the name of Priestley, Joseph Priestley, he got caught up with Joseph Priestley. Joseph Priestley was a Unitarian minister. Those of you who know what a Unitarian is, there's a lot to say about the Unitarians, but they are not Orthodox Christians. They deny the Trinity, they deny the deity of Christ, and um it's really hard to know what they actually believe in. They they simply seem to be they seem to be centered around doubt than belief. And he got caught up in uh in this that Priestley did. I'm sorry, Priestley uh influenced this man. And Priestley was said he said this of of Robinson. He said that Robinson attacked orthodoxy more pointedly and sarcastically than I ever had done in my life. How does a man who is converted by George by the preaching and the Word of God and George Whitfield, how does he go from his conversion to being a pastor of over 200 families to a place then he is It becomes influenced by the Unitarians and denies the Trinity and Orthodox doctrine. How does that occur? And if it can occur in in a man like Robert Robinson, who knew that he was prone to wander, Lord, I feel it What will stop it from happening in us? Peter writes this book, 2 Peter, he writes this book to deal with the problem of apostasy. Apostasy very simply is leaving the faith. Let me ask you this question for those of you who have been saved for a while. How many of you would know someone? who seemed by every by every observation that they were a genuine Christian who knew the name of Christ, claimed the name of Christ, even lived out the name of Christ, maybe even led people to Christ, lived a a life that seemed to be Obedient to Christ, and then fell into apostasy, left the faith. How many of you all would know? And there are there are many here. Why does that happen? How does that happen? And what safeguards can we have in our lives to keep that from happening? How does that happen in in in a child's life, in a teenager's life. There are books, entire books read, written on, I have a book in my library on how young people leave the faith. How does this happen? This is what 2 Peter is is is written about. Not only how it happens, but safeguards on how it can keep uh it can prevent from happening. Josh Harris is a modern day example of this. He kissed dating goodbye, then he kissed his wife goodbye, and now he's kissing the faith goodbye. He literally says he is no longer identifying as a Christian. How does this happen? How does a man who who wrote a book that seemed to try to keep people in morality and and uh and save them for marriage now is actually defecting entirely from the faith into apostasy. How does this happen? And what can we do to keep this from happening in our lives? This is why Peter writes. You'll notice this in the book in 1 Peter chapter 2 Peter chapter 1, verse 1. Would you notice with me it says, Simon Peter A bondservant and apostle of Jesus Christ to those who have obtained. Notice what he says here. He says, like precious faith. He wants at the very outset to remind them that what you have, believers, is like precious faith. Who is he writing to? Well very there's some debate about this, but very likely he's writing to the very same people he wrote to in 1 Peter. But now Peter is at the, he was in the we will say he was in the middle of his life in 1 Peter, but now as he writes 2 Peter, he is now toward the very end of his life. And he wants the same people to realize how they can keep from apostasy because it is rampant in that day And folks, it is no less rampant in our day, people leaving the faith. So he says, realize you have obtained like precious faith with us by the righteousness of our God and Savior Jesus Christ. If you look at the end of the book, 2 Peter 3, verse 17, Harry wrote it, read it, but we'll just read it again. It says, For you therefore, beloved, since you know this first hand beforehand, Beware lest you also fall from your own steadfastness, being led away with the error of the wicked. But grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To him be glory, both now and forever. Amen. Peter, we know, is at the end of his life. In 2 Peter 1, verse 12 through 15, it says, For this reason I will not be negligent to remind you always of these things though you know and are established in the present truth, yes, I think it right, as long as I am in this tent, in this body, to stir you up by reminding you, knowing that shortly I must put off my tent. Just as our Lord Jesus Christ showed me, moreover, I will be careful to ensure that you always have a reminder of these things. after my decease. And so he writes this book. Why does Peter write this book? He writes this book for this reason. To remind believers that God has equipped them with divine safeguards. Against the danger of leaving the faith. He has equipped them with divine safeguards against the danger of leaving the faith. Well what are these divine safeguards? Throughout the book we're going to see four major divine safeguards. And as we go through the book, through this series, we'll flesh all of these out. We'll unpack them. The first one is diligence in spiritual growth. It is a divine safeguard to be actively diligent in spiritual growth. The second is dependence on divine revelation. The third is discernment in identifying false teaching and teachers. You don't have to write all these down now. They're coming later. And the fourth is defense of the physical coming of Christ. Four things. Diligence in spiritual growth, dependence on divine revelation, discernment in identifying false teaching and false teachers. and defense of the physical coming of Christ. So first let's look at, for a few moments, we find in chapter 1, verses 1 through 11, diligence and spiritual growth. Peter, at the very beginning of his letter, wants to show them that the first safeguard is diligence in spiritual growth. Before he even gets into that, in the first four verses, he's going to say that the way that they keep this life, precious faith is by the power of God. It says in verse 3, as his divine power has given to us all things that pertain to life and godliness. How do you stay in the faith? How do you keep from falling? You access the divine power of God. There is a sense, brothers and sisters in Christ, that the only way we will not fall is by the power of Christ. It is by his power. The question becomes: how is it that we remain access, having access to the power And these four characteristics, these four safeguards will help us to access the very power of God. And he says, first of all, you need spiritual growth. You'll notice. In verse 5 it says, but also, verse 5, chapter 1, make sure you're with me, but also for this very reason, giving all diligence Add to your faith virtue, to your virtue knowledge, to knowledge self-control, to self-control, perseverance, to perseverance, godliness, to godliness, brotherly kindness, to brotherly kindness, For in these things are yours and abound and you will be neither barren nor unfruitful in a knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. He says, You've got to give diligence to growing. The growing in the Christian life. You must be growing in order to access the power of God. There are two words here in this text that are mentioned several times throughout the book of 2 Peter. The first word that we see here is the word knowledge. Peter is going to emphasize the importance of knowledge. Now he doesn't he doesn't emphasize it to the exclusion of love. Of course, Paul points out that knowledge without love is a sounding brass and a clanging cymbal. But folks, sometimes I think in our Christianity we we sort of downplay knowledge when Scripture says in the Old Testament that my people are destroyed for lack of knowledge. Knowledge in the Word of God is absolutely necessary. It is absolutely important. That's why in 1 Peter it says verse 2, grace and peace be multiplied to you in the knowledge of God and Jesus our Lord. He then later on in verse 3 says, that we gain the power through the knowledge of him who called us by glory and virtue. Book ended on the at the end of the book. He then is going to say in 2 Peter 3, verse 17, he says, but grow in the grace and the what? The knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Don't ever say that Christianity is not about knowledge. It is. You must know certain things. You must know them well. You must know the Word of God. You must You must study it and emphasize it and become more and more in understand the depth of it and work hard and labor in it as treasure, according to Proverbs chapter 2. But knowledge with diligence. The second word that we see in this passage, and also reiterated in other places in this book, as well as throughout the New Testament, is this word diligence. In Romans chapter 12, verse 10, we see this word diligence. It says, Be kindly affection one to another with brotherly love in honor, giving preference to one another, not lagging in diligence. fervent in spirit, serving the Lord. Don't lag in diligence. In Second Corinthians chapter 8, verse 8, it says, I speak not by commandment, but I am testing the sincerity of your love. By the diligence of others. You want to know the sincerity of your love. How diligent are you in loving others? So it's knowledge applied. It's not just knowledge. In 2 Corinthians chapter 8, verse 16, it says, But thanks be to God who puts the same earnest Earnest care. That word earnest care is the same word as diligence. Earnest care for you into the heart of Titus. So, what is this diligent talking about? Is earnest, consistent application of knowledge. Earnest Consistent application of knowledge. God says that you and I need to be diligent in our spiritual growth. Can I ask you a question? Are you growing spiritually? I mean just pause and think about it for a minute. If you look at the last month, can you say, yes, I think I've grown spiritually? The last two months, the last six months, the last year, are you engaged in your own spiritual growth? There are it seems that there are many Christians that are not engaged in their own spiritual growth. Folks, we're coming to a day that if you are not engaged in your own spiritual growth, you are you are Standing on a cliff. It actually warns of this. the blindness that comes from a lack of diligence. In verse 10 of chapter 1 it says, Therefore, brethren, be even more diligent to make your call and election sure, for if you do these things you will never stumble. For so an entrance will be supplied to you abundantly into the everlasting kingdom of our Lord, Savior, Jesus Christ. And just before that, he says, for those who are diligent, for he who lacks these things that aren't diligent in growth. is short-sighted even to blindness and have forgotten that he was cleansed from his old sins. The quickest way to spiritual blindness is to no longer be diligent in your spiritual growth. The war there's a warning and a promise in this. If you are engaged in your spiritual growth and adding to your faith virtue and your virtue knowledge, your knowledge, and all those things, and we'll we'll get we'll we'll flesh all those out. If you are diligent to those things, it actually says if you're diligent consistently, you will never fall. On the other hand, if you are not, you are blind. And short-sighted, and you it is though you have forgotten that you have been cleansed from your own sins The problem of that day with these false teachers, there were many false teachers that were causing people to leave the faith, and they were extremely convincing. Peter begins by setting a foundation for the people of God there that they needed to be diligent, but he now is going to move on to a problem, to deal with a problem. The problem of these false teachers is that they were suggesting that they had private interpretations that really nobody else had. They valued their own way of looking at Scripture, and they were extremely convincing. We see this as we pick up in this passage. Again, we're just dipping in a little bit at a time. We're going to flesh all this out. But I want you to notice a couple of things about this. If you pick up here In chapter 1, verse 16, it says, For we do not follow cunningly devised fables when we have made known to you the power of the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ, but were eyewitnesses of his majesty. He talks about the fact that they were eyewitnesses of Christ's majesty. And then he says in this passage, verse 19, and so we have prophetic word, the prophetic word confirmed. He's going to say in this passage that what is more important than experience, what is more verifiable than experience, what is more stable than experience, is the written word of God, the prophetic written word of God. It is a more sure word. He says it's not given of any private interpretation. What he's doing is he is battling these false teachers. who are by their confidence and by their perceived sincerity are causing people to come to them and be to be enlightened by something that is different than what is actually said in the Word of God. Be careful about people that somehow think they have an angle that you've never heard of before that doesn't seem to be clearly exposed in the Word of God. And be careful of yourself of thinking that some private interpretation that you've come up with, that you somehow are impressed by that. Both of those things are dangerous places to be in. And he warns them of that. He says in the word that no prophecy has come of any private interpretation, verse 20. For the prophecy never came by the will of man, but holy men of God spoke as they are moved by the Holy Spirit. Let me ask you a question. Do you elevate your experience and your own private interpretations above the objective truth of God's Word? You ever find yourself saying, well, that's what the word says, but my experience is different. Who wins in a situation like that? What wins? Your thoughts or the Word of God? What wins your feelings or the Word of God? What wins your experience or the Word of God? God says his word must win. It's the objective truth of the word of God. And so he says, what's happening with these false teachers is they are elevating their own experience and viewing the Word of God through the lens of their own experience, and these people are being caught up by that. And he is caught and he re-he is turning them back to the firm foundation of the written word of God, contrasted with the deception of the false teachers. And that brings us then to the third point, discernment and identifying false teachers. And we find that in chapter 2, and a lengthy section on this in verses 1 through 22. Now for our benefit, what I've done is I've included subtitles are some of the sub um sub-points, not just the main points like I normally do, to help you follow along. And I need to just tell you at the very beginning that these subpoints don't come from me. When I do different different uh read different um commentaries and things like that, sometimes uh something stands out as a really good way to put something. a really good way to word something and it's perfectly fine to do that as long as you cite it. So this actually comes these four points in the way that they're written. It's not that I I I I d I mean I studied it myself, but and the way that they're actually laid out the sentence structure, it comes from your MacArthur study bible. But I think that they'll be helpful for us in helping us to gain framework when it comes to these points. Discernment and identifying false teachers. The first one is deceptive in their infiltration. These false teachers are deceptive in their infiltration. It says in verse 2 of chapter 2, but there were also false prophets among the people, even as there were false teachers among you, who will secretly bring in destructive heresies. even denying the Lord who bought them, and bring on themselves swift destruction. And many will follow their destructive ways, because of whom the way of truth will be blasphemed. Now notice the tactic that they use, and this is what we're going to highlight today. Verse 3, by covetousness, they will exploit you with deceptive words. For a long time their judgment has not been idle, and their destruction does not slumber. By covetousness, they will exploit you with deceptive words These false teachers did not appeal to the mind first. They appealed to the desire first. The Word of God works very differently from this. The Word of God appeals to the mind first and then affects the desire. Of course, the Spirit of God gives us as Christians the desire uh uh a totally different source of desire. But as the Word of God, as we read the Word of God, it is it is to it is that we are our thinking is changed by the Word of God and adjusted by the Word of God, and then it affects our desires. But these false teachers were doing the exact opposite, and they were confusing and deceiving by doing so. What they were doing was they were appealing to what people want. And they were coming up with belief systems, they were coming up with doctrines, they were coming up with what they said were truths, and they appealed to people based upon what they want. Now here's the truth. People will often believe what they want. Whatever they want, they'll find a belief. That will match what they want. My pastor growing up said this. He said, Jim, people will always find a way to pillow their head at night. And what he meant by that was that they will find a way, they will construct in their own mind what they do is fine and it's perfectly acceptable and they rationalize things based upon what they want to do so that they can pillow their head at night with a clear conscience. Folks, this is destructive and dangerous. And what these false teachers did was they would appeal to what people wanted. They knew what people wanted, and they would provide a truth. that would resonate with what these people wanted and people would latch on to it and they say, okay, that I believe. And either consciously or subconsciously, the reason they believed it is because of what they wanted. I'll give you an example of this. And it's an extreme example, and I don't think that really anybody in this room would have this, and um maybe that way it's safe. How does someone, really folks, how does someone conclude that abortion should not only be legal, but readily acceptable, readily accessible by every woman? How does someone get there? Have you ever thought about that? I mean, the science does not demonstrate that And I don't I'm not trying to be political here at all. This is a moral issue entirely. Well not entirely. It is a moral issue at its root. How does somebody come to that conclusion? Well, women uh start you here's what I'm hearing. I'm just telling you who I'm hearing. I'm hearing that women say they have a right to do what they want to with their own bodies. I have a right to do what I want to with my own body. How many of you all ever heard that before as an argument for abortion? Okay, that seems to be the major argument for abortion. Well, okay, how do they get there? How do they come to that conclusion Here's something else that women are often saying now, uh uh um women that believe in abortion and want and are proponents of abortion. Men need to stay out of it because it's not their bodies. In fact, I saw online, it's gotten so convoluted. I saw online somebody posted something And that it said that men need to either stay out of the issue of abortion or they need to only have relations with somebody who wants a child. And I went, as though that couldn't possibly be the answer. I mean that's how they were putting this What you have is a total reversal of morality. What's really behind all of this is a complete reversal of morality. where you have people wanting to do what they want to do. The answer is yes. Only have relations within marriage, and when you both decide you want a child, and then you don't have a problem. That's God's way. Now, how does how did they get there? Years ago Uh probably decades ago now. Now uh we there was a man by the name of Sigmund Freud who came up with the idea That the answer the answer to the problems of life, the answer to your self-image being what it ought to be, in order to be whole is to fulfill your own sexual passions. That it's going to be that you really can't be whole, you really can't be fulfilled if you don't fulfill your own passions that way. And he was so convincing. Why was he so convincing? Because it's what people want. He this kind of thing propagated to say that what we really, what people need to do is be free and liberated to be able to explore themselves and their passions So that they can really find who they are. And this has taken the mainstream thinking in our society is this kind of thinking. How did that happen? Because it's what people wanted. They want to believe that. But you know what? The issue of abortion, we can all sit here and say, Yeah, I don't believe in abortion and we We could sit here and say, yeah, that's terrible that people want to do uh all that philosophy. But you know what, in our own our this can happen this kind of thing can happen in our own thinking as Christians. Where we begin to believe something based upon what our flesh wants. Be careful. Us as individuals, we need to be careful about that. We certainly need to be this is this is the health and wealth movement, the health and wealth gospel, uh false gospel preaching. Why is it so effective? It's so effective because you are appealing. People want money. They want prosperity And the health and wealth movement says if you do this, this, this, and this, this way, and you believe in yourself and you do all these different things this way, you're going to have money and prosperity. Why is this belief so popular like wildfire everywhere where Christianity is almost it feels sometimes like it's being taken over by this? Because it's what people want. And Peter says that these false teachers are appealing to what people want. Now, he's then going to go on in chapter 2, verses 4 through 10 and explain that they are actually doomed by their own iniquity And then they are disdained in verses in chapter 2, verses 10 through 10b through 17. They are disdainful in their impurity And then finally in chapter 2, verses 18 through 22, they are devastating in their impact. And we're going to go through all of that as we go. But understand, brothers and sisters in Christ, that the same kind of philosophy and false teaching and those kinds of things occurring in the first century definitely is happening now, and many people are apostatizing because of the same problems and same issues in a different form that happened that occurred then, they're happening now. The same kind of heart root problems. Finally, what are what are uh point number four? He then moves us to a discussion from desire to doubt. So now these false teachers They've appealed to the desire, and now they're going to hit the intellect. They're going to hit the mind. And they hit the mind with doubts. This was ultimately the problem with Robert Robinson. He was hit in the mind with doubts. What were these doubts? Well, in this case, in Peter's case, in 2 Peter, what they were telling, saying was there really is no physical coming of Christ He's really not physically coming. It's not really going to happen. And Peter is going to deal with this. He's going to assure them in chapter 3, verses 1 through 10, the sureness of the day of the Lord. And then in chapter 3, verses 11 through 10, we see the sanctification of God's people. Now, there's a reason why, folks, it is so destructive to not believe in the physical coming of Christ. It is because if you deny the coming of Christ, you really are denying the resurrection of Christ. You're denying the physical resurrection of Christ. Because there is a clear connection in 1 Corinthians 15. And you have become a heretic by saying so. So let me just say it this way. This is sort of for free, a little bit on the side, but definitely pertains to this. A lot of times in eschatology, a lot of times in last things, there's a lot of debate on different things. And sometimes we get a little caught up in what things are really you have to believe in and things that are really debatable. Well, the one thing that shouldn't that is not debatable, that you have actually left true doctrine and gone into false doctrine is if you deny the coming of Christ. Just know that. Most of our Orthodox doctrines that are gospel-centered that we have to believe in or we've we've turned away from the faith are things that have occurred in the past. But that's the one That the one orthodox thing that happens in the future, if you deny the physical coming of Christ, you are now into heresy. Understand that. And we'll we'll flesh that out more as we go through. Finally, Peter says that he he exhorts them to sank to to stay uh growing as the people of God. And we'll pick up again in verse 17 of 1 Peter chapter 3 where it says, You therefore, beloved, since you know this be beforehand Beware lest you also fall from your own steadfastness. Why? Being led away with the error of the wicked. But grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. That is exactly what my prayer is, and what our prayer is as we go through 2 Peter, that we that will happen to us. that we will be prevented and reminded of the safeguards of Scripture that will keep us from being led away into apostasy and denying the faith. That's what this book is here for. So let me ask these four questions. Number one: Are you genuinely growing in your salvation? Are you diligent? In your application of Scripture? Are you diligent? Are you growing Are you consistent? Is this something that you are giving attention and time and effort to? Or is this a side thing for you? Does everything else come before your own spiritual growth? You are in danger. Number two, are you led by the scriptures or are or by your own desires and emotions? Are you led by the scriptures or are you led by your own desires and emotions? And let me ask you this question along with that When it comes to that, is there more conflict by is there more con we're having a little problem there, I guess. We could probably just shut it off at this point. It's it's fine. Um Is there more conflict by your emotions? When your experience and your emotions tell you one thing and the word of God tells you another, who wins? And number four, do you doubt the literal coming of Christ or are you expecting it? Do you doubt the little coming of Christ, or are you expecting it? May the Lord help us as we go through such an important book of the Bible. In our day and age, so that we may be prevented from apostasy. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and thank you for who you are. We thank you for this book. We thank you for using Peter to pen these words down thousands of years ago that are so applicable today. And Lord, in a day where all of us, if we admit, if we have if we're honest with ourselves, are prone to wander and we feel it. May, because we are reminded of the truths of this book and the safeguards that are here, may we never fall. Not by our own efforts, but by your power. I pray that you would bless our time as we go through 2 Peter. May it be helpful and encouraging and strengthening. and fortifying for us in these days. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.