But we are bound now to the Spirit, and we should be characterized by the Spirit of God. This is Romans or 1 Timothy 5 verses 3 through 8. But if anyone does not provide for his own, he is especially those of his household, he is denied the faith worse than an infidel. But your experience in life certainly does. But notice what it says. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. And he took it all. and spending eternity in hell. And thinking, hey, we're having a fun time, and there's troops overseas fighting for our country, just sort of contemplating Verses 5 through 8. What is going on? This command I received from my Father. There's a way that that doesn't happen. These are very these are kind of come from uh John Owen's um book on mortification of sin, although it's they're abbreviated and changed. With the Spirit's power, with the Spirit's help, if we will apply those things that we find throughout the book of Romans, and we've got to apply all of it, and we've got to figure out if we're not applying it, where we're not applying it, those kinds of things from senses you are. We will sing what are we singing? truths and these facts. And that we would exit this place not the same as we were when we first entered. And we must be killing it. a country sometimes you really do experience changes, certainly the Civil War that would have been the case, and even World War II economically you had major changes. Three things. And number three, the Spirit frees us from obligation. John 3. And the life which I now live in the flesh I live by the faith of the Son of God who loves me and gave himself for me. Between the cherubim, that was the the locus of the presence of God and all of the tribes being around that tabernacle and then later on the temple, and that's where the presence of God is. And then in Romans, John chapter 14, verse 17, the spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it neither sees him nor knows him, but you know him, for he dwells with you and shall be in you. Scripture says. Death came upon them. Second Corinthians chapter three verse six says, Who also made us sufficient as ministers in the new covenant, not of the letter of the above not of the letter, but of the spirit, for the letter kills From John chapter ten, verses seventeen through eighteen. Jesus' sake, that the life of Jesus may also manifest in our mortal flesh. in in in Romans. It brings forth death. But if any widow has children or grandchildren, let them first learn to show piety at home and to repay their parents, for this is good and acceptable for God. Spiritually the way God wants us to live, unless we are actively killing sin. say oh boy we're going to be there that long don't worry we'll move through them fairly quickly but the I just want to you know I want to get really really practical here until we see Christ. And so I want to be careful about that. from me. James chapter 1 verse 15 says, then when desire has conceived, that word conceive is actually a fishing term that means hook. But that Jesus Christ died to pay the punishment for your sin and be saved. Lord in prayer. Sin will be killing us. to have the best experience you can possibly have. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. It helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. truths upon our very lives. thirteen Romans eight chap verses nine through thirteen encourage you to read along with me as I read If indeed the Spirit of God dwells in you. Free Kuwait and everything that went on there. And we have all of the privileges that are ours because we are declared to be a child of God. and things like that. Now I just want to recall for us last week before we get into the text just what we learned last week and the foundational truths that we learned that there is, verse one, no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. That is, the distinctive characteristic of every Christian is that they are dwelt by the Spirit of God. It really is saying that the Holy Spirit comes in and makes ourselves his house. We are conformed to the image of his son. Anyway, uh but our bodies are dying. It says, but the spirit is life because of righteousness. But we also know from sin that we are dead spiritually because of our sin. We physically die as well. He revives us, if you will, as we come to Christ, and he is life. Spirit in you, and you shall live. In 2 Corinthians chapter 4, I love this application, verses 15 through 18, it says this, for all things are for your sakes that grace Well, we do not look at the things which are seen, but the things which are not seen. much attention to it beyond that what they was trying to tell me to do. when you look into eternity. And I haven't heard from them in decades. up with me and then like four paragraphs down they want to sell me something to make me live longer. And we know that the Father has a role in that to play, but we have actually from this text that the Spirit had a role to play in the resurrection of Christ. The same spirit that indwells us, which is incredible. There is a day that's c coming that when after we die, if we are not first caught in the rapture, but after we die to live according to the flesh. to sin, so that there is no obligation whatsoever to sin any longer that will he also reap. Or it will be killing you. John Owen, who wrote a classic book and a very important book, Mortification of Sin, and that that word mortify really it just means kill. to sin, when we feed sin, when we live in sin, then we're it's the way it's described there is it is as though we are dead while we live You will be betrayed even by parents and brothers, relatives and friends, and they will put some of you to death. and covetousness which is idolatry. is true that if you if you are truly a child of God, your status, your position, your identity doesn't change based upon whether you sin or not. uh to into wording that we can understand and there are this is there are more many many more of them but I want to give you seven of them. First Corinthians 10 13, you might write one right that next to it. You want to be freed even from this having to kill sin all of the time. as we try to kill sin. I guarantee you, whatever temptation you have, whatever problem you're dealing with, whatever struggle you're dealing with, you are not the only one that's ever experienced it. sin, but I'll kind of work around it and do uh no, we need to distance ourselves from it. I mean sometimes you'd be like that is just not a disciplined life. But if you don't, if you live a disciplined life, it will be a wise way to live in order to be able to kill sin. And you're reading God's word why you should be working at work on the clock, that could even be a limitation. We need to plan out. What things are truly eternal and what things are temporal? praying. What zeal, what vindication, and all these things you proved yourself to be clear in this matter. explain this for you were once in darkness now are you light in the Lord walk as children of light number seven deal with failure immediately deal with failure immediately And then there should be a realization of forgiveness. Realize what Scripture has already said. Recognize the sin. And we are freed from um we are freed from the power of sin. of sin that indwells our our lives. In need of a savior, and that they would be saved. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. We are most helpless, hopeless, and in great need. Age. He who raised Christ from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through his Spirit who dwells in you. And if Christ is in you, the body is dead because of sin, but the spirit is life because of righteousness. because of this the Holy Spirit, the indwelling work of the Holy Spirit in our hearts. freedom because of the Holy Spirit's work in the life of the believer. And there is wonderful privilege to that. And that that is how we we have an ongoing experience of freedom in our lives. us from obligation. And then he says this, this is the condition, if indeed the Spirit of God dwells in you. Galatians 2. being the tabernacle first and then the temple and the Shekhanic glory of God being over the over the the the um the Ark of the Covenant and uh on the mercy seat and I think why Paul switches it here from the Spirit of God to the Spirit of Christ is just to simply show all three persons of the Trinity here. whom those believing in him would receive, for the Holy Spirit was not yet given, because Jesus was not yet glorified. They become a new creature in Christ. If Christ's in you, the body is dead because of sin. Corruption began at that point. The flesh profits nothing. But the Spirit gives life. Because it says of righteousness. having spread through many, may cause thanksgiving to abound to the glory of God. The condition that we find ourselves in, physically and spiritually, mean means that we have hope. Yet the inward man is being renewed day by day. What are we investing in? Our perspective needs to be different. That needs to be the focus in our lives. We even have hope for our bodies. He who raised Christ from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies. And this mortal must put on immortality. which is written, death is swallowed up in victory. That there is a sense in which when you put all this together that God is going to take our current bodies, He's going to refurbish them into a new body so that we are further clothed. This is the power of the Spirit of God, the one who gives life to us spiritually immediately, and the one who will resurrect our bodies in the future physically. You are not a debtor of the flesh to live according to the flesh, it says. Galatians really helps us with this with this in chapter 6, verses 7 through 8. It's kind of like cancer. Or cancer will kill you. Okay, and that's not what the word means at all. And it's actually in 1 Timothy 5, verses 3 through 6. But there's a contrast. You put to death the deeds of the body. and receive that life-giving work of the Spirit of God to motivate us to serve Him and live for Him. Lloyd Jones says it this way. Now, I want to be clear that in the New Testament there are other places that Christians are truly commanded to do things. Spirit. That the offensive weapon that we have available to us in the armor, all of them are defensive, except for this one weapon, what is that? to experience the life that God wants you to have. This is because you want to move forward in serving the Lord and pleasing him and living the life not only that God wants you to live, but the life that you want to live for him But with temptation we'll also make a way of escape that you may be able to bear it. So you don't have to write every one of them down. but they're in the back of your bulletin so that you just have them there. If we are friends with it, if we are comfortable with it, if we like it hanging around even though we're not doing it, then we're not going to kill it. We need to develop a hatred for sin. And there are some people that don't take this as a wise precaution because they think, well, this is legalism. Now I want us to understand it could be legalism if you are doing it for the wrong reason. You know, the truth of the matter is we as Christians, we cannot think, okay, well, I'll just kind of do what I want. We ought to be very, very careful not to feed it. As a matter of wisdom, that there are certain television shows and movies and all those kind of things, folks, that not you are not necessarily living in sin if you watch them. And bring it into subjection, lest when I have preached to others, I myself should be disqualified. The discipline life sets right priorities, sets right limitations, number three, have a structured plan The fact is we are not made to have a free-for-all to do anything we want all the time with everything. with no limitations. That we there is therefore no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. So that we are agreeing with God about our sin, that there is true repentance, that there is true sorrow, there should be grief, there should be sorrow, there should be remorse. For you were made sorrow in a godly man manner, that you might suffer loss from us in nothing. And then we realize that He is faithful and just to forgive us our sin, to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Take every message and ask this question. But Christian, you can ask this question as well and should. Because if we're going to kill sin, we've got to recognize when it's there. And we are freed from the power of our sin. Because he has freed us not only from the punishment of sin, but he has freed us through his death on the cross from the power of sin. This Lord's table shows all of that. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. To guide us upon the path that you have before us for any who have perhaps even strayed, that you would bring us back to the path. the reality of the fact that we are in war and yet we our our lives we feel completely the same as we did before. Now, if anyone does not have the Spirit of God, he is not his. That we are not in the flesh, that is, we are not bound to the flesh, we are not characterized by the flesh These passages indicate that in the Old Testament, people were not permanently indwelt by the Spirit of God, even those who were who were uh physically. can probably tell me how this happened, but the average 44-year-old lives 25 years longer. It says, But if the Spirit of Him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he who raised Christ from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through his Spirit who dwells in you. We will rise again based upon the resurrection of Jesus Christ. being burdened, not because we want to be enclothed, but further clothed that mortality may be swallowed up by life. That then we will be clothed. sow to that, then we will reap death, we'll reap corruption. and on and isn't dealt with at its earliest stages or even before it actually is seen as cancer, it grows and it bec and it it's going to kill you. biblically if they if they have them. Trusts in God and continues in supplications and prayers night and day, Scripture says. It doesn't say kind of sort of, yeah, if it's there, it's not. He issues instead a warning. But what he's actually saying is, if you don't kill sin, you're hurting yourself. As well, I mean. There will be one day where we do not have to kill us anymore because it's completely dead. I mean it just makes good sense. Number two, set the right limitations. sense of utter condemnation before God because we are freed from that. For ob for observe this very thing that you sorrowed in a godly manner, what diligence it brought produced in you, what clearing of yourselves, what indignation, what fear, what vehement desire Wipe clean, sins forgiven, so it can be right related to God. Find every sin, whether we remember it or not, or think of it or not. And uh the fact that really when I remember um you know troops went over to um Saudi Arabia and Iraq and all that, uh Kuwait and We always must be killing sin, as we'll see in verse 13 when we get to it. That means no more guilt, no more insecurity, no more sense of rejection, no more defeat. As Christians, we have within us the very presence of God. If the Spirit of God truly lives in us, takes up residence in us, dwells in us, that should The work of sanctification in the life of the believer is because of the work of the Spirit of God and the Father's work as well as Christ's work all working together to bring us to a place where we are. I was getting up, I bent down to get something, and I stood up and my knees buckled a little bit. You know, it it it is really true. That is, if those, if we will sow, that is, we will invest in sin, in our sin, the flesh there is our sin nature. And so instead of a command where we have to worry about, oh, God's mad at us, or God we won't measure up to God, or those kinds of things, actually that's not what the passage is saying. It's something that we can be deceived by. Sin. We need to lead a disciplined life. by the time you actually recognize it as cancer, it's usually too late. Sometimes sin grows so slowly it comes in and you don't even notice it. Second Corinthians chapter 7, I have it up there for you, verses 8 through 11. And that Jesus Christ came to earth, lived a perfect life, and took his our sin on himself. And there are two ways I want us to go with this. and paid the price, paid the payment for our sin, so that he could actually place his righteousness on us so that we could have our sins That is the way that God wants us to live. And we can look forward one day where he will free us what? the power of sin, and one day will free us from the presence of sin. But if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live. Well, this text is actually going to teach us that in order to experience the freedom that we have because of the work of the Spirit of God, we always must be fighting. tells us what he tells us next what hasn't changed. I was uh um uh it's interesting what the passage says here. I was looking, I was I noticed that this is weird because computers and IAI and all this stuff is weird, but something popped up on my screen the other day. But I want to hasten on, because we're going to spend some time here, I want to hasten on to the third point, which is that the Spirit frees us from obligation in verses 12 through 13. Well, think of James chapter 1 verse 15. Are things that we sh that are not do not have any, of course, lasting value. Sin kills us spiritually. It says, if you by the Spirit kill sin, you'll live. I mean there is absolutely no way that I know of that you can put a finger into a real fire and not be burned. So this is a process and you want to be able to move forward. And bring it into subjection. Deal with sin, with the failures of sin quickly. That's not we we go through the text of Scripture, we follow what Scripture says, and we but the text of Scripture is dealing with this matter of sin here and the need for us to kill sin. Lord, we ask that you would do these things through the power of your Spirit, that you would use the word preached by Pastor Jim mightily. Therefore, brethren, we are debtors, not to the flesh, to live according to the flesh. Uh I was thinking about just in my own time growing up and uh what wars I uh can remember. Number one, it gives us life. And me as Christians. Now from Pentecost on, when someone comes to Christ, you have the indwelling Spirit of God that comes upon them. In causing and enlivening us and energizing us, if you will, regenerating us is really the term. And I think implied here is that the investment in the flesh is totally pointless. It says this, for if you live according to the flesh, you will die. No, there's something else he has in mind here. essentially is what's going to happen. And he is exhorting that widows should be actually careful. It says, then you will live. Because what he is saying is not, look, if you don't kill, if you don't kill sin, then you're not right with God. If we don't kill sin. You don't kill sin, and you're gonna be burnt. It is sometimes painful. Realize it is possible. It is common to man. I'm just gonna let I'm gonna let you know up front, these are from me, these are not from the text. It hooks us. There has never been a time in your life where you have understood that your sin separates you from God. And I would just encourage you to have, I love the song that says, nothing between my soul and my savior. And I'm thankful that today what we can do is we we know he is faithful and just to forgive us our sin and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness, and that is why we can celebrate the Lord's table together. And Lord, would you would you remind us in our own hearts this morning of the importance of this? When we do not have Christ's righteousness upon us and Christ's sacrifice does not apply to us, we are in To abide by your ways that you have so graciously outlined in your word. The word dwell actually it comes from it's the it's a the verb form of of a noun that really is translated most of the time house. But have we really let it sink in? a x a extreme difference in our lives. that told me that the average 44-year-old, this is scary because I'm 44 and I guess the computer knew that somehow. We know that Christ had the power both to die and to lay himself down and to rise himself up. Now he says, therefore, because of this, because of what I've already told you, brethren, he's talking to Christians here, we're not debtors to the flesh. Now that at first glance looks a little confusing. Okay, you want you're convinced, hopefully you're convinced of the importance of ongoing killing sin in your life in order to be able to live. really helps us with. I I just went to an uh uh GI doctor recently and I was talking about esophageal cancer because my dad died from it. Romans 8, 9-13. See sometimes the Holy Spirit referred to as the Spirit of God, and sometimes we have the Holy Spirit referred to as the Spirit of Christ. I it's funny, um I have long-lost friends sometimes that will contact me, will message me on Facebook. Because of this, verse 12 says that we are not debtors to the flesh. The investment in the in in those things that will ultimately die And now it's saying, if you live according to the flesh, you will die. So we need to kill sin, or it will be killing us. We have the sin nature within us, the flesh within us. We need to develop a hatred for sin. Then we have, so we need to hate sin. We need to distance ourselves from it. And number four, be diligent about all this. Number six, deal with the first movements of sin. See, that's how you know you're dealing with it right. For the marriage supper of the Lamb, for the coming of Christ one day, so that we are celebrating what Christ has done on the cross for us. Amen. Allows us to be able to kill sin. 6 says it this way, that which is born of the flesh is flesh, but that which is born of the spirit is spirit. And this should make a major difference in our lives. Because of what the Spirit of God has done in freeing us from the enslavement to sin. You say, well, you know, I I don't really like actively sin. It requires the Holy Spirit in this way. From sin in order to make you feel better about yourself, or to gain grounding points with God, or to make you think that you're a better Christian than somebody else, or you begin to judge other people because they're not as distant from I mean there are a few things that there are no limitations to. Fact is, folks, as Christians, because we cannot completely eradicate sin, we will fail from time to time. To take our place, to bear the wrath, to take the punishment that we deserve to bear ourselves And then he says this. And we find actually in Genesis chapter 2, verse 7, that he breathed into his nostrils, God did, the breath of life, and man became a living soul. Now, okay, well, how do we apply this? We do not lose hope. Like great. Here's what he's saying. Spiritually, not dead in the sense that there is no that you lose your standing with God, but there is this practical experiential sense that when we live It is actually telling us that we need to be actively killing sin. But it is possible and it is a process. It is a process and it is progress. But put on the Lord Jesus Christ and make no provision for the flesh to fulfill its lust. You must not feed sin. Indignation for the sin, hatred for the sin, a clearing, a desire to clear ourselves. And you have withheld from us what we do deserve: separation eternally from you, paying for our own sins. And Lord, as we are about to hear your word taught and preached, may you use it. And and but it there is really there's really a parallel here. And so and so he says it this way, John Owen says, be killing sin, or sin will be killing you. Another verse, 1 Corinthians chapter 9, verse 27. That means that on one hand, we are not going to wallow in it for days and days and days. You may not change your physical dwelling place or your job or your relationships or but you but the indwelling spirit of God should make a difference in our lives as Christians. This is not good. And so we have confidence and a guaranteed hope. Now, a few things we need to understand about this whole idea of killing sin. Don't feed sin. And I think that our in our Christian circle sometimes we can become really legalistic about this and really judgmental about all these things. four different aspects of discipline. But Lord, we this morning we thank you for pouring out your wrath on your very Son. You have provided everything so that we can be thoroughly equipped, lacking nothing. It is a life-giving spirit. And that is the case. Okay, those are all things that can cause that they're essentially gonna you're gonna slide into legalism. Is there sin in your life? In a terrible position before you the scriptures declare us to be your enemies and that your wrath is upon us. But but uh the the it it's uh it is true that in our country y in order to be able to remain free there have been times where we had to fight in order to remain free Seven things. And we need to bring it out, bring sin and its first movements out into the light. He says, and if Christ is in you, the Christ's Spirit is in you, if it's all the same thing. It is the sword of the Spirit. But I don't want to swing so far the other way that we lose the wisdom of this as well. He'll use body to mean actually our sin nature. That was written to a Christian. Now, notice though in the passage, it's not actually a command. We need to understand a few things. And by the way, if you are actively killing sin the way God wants you to kill sin, then that makes you just want Christ to come even more. You realize that? Sometimes it's really quite appalling, honestly, of the things that we will put in front of our eyes, that we will watch, that we will listen to. You can read God's Word with no limitations. Because of righteousness, that is the righteousness of Christ applied to us, our spirit lives because of the Holy Spirit energizing our human spirit. And the body is still dead. Or would it be said of us that we are dead while we live? But living a disciplined life is going to help us. And that is very, very foundational to what we're going to learn today now, that the Holy Spirit enables us to be able to kill sin. They began to die at that point. Don't expect to be able to feed don't expect to be able to kill sin if you're feeding the very thing you're trying to kill. And what frees us to be able to do this, what frees us to be able to deal with sin in the right way, is to understand And some of us the the older we get, the more we kind of feel that to be the case. For he who sows to his flesh will of the flesh reap corruption. There's a really interesting illustration of this concept of how we can live as we can die while we're living. Say the same thing God says about it. In fact, I have seven seven techniques, if you will, for killing sin. Father, we come to you this morning and we praise you for this text. Let's first look at how the Spirit gives us life. So we know that Christ had his own autonomy, his own power to be able to lay his body down and to raise his body up. And one of those lies is I am unique and I'm alone and nobody else has this. Proverbs is full of this. 20 talks about this sort of union. We're not under under condemnation, which frees us to be able to admit when we're wrong and to realize that there is sin that we have not confessed, that we have not agreed with God about. We need to understand that those things that are spiritual are more important than those things that are physical. And if there is somebody here this morning that doesn't know you as their Lord and Savior, I pray today they would understand their sin Looking at the text uh this morning we Romans eight, chapter eight, verse verses nine through three There's this contrast, if you will, between the freedom that we have, and yet in order to remain free, we must battle. I remember seeing it all on the news, but really my life changing very little. And the Spirit of God indwelling us doesn't change that. But she who lives in pleasure is dead while she lives. Afterwards, you'll I'll get an email or something. Some of the times we are out of the gate assuming it's not possible and we are just hopeless. Therefore my father loves me because I lay down my life that I may take it again. Um Romans thirteen fourteen And then you're like, wow, actually, that's the key. And the way that Paul describes this is we will be further clothed with a spiritual body. This is very similar to what it says in chapter 6, verses 1 through 11, where it says that we are freed from the indebtedness to sin. And there's a contrast. I thought man thanks for thanks for the good news on the c you know. When desire is conceived, it brings forth sin, and sin when it is finished, when it's full grown, brings forth death. Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. Colossians chapter three verse five says, Therefore put to death your members which are on the earth, fornication, uncleanness, passion, evil desires, and Number one, realize it is possible, but it is a process. You're going to s move away from it. Now if anyone does not have, and then he changes to the Spirit of Christ. They are indwelt by the Spirit of God. It's this condition set up. You may want to consider writing some references. Now, he actually teaches us something that that if you're reading through the New Testament, this may be the first time you've seen this. It's talking about sin. The Sermon on the Mount likens it to cutting off a limb. I think these are these are tools in your toolbox for this very important task of killing sin. Proverbs 8. Aren't you glad about that? Now she who is really a widow that is left alone doesn't have children. I mean that is what we're dealing with with the passage. Let's sing together from uh just in preparation of for communion. The Spirit, he rather, not it, he gives us life. In John 7, verse 3639, it says, but this he spoke concerning his spirit. They are corrupting, they are going the wrong direction here, and we need to understand that. The words that I speak to you are spirit and they are life, Christ said. I'm too young for this is what I said to myself. And then suddenly they're like, hey, how are you? We need to treat it similarly to we would treat cancer. Okay. He says we must deal with sin at their first movements. And as we enter into this communion time together, Lord, we're thankful, we're utterly grateful that it is the cross of Christ that frees us from the punishment of sin. And then we look forward to the coming of Christ. It symbolizes all of that. Lord, there is no there is nothing we can do to repay you, not equally. So when this corruptible has put on incorruption, and this mortal has put on immortality, then shall be brought to pass the saying which is You can't you can't let it you can't feed it. Any living thing requires food. But it is true. And we see that. And you know, it's the same way with sin. He wants us to be free in our fellowship with Him. It energizes our human spirit so that we are able to live spiritually now. But she who lives in pleasure is dead while she lives. Not because, oh no, I'm not going to be what I want to be, or I'm not going to measure up, or those. Like when you think of discipline, what is it? You will live spiritually. It requires the Spirit's sword. And we are essentially at the time by the time we were born and then we are born ultimately we know that life does not and uh life does not go on eventually That's one application. Well you could get really discouraged about how much life you have left unless you're young. Embarrassed sin embarrasses you, that is significantly more mild than what it does. So you've got to set the right, you've got to step, sometimes we need to step back and set the right priorities. We recognize this morning that we, though we are freed from the law You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. Lord, you have uh you have provided for us what we do not deserve in salvation. Have we really considered, just pause for a minute and think about it. When lust conceives, it brings forth sin, and sin when it is finished, brings forth death. One is that when we're killing sin, it is not something where it's immediate and then we don't have to worry about it anymore. And God is faithful to help you with this temptation, give you a way of escape. He is faithful and just to forgive us our sin and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Okay. Our body stays the same. Um But but we actually do have hope for our bodies, don't we? But what about this body? And there is a sense in which a warning can be more powerful than a command. All right. Look ahead, foresee evil and hide yourself. One is there may be a that for some of you, you have never actually been forgiven of your sin. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Now if anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ, he is not his. And the very spirit that indwelt Christ, who raised Jesus up from the dead, will one day The motivation becomes something that we cannot be what God wants us to be, or do what God wants us to do, or live Never lose hope. Now, this is not a matter of right or wrong. Corruption entered their body. No tempt there is no temptation that has overtaken you except which is common to man. 36. I'm going to give you just, these are four four points that help you help describe what it is to be disciplined. In order for us to be able to live the life of the Spirit that He wants us to live, we must kill sin. So the indwelling work of the Holy Spirit, though it does nothing for our body now, and we'll get to it later, but that does nothing for our body presently Folks, that means that I have to meddle a little bit. Is there sin in our lives as Christians? We are apart from you and apart from the work of Christ on the cross Because of sin, our body is dead. Then when desire is conceived, it brings birth to sin. You know, the easiest way to kill something, the most effortless way to kill something, is just don't feed it. But when I think of a disciplined life, I think of setting the right priorities. You go from grief to grace. But in this case he's talking about our mortal bodies, our physical bodies. Now it doesn't mean that we can lose our standing with God, but what does it mean here? Now again, this is subject- somewhat subjective. What am I investing in in eternity and what am I not? You can do them as much as you want. So I have this question for you at the very end. No. I have been crucified with Christ. But but there are variations of this, there's subjective things, and we ought not be judgmental toward others when it comes to this kind of thing. So when we realize we have sinned and we have grieved God, we do not have to have this And actually in verse it's verses in 9 and 10. And in Ezekiel 37, 14, I will put my I mean it's a little depressing when you look ahead, except We have hope. He actually says that the Spirit of God enlivens us and energizes our spirit, but there is a sense in which This is going to be a continual activity. It says, Now I rejoice not that you were made sorry sorry, but that your sorrow led to repentance. You would think that would make a major difference, wouldn't it? Old things are passed away. Well, I don't know of any way where that's possible. It is not something that you can look at and say, well, it's totally done. I mean, essentially that is, if we hate it, we will kill it. Not every message is about how what sin is your problem and you need to come forward and confess your sin every single day. Somebody flip it up so I can see what we're singing. The presence of God was in the midst of them in the tabernacle and temple. Sin will change tactics on us. Actually, Paul applies this in a different passage in 2 Corinthians chapter 4. This word that's mortify or dead or dead or kill, Luke twenty-one says it, just talking about putting to death. John Owen wrote an entire book on this one verse. But when the Spirit of God and the Word of God r show you something that you have done that is sinful, But he who sins against me wrongs his own soul. He says, But I, and the word there is discipline, I buffet or discipline my body. And I encourage you, come and talk with me afterwards. So this passage teaches us, it first begins by telling us What really matters? We are not yet freed from the presence of sin. It's not from any new crazy thing on the internet. Be not deceived. It is not something that's ever going to be completely done. That's what hasn't changed yet. I don't try to sin. And if you don't know where you stand with God, let me encourage you today, realize you are a sinner. Passage begins by saying, but you are not in the flesh, but in the spirit. We are able to fulfill God's will according to verses 2 through 4, and we're able to experience life and peace in verse 2 It gives us life. And confess it. For our light affliction, which is but for a moment, is working for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory. Good, just wanted to catch up with you. Do you want to spiritually live? He says, if you put your finger into that fire, you will be burned. What are we supposed to be killing with that sword? Never stop trying. Make no provision for the flesh. The blood of Christ cleanses us from that from our sin, from the punishment of our sin. It is called the Exchange. That's what God wants us to do. John 6363 says it this way, it is the Spirit who gives life. Right priorities, right limitations, structured plan, be diligent. We thank you for that, Lord, and we pray that as we celebrate, you would be pleased and honored with our worship. Father, as we come before you this morning, we are we are filled with the the truth of what we just sang and the impact of those you One of the commentators brought this up when I was studying this. You have provided everything we need to be equipped for godliness in this presentation. Well, what difference does it make? But then 2 Corinthians 5. That's really interesting. I'll be using some references and some other things like next to it or under it or whatever in your bullet. And the other application is that our focus needs to be different. And we ought to be able to admit when it's there. And some of the older people you're saying, yeah, you're too young for that. We have a future. Number three, we need to distance ourselves from sin. Just about everything else has a limitation. That allows us then to deal with the sin correctly. I, of course, most of you know both my parents died of cancer, so it's kind of on my mind all the time. So there are lies that we tell ourselves and that frankly Satan tells us What is discipline? Meditate on scripture. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. And they, of course, didn't die immediately, but they began, they knew ultimately physically they would die. Well, weren't we going to do that anyway? So this is not so that But meditating on scripture 2 Corinthians 5, 4 says it this way, for we who live are always delivered to death for Jesus And I'll notice what it's noticeable. No. This week we're going to learn that we are in a battle. That is, when someone comes to Christ It's dead. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. All things are become new. Therefore we do not lose heart. So you've got to catch sin at its earliest movement. Same word The inference is certainly not just the deeds of the body, but those root issues of sin in us as well. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. It is no longer I who live, but Christ lives in me. It doesn't change that process of dying. Kill sin. Now, I I I want you to know, and you those of you who've been coming here for a long time know that I do not The fact that we are we are not condemned, we are free to be able to do the will of God. But the Spirit of God comes and quickens us. It says, we do not lose heart. Just basically we are dead, in other words, we have corruption, we are going to die one day Ephesians chapter 5, verses 8 through 13. We are in positionally in Christ now. Our body is dead because of sin, it says. Set our mind on things above, not on the things of this world. That's why it says in 1 Corinthians 15, 53, for this corruptible must put on incorruption. We we really even have motivation in life to focus on those things that are truly important and truly eternal. You can't let it um you can't invest in it. I you know I don't r you know, it's like, you know, maybe it happens sometimes and it's there, it's not, it's what that is not what this passage is saying. There's going to be one day where our faith will be sighted, and we don't have to deal with this anymore. I just will make sure I don't do that exactly. Don't worry about being legalistic. This is uh uh something that John Owen really, really uh points out and and does a uh And and and I'm I don't even know what the I was like busy so I didn't pay any money Now again, it's not as though I mean It's not if you live an undisciplined life, you're sinning. We thank you that it warns us about the nature of and of The Spirit of God gives us life. He indwells us. We're not debtors. How can somebody be dead while they live? True repentance has that kind of spirit to it. And we know that, we hear that, we've understood that. The spirit is life-giving. Be killing sin, or it will be killing you. But I think what he's doing here is rather than issuing a command after saying that you're free from command It's going to be a daily duty for us to kill sin. And I'll tell you what will happen. We're going to see, though, that the Spirit's work We have eternity. You must kill it If you are tr distancing yourself for s What should be our focus? How are you doing? God is not mocked. That there's an exhortation for the way to do this The indication in this passage is that if you do not kill sin, sin will kill you. And there is a sense in which Scripture describes sin as a living thing. Although even reading God's Word, if you're supposed to be working at work, for example. Last week we learned about the freedom that we have Look at verse 10. And I thought, what is wrong with If you think of the dwelling place of God in the Old Testament In other words, it's dying. 4, for we who are in this tent groan. And then we move on to verse thirteen. But if we sow to the Spirit, we will reap everlasting life. Make a plan. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you This is something that we ought to ask every day We do this as an appetizer. 279, thank you. It guarantees hope, and it frees us. You are no longer in the realm of the flesh, you are in the realm of the Spirit. I was noticing yesterday, this is so ridiculous. For the things which are seen are temporary, but the things which are not seen are eternal. It's a warning. But for now, we need to realize it is possible and it is a process. From the presence of sin. And Lord, I I think of uh I think of our position before you In verse 9 it says, But you are not in the flesh, but in the Spirit, and if indeed the Spirit of God dwells in you And he is then going to go on to say that if you do not have the indwelling Spirit of God, you're not his. So the fact that the Spirit of God is dwelling in us But this is what has changed. We do not lose hope. You remember back in Romans 7, we learned that we are freed from the law? You put your hand into a fire and it will be burned. Keep moving forward. This is a matter of wisdom. If we're doing it for the right reasons, for the right motives, it can be very helpful for us to think in terms of starving. There is this remorse for sin. For you if you live according to the flesh, you will die. And the Spirit's work allows us to do that. We'll see how all of this works together. There ought to be a difference in their life. The Spirit gives life. Let me let me mention scripturally the a verse a couple of verses for you. I need to set the right priorities, and number two, I need to set the right limitations And then recognize God's forgiveness for it. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide Those things that are spiritual are eternal. And these things command that they may be blameless. That's not biblical. And on the other hand, we are not going to just sort of dismiss it and not have any sorrow over it. You go from dealing with it grief and then realizing the grace of God and then you end up in gratitude. This word dwell is an interesting word. I'm like No one takes it from me, but I lay it down myself, and I have power to lay it down, I have power to take it up take it again. In Ephesians chapter 6, we see that. And wisdom, good biblical wisdom, is the precursor to killing sin. I'd be glad to take a Bible and help you understand more of this. Now that does not mean that we need to become morbidly introspective to try to That's why John Owens said it exactly this way. It says then this: if by the Spirit, if by means of the Spirit Be killing sin. In fact, I wrote down four different It really is like cancer. For godly sorrow produces repentance, leading to salvation, not to be regretted, but the sorrow of the world produces death. He says he'll give life to the Spirit of God will actually give life to our physical, our mortal bodies. Do you see that? It is still there. We have something to live for because the Spirit is enlivened It is a critical verse for the Christian. Sometimes we don't want to admit fault, we don't want to admit wrong. Still went to school. He makes us his residence, his dwelling place. I thought, this is great. Put it to death. One day, our mortal bodies, our physical bodies, he's very clear because Paul uses body in different ways Honor widows who are really widows. There is virtually nothing in this life that you can just say, I'm going to do it all all the time We pray in Christ's name. These Just distance yourself from it. And sin by its very nature will hook us. Whatever a man sows Look at it. Folks, if you really hate something, you're gonna distance yourself from it. Is there sin in your life? I think of uh Desert Storm as the one that I remember probably the best. The average some of you computer If cancer goes unchecked May the Lord richly bless you. But if the spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you I don't know, that was weird And I'm like, oh, that's really nice. It is the s the sword. By the way, these are in the back of your bulletin. Number five. Plan things out. There's corruption. I mean, that's true. I would suggest to you it's sin. But he who sows to the spirit will of the spirit reap everlasting life. In fact, he's saying if you don't kill sin, you're killing yourself spiritually. And we actually see several times in the New Testament. The Holy Spirit, Christ's Spirit, if it Christ's in you. It's painful. It's totally annihilated. Right? And um and he said, yeah, that's one of those cancers Yeah, 279. And of course we know that when Adam and Eve sinned There is something that's changed It kills you, is what it's saying. How about you? If you put your finger in a fire, your finger will be burned. But God is faithful, who will allow you to be tempted beyond what you are able He says, I'm going to discipline myself. And it's going to be very helpful for us if we will deal with it immediately. He I thought this was really quite an interesting parallel. But is that always going to be the case? And when sin is finished, it brings forth what? Number two. The spirit of the living God lives in you. Number four. But now, when Christ rises from the grave and ascends There is therefore no condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus. It grieves me because it grieves God. Even though our outward man is perishing. And most importantly, sin requires the Holy Spirit. What is the right priorities in our lives? We will go from sorrow to gratefulness. And Lord, that that means that we've got to continue We praise you, Lord, for these And your King James, the word mortify, mortify today means embarrassed It doesn't say you must kill sin. I mean, what you hate is what you kill. To really believe that if we are not killing sin, Remember having a snow day one time, walking up the hill having a snow day It is life, actually. We know that Now that hasn't always been the case our in our history as We are still in this lifeless process of dying. It's not something that you can define for somebody else. So it's telling telling children to take care of their parents. No. Number two, the Spirit guarantees hope. That the very same Spirit that indwelt Christ is And that is how strong this is. All those who hate me love death. How does the Holy Spirit enable us to kill sin? You can't you've got to stop it. I got rid of that. Amen. They want to catch up with you. The indwelling of the Spirit of God. And we We are in a very serious, ongoing battle with sin. It doesn't say have a comfortable relationship with it. It requires stamina Now we've gone to de this uh into into legalism. It's the word oikas, house We hope to see you soon. If we invest in that, if we Those things that are physical are temporary. Let us pray together Because why? Look at what it says here in the p in the text, verse eleven. But Lord, you do call us to walk in your statute. And the Bible actually tells us no. Christian, are you dead while you live? The passage is saying it's really bad for us If you do, you are deceiving yourself We must kill sin In this time, God says, actually the presence of God is in us. We are truly going to be resurrected someday. These are just coming from His robes for mine. Because we are s we feel if we're wrong, we're under condemnation. They live for themselves. You're just feeding it. Ephesians 5. There is a sorrow over sin. You've got to kill I want to be clear about that. We live in We're going to see Circumstances around may not change. We are freed from the enslavement But we really would love to meet you in person. He's talking about widows in this passage. Well, you're disciplined. We pray these things in Christ's name. And we'll sing the first three verses. Somebody's gonna come and tell me It is happening. 16, redeeming the time because the days are evil. That's in Romans 8. Well, sometimes you can't. It you must kill cancer You will be death 2.