Diamondri, don't let it happen again. Just kidding. My young elder friend. Let's bow our heads together and go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we come this morning with grateful and thankful hearts. You are so gracious and so merciful and so wonderful and so kind. You are almighty, all-powerful, and all-wise and all-knowing. You are holy, holy, holy. And Father, we recognize and acknowledge that the very essence of who you are is love. And all things else from that, your attributes and everything come from that love. Perfect love. And Father, we're grateful this morning that you have Loved us in spite of ourselves. And we're grateful, as Brother Jim said, that you would send your only begotten Son to come and take the sin of the world upon himself and die on that cross. And was buried in the tomb and arose again, conquering Satan and sin on our behalf. And thank you for the opportunity to come and put our faith and our trust in you. And be saved by your grace and by your mercy. And Father, this morning we lift up those who are unable to be here this morning, maybe not feeling well, maybe traveling. We just ask your good hand to please be upon them and come. Comfort them and encourage them and pray that your word this morning will bless them and encourage them and strengthen them and bring them back to us safely. And Father, we are grateful for your word this morning, and we ask that you would help us to set aside all the cares and all the concerns and all the weights and things that hold us down. And Lord, if we would take this hour as we sit under your word and just allow you to speak to our hearts and our minds and help us, Lord, to ponder these truths And as we leave here, may we be changed more and more into your image from being under your word. And we pray for your spirit to work mightily in us. And Father, we ask that in all things that we would worship you in spirit. And in truth. And we ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. We will be reading this morning from uh Jonah chapter two, verses one through nine. I will try not to cut any of this out like I did last week. I don't know if you noticed, but I missed part of the end of it. Scripture I was supposed to read. Getting older. Let's look at the Word of God. Chapter 2 of Jonah, verses 1 through 9. Then Jonah prayed to the Lord his God, from the fish, his belly. And he said, I cried out to the Lord because of my affliction. And he answered me, out of the belly of Sheol I cried, and you heard my voice. For you cast me into the deep, into the heart of the seas, and the floods surrounded me. All your billows and your ways passed over me. Then I said, I have been cast out of your sight. Yet I will look again toward your holy temple. The water surrounded me even to my soul. The deep closed around me. The weeds were wrapped around my head. And I went down to the moorings of the mountains, the earth with its bars closed behind me forever. Yet you have brought up my life from the pit, O Lord my God When my soul fainted within me, I remembered the Lord, and my prayer went up to you and to your holy temple. Those who regard worthless idols forsake their own mercy, but I will sacrifice to you with the voice of thanksgiving I will pay what I have vowed. Salvation is of the Lord. Good morning. It's good to be here with you all again. Turn your Bibles if you're not already there. It's the book of Jonah. We'll start in chapter one, even though we just read chapter two. Thank you for your prayers for me and our family as we We've done some traveling the last couple weeks. It's good to be back here at Bethel. How many of you think you know the story of Jonah pretty well? Yeah, I saw the junior church kids leave. They know it well too. This is one of the most famous books, famous stories in the Bible. Um I think uh I think this is a favorite story of many children. It's a favorite story of many skeptics of the Bible. You know, a lot of people like this story. And uh we're gonna start with a little quiz to see how well you really do know the story of Jonah. So let's start. Let's start here with a questi with the with the first question. All right. My PowerPoint got a few extra slides. Oh, there's Jonah 1 to 2. When did Jonah live? Let's start with dates, because this is historical. This is not a fanciful story. This is not a myth. We can actually put a date on this. We know when this happened. So let's see how you good you are with dates. We have A B C and D of course being one of the favorite answers ever if none of these. Number one, number A. Number A. Letter A. When did Jonah live? We've got an option there and my I say it's not that good. Fourteen forty six BC. Who's going for fourteen forty-six? Anybody? How about uh 760? You like 760 better? Well that's popular. How about 8070? Anybody like 8070? Good, you all are smart. 8070 is after Jesus. This story happens seven hundred and sixty years before uh Christ came. So you got it right if you chose B, which I saw a lot of hands at B sober, but you guys you guys do know this story. How about this? How about geography, you know? This is history, so it it this is not a myth. It's not like somewhere long ago and far away in a galaxy apart. This is not that kind of story. This is a real story. Where did it happen? We've got three little pyramids, although we all know pyramids are only in Egypt there. But A, is it there? Oops, I just gave that away where that is. Where is NINEMA? A, B, or C? Or you can do it by color if you want. Brown, green, or blue. This is colorblind friendly map, so we have A, B, and C there. So who goes with A? Who thinks that's where Nineveh is? The great Egyptian city of Nineveh. Anyone going for that? Okay, got a couple. How about B, Iraqi city of Nineveh? Or C also in modern day Iraqi. Anybody like C? Yeah, there was a you know there were there was a empire at sea there. That's close to where Babylon was, but if you chose B again, you're doing quite well at this quiz. Next question. Where is Jonah from? We had a couple of options here. A, Israel, the Northern Kingdom. Oh look at that. My Chinese got in there. Take a look at that. Israel Not too many. How many how about the southern kingdom Judah? Everybody think he's from the Southern Kingdom of Judah? Okay, got that. Or sea. I mean he he's he's associated with that fish. How many of you like the Mediterranean Sea? Alright. It's Actually A. I didn't do the thing where everybody thinks B. He's he's from the Northern Kingdom. Next one. Who is the main character of the book of Jonah? This is an important question, you know. You gotta study this book. God gives it to us as literature here. We can read it. We gotta find out who's the protagonist, who is the main character. We got A. Jonah himself. We did a picture version Here. B, uh-huh, the Assyrians who need God's mercy. Or is it C, the fish, because you've got to have the fish as an option. Or D, none of the above. Who goes for A? Jonah is the main character of the book of Jonah. I mean his name is on the front of it. Okay? B. How how many think it's the Assyrians? They're the ones who need God's mercy. That's who God is setting Jonah to preach Uh mercy. Nobody's nobody's going for C. Okay. C. How many think the fish? That is the main character. You know, today if you look at stories of Jonah, you'd think that the fish was the main character, you know It's all about the fish. How many of you think actually the answer is none of those? None of the above. Maybe I don't need to preach this sermon. Who's the main character? Yeah, take a look at Jonah chapter 1, verse 1. Who talks first? Now that doesn't always I mean that's the main character, but look here. Now the word of the Lord came to Jonah, the son of Amitai, saying Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and cry out against it, for their wickedness has come up before me. Look at the end of the book, Jonah chapter 4. Verse eleven. Who's the last person to talk? Actually start verse ten. For the Lord said, You've had pity on the plant which for which you have not labored, nor made it grow. The book begins with the words of God. It ends with the uh a saying by God. This book is all about things that God did. God commands in verse 2. God sends a great wind in verse 4. God stopped the storm in response to prayer in verse 15. God prepared a fish. Literally says that verse 17. Now the Lord prepared a great fish. That's God acting. God saved Jonah. Chapter 2, verse 6 and 9 God spoke to the fish, and the fish spit Jonah out. Verse 10. I didn't really include verse 10 in the scripture reading today because that was an odd way to end the scripture reading. I thought salvation as the Lord was a better way to end that. Chapter 3, verse 1 The word of the Lord again came to Jonah the second time. Chapter 3, verse 10, we have God showing mercy On Nineveh, chapter 4, verse 6, verse 7. It literally said, The Lord prepared a plant, the Lord prepared a worm. Verse 8, the Lord prepared an east wind. In the very end, God explains his actions. Mercy. The story of Jonah, it's not really about Jonah, although he's a main character. He's not the main character. It's not about the Assyrians, although that was the the the occasion for for this book being written, their need of warning, of of punishment. The book's not about the fish, even though that's really kind of fun and kind of cool. And we'll talk a little bit about the fish this morning, because it's fun and cool But the book's about God and God's character and especially God's mercy to his own people and God's mercy to those who are far from him. Our God is a merciful God, a God who cares for people, and yet he's also a just judge. And we'll see both of those aspects of God's character not conflicting, but working together. For our good. God is at the center of this story. And what we see here is a couple of questions. How will man respond to God? How does God's own people respond to him? How do those far from him? The Ninevites respond to him? And this morning we have this question as we read the story. How are we today responding to God? And his mercy to us. It's a familiar story. Let's jump right into it. Jonah chapter 1. We already read it, verse 1. Now the word of the Lord came to Jonah, the son of Amitai, saying, Arise and go. Okay, there we go. So we got here at the beginning here. We got three points. It's an excellent sermon. God's command to man. And what's the command? Go. Go and do what Go and preach to Nineveh. Arise and go to Nineveh, that great city. Interesting thing. Throughout the book of Jonah, he really likes this word great. It's kind of like how we use Austin today in all sorts of different different occasions. Well great was Jonah's word. That great city, and actually this are the words of God. This is a great city. Later on we're going to see a great fish, a great tempest, great fear It's a great city. It's big. It's huge. It's populated. A lot of people live there. Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and cry out against it, for their wickedness has come up before me. So God says, go to Nineveh. Well, here we got that map again. I like maps. We've got the map. Now everything's a little bit smaller on this map. Sorry about that. There's the Assyrian Empire. You see where Jonah's living He's down there in Israel. He's got to make that red strip heading over there to the red star there. Assyria. Nineveh is the capital of Assyria. Assyria was a major, major um empire in that time. Especially since Israel is not that far away, and they knew that the great armies of the Assyrians were looming. They were coming. They were expanding little by little. We can take a look at a little bit of a timeline here. Nope, there's this big timeline. Big timeline of the Bible here. We've got Abraham, you got Moses there. If you had chosen 1446, that would be Moses. You see the big red star there around 7 760 before Christ. That's where Jonah is. And and the book of Jonah and the characters of Jonah and these events of this time period are are talked about quite a bit in in history. Okay. I'm not finding my where is my aha, there we go. We have some we have some timelines here. 931 BC, Israel divides. 853, you got a guy named Shalmaneser III. They like that name so many times they do He's an Assyrian king. He fought against a coalition of kings, including, if you look in their writings, this is not scripture, this is just from historical writings, he fought against Ahab of Israel. He's not just listed in the Bible. He is in a historical record also. Once again confirming these aren't myths. These are real stories. This comes, God's word is true It's consistent with with facts. I had a chance in Hong Kong uh to uh I was preaching through this book and uh the Hong Kong History Museum uh has Beautiful displays. It's very, very well done. And they would bring in displays from across the world. And a couple years ago, they brought in the display from um uh from the Middle East, but actually the British had taken the artifacts from the Middle East, put it in the British Museum, and now they transport them to Hong Kong so we could see them. The actual real obelisks and and all that kind of thing. Um and some of it were transcribed, but we we were seeing a lot of the actual things. Uh and and we could see things like this letter. I don't think we saw the specific one, but it mentions Ahab. Ahab, well, he He fought against the Assyrians, but the Assyrians hadn't taken over Israel quite yet. 841, there's another reference to Israel, a man named Jehu. You recognize that name? In fact, I saw that obelisk and I took a picture and we just skipped over it. Here we go. We've got this black obelisk of Chavaniser III. It talks about the tribute of Jehu. This is nicely translated. I'm glad about that. I didn't know read Assyrian. The tribute of Jehu, the son of Amri, I received from him silver, gold, a p a golden bowl, a golden vase with pointed bottom. Very specific here. What he got. This is tribute that that he received in order for Assyria not to take over Israel. Because Assyria was getting more and more and more dominant. But then In around the year 793, Assyria uh came across uh experienced some setbacks. Uh their expansion kind of stopped, their empire shrunk a little bit During this time Israel had a chance to grow and to thrive. Under King Jeroboam III, uh things began to be better. In fact, um Uh uh there's uh close up of the obelisk. There's Jehu bowing and giving tribute to the um Assyrian king. This is an Assyrian uh glyph Assyrian really lift. But uh this is their their carving there showing the Israelites bowing to the Assyrian. But that time of power kind of waned for a little bit a little while. And in first in 2 Kings chapter 2 we see a reference uh to Jonah. Not in the book of Jonah, but in 2 Kings. 2 Kings 14, 25. He, that's Jeroboam the second, king of Israel, the northern kingdom. He restored the territory of Israel from the entrance of Hamath to the sea of Arabah, according to the word of the Lord of God of Israel, which he had spoken through his servant Jonah, the son of Amitite the prophet, who was from Gath Hefer. So Jonah, in his early years as a prophet, he had prophesied things are going to go well for Israel. I think Jonah liked this job The herald of good news. Assyria is shrinking. We're going to prosper. We're going to expand again to areas where we hadn't been, probably since the time of Solomon. Jonah was the herald of good news. The Assyrians continued to be weak through the following years. In fact, they had a plague that came upon them in the year 1766. And in fact in that time people are very, very superstitious Not that they aren't today, but back to that time they were very superstitious and they thought, oh, the gods are against us. Uh and and and then there was an eclipse and once again in ancient times this is viewed as, okay, things are going really bad for it. The sun was covered up. Then another plague in 759. And now, a year after that second plague, the word of the Lord comes to Jonah. Go to Nineveh. And I think the Bible doesn't say this, but I think Jonah had no problem saying back in 2 Kings 14, go to Israel and tell them, you're going to expand, things are going well. Now Later in his ministry, God has a different message, not to his own people, not to Israel, but God is sending him cross-culturally Here we have an you could say an Old Testament Testament missionary. He's going to a different people group entirely. And God says, I have a message for them. What's that message? Jonah chapter 1, verse 2: Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and cry out against it, for their wickedness has come up before me. What wickedness? Uh today we're not really familiar with these kind of times, and in fact if you don't like history, you might have thought the first part of this sermon was rather boring because there's an awful lot of dates and names and places. But in Jonah's time, they would immediately associate some pretty graphic pictures in their minds with the Assyrians. They were known for being barbaric. I've got some more glyphs and these ones are not quite you thought Jehu bowing to Shalmaneser III wasn't such a great picture, but This is a picture of what the Assyrians did to their enemies. Maybe don't look too closely. It's a bit gory. It's ugly. It's bloody. And let me read a list here to kind of get the idea, the kind of people that God is sending Jonah. two. Their wickedness that had come up before God included idolatry. That's just the starting. And barbaric treatment of enemies, including killing helpless people like animals, skinning people alive, displaying the skin publicly on the walls of the city, this is bad. Shedding so much blood that it died an entire mountainside Burning young men and women alive with fire, mutilating bodies of live captives, putting a chain through the jaw of people and leading them around with like a with a leash like a dog? Do you understand why Jonah doesn't want to go there These are not nice people, especially not towards their enemies. They're barbaric. And you know what? They deserve judgment. This is terrible, terrible sin. But Jonah also knew another thing. If he's going there to warn them of this judgment, that means That God's giving them a second chance. In fact, turn over to Jonah chapter 4, verse 2 This isn't later in the story, of course, because it's chapter 4. Jonah chapter 4 verse 2. So he, that's Jonah, praised the Lord and said Ah Lord, was not this what I said when I was still in my country? He says, this is back when I was in Jonah chapter 1, before I left my my country This is, therefore I fled previously to Tarshish, for I know that you are a gracious and merciful God, slow to anger and abundant in loving kindness, one who relents from doing harm Yes, the message was: go and proclaim their wickedness. But Jonah knew what that meant. God was giving them a chance to turn from their sin, to repent. God was showing them mercy. And Jonah. He said, they're like that. I'm not going there. There are enemies. One day, I know they're coming. Jonah knows the Old Testament. He knows that Israel has not been following God, especially the northern kingdom. He knows that eventually they will be conquered And probably by a Syrian. Maybe he actually knows. Maybe God's also revealed to him that Assyrians are coming. He does not want to give them a second chance. They don't deserve it They don't need God's mercy. They don't deserve it. I look at this passage and I see one thing here. Actually I see many things, but one specific thing here. God sees the wickedness in this world. Sometimes we wonder why doesn't judgment come right away? Why isn't there lightning from heaven? We see wicked things happening. We see things like ISIS in the Middle East. uh in in in previous years. We see barbaric things happening and we're wondering, where is God? Where's the lightning that comes down from heaven and zaps those people? Because they deserve the zapping Maybe you see these pictures like this. Where's the lightning? This is barbaric. But God says, their wickedness has come up before me. I know. And yet God is long-suffering. And that is His mercy. He will punish sin. But he also gives a chance for repentance. So God gives Jonah a job, a job he did not ever want. Not to prophesy prosperity for Israel and expanding under Jeroboam the second. No, this is go to Nineveh and give them an opportunity for God to show mercy. And Jonah said, well, what's his response going to be? That's the next part of this story here. First we had God's command, go to Nineveh. And next we got man's response, Jonah's response. Here's Jonah. He's One of God's people. He is a prophet of God with a good track record. God had used him in the past. This man we're gonna see, especially in in In Jonah chapter 2, here's a man who knows the Old Testament. He knows the Word of God. And so the command of God comes to him. And so what should he, as a godly prophet of God with lots of experience and lots of knowledge of Scripture, what should he do? It should be just natural. I'm going to do what God wants me to do. But you all already know the story. That's not at all what Jonah does, is it? Jonah goes on a trip. When God told him to go on a trip. But Jonah went the exact opposite direction. Jonah, he's not going to the desert. No, no, no, no, no, no. Jonah, he's going to the beach. A beach very far away, the beach in Spain. Minneve that way Spain? A long way that way. Look at chapter verse 4. Jonah 1, verse 4. But Jonah arose to flee to Tarshus. From the presence of the Lord. He went down to Japah, found a ship going to Tarshish. So he paid the fare and went down into it to go with them to Tarshish from the presence of the Lord. Notice a recurring theme there. He's going away from the presence of the Lord. Later on as he's speaking to the men in the boat. It says in verse 10, then the men were exceedingly afraid and said to him, Why have you done this? For the men knew that he fled from the presence of the Lord. He didn't want to be where God was. He didn't want to do what God told him to do. He was in rebellion. I'm sure he thought in his mind he had a lot of really good reasons why he wasn't going to go east. He needed to go west. He wasn't going to go where God wanted him to go. No, he was going the other direction. Hey, these guys are terrible. They don't deserve God's mercy. In the future, they're going to be barbaric in my own country. In fact, not long after this The Assyrians would come. They would conquer the northern kingdom. They would take away all the men captive. He hated them. He doesn't want to be a traitor to his own people. He probably felt that too. Patriotic. He believed in his country. These were God's people. If he went to the Ninevehes and gave them an opportunity to not get judged immediately, they're gonna not his own people aren't gonna like it. The king's not gonna be real happy And so he flees from the presence of the Lord. Do you think God's not going to see him? Not going to know where he went? Think God's got a big blind spot in Spain Psalm 139, verse 7 to 10, says this, For where can I go from your spirit? Where can I flee from your presence? If I ascend into heaven, You are there. If I make my bed in hell, behold, you are there. If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea Even there, your hand shall lead me, and your hand shall your right hand shall hold me. If I say, Surely the darkness shall fall on me Even the night shall be light about me. Indeed, the darkness shall not hide from you, but the night shines as the day. The darkness and the light are both alike to you. God It's not just omniscient, knowing everything. God is omnipresent. He is everywhere. There's nowhere you can go where God is not there. You cannot flee from the presence of the Lord. In fact, Jonah was going to test that theory. He's going west and he ends up going very, very deep. The bottom of the sea. Could he still pray to God there? He does. He tested that theory. Can you go away from the presence of the Lord? You cannot. This morning, if you're running from God Thinking that, you know, God's not paying attention to me. I'm gonna go my own way. I'm gonna do my own thing. I know the truth. But now you know what? I just give up. I don't know the reason why you're giving up or thinking about that But now you're going the other direction. You cannot flee from the presence of the Lord. He knows where you are. He knows what you're thinking. He knows the reasons why that you have you have conjured up in your mind as to why you think this is a good idea right now, but it is never a good idea to run from the Lord. It is never a good idea to rebel He's the God who made heaven, the sea, and the dry land, verse 9 says. He is everywhere. He knows everything. You cannot run from God. And God in his mercy makes it that way. Jonah, he tries to run. He does. He gets on a boat, goes there and joppa. Well actually New Testament called Japha. Uh he he gets on the boat there on the on the sea coast. He he goes take a look at verse four. The Lord sent out a great wind. Now he's on the boat. The Lord sent out a great wind on the sea and there was a mighty tempest on the sea, so that the ship was about to be broken up. Then the mariners were afraid, and every man cried to his God and threw the cargo that was in the ship into the sea to lighten the load. But Jonah had gone down into the lowest part of the ship, had lain down, and was fast asleep. How can he do that? He has peace in his heart. Kind of a false peace in his heart. Or maybe it's a numbness, like I don't care what happens. Yeah, there's a storm. I don't care. I'm I'm not doing what God says. I don't care what happens next. He's kind of kind of if I die, I die His heart has hardened. Here was a man that God had used, a prophet, whose heart had become bitter against God. God warns us, warns believers of that kind of heart. Hebrews 3, 12 to 13 says, Beware, brethren, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief in departing from the living God. But exhort one another daily, while it's called today, lest any of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin. Sin is deceitful. We can get ourselves so twisted up in our minds that we think that running from God is a good idea. And then we feel at peace with it. And we don't care what happens. I'm just going my own way. I'm doing my own thing. We'll see what what happens happens. That's for joining us was. His heart was insensitive to God. That's not a good place to be as a child of God. We are God's children. If you trusted Christ as your Savior, if you if if if you've stopped trusting your own works and turned to Christ for salvation, you are God's child. He wants you to be close to Him. He doesn't want you to flee from His presence. He knows what he's doing. He's an all-wise God. He's a loving God. And we need to trust His wisdom and trust His love for us. And also thank him for his mercies on those times where we get tangled up in our own thought processes and go the wrong way. So here's Jonah, calloused, angry. And then we look at the seamen that are with him. Now they're scared to death. Here's a great picture of a boat in the sea Probably was something like this. Probably wasn't quite this pretty. What do the seamen do? Verse 9. Then the mariners were afraid. And every man cried out to his God, threw the cargo that was in the ship, out of the ship, to lighten the load. I already read that. Look at verse 6. So the captain came to him, came to Jonah, and said to him, What do you mean, sleeper? Arise, call on your God. Perhaps your God will consider us, so that we may not perish. They said to one another, Come, let us cast lots They didn't know what else to do. We're gonna throw some dice due some some some uh elimination by chance to figure out whose fault is this storm? They're a bit superstitious. But God, in his mercy, kind of helps them find Jonah there. Come, let us cast lots that we may know for what cause this trouble has come upon us. So they cast lots, and the lot fell on Jonah. Then they said to him Please tell us. For whose cause is this trouble upon us? What is your occupation? Where do you come from? What is your country? And of what people are you? So he said to them, I am a Hebrew, and I fear the Lord, the God of heaven, who made the sea in the dry land. Really? He fears God? I mean he's supposed to. He's a Hebrew. He's a prophet. But his actions isn't looking like a guy who fears God. In fact, who fears God? Seems like these semen, these pagan, superstitious semen, they fear God more than Jonah. In fact, in this story, the semen function kind of like a foil. I don't know if you've ever studied Mm story theory and that kind of thing. But you have different you have a protagonist, he's the main guy, the antagonist, he's the bad guy. And sometimes stories will have a foil. And this is the character who would you Contrast with another character, and you see, hey, this guy is doing what this guy should be doing. You kind of see a contrast. And here we see a contrast between Jonah and the and the semen. Jonah should fear God, but who is fearing God? These these pagan seamen. Jonah should have prayed to God, but who is praying? The seamen. Jonah Uh that Jonah should have feared doing wrong, but Jonah didn't fear doing wrong. These guys here, they're scared of throwing Jonah overboard because they didn't want to do the wrong thing. But here's Jonah. He doesn't care. He's callous. He's sleeping He says, I'm I fear the God who made the world, the land, the sea. He sure wasn't acting like it. How about us today? We say we fear God. We say we're godly, but do we truly fear Him Do we live our lives in respect to him? Do we live our lives as if we know that he is watching everything we do? The eye of the Lord is in every place, beholding the evil and the good. He sees everything. We see he sees the evil, the Ninevehes, their great sins. He sees the good. Jonah's supposed to be the good guy. He's doing the wrong thing. God sees, He knows Do we live like we truly believe God sees and knows? Beware if you do not fear God. Beware if you don't pray when things go wrong. Beware if you don't care of the consequences of sin. Beware if you don't care if what you do is right or wrong. These are signs of a hardened heart. And here was Jonah, a longtime follower of God, a prophet of God, who God had used falling into that trap. If Jonah can fall into that trap, you and I can fall in that trap today So here we have Jonah. He gets the command from God. God says, go to Nineveh, be a messenger of my mercy. And Jonah says, No way, I'm going the other way. Rebels against God. And what's God's response? God's response to Jonah. You might not think it's mercy. It says mercy on the screen, doesn't it? But what does God do? He sends a giant storm. That didn't seem like mercy And then there's a fish, a very, very large fish. How is that mercy? I mean Jonah doesn't get it. The first thing God sends, the storm did not get Jonah's attention. He's sleeping in the boat. Now, well, falling into the ocean and being swallowed by a fish, if that doesn't get your attention, there's something really wrong with you But that's what we have here, verse 10. Now the men were exceedingly afraid. And they said to him, Why have you done this? For the men knew he had fled from the presence of the Lord because he had told them. Then they said to him, What shall we do to you that this sea may be calm for us? For the sea was growing more tempestuous. And he said to them, Pick me up and throw me into the sea, then the sea will become calm for you, for I know that this great tempest is because of me Now I don't know how he knew that if you threw him in everything would become calm, but he's a prophet of God. And he was right. Verse 13. Nevertheless the men rode hard to return to land. They did not want to throw him overboard But they could not, for the sea continued to grow more tempestuous against them. Therefore they cried out to the Lord and said, We pray, O Lord, please do not let us perish. for this man's life. And do not charge us with innocent blood. For you, O Lord, have done as it pleased you. And I think they kind of thought, well we're all thinking anyway, he might as well be first. But they felt really bad about it. We don't want to throw him out So they picked up Jonah and threw him into the sea, and the sea ceased from its raging. Then the men feared the Lord exceedingly and offered a sacrifice to the Lord and took vows. Verse 17. Now the Lord had prepared a great fish to swallow Jonah. And Jonah was in the belly of the fish three days and three nights. And here's where the skeptics go crazy. Really? A big fish? A lot of people like the Bible. A lot of unbelievers like the Bible. Like a lot of good moral teaching by Jesus. A lot of inspiring stories of how God worked in the past, but they come to stories like Jodh and they go, hmm. That's a little bit too far. We're not buying that story. Really? A man swallowed by a fish? Or a man swallowed by a whale? That's what they always say Greatfish, whale, either one. That's hard to swallow is what I was gonna say. But that's but yeah. Oh what about that fish? I know, I don't think it looked like that. Some artists had a lot of fun there. But the Bible says that this is what it is. And the Bible is God's word. We've already seen that this story is set in history. This is not a myth We know when this happened. We know where this happened. This man Jonah, he's not just somebody somebody just wrote a fictional story about. He's mentioned in 2 Kings, which is a historical book We knew that this is a time when Nineveh was not doing as well and maybe they'd listen to uh a prophet of God coming there after all those plagues and and eclipse. The Bible's God's word. If God says there's a great fish that swallowed Jonah, we should believe what God says. says. Because once we start saying, well I believe this part but I don't believe that part. I believe this part but I believe don't believe that part, well You're kind of making yourself God. I'm going to decide, well, this part is from God, but this part's not from God. You put yourself above God's word. God's word is God's revelation of Himself, His revelation of truth. And God is the God who made, as it says here, heaven, who made sea and the dry land. He made great fish. He made whales. He made people. He's a God who does miracles. We should expect a God who has that kind of power to be able to do what he says he did. Could there be a fish that swallowed a man? You know, I personally don't want to test that theory. But if God said it happened, it did. In fact, you think about it, Jesus himself, he believed the story of Jonah. Matthew chapter 12, verse 40 says this. Jesus himself is talking to them, to the people of Israel. He says, For as Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the great fish, so will the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth. He's talking about his own death and resurrection. And Jesus said he he believed that that story was true. Do you believe the teaching of Jesus? You've got to believe the teach the story of Jonah. Because he confirms that this is something that God did. God's a God who does miracles. He's not just omniscient, knowing everything. He's not just omnipresent everywhere all the time. He's also omnipotent. And so putting people in fish and taking them out again, he can do that. What kind of fish? Now everybody wants to know this and I cannot I cannot definitively tell you what kind of fish this was. Now there's some different choices there. Some people have said, hey, it's a sperm whale and I'm told that sometimes they end up in the Mediterranean. That's a very large fish, although they eat Very small things, but you know, there's room in there for a guy. Um w we think about uh there's a basking shark. I I don't like the way he looks. Great white shark? Some A Pliny in Roman times talked about great white sharks being in the Mediterranean. I don't think they're there now, but I guess that's possible. Whatever it was, it was something they didn't chew much, just swallowed whole So anything with huge large teeth, I think m teeth might be out of it. It could be something that's distinct that we don't have today. We always assume if you can't find it today, but but this is like, you know, 2760 years ago, well, give or take It was very likely whatever it was could be extinct. In fact, there's a picture there at the bottom there of this giant unfortunately rotting a fish um that that they that they found in Eastport Maine in eighteen sixty eight. That that's a great bassing chart right there. There's also stories from the Roman times of a a sea dragon. I don't know if there were sea dragons, but once again, it could be something extinct We don't know what the fish was. And today we we classify people have these arguments that was it a whale, was it a fish, was it a whale, was it a fish. Back in their day they hadn't made that kind of classification between the mammals and everything everything like that, quite as quite as hard and fast as we have today. That really does not matter. This story is not about the fish. The story is about God who can do anything. A God who cares for his own people, Jonah, a God who cares for those who are far from him, the Ninevehes, a God who shows mercy to all. And a God Who shows mercy to us today? Here we have Jonah running from God, rebelling He knows it. He straight up says it to the seaman. I fear the Lord The God of heaven who made sea in the dry land. I'm fleeing from the presence of that Lord. He literally went out and said that And yet God showed him mercy. God's mercy was in that storm trying to get his attention. God's mercy. And that this fish is God's mercy. Here is a prophet of God, you know, he's really giving God kind of a he's not glorifying God at all. This is like the opposite of glorifying God. Here is a prophet of God directly disobeying God God could have just sent down the same lightning that Jonah wanted to go onto the Ninevehites. I mean now Jonah is getting in danger of that, but God didn't send lightning. He didn't have punished Jonah immediately. What did he do? He showed mercy. And when you think of the great fish in the story of Jonah, you should think of God's mercy. That fish was a second chance. That fish was God's long suffering. That fish was kind of like timeout for Jonah. Hey, you're gonna run from me? Nope. Send you to the bottomless sea. Think about things. And he did. Because you look at chapter 2 and you see this you see this psalm. Basically it's a psalm that that that Jonah writes And Jonah in that belly of that fish, he thought about things. He thought about his life choices. He thought about running from God And I'm not sure in the belly of that fish if he had a piece of paper and wrote this down. I I don't think so. And if he came out it would probably be really, really soggy. Uh I don't think he actually wrote this there. I think afterwards he summarized as he was writing the book of Jonah there. And notice Jonah writes his own book and he's not very Favorable to himself. He may put himself in a really bad light. But what does he do here? He tells what happens, and he writes down here, and he writes this psalm of the things that he was thinking inside that fish. And this psalm, this prayer. It's not just a prayer of repentance. It's more a prayer of thanksgiving for God's mercy. For God giving him a second chance. As he writes this this this poem here, verse uh chapter 2, verse 2, all the way to verse 9, it's it's it's a poem. He's quoting the Old Testament. He's quoting Psalms, a whole lot of them. In fact If we take a look here, I got a little chart here. Got Jonah, those are the verses of Jonah 2, Psalms that he has quoted or alluded to. This man knows his Bible, especially the book of Psalms. And from the belly of the whale, God heard his prayer. Jonah knew he should have died He says he's got weeds wrapped around his head. Look at the briefly at the prayer. He says, I cried out to the Lord. Actually, chapter 2 verse 1. Then Jonah prayed to the Lord. So he didn't pray on the boat. The seamen prayed. But now he's in the belly of the fish. Then Jodh prayed to the Lord his God. God got his attention. He prayed to the Lord his God from the fish's belly. And he said, I cried out to the Lord because of my affliction. And he answered me. Here's a guy in rebellion against God, going the wrong way, callous about it, willing to sleep during God's warning, and now he prays the guy, and what happens? God immediately answers Out of the belly of Sheol, I cried. You kind of say Sheol, another name for hell. He thought he was dying. He thought he was dead. And he knew he should have died. Out of the belly of the Sheol I cried, and you heard my voice. You cast me into the deep, into the heart of the seas, and the floods surrounded me. He should have died. All your billows, your waves passed over me. Then I said, I've been cast out of your sight. Yet I will look again toward your holy temple. Why does he have that opportunity? It's God's mercy. The waters surrounded me, even in my soul. The deep closed around me. Weeds were wrapped around my head. I went down to the moorings of the mountains. The earth with its bars closed behind me forever Yet you have brought up my life from the pit, O Lord my God. When my soul fainted within me, I remembered the Lord. And my prayer went up to you, into your holy temple. Those who regard worthless idols forsake their own mercy. There he sees it. God's mercy. He's here contrasting himself with the seamen who worshiped idols. But here they turn to God. They turn to God like Jonah does. God is a God who shows mercy. As he says in chapter 4, verse 2, he's a gracious and merciful God, slow to anger, abundant in loving kindness, one who relents from doing harm. So Jonah says in verse 9, but I will sacrifice to you with the voice of thanksgiving. I will pay what I have vowed. Salvation is of the Lord. He called on God. He thanked God for his mercy. What is mercy? Mercy is God not giving us something we do deserve. Jonah deserves the lightning to come, but instead God sent him a fish. Jonah didn't deserve more chances, yet God gave him a second chance. Mercy is God in love, withholding judgment for a time, giving opportunity to escape. God's long suffering and his forgiveness are outgrowths of his mercy. Today, the fact that we are believers in Christ, we are children of God, that's God's mercy. God could have punished us. Could have confirmed us to hell forever, and yet he didn't. He gave us time to hear the gospel. Time to consider the claims of Christ. Time to come to Him. And this morning, if you've not trusted Christ as your Savior, you're still alive. That's God's mercy. And today you have another chance. To stop running from him and to turn to him in faith. Jonah says this: salvation is of the Lord. It reminds me of a passage in 2 Peter. If you have your Bibles, turn to 2 Peter chapter 3. 2 Peter chapter 3. In 2 Peter there were scoffers, critics saying, Jesus said he was going to come back, but he's not back. Where is he? It's been a long time, and of course by now, 2,000 years later, it's been even longer time. And so Peter answers this question. 2 Peter chapter 3. We're not going to read the whole passage, but let's jump jump to verse verse uh nine. 2 Peter 3, verse 9. The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some count slackness, but is long-suffering toward us, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. If you look down a little farther, 2 Peter chapter 3, verse 15, and consider. This is verse 15. Consider that the long-suffering of our Lord is salvation. The long-suffering of God is salvation. What does he mean? It's the same thing that Jonah said at the end of his prayer, salvation is of the Lord. Why do we not see the wicked punished immediately? It's God's mercy. He's long-suffering to us, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. This morning, if you come to repentance and believe on Christ as your Savior, we should thank God for his mercy to us. Our salvation isn't because we are great, isn't because we are special. No, it's God's mercy. Deuteronomy chapter 4, verse 30 to 31 talks of God's mercy. It's talking God is talking to Israel. If they rebel against God, what will God do? Well, punishment will come. Kind of like with Jonah. The storm comes, the fish comes. When you're in distress, he says, and all these things come upon you in the latter days When you turn to the Lord God and obey his voice, for your God is a merciful God, he will not forsake you, nor destroy you, nor forget the covenant of your fathers which he swore to them God will not forget his promises, whether it be to Israel in the past or to us today. God keeps his word. He's not slack concerning his promises, but he's long-suffering. He wants us to turn to him. And that's what Jonah did. He was Jonah, already a child of God, yet running from God. God got his attention. And he repented. He experienced God's mercy. This morning we should thank God for his mercy as we humbly obey Obey him. We see God's command. God says, go. Jonah didn't go. He rebelled. Yet God showed mercy. This morning, are you running from God? If you're a believer in Christ, don't run. Is your heart becoming hard by the deceitfulness of sin? Are you giving lots of reasons in your head why it is you're not following God like you know you should Maybe you're like Jonah. You know a lot about the Bible. If you needed to write down a prayer, you could quote a whole lot of verses just like he did And yet your heart is not close to him. If that's you this morning, God in his mercy gives you a chance to repent. To turn from your sin. Repentance is not just for the moment of salvation. Repentance is for all of us. As we find that we're strayed. From God's path. We find that we're not following what God says. And God brings it to our attention and we and we realize, oh, I've sinned again. Repentance is turning, a change of mind that results in a change of action. I realize, hey, my the way I'm going now is wrong. I want to turn to God and do what He wants. Are you paying attention to what God has brought into your life? Sometimes God uses circumstances. In Jonah's life, the circumstances were rather extreme. A giant storm, and then the fish. But are there any big fish in your life, things that God has brought into your life. Maybe you think that that's not God's mercy. This is a problem. This is a trial. But maybe you're looking at it the wrong way. Maybe God is trying to get your attention and get you back on the path of His will. Don't harden Your heart. Ask him, Lord, what would you have me to do? Show me your will. And before you even, maybe you already know, but before you even know, determine that you're going to do what God wants you to do. In the story we see another thing now. We see God's mercy. God wanted to use Jonah to be an agent of his mercy. To some terrible people who let's agree with Jonah. They didn't deserve it. But that's how God works. God shows mercy. He shows grace to people who don't deserve it. And God wants to use us who are believers to be agents of His mercy, to take the gospel to those around us, or maybe beyond. Here we have an Old Testament story of missions. Jonah, a prophet of God, leaving his home country. And eventually, chapter 3, he's going to go across culture to the Ninevehes and proclaim God's message. God's still doing that today. In fact, he's doing it even more. That's his his method here in the church age to go into all the world, preach the gospel to every creature. We as Christians are agents of God's mercies. We're ambassadors for Christ. We beseech others. Be reconciled to God. Take advantage of God's mercy. Turn to Him. This morning, are you an active agent of God's mercy? Or you're kind of like Jonah. I'm too busy or I they don't deserve it. Or I don't know, I I'm gonna go the other direction because I'm I'm kinda shy about this now of course Jonah. His reasons we're a lot stronger than that, but are you an agent of God's mercy? Sharing the gospel with those around you? Are you looking for opportunities? God is a God who punishes sin. But right now is a time of mercy, a time to share God's mercy and love. In the story, we see God's character. We see the kind of God that he is. And we should be sharing with others about this wonderful God Yes, God is omniscient. Yes, God is omnipresent. He's he's uh he's He knows everything. He is everywhere. He can do anything. He is sovereign. We see this in the story over and over. He prepared this, the wind, the fish, eventually a plant and a worm. He's the creator. He's just. He notices sin and he will punish sin. But he's also merciful. Don't run from a merciful If you know Jesus as your Savior, thank Him for His mercy. And humbly obey Him Now, if you've never trusted Christ as your Savior, if you don't know, if you've never been a time in your life where you've you you've you've repented of your sins and turned to God for salvation If there's never been a time in your life where you said, Lord, I've been going my own way. I'm a sinner. And we all are. That's how we all start. We're all sinners, separated from God. We need salvation. The Bible says all we like sheep have gone astray. We've turned everyone to his own way. We're all sinners. We all deserve punishment. Punishment for sin, the Bible says, the wages of sin is death. I mean God could have the moment we sin send out a lightning we're talking about there immediately punish us. But he doesn't. Why doesn't he do it? It's not that we don't deserve it. It's His mercy. The Lord is long-suffering to us, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. This morning, have you come to repentance? Have you realized that you are a sinner? There's nothing you can do to save yourself God says, For by grace are you saved through faith. Not of yourself. It's a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. Our own good works do nothing to save us. We can't earn God's favor. We can't escape the punishment of our sin. There's only one way. And as Jonah says here in Jonah 2. 9, salvation is of the Lord. There is no other way. Acts 4. 12 says, Neither is there salvation in any other, for there's none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. There's only one way to God. That's Jesus. He died for you. He took your punishment for your sins on the cross. Instead of you dying and being separated from God forever, he took your place. And if you believe on him, he promises you everlasting life. This morning, are you running from everlasting life? Are you running from God's mercy? Don't allow your heart to remain hard against God. Today, admit your sin. Believe that Jesus loves you and died for you and rose again. The long-suffering of God is salvation. But there will come a time when that long-suffering comes to an end. All of us one day will die. This world will one day end, as 2 Peter 3 says. says. And then there will be no more chances. Today is the day of salvation. And if you've never trusted Christ as your Savior, I encourage you today to do that. Talk with me after the service. Talk with Pastor Jim. We'd love to take the Bible and show you and answer your questions about how you can know God, how you can be reconciled to Him, and how you can have eternal life. Let's pray. Dear Lord, thank you so much for your goodness to us, your mercy. We don't deserve it. And yet, you're waiting. Lord, thank you for that mercy. And Lord, help us not to harden ourselves against you. Sometimes we don't understand all you're doing I think Jonah uh to some extent didn't understand all you're doing and and the things that he did understand he didn't like. But Lord help us to trust your wisdom. You know what you're doing, you know what is best. Lord, help us to show mercy to others because you've shown mercy to us. Give us boldness to share your gospel And this morning, Lord, I pray if there's someone here who's never believed on you, I pray that they would accept your mercy, believe on Christ, and be saved from sin. In Jesus' name, amen. Where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. To have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon