Let's bow our heads together as we go to the Lord. Heavenly Father, we come this morning with grateful and thankful hearts. We're thankful for what you have done at the cross on our behalf. And Father, that we can rejoice this morning in the salvation that you have provided through your Son Jesus Christ. And Father, as we come to the time in which we are going to be listening and hearing your word, Father, may you help us to set aside all the distractions all the preconceived ideas that we have and all the noise of this week. May we be attentive. May your spirit be working in and through us. Lord, that we would be attentive to your word, and that we would desire to gain more knowledge and understanding from your word, that we may apply it in our lives. And Father, we thank you for the great love wherewith you have loved us. And may we be reminded this morning that without love we are nothing. One for another, our love for you, the greatest two commandments. And I pray, Father, as we receive your word this morning, that we would be reminded of your great love for us. And the love that we have for you. And we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. We're going to be reading from Romans chapter 7, verses 7 through 13. Romans 7. Verse 7 through 13. What shall we say then? Is the law sin? Certainly not. On the contrary, I would not have known sin except through the law. For I would not have known covetousness unless the law had said, you shall not covet. But sin, taking opportunity by the commandment, produced in me all manner of evil desire. For apart from the law, sin was dead. I was alive once without the law, but when the commandment came, sin revived and I died. And the commandment which was to bring life, I found to bring death. For sin, taking occasion by the commandment, deceived me And by it killed me. And therefore, law is holy, and the commandment is holy, and just and good. Has then what is good become death to me? Certainly not. But sin that it might appear sin. was pronouncing death in me through what is good, so that sin through the commandment might become exceedingly sinful. As we begin this morning, I'd like to ask you a question. Is conviction of sin, is it a good thing or is it a bad thing? Some churches that you go to, prep messages that you might hear, avoid any kind of topic of sin. or any kind of um approach to causing somebody to realize that they have sinned And yet we actually see in this passage that this is actually the very, the good purpose of the law. So we've been going through the book of Romans, and we have seen that in Romans chapter 6, verses, actually in chapters 3 through 5, the law can't save anybody You cannot look at the law of the Old Testament, the Mosaic Law, and follow it and expect it to save anybody And it can't sanctify anybody. You can't even grow in Christ by merely by keeping the law, according to chapter 6. And we aren't bound by the law, according to Romans chapter 7, verses 1 through 6, the Mosaic Law particularly, as we learned yesterday, or last Sunday, rather. Okay, so then what is the law good for? I mean Paul has talked so much about the law and what it can't do by this point The readers of this book, and even us as we as well as we readers, the original recipients of this book, might have been going, okay, Paul, are you against the law? Of course, you remember that there was a very large Jewish audience, Jewish Christians even, and those who were influenced by Jewish Christians that would have valued the law, and yet Paul is going over and over again throughout this book so far to determine to show what the law cannot do Jewish people of the day, the religious leaders, really believe that the law could actually cleanse from sin And yet, Paul is very clear that the law is not able to do that. And yet, is the law itself bad? And that's the question that's asked in the first verse of our text this morning, verse 7. It says, What shall we say then? Is the law itself, is the law sin? And he says, certainly not. The law itself is not bad. You talk to some Christians and and frankly the way that the way that people talk sometimes they say, oh well that's law as though the law is bad We read this morning in our in our call to worship that the law is perfect. We're not under the demands of the law because Christ has fulfilled the law, and yet the law itself is not bad. The law itself is not sin. It's really the combination of the law and sin that produces something that actually Ultimately is good. Take fire, for instance. How do you get fire? Well, you've got to combine three things. You've got to combine some sort of fuel and and oxygen and ignition of some kind, or heat. Really, really, really hot something, or ignition I think the best way to describe it would be ignition, oxygen, and fuel. You combine those two together and you get fire. If you take, you know, uh uh a gas can, a gas can in and of itself is doesn't do anything. But if you combine it with ignition and oxygen, then it produces a reaction that we would call a fire. And the combi a combination of the law and sin together, realized in the heart of an individual, produces what Paul is here going to call the con what we're going to see here is as the conviction of sin. And in that sense, the law is actually good. It's necessary. The law is a reflection of the character of God. And when we come up against the law and realize that we don't match up to the law, then it it should cause conviction in our lives. This is important, I'll just tell you, those of you who are parents of small children, your children, and anybody for that matter, cannot come to a place where they understand their need of a savior until they first understand that they are sinners. We cannot skip over that. We can't skip over the fact that people are born in sin. We can't skip over the fact that people are not cannot stand righteous before God because of their sin. And one of the things that we can do as parents, frankly, is to establish a clear standard of right and wrong with consequences for those right and wrong things. Why? So that they feel really bad about themselves. Yes. Not just that, but that they would be convicted of their sin, that they would realize their sin does not match up against a holy God. And it would cause them to realize their need of a savior. You cannot know the need of your Savior unless you know the need of you, unless you understand your own sin. So that although we talked last week about the fact that we see in in in previous verses, verse five, it says, for those who live according to flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh I'm sorry, verse five of verse seven of chapter seven. For when we were in the flesh, the sinful passions which were aroused by the law were at work in our members to bear fruit to death We understand that the law does this, and that we are not bound to the law. It says, but verse 6, but we now are delivered from the law, having died to what we were held by. That should not cause us to realize the value of the law. The law is good and right. We're going to see in the passage, it is holy. So the law combined with sin brings about conviction. So what does that look like? And we're going to see in this text four things. How does conviction take place? One, we're going to see that the law reveals sin. Then we're going to see in verse 8, the law arouses sin. We'll see then in verses 9 through 11 that the law revives sin. And finally, we'll see that the law magnifies sin in verses 12 through 13. It reveals sin, it arouses sin. it revives sin, and it magnifies sin. And in so doing, it causes conviction, or Paul will call it death. He's using the term death figuratively to produce what he's calling conviction. So first we're going to see that the law reveals sin, verse 7. What shall we say then? Is the law sin? Certainly not. We've seen this word before. Meganoita. May it never be. Certainly not. On the contrary, I would not have known sin except through the law. For I would not have known covetousness unless the law had said, You shall not covet. Paul has said before, for example, in Romans 5. 20, moreover the law entered that offense might abound. And so because he said things like this, the the they would have under they may have begun to think that Paul didn't think the law was ver valuable or it was somehow bad. No, no, the law is good, reflects the character of God. And has a very specific purpose. He says, never, may it never be. In fact, God is the source of the Mosaic Law. He's the source of it. And so it can't be bad. And throughout Romans 7, we're going to actually see several things. For example, Romans 7, verse 14. For we know that the law is spiritual. But I am carnal soul under sin. And verse seven chapter seven, verse sixteen, if then I do what I will not do, I agree with the law that it is good. And Romans chapter seven, verse twenty-two, for I delight in the law of God according to the inward man. And Romans chapter seven, verse twenty-five. I thank God through Jesus Christ our Lord, so then with my mind I myself serve the law of God, but with the flesh the law of sin. So, the Bible does not describe the Mosaic Law, the law of God. It doesn't describe it as sinful or wrong or inferior. No, the law reflects the character of God. But the law is demanding. We learned that last week. The law is demanding, and it reveals our sin. We see it actually produces, because it reveals our sin, it produces a curse. Galatians chapter 3 verse 13. Christ has redeemed us from the Curse of the law. It reveals sin, it produces, it brings a curse to us. And then Paul uses a particular example. If you go back to the Ten Commandments, many of the Ten Commandments are outward actions. Don't make of yourself a graven image. Don't do that. Don't steal. Don't with your lips bear false witness. Don't lie. But there's one particular commandment that is a heart commandment. Thou shalt not covet. And that is the particular commandment that Paul chooses to use as an example. Of how the law convicts. He says, I wouldn't have known sin except for the law and the particular commandment of covetousness. And what Paul is going to do is he's going to use this particular commandment, which would have would have appealed because it is one of the Ten Commandments to the Jewish audience or the partial Jew Jew Jew Jewish audience that he was he was speaking to. And yet he's pointing out something that I think is very important. It is the fact that the emphasis of even the Mosaic law is actually on the heart. Do you remember it Christ's Sermon on the Mount, where he says on the ser in the Sermon on the Mount that if he says the Bible says uh the law says you shall not murder But if you have hatred or anger in your heart, it is as though you have murdered. Or you cannot you shall not commit adultery, but if you look at a woman with lust in your in your heart, you committed adultery into her already. He takes those actions and he says there is a heart sin behind all of those actions. There is a sense in which that heart sin behind every one of those outward commandments is covetousness. And he says, thou shalt not covet. Now, in this heart command, I want us to realize that that was God's very condition intention from the very beginning. There is this This repeating or reciting of certain of a certain passage of scripture that the Jewish people from childhood all the way up would have recited. It is called the Shema. And part of the Shema came from Deuteronomy 6, verses 4 through 9. Listen to what it says in the Shema, which was recited Which was recited all the time by Jewish children growing up. Here, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. And you shall what? Make sure you obey all 613 commandments. No, actually what it says is you shall love the Lord your God. With all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your strength. And these words which I command you today shall be in your heart You shall teach them diligently to your children, and shall talk of them when you sit in your house, when you walk by the way, when you lie down, when you rise up You shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and that they shall be as frontlets between your eyes. You shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates. Now the truth of the matter is they took this very, very literally. They had phylacteries and all kinds of things that they actually did these things. But the point was that That it needed to be something that was in the heart, the love God with all of your heart and all of your soul and all of your strength. The commandment, don't covet, Exodus 30, 17, is exactly the opposite. You shall not covet your neighbor's house. You shall not covet your neighbor's wife, his male servant, his female servant, his ox, his donkey, nor anything that is your neighbor's Deuteronomy 5. 21 says basically the same thing. Don't covet, don't want what is not God, what God has not provided. Even if you go back to Adam and Eve, the very first people, the root problem was essentially God had provided what? All kinds of fruit. Eat of every tree in the garden. You're freely able to eat. But that one tree you cannot eat of it. And what do they want? The one thing they couldn't have. Are we any different? We always want what we can't have. And that's what happened. Covetousness kicked in there This word covet is then a very important, it's the only example he uses, and there's a reason for that. It really summarizes the heart violation of the law. This wanting what God has not provided. The word actually is translated in the book of Romans as lust most of the time. FIPMO. It's the idea of lusting. Romans chapter 1, verse 24, speaking of non-Christians It says, Therefore God also gave them up to uncleanness in the lusts of their heart. It's the same word, to dishonor their bodies among themselves. Romans 6. 12, therefore do not let sin reign in your mortal body, that you should obey it and its lusts. Romans 13, 14. But put on the Lord Jesus Christ and make no provision from the flesh to fulfill its lusts. The same word. It is wanting, it is lusting, wanting what God has not authorized us to have. It is actually the root issue frankly, uh uh in the world and uh among non-Christians. Ephesians chapter four verse twenty-two says that you put off concerning the former conduct the old man which grows corrupt according to the deceitful lust. It is something that corrupts us. Corrupts our hearts. Titus 3. 3. For we ourselves were also once foolish. Disobedient, deceived, serving various lusts and pleasures, living in malice and envy, hateful and hating one another. It is also lusting, covetousness, this idea is in opposition to the will of God. First Peter chapter 4, verses 2 through 3 say that it is no longer that that he no longer shall live. the rest of his time in the flesh for the lusts of men, but in contrast for the will of God. For we have spent enough of our past lifetime in doing the will of the Gentiles We walked in lewdness, lusts, drunkenness, revelries, drinking parties, and abominable idolatries. 2 Peter 2, verse 10. And especially those who walk according to the flesh in the lusts of uncleanness, and despite authority, they are presumptuous and self-willed. And then in the New Testament, this idea of covetousness is equated with idolatry. It's equivalent to idolatry. Ephesians chapter 5 verse 5 says, For this you know that no fornicator, unclean person, nor covetous man who is an idolater, has any inheritance in the kingdom of God, Christ and God. And Colossians 3 verse 5, therefore put to death your memb and uh put to death your members which are on the earth, fornication, uncleanness, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is Idolatry. See, covetousness is desiring what God has not provided and is against God's will. And that is really the root of all sin. What is sin? Sin is trespassing against what God desires. It's to miss the mark of what God wants, of his perfection. And so coveto covetousness is when we want what God doesn't want us to have And when we choose to want what God doesn't want us to have, we end up worshiping a different God. It's not temptation, and I want to make this distinction. The Bible is clear that there is a difference between temptation and the sin of covetousness. We can be tempted to want what God doesn't want us to have without dwelling on that temptation and choosing to truly want it. But when that temptation hooks us, as it says in James, when lust has conceived It brings forth sin. And sin, when it is finished, brings forth death. That word conceived is to hook, hook us. When that happens, we are guilty of covetousness. Have you ever been under that kind of conviction of sin? Have you realized that that what God focuses in on both the Old and the New Testament, his most important Important concern is a matter of motive. Are we teaching our children that? That what God most is concerned about is our motives? Is that something that we focus on? What is the motives of our heart toward God? What is it that we truly want? If we find ourselves wanting what God says we should not have, it should bring to us conviction. Well, how do we know what we shouldn't have? It's the Word of God. Word of God tells us over and over and over again. As we go to the law of God, as we go to what God says is is his reflects his character. We see things that we want that we should not have and we desire those things and we are guilty of this problem of covetousness. To the law reveals our sin, but it actually does more than that. Verse 8 is going to tell us that the law arouses our sin. Romans 7. 8 says, But sin, taking opportunity by the commandment, produces in me all manner of evil desire. For apart from the law, sin was dead. This is really interesting. He says that the law, that the sin rather, takes opportunity by the commandment. I think the commandment here is actually primarily talking about this desire, this lust, this covetousness. The commandment not to covet Produces in me all manner of evil desire. Do you see that in the passage? The command, don't covet, produces in me covetousness. The fact that I can't want what I want and what God doesn't want produces in me all I can start thinking of all kinds of things that I want that God doesn't want me to have. It's it means this opportunity is like it's like the base of operations, or in military terms, a beachhead Galatians chapter 5, verse 13 says, For you, brethren, have been called to liberty, only do not use liberty as an opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve one another. If you think of a in military terms of a group of soldiers taking the high ground because it gives them an opera a strategic opportunity to be able to get to a place where they're able to win the battle 1 Timothy 5 verse 14 says, Therefore I desire that young widows marry, bear children, manage the house, give no opportunity to the adversary to speak reproachfully. There's this possibility of an opportunity. The most uh I think famous illustration of a beachhead strategy was D-Day. Um I have a picture up there of that. And of course, if you'll recall the the turning point of the war was was D-Day when They finally the Allied powers finally took um took control and and what what happened? Well you have the British troops and the American troops and a little bit of Canadians. Um they all they all went on to the beachhead of Normandy led by Eisenhower and from there they established a stronghold and then you'll see from there They scattered all over the place from that point. So you have this beachhead, and then from there you they've established their center of operations and then all they then they then move into all kinds of different territories And that illustrates pretty well what sin does with the law. It creates a stronghold. Sin sees this law like Thou shalt not covet. You shouldn't covet. Don't want what you can't have, or what God doesn't want you to have. And then suddenly, as you the the the sin within you begins to think of all kinds of things that you want that you can't have. And there's this beachhead that occurs from all of this. Because let's put it this way, human nature, we know that if we can't have it We want it. Um Augustine in his confessions, you know, uh remember Augustine, he's a little bit Back in history there. Uh he said this. He he admitted that as a boy, he joined his companions in stealing pears. Not because he wanted to eat. He actually gave the, fed them the pigs. He just wanted the pleasure of disobeying the law. He wanted the pleasure of stealing. And so he stole the pears. Mark Twain said this. I said that if a mule thinks he knows what you want him to do, he will do just the opposite. And then Twain admitted uh he was like that mule. Often he says, I'm mean for the sake of meanness. That's the truth. We in our hearts, in our flesh, in our we want what we can't have, and there are all kinds of ways uh that we become we become sinful because Allah tells us that we shouldn't be. Uh I think one of the best illustrations is Pilgrim's Progress. I keep mentioning Pilgrim's Progress. You read Pilgrim's Progress. I mean it's just an excellent book. But I think I think uh he hits the nail on the head when um when Bunyan depicts law as a dusty the combination of sin and law and how it works when Christian goes into a goes into a room and he begins to sweep a dusty room. And as he sweeps the dusty room, the broom represents the law, and the dust represents sin. And as he sweeps that room to try to clean it with the law, he can't clean it. What's it do? It just it just kicks up all of the dust everywhere, and he's all he's almost asphyxiated by the dust. It's so great that it almost kills him in the process. He has to run out of the room That's the way the law is. You try to use the law to clean up your sin. No, you're gonna kick up just how much sin you have. That's, by the way, why it's so important actually to know the law so that you can see your sin. This is necessary for conviction of sin. I mean, before the law, we actually see in the passage what's going to take place here. The law then revives sin, verses 9 through 11. So how to do that? How does the law revive sin? Number one, it awakens sin The law awakens sin. He says, I was alive once without the law. What is Paul talking about when he says I was alive once without the law? Some people think that he's actually personifying Adam and Eve when he says this because they were without the law once and then Christ and then God gives them the law and then they violate the law. I don't think that's at all the case here. He speaks in great detail about his his personal experience with the law. But um So I don't think it's that. And I don't think also, frankly, we're talking about the fact that he didn't at one time actually have access to the law. As a good Jewish boy, he would have been very much confronted with the law So what is it talking about here? He's pointing out that he at one time, though he may have had access to the law and knew the law, at one time He had not had a sense of the demands of the law. He hadn't didn't have a sense by experience that he had violated the law. You know that's really true of all of us. We can be told over and over and over and over again, moms, you know this. You tell your kids over and over and over and over again. And they just sort of say, I'm sorry. Or maybe they don't even say I'm sorry. And you're like Don't you realize you did wrong? You've disobeyed me 5,000 times And and you don't realize you're you're wrong and you're like They're wrong. You ever experienced that sort of frustration? And they're taking it so lightly. Yeah, sorry mom, did it again. And you're like, no, this is a big deal. Us dads are the same way. We have the same same thing. I I I do this, you know. Um and yet and yet we're all this way. We have the law in front of us. We have access to it. We know it's there. But there's a sense that comes and and that sense comes where we're actually realizes that it it expects something of us Before that, he says, so he's saying, I was alive, I was free, I was alive without the conviction of the law. I didn't realize it was a demand of me. So he says, I was alive once without the law. But then he says, but when the commandment came, when he realized it, sin revived. And I died. Sin revived. It was kicked up. It was, I was aware of my own sin. I was aware of my own my own problem. My own guilt. And he said as a result, I he says I died. Now it's interesting, he didn't actually physically die, of course. It may mean that he realized that he was spiritually dead. It certainly at least means that something he realized something was not right between him and God. And that is true. Because of our sin, we are spiritually separated from God. So sin revived, and I died. So law awakens sin. But number two, the law combined with sin defies expectations. The law combined with sin defies expectations. Verse 10. And the commandment, which was to bring life, I found to bring death. See, that was what Jewish leaders, I'm sure, taught Paul as or Saul as he was a child. That's what the rabbinical writings actually said. That the law brings life. But as he began to realize the demand of the law on himself, he realized, no, actually. What I expected it to revive me, actually, it kills me. Romans 8. 4 says, that the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us who do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit, we cannot, according to the flesh, fulfill the righteous requirement of the law. And so though we expect this good, right law to to do right, it actually produces in us death. Romans 8. 10, and if Christ is in you, the body is dead because of sin. It's kind of like a Ponzi scheme You go to a, you're probably familiar with the Ponzi scheme is a quote, investor unquote, collects money from new investors and he gives it to old investors And then he does have to do it again and do it again. He never actually takes the money that he's collected and invests it invests it for the individual. He actually gives it to old investors to pacify them so that he has nothing for the new investor that's coming on And the new investor finally realizes that there's nothing there when the whole thing blows up. And it's called a Ponzi scheme. We uh we Paul apparently for a time is like investing in the law. He's He's investing in in the the the and expects the law to bring life and to bring bring satisfaction and for a while it's almost as though it does. But when the when he realizes that he cannot Keep up with the law. When he realizes he cannot meet the demands of the law, the very he it actually it defies his expectations because it doesn't bring life, it brings death And then finally, of course, verse 11, it deceives. The law and sin deceives. Verse 11, we see, pick up here, it says for sin, taking occasion by the commandment, deceived me, and by it killed me. Now the question is Let's think through this a bit. How did this occur in Paul's life? Well, we have help with this in another passage of scripture that's going to help us. In Philippians chapter 3, and I have it up there. You could turn to it as well, verses 2 through 8. But in Philippians chapter 3, we actually have an example here of of how this occurred in the life of Paul before he was he was actually Saul. Notice what it says in that passage, Philippians chapter two, uh three, verse two, beware of dogs, beware of evil workers. Beware of the mutilation, for we are the circumcision who worship God in spirit, rejoice in Christ Jesus, and have no confidence in the flesh. And then he says this He's talking about before he came to Christ, before he was a Christian, he says, though also m I might have confidence uh Though though I also may might have confidence in the flesh, if anyone else thinks he may have confidence in the flesh, I more so. Circumcised the eighth day, of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of the Hebrews, concerning the law of Pharisee, concerning zeal persecuting the church, concerning the righteousness which is in the law, blameless, he says But what then he then there's a change verse 7. But what things were gained to me, these I have counted loss for Christ. Yet indeed I also count all things lost for the excellence of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and count them as rubbish, that I may gain Christ. So what happens here? Paul at one point realized thinks he's pretty good. Not pretty good, really good. Like he's blameless. Like you look at the demands of the law, and he matches up to the demands of the law. He circumcised the eighth day of the tribe of Benjamin. He's got all the pedigree. He's got he does everything right all the time. It's sort of like the rich young ruler. Christ a lists a bunch of commandments, and the rich young ruler says, I've kept all of those since my youth See, it is possible that the law can deceive you in such a way that you actually think that you have followed everything. And that's what's happened in his life. Self-righteousness is a deception of the law. If I feel like I've actually accomplished everything, some people they're like, I blew it a long time ago, I can't do it, forget it. Like they see the law, self-righteousness is not an issue. I'm not even going there. But there are some people that they work really, really hard and they try to follow everything possible, and so in their minds, they are really, really good They are so good that they don't need anything or anybody. Really what happens practically, not in Paul's case, in Paul's case he he knew all 613 commandments. And he followed them. Uh he was, according to this text, blameless. But a lot of times what people do they they actually adjust their morality to match themselves. So so in other words, they they they think they're pretty good and they sort of they might know all of the Ten Commandments, for example, and it And they start thinking about them and yeah, I don't follow that one or that one. So what do they do? They reduce it down so that they match it. They adjust the law rather than realizing that they don't they fail in the law. So it does deceive through self-righteousness. But he says when he realizes it He realizes this his own self-righteousness, it killed him. In other words, he's talking about the fact that he realizes his own separation before God. When he says it killed, he's not talking about physically killed. He's saying he realized when he could not meet the demands of the law, it's called conviction. When he was convicted by sin of his own sin because that he could not meet the demands of the law, particularly the succumbers one, then he realized he would fail Martin Lloyd-Jones makes five applications, which I'm going to briefly mention to you on this because I think they're really, really helpful to bring this down back to reality. Help us to understand how this is really relevant for us. Number one, he says a person's spiritual state and condition must not be determined by actions only. See, if you think that you're good enough because you've got the right actions, you've missed the point. See, Paul says it's the it's the covetous, it's the heart issue that's the problem. We fall into this sort of trap. Non-Christians fall into this trap, and frankly, Christians fall into this trap that thinking they're fine. Their heart, their motives, everything is rotten under here. But because everything's good on the outside, we're fine. We're focused on our actions rather than the heart. Number two, the measure of our sinfulness is the measure of our resistance to the holiness of God. He used the illustration of weight lifting weights. If you want larger muscles, if you want your muscles to grow, what do you do? You lift weights, you create resistance, you actually break down the muscles so that they grow more. And when you go up against the law, It actually creates it grows sin. When your sin goes up against the law, it will create resistance against the law, and your sin will grow. The law is helpless to help you with your problem of being of not measuring to the holiness of God. Number three, obligation does not equal ability. Obligation does not equal Yes, we're obligated to the law before Christ, but we are not, we do not have the ability. There's some people who say, well, God wouldn't God wouldn't require of me something that I can't do. And so they assume that they have to sort of interpret the law the way that makes it work that they can do it. No, no. The law shows us the character of God and that we cannot and that we just simply fall short. And then there is no state which is more dangerous than to feel we are not sinners, he says. And that there is no sin in us. You ever feel that way? That there's not sin in you. That is a dangerous place, state to be. And finally, the first sign of spiritual life is to feel that you are dead. Catch this. The first sign of spiritual life is to feel that you are dead. What does he mean by that? See, in order for us to truly come to Christ, we have to understand that we are spiritually dead. How do you understand that you are spiritually dead, that you are separated from God? It is when you come under the conviction of sin That you realize you are spiritually dead. That's the first step to actually being spiritually alive. So in summarizing all of this, we now move to verses 12 through 13. The law ultimately magnifies sin. Therefore, it says verse 12, the law is holy and the commandment holy, just, and good. After all of this, Paul now reminds everybody of what the law is. Number one, it's holy. It's separate from sin. Don't conflate sin and the law. Don't think that they're the same thing because the law is holy. It's separate from sin. So when we think of the law, combined with sin, it brings conviction. But understand that the law and sin are separate. Number two, the law is just. He said, not only does the law holy, the law is just. It is equitable. It doesn't play favorites. It is fair in its expectations. And you say, how is that possible? All 613 commandments of the Old Testament? That's fair? Yes. Because that reflects the character of God And so God is not unjust in imposing the law on us. It's holy, it's just, and it's good. But how is it good? It's good because it shows us who we really are. It's good because it shows us our state. The problem is sin, not the law. Notice what it says in the passage. Has then the good, has then what is good become dead to sin, dead to me? Certainly not. But sin, that it might appear sin was produced death was producing death in me through what is good. So it creates in me a conviction of sin, so that sin through the commandment might become exceedingly sinful. See, the commandment is so right, it's so good, it's so holy that when sin matches up to it, It contrasts in such a way that it clearly defines it and magnifies it so that it becomes exceedingly sinful. If you compare your sin to somebody else's sin, it's not going to appear very sinful. If you compare your sin to the guy down the street, if you compare your sin Hey, I'm pretty good. And there's a lot of people that that's the way they do it. They they look around at themselves and they say, you know, I'm pretty good compared to I think siblings do this. Well, you know, compared to that sibling over there, I'm pretty good I I I do pretty good better compared to my sister or that brother that I got. I'm doing pretty good. That's not the that's not the standard The standard is the law of God. The standard is the holiness of God. And when we compare ourselves to the character of God, we are sinful and sinners. Galatians chapter 3 verse 19 says this. What purpose then does the law serve? It was added because of transgression. Is the law then against the promise of God? Certainly not. For if there had been a law given which could have given life Truly, righteousness would have been given by the law. But Scripture has confined all under sin. that the promise of faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe. See, the law fails to be able to cleanse To be our Savior, the law can only show us our sin. And yet it is so important. Conviction of sin is utterly necessary in order for us to truly come to Christ. Charles Hodge said it this way. The law, although it cannot secure either the justification or sanctification of men, performs an essential part in the economy of salvation. It enlightens conscience and secures its verdict against a multitude of evils, which we should not otherwise have recognized as sins. It arouses sin, increases its power, and making it both in and of itself and in our consciousness exceedingly sinful It therefore produces the state of mind which is a necessary preparation for the reception of the gospel. Conviction of sin, that is, an adequate knowledge of its nature, its sense of its power over us. is an indispensable part of evangelical religion. Before the gospel can be embraced as a means of deliverance from sin, we must feel we are involved in corruption. And misery. And so I asked you this question this morning. Have you ever truly experienced conviction of sin? Is there a time that you can look back in your life and you could say, yes, I felt as though I was involved in corruption and misery? I remember that time where I realized that I fell short of the glory of God. I realized a time where There was nothing I could do to save myself. I realized I was in separation from God. I realized I was not rightly related to God. I realized I had no relationship with Him. And I experienced the weight of guilt. Like Pilgrim and Pilgrim's Progress, who had this weight of sin on his shoulders and he was trying to do all kinds of things to get it off. Have you experienced the weight of your sin? If you never have, then you don't really know Christ as your Savior. Understand that you must understand that your sin separates you from God in order to be saved. There might be somebody in this room. Who you think you've yeah, I I grew up as a Christian. I grew up in church. I, you know, I I trusted you may even said you trusted Jesus as your Savior. But you never really understood that your sins separated you from God. You never understood commandments like you should not want what God doesn't want for you, and that you are guilty before God. You never realize that you are unable to accomplish the righteousness of the law on your own. You never realize that you can't stop sinning. And so you've never actually truly come to Christ. If you're like that this morning, I mean you think of yourself, uh-uh, I'm a pretty good person. Well, you might be compared to everybody else, but you're not compared to God. And that's the standard. He's the standard. And you are not in right relationship with God until you realize your sin And you're convicted of your sin, the weight and the guilt of your sin, so that you can be saved. Have you ever been under the genuine conviction of sin? Number two, do you realize that you are powerless to fix it yourself? Do you realize that you are powerless to fix that sin problem? yourself, just like the Apostle Paul was in this passage. He realized he was alive but uh without the law. But when the law came, he was he realized his sin revived and he died. He He was powerless to fix it himself. Will you turn to God for repentance this morning? We turn to God in true repentance and say, Lord, I realize I'm a sinner. I realize that I cannot follow after You, I cannot keep the law perfectly. I can't I I fall short. I can't stop doing wrong. I can't stop sinning. Truth is, you need Christ, who came and lived a perfect life. And as he lived a perfect life, He fulfilled all of the demands of the law. He did what we cannot do. He lived the life we cannot live And when he went to the cross as a perfect, sinless son of God, he took our sin on himself. died in our place, experienced the death, the separation from God himself, took our punishment on himself. So that if we'll accept that by faith, what he did for us, he'll give us his righteousness. So that we can be saved. If you're here this morning and you skipped the very important uh process of realizing your sin and realizing that you cannot save yourself Let me encourage you to come and talk with me after the service. Or talk with somebody else that you're comfortable with. We'll be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you will spend eternity with the Lord, that you can have the righteousness of Christ applied to your account So that you can be alive in Christ, so that you can be right with God. And I do have another application here for us, Christian. When we are interacting with other people, and certainly with people that we have a spiritual influence on, our children. Are we helping them to come to a place of conviction of their own sin? This is antithetical. This is in opposition to what the world would tell us to do, just so you're aware. The world says that your you need to build up your child's self-esteem. And I'm not saying that you don't show your child how to appreciate what God has given them as his creation. There is that. He is all are made in the image of God. But we cannot do that so much to the exclusion that a child doesn't realize that he stands guilty or she stands guilty before God. And the way that we do that is that we have a clear standard of right and wrong in our homes that causes our children to realize that if they violate it, there is a punishment. And over time they realize that they are sinners. We can never convict somebody of sin. The Spirit of God does that. But we can set up the law. So that they realize their sin. And if we are not setting up a law so that our children realize our their sin, or teenagers realize their sin. then we are shortchanging them because that's how uh an awareness of sin occurs And as we are interacting with others. Of course, we have to be very careful here as we interact with others and present the gospel to others. In no way do we ever want to somehow Cause people to think that they are sinners more than we are. Or they are somehow more sinful than we are, or we are somehow righteous and they're not. No, no. But in our personal testimonies, as we present the gospel to others, as we have opportunity, do we emphasize our own personal sin? Do we emphasize that we were guilty before God, that we understand that we are guilty before God? Do we emphasize the righteousness of God, the righteous standard of God? Those things are critical to helping somebody understand their own sin and their need of a savior. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you this morning and we thank you for your word. We thank you for the truth of this text that teaches us that the law is good and holy and righteous. It reflects your character and it shows us our sin. And if there is anybody here this morning that doesn't know you as their savior, Maybe they've lived a religious life, maybe they've lived a good life compared to others. They're really good good people. But they've wanted what you have not wanted them to have. They are guilty just as I am guilty, we are all guilty of covetousness. Lord, would you cause them to realize their own sin this morning? They're in need of a savior. Would you save someone this morning according to your will? And Father, we pray, Lord. That you would help us to understand the truths of your word, the truth of the law. the righteousness of the law. And we also want to thank you this morning as we learned last week that as Christians we thank you that we are freed from the demands of the law that we could never meet up to. We would never be able to follow all of those demands. And we thank you, Lord, that we are free from the demands of the law this morning. That frees us to love you and frees us to love others, frees us to follow the law of Christ. And we pray, Lord, that you'd help us to do just that. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Gannam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon. Hello, my name is Jim Gannam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God. according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone. or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, Or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon