Good morning. Aren't you glad this morning that God loved us in spite of But let's go ahead and bow our heads and go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we come this morning definitely with gr glad hearts, Lord, with thankful hearts Thankful for the love that you have shown us through your Son, Jesus Christ. Father, we're glad for your mercy and for your grace. We are glad for the salvation you have provided for us. And we are thankful this morning, so thankful that you have allowed us this privilege and this joy to be a part of your great kingdom. And Father, we thank you also this morning that we have your word. And Father, as we come to that time this morning when we are going to be looking into your word I pray that, Father, you would help each one of us to set aside all the cares and the concerns and the noise. From our life this week and help us to concentrate upon what we hear coming from your word this morning. May you grant Brother Jim, grant him the clarity of thought and speech as he brings forth Your word, Lord. And I pray this morning for those who are unable to be here. Some are traveling, Lord, and some are not doing well, and some are unable to get out because of other circumstances. And Father, we just lift them up to you and pray that you will bless them this morning through your word and that they would be encouraged and strengthened in their faith. And Father, we ask now, as we come to your word, help us, Lord, to be attentive and may your Holy Spirit do its work. mighty work in our hearts that we will be changed a little more differently as we walk out than when we came in. And we ask in Jesus Jesus' name. Amen. We're going to be in Romans chapter 5 this morning, verses 1 through 11. And I need my glasses. Therefore, having been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Through whom we have access by faith into this grace in which we stand and rejoice in hope of the glory of God. And not only that But we also glory in tribulation, knowing that tribulation produces perseverance, and perseverance character, and character hope Now, hope does not disappoint, because the love of God has been poured out in our hearts by the Holy Spirit, who was given to us. For when we were still without strength in due time, Christ died for the ungodly. For scarcely for a righteous man will one die. Yet perhaps for a good man someone would even dare to die. But God demonstrates his own love toward us, and that while we were still sinners Christ died for us. Much more than having now been justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him. For if when we were enemies, we were reconciled to God through the death of his son, much more, having been reconciled, we shall be saved by his life. And not only that, but we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received reconciliation. This is, I will tell you that. Is a passage that I hope will be that we'll really grasp the truths of it. Because if we do, it will it could be life-changing. The gospel is intended To give us certain guarantees. And if we have accepted the gospel, if we are possessors of the gospel, then we can enjoy and embrace those guarantees. But there is a big difference between, sometimes there is a big difference between possessing something and enjoying something. Is it possible for you to own something, but never to enjoy it? Is it possible for you to have something in your possession, but never to really appreciate its value? Of course it is. If you can imagine somebody coming to you and giving you a deed to a house, they hand it over to you. You look at it and you say, you're giving me a deed to the house And you never actually go to the house. And why don't you go to the house? You own the house, it's in your name. Maybe it's because you don't really believe it. People don't just give away houses. That doesn't happen. So maybe the problem is you're really struggling with whether or not you really own the house that is named, the address that is named on that deed. Or perhaps you never go to it because you don't think it's all that big a deal. You don't think it's a house like that. You think it's some shack that somebody didn't want anymore. And so you never actually go into the house to see all of the different facets of, in this case, a mansion. So you can own something, but not appreciate it. You can own it, but not really But not really enjoy it. I want you to notice in this passage that the passage is telling us that we are justified. If you know Christ is your Savior, by faith, you have been justified. First phrase of the passage, chapter 5, verse 1, therefore having been justified by faith. But then would you notice also in chapter in verse 11, chapter 5, it says We also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ. In verse 1, it says, we are justified by faith. You have been declared righteous by God. That's what justification means. But the end of this passage, if we are able to work through the passage and enjoy the passage and see the facets of the passage. all of these guarantees of justification, these benefits of justification, it will land us in a place where we are actually able to enjoy God. See, if I ask you this morning, do you know Christ? Most of you would say, yes, I know Christ. But if I asked you this morning, do you enjoy God? I suspect there would be less hands raised. So it is possible to possess something and yet not really appreciate it or enjoy it. This passage is going to teach us. the import the importance of and the benefits and the guarantees of the salvation, the justification that if you know Christ as Savior, you possess. One of Satan's tactics, one is most common tactics is to cause us to question whether or not we have really truly been declared righteous by God. People struggle with their assurance They struggle with whether or not this really is true. Do I really have a relationship with God? This is why Ephesians chapter 5, verse 17 says, and take the helmet of salvation. The sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. You have to take on the helmet of salvation. You have to apply salvation. You have to realize that you have been declared righteous by God. You have been saved. 1 Thessalonians 5. 8 says, But let us who are of the day be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love and the helmet of the hold. Hope is in this passage, the hope of salvation. The sense of security, the sense of purpose, the sense of identity that we can have Because of our salvation, we don't necessarily have unless we are appreciating our salvation the way that God desires us to. This passage is going to help us to do that because it teaches us how to rejoice in the amazing guarantees of our salvation. We're going to see this in three different phases here in this passage. We're going to see, first of all, we're going to see the present benefits of our salvation. In fact, we'll spend most of our time here in verses 1 through 5. the present benefits of our salvation. We will then see the secure foundation of our salvation. It's not dependent on us at all. It's entirely dependent upon Christ. And we'll see that. And finally, we'll see the future promise. of salvation. The present benefits, the secure foundation, and the future promise. of our salvation. Let's then get into the present benefits of our salvation. I'm going to tell them to you up front, and then we're going to work, we're going to work our way through them. In this passage you see essentially four benefits in verses one through five. You see the benefits of peace, access, hope, and love. Four benefits. Peace, access, hope, and love. Now I think that in order for us to really if you look at those believe it or not the word peace there that first benefit is something that is objectively true we're going to learn about this a little bit more it's not actually that sort of I got peace like a river in my soul song. It's not that. Okay, it's not really an emotion. In this passage it means something different. Now sometimes the word peace in the New Testament means It means that means something like that. But here it's not any kind of sentimentality. It's not an emotion. It could lead to an emotion, but it's not an emotion. It has to do with the fact that we were in hostility before God because of our sin, and now we have been brought into peace with God, and we'll see more of that. You have to understand that, and based on that, you then have access to the grace of God, which we will say in the passage. the grace in which we stand. And when you are standing in the grace of God that you have access to because of the peace, that you that you possess because of who you are in Christ, then you will be be you will have hope. But the hope is different than the hope we usually think of, and we'll see that in a few minutes as well. And the most experiential of all of these, the most uh spiritual, or not spiritual, but experiential of all of these is love. The passage is going to say that the Spirit of God pours out his love on us. The benefits, the present benefits, the benefits that you can enjoy. Why? Because you have been justified. You have been declared righteous by God. Let's look at these four benefits, see how they work together. Let's begin by looking at peace. It says In the passage, having been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. I've already mentioned that this kind of peace that we're talking about here in this passage, in this context, doesn't really have uh, it's not really talking about a feeling. Not talking about a sense of calm. It's referring to the fact that we were at enmity with God, the Bible says. We were enemies of God, completely separated from God. Before we came to Christ, before we were declared righteous, the Bible calls it that they were in hostility against God And then because we are declared righteous, we are now at peace with God. Very similarly to, if you could imagine, like Russia and Ukraine, who are right now, there is hostility between them. And they come into an alliance with each other where they're they are at peace with uh each other. Or um or Israel and some of the the Palestinian nations, they they're at hostility with each other. And they come into peace with each other. That's this idea that we are at peace with God. Romans 5, 10 says, For if we were enemies We were reconciled to God through the death of his son. Much more, having been reconciled, we shall be saved by his life, which we'll see, we'll look at that passage later on. Jesus said to the Pharisees, he said, that you are of your father the devil, and the desires of your father you want to do. When we are born, we are born with a sin nature. We are born separated from God. We are born at hostility because of our sin against God And so God has brought us through His just through justification into a place of unity with God. Ephesians 3, 2. 2 explains this very well in verses 14 through 18. It says in that passage, for he himself is our peace. He is our peace Who has made both one and has broken down the middle wall of separation, having abolished in his flesh the enmity that is the law of commandments contained in ordin ordinances so as to create in himself one new man from the two, thus making peace, and that he might reconcile them both to God in one body through the cross, thereby Putting to death the enmity, he came and preached peace to you who were far off and to those who were near For through him we both have access by one spirit to the Father Now folks, the reason that this is so important to establish that we are, if you know Christ as Savior, you have been declared righteous by God, you are at peace with God is that sometimes we don't feel like it. Right? Sometimes we feel like God is distant from us. Like There's actually more dissonance with us. There's more hostility between us and God than there is there is unity between us and God. We struggle. Is God okay with me? Is God accepting of me? These are the kinds of questions that we ask ourselves. And too often our relationship with God is based upon what we feel instead of what is true from what God's Word says. We must start here. We must understand That regardless of what you feel, if you have truly been declared righteous by God, and we've taken multiple chapters to understand how you come to that place, you are at peace with God. And that is important for us to understand. Now, that objective piece, that positional peace that we have, does it can Cause in our spirits, in our hearts, a sense of subjective peace. The word peace here is not that that is not talking about that, but certainly when we know we are truly at peace with God We can say with Paul later on in Romans chapter 8, for I am persuaded that neither death nor life nor angels nor principalities nor powers are things present nor things Nor height, nor death, nor any other created thing shall be able to separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. That position of peace with God causes us to be able to be secure in Christ. That's the foundation of the present benefits that we have. But that foundational place that we find ourselves in when we know Christ is our Savior and we have been declared righteous. by God leads us to having access. Notice what it says in verse 2. Through whom we also have access by faith into this grace in which we stand. Ephesians 2. 18 says it this way, for through him we both have access by one Spirit to the Father. The opposite of this access we find clearly in the Old Testament. If you go back to Moses and his interactions with God and uh God's interactions with him on on behalf of the nation of Israel, you're going to find things like there was a thick cloud between the presence of God and the people of God. Exodus 19. 9 says this, Behold, I come to you in a thick cloud that people may hear and speak with you and believe you forever. God desired for his presence to be there, but there could not be open access to God If Exodus 19 says it this way, then the Lord came down upon Mount Sinai on the top of the mountain, and the Lord called Moses to the top of the mountain, and Moses went up. And the Lord said to Moses, Go down and warn the people lest they break through to gaze at the Lord, and many of them perish. Open access to the presence of God meant that people would die. So you have the whole sacrificial system in the Old Testament. You have all of the of the tabernacle and the Shekinah glory, the presence of God in the tabernacle, and later on in the temple, and you have this veil, this thick veil that is between the the the holy place and the most holy place. And once a year the high priest would go in and he would have he would go into the presence of God in the most holy place through that sick veil so that he had access to the Shekiah glory of God. And there was actually provisions made in case he was not atoned for correctly A rope was attached to him so that he could be pulled out. Why? Because there God is holy and there is not access between man and God. the way there is now. Paul realizes this. He's saying this to a crowd that some of which are Jewish people And they understand when he says we've got access, this is something that is amazing to them and should be frankly amazing to us that because God has declared us righteous we have open access to God. It's amazing. Matthew 27, 51 says, Then behold, the veil of the temple was torn in two top to bottom at the death of Christ. And the earthquaked and the rocks were split. The veil was opened in two because Christ died for us. And so Hebrews tells us this. Chapter 10 verses 19 through 22. Therefore, brethren, having boldness, that word means openness. having boldness to enter the holiest by the blood of Jesus, by the new and living way which he consecrated for us through the veil that is his flesh and having a high priest over the house of God and it says this now because of this Let us draw near with a true heart, a full assurance of faith, having a heart sprinkled from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with pure water. This vivid imagery from this passage was understood immediately by its Jewish-believing readers, which under they understood that that the the sprinkling and the bodies washing was all sort of a reference to the Old Testament purification so that there would be access to God, and yet that is entirely unnecessary now because of the death of Christ and what he did on the cross for us. breaking that middle wall of partition, allowing us to have access to him. The access that we have is by faith. It is because of the faith that we have in him. And it is particularly the access into the grace. What do we have access to? We have access to the grace. of God. Of course we know that grace is unmerited favor. And the fact is that you and I would not have access if we didn't have the grace of God. Grace is necessary for access because of our sin. Romans 5. 20 says it this way. Moreover, the law entered that the offense might abound. But where sin abounded, listen to this, grace abounded much. more. See, this is the benefits of being declared righteous. This is incredible. It's wonderful. It's amazing. Grace abounded much more. We live in our sin. As Christians, we stand in our sin and we say We say I don't have this assurance that I'm uh God might be mad at me, there's something wrong, and yes, of course, in our fellowship with God, we need to have clear, clean fellowship with God and confess our sin before Him But we need to understand that the very foundation of our relationship with God is that we have peace with God. And we have access to the grace of God. And notice in the passage, it says, grace in which we stand. This grace, Titus 2, 11 through 14 says this, for the grace of God that brings salvation is appeared to all men. If we're standing in the grace of God, this is what happens. It teaches us. That denying ungodliness and worldly lust we should live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present age, looking for the blessed hope, which we're going to see in a minute again, and the glorious appearing of our great God and Savior. Jesus Christ, who gave himself for us, that he might redeem us from every lawless deed and purify for himself his own special people, zealous for good works. Now this word interstand is an interesting word. It's used also in 1 Corinthians 15, verse 1. Moreover, brethren, I declare to you the gospel which I preach to you, which also you received, and in which you stand. We need to stand in the grace of God. A few months ago, um Most of you know this, that I I live in that the house I live in, the house I own now, my family has owned it. I'm I thought about it as like 35 years we've owned the house. The house is almost a hundred years old. And so, you know, something's always falling apart on it basically. It's just the way house is and homeownership is, as you all know that, those of you own the houses. But in Anyway, so so a few months ago, actually my wife noticed this before I did, which is not surprising to anybody, but she noticed in the back of the house that the post we have this little deck that was there before my family came So it's at least 35 years old. There's this deck, this small deck on the back of our house, and uh and it had posts, four by four posts, basically, I think it was two four by four posts. And uh it had uh uh a ledger uh on you know that it should have had and all that. But the at the bottom of the post it was rotting. And we had built a structure on top of this little deck because we wanted to house our firewood because we like to burn wood in the wintertime to save money on oil. And so we had built this structure on it on top of the of the deck. Um that in uh it's kind of funny how you know you start off having a a certain idea and then you build it and And you know, by the time we were done, that it was one heavy structure. It had T111, for those of you who know that is, that's a very that's a pretty heavy wood. And you had a roof on top of it as well. So there's a lot of weight on that. So Elizabeth goes, is that a problem? With these with these uh with these uh this rotted wood uh at the with these two posts and I was like, yeah, that's a problem. So I'm looking at my what am I gonna do with this Well, we've it's it's it's dealt with we uh it's dealt with now, uh thankfully. But the reason that this was a problem was because the the it was pressure treated wood, I think It wouldn't have even lasted 35 years if it wasn't pressure-treated wood. It was in dirt. It was standing in dirt. Frankly, any wood Even if it's pressure treated, if it's standing in dirt will eventually rot. It may take longer than, you know, normal will take a lot longer than normal wood. But it's going to rot eventually if it's standing in wood. That's why they have this stuff called cement. And if you actually have it standing in cement all the way up to the top then the wood will not rot inside the cement. Clearly the person that built this thing didn't I don't know. They probably just didn't care honestly. But anyway It matters what you stand in, is the point. And what the passage is telling us is that we need to stand in the grace of God. See, there's all kinds of things we can stand in. We can stand in our circumstances. Stand in our circumstances. And you know what? If you stand in your circumstances, you're going to have all kinds of problems Standing in your circumstances, having your footing in your circumstances, it's going to be different every single day. Things change. It's not going to be nothing ever stays the same with circumstances. You are going to be totally unstable. Even people's, other people's perceptions about you, sometimes we stand in those, don't we? We stand in other people's perceptions about us. What other people think of us. I don't want anybody to think bad of me. And we stand in that. Boy, that is that's like standing in dirt. Or um in our emotions, what we're feeling. Boy, that is a really that's like standing in really, really loose sand See, what God says is that we need to stand in the grace of God. This is what God desires for us to stand in. 2 Timothy 1, verse 12 says this. For this reason I suffer these things. Nevertheless, I am not ashamed, for I know that I have believed and am persuaded that he is able to keep what I have committed to him until that day. Romans 8, 31 through 34 says, What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? Standing in the grace of God? What does that look like? It looks like this He who did not spare his own son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not with him also freely give us all things? Who shall bring a charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies. Who is he who condemns? It is God who died and Christ who died. And furthermore is also risen, who is even at the right hand of God, who also makes intercession for us Jude 24 says it this way, now to him who is able to keep you from stumbling, to present you faultless before the presence of his glory with exceeding joy. And when we are standing in the grace of God, we are able to do what Hebrews 4, verse 16 says. Let us therefore come bold. There's that word boldly again in Hebrews, which means openly. We've got opened access to the grace of God so that we can come openly before the grace of God that we may obtain mercy and find Do you see a lot of grace in there? Grace to help in time of need. How do you stand in the grace of God? You come before God in prayer, open your heart before Him, and receive grace. And help in time of need. Do you see how these are benefits of being declared righteous by God? The next benefit in this passage is hope. Don't we need hope today? Do you ever find in your life as a Christian event that you feel a little hopeless the circumstances that you find yourself in? Well, actually remember, you can't stand in those. And the truth is, if you are standing in something other than the grace of God, you are very likely not going to be able to experience the hope that is yours as a present benefit of being declared righteous by God. It says Hope in the glory of God. The nature of this hope, according to the text, is hope that does not disappoint. You know the worst thing about hoping for something? Not this kind of hope, different kind of hope. You know the worst thing about hoping for something? It's the potential disappointment. My dad years ago, I I I think I probably used this before a while back, but I I used to really get annoyed at him because I'd be watching an Orioles game and at the time they were doing terrible every game. I mean if you wanted if you loved depression, just watch an Orioles game during that period of of time in in life. Time in their in their life as a team. And he would come in and he would, you know, it'd be like second inning. He'd be like, oh, they're gonna lose Oh they're gonna lose. And I'm sitting there watching, hoping they're gonna win one. And and I it did it another time I was watching and same thing. Oh they're gonna lose I finally said to him one time, why do you say that all the time? Why do you keep saying that? And it dawned on me one time. I started thinking about him and all the different things he says. I I said I I so one time he came by and did that and I said to him, you don't want to lose you do you say that because you don't want to get disappointed, don't you? And he paused he stopped for a minute and he went Yeah, that's true. He just kept walking. We don't like the hope. We're a little worried about, like we can't hope for. If we hope too much, we might get disappointed. This is a kind of hope that does not, it will not disappoint. It is the hope. Look at what it says. We rejoice, which we can't do if we're not standing in the grace of God. But if we're standing in the grace of God, then we can rejoice in the hope of the glory of God. And you say, well, what's the glory of God? If you go back all the way back to Genesis, you'll remember that God created everything for what? For his glory. And he created you and I for his glory. We are, our very purpose is to glorify God. And sin messed it all up So that the world doesn't glorify God the way it should, and we don't glorify God the way it should, and it's a problem. But the hope, the future hope is that God, through the gospel, is going to restore things in such a way that we are again going to experience The hope of the glory of God. That means that, first of all, you and I will be made like Christ. We're in that process now if you know Christ is your Savior. So that one day we will be glorified, Romans 8 is going to tell us that. We will be like Christ. We will be like him, for we will see him as he is, Scripture says That's the glory of God. God is actually going to take this universe and the world, and he's going to make it new so that it Glorifies him. That's the glory of God. Everything that is wrong with the world will be made right. Everything will be that's the glory of God. And that is the hope of the believer. Hebrews 3 verse 6 says, But Christ as the Son over his own house, whose house we are, if we hold fast the confidence and the rejoicing of the hope firm to the end. So it it this word we glory we rejoice in Sometimes it's actually translated, we glory in. Sometimes it's translated, we boast in. It's all the same word. We're rejoicing, or we're boasting, we're putting our confidence in, we're glorying. in the future glory of God, that although things aren't right now, they will be right someday. And we need to rejoice and the hope firm to the end, Hebrews 3. 6. And then it says this. You say to yourself, you know, you know, that's not all that helpful because I got these trials and tribulations I'm dealing with. I just want them fixed Look at Paul's perspective on this. He really says a lot in these five verses. He says, knowing that the tributary in tribulations. Knowing that tribulation produces perseverance. He says, we glory. It's the same word actually. We rejoice in the hope. And then he says, we rejoice in the tribulations. Now, rejoicing in the hope makes sense, but rejoicing in the tribulations does not. Right? I mean you read that, and if you read it for the first time, you go, why are those two the same thing? How they're clearly they're clearly parallel with each other, rejoice in the hope of glory of God, and rejoice in tribulations, but how how do those two how do those two work together? They don't seem to work together. So when I was a college student, so my kid, you know, Caitlin's going to college and uh and it makes me reflect, reminisce on college life, she's asking questions about a college that I went to twenty some years ago and probably all kinds of answers that I'm going to give her that she's going to find like that's not that way anymore and stuff. But anyway, so so it makes me think about college some. And one of the things I noticed when I was in college was people would come and preach. Guys would men would come and preach. in chapel, whatever. They talk about the coming of Christ and how glorious it's going to be. And I gotta be honest with you, I wasn't looking forward to it that much. I mean I really was quite convicted by the verse that said looking for that blessed hope and the glorious appearing of our great great God and Savior Jesus Christ. And when Paul says in 2 Timothy 4 that those who love his appearing I I thought to myself, do I really love this? Am I really low it's kind of hard in your tw you know, early twenties, you know, late teens, early twenties, to look forward to the coming of Christ because you're kind of looking forward to graduating from college. getting getting going into your career and getting married and maybe having a kid or three and I mean it it it's you you you're looking forward to all these things To try to look ahead to the coming of Christ, it's kind of like, well, I'd kind of like to do a few things first, right? I'd like to I'd like to accomplish the comb some of these things I'd like to accomplish before Christ comes. I want to want you to come, but If you held off, I'd be okay with it, you know. I mean, that that that would be uh I just see you being totally transparent. But go through a few trials. Go through some un some situations in your life where all seems hopeless. Go through some tribulations in your life where you see no good answer. Boy, pretty quickly you're turning to the coming of Christ. Pretty quickly, you're like, boy, I he could come anytime. I'm good with it. I guess the older you get, like I'm middle aged now and I'm married and have kids and I'm li I'm really happy anytime he wants to come, I'm good. You know, I'm like, you know, I've done what I need to do. Anyway. But boy, I tell you, when you go through tribulations, when you go through really hard times, when you don't have good answers for For the things that you're going through when there seems to be no hope, boy, you can really rejoice in the hope of the glory of God. So that's why Paul can say, we glory in tribulations. Because we know that look at what the text says, we know that they produce perseverance and perseverance, character, and character hope. In other words, what's really happening as you grow in the Christian life and as you go through tribulations and trials, What's really happening is you replace this kind of expectation of what you hope is going to happen. I hope I get married, I hope I get a job, hope I have kids, whatever it is. that you hope for and you're replacing that with that firm foundation of the hope that does not disappoint that yes this world is way different than I thought and My life is totally different than I expected, and things are not what I wanted them to be, and all of that And you replace all that with the confident hope that doesn't disappoint. And so that's why we can rejoice in the tribulations. We can count it all joy, as James says, when we fall into diverse trials. and tribulations, knowing that the trying of your faith produces patience or perseverance. It's the same word So what happens as we go through the trials of life, it causes us, you stack up some of these tribulations, and you have perseverance, you have endurance. Spiritual endurance. Well, how do you how do you keep going? What causes you to keep going with the spiritual endurance of the tribulations? How do you grow even in your tribulation? It's the hope at the end. It's the hope of the glory of God that allows you to endure and to build endurance into your tri uh from your tribulations. And it says character. It produces character. Virtue. That word means tested, proven experience. Now you go through trials and tribulations and you go through enough of them and you're going to face ones you didn't face before. That's your whole life. Our whole lives will be that way. But what you do know is that as you've gone through enough of them, you realize you start looking to the hope. Like every tribulation that comes, you're like. . . Okay, I gotta look to the hope of the glory of God. I gotta look to the coming of Christ. I gotta look to the to what's good what I know to be true, what the hope of the glory of God is And that's why, folks, you always have, always have really godly Christians that have lived a good length of time. They're always looking for the coming. They talk about the coming of Christ. They can't wait for the coming of Christ. Rejoice in the hope of the glory of God. And then Finally, it says the love of God has been poured out in our hearts by the Spirit who has given us. This is the most experiential of all of these. Do you know, see, so it depends on what kind of church you grew up in. There are some churches that you grow up in. that are really, really sterile. You know what I mean by sterile? Like they're very cold. They might have good teaching, they might have good truth, but they're it's I don't mean cold I know some of you guys don't like the temperature. Sit in the back, you'll be warmer, warm people sit up front and you'll be colder. I had somebody coming to me say, can I please change it? I said then the back people will come up and change it anyway. They'll want to change it other way. I mean, so I what can I say? I anyway, I don't know. That was the side note. Okay, let's get back to the text because the love of God has been poured in my heart and I'm not going to get frustrated with um the back people and the front people wanting different temperature. Anyway. But Romans 8 says this. Christianity is a spiritual thing. It is an ex- There is an experience that the Spirit of God gives us. Look at what it says in Romans 8. 16. The Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. And the children, then heirs, heirs of God, joint heirs with Christ, if indeed we suffer with him, that we also may be glorified together. As we suffer for Christ's sake, as we go through tribulations and trials, as we respond to them correctly, what happens to us as Christians is that we The Spirit of God works in us to give us the assurance that we are his and he is ours. Have you ever experienced that before? Have you ever experienced when you're going, you just, boy, everything seems to be going the wrong way. You're fighting on all kinds of fronts, all at the same time. But there is an experience. It is a genuine experience of the Spirit of God working in your heart to give you the assurance of, hey, you're my child. I am yours and you are mine. And despite all of the the fighting, all the fronts you're fighting on It is enough to know that I am your father and I am with you. His spirit bears witness with our spirit that we with our spirit that we are the children of God. Ephesians 3 14 says it this way, 14-19. For this reason I bow my knees to the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, from whom the whole body in heaven and earth is named. That he would grant you according to the riches of his glory to be strengthened with might through his spirit in the inner man, that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith. That being rooted and grounded in love may be able to comprehend with all the saints what is the width and length and depth and height, and to know the love of Christ which passes knowledge. that you may be filled with all of the fullness of God. That's the Spirit's work of assuring His love for you experientially. Now I'll just remind us, I think that, I really think that in this passage, you must know the peace of God. And you must be able to go, you have to understand the access that you have to God, and you have to experience the hope of God. All of these things, I think, they work together. That we can appreciate the present benefits of being declared righteous by God. But how strong and stable are these guarantees How stable are they? How strong are they? Well, I want you to notice in verses 9 through 11 that they're based on a concept. Oh no, I'm sorry, in verses 6 through 8. Not eight, nine through eleven, six through eight. That they're based on a concept that our foundation is completely secure. Look at verse six. Look at verse 6. For when we were still without strength in due time, Christ died for the ungodly. For scarcely for a righteous man will one die. Yet perhaps for a good man someone would even dare to die. But God demonstrates his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. What is the love of Christ based on? How do you know that Christ loves you? How do you know that? What's it based on? I want you to see the logic of this passage. What is he saying? He's saying essentially. That he says, for scarcely a righteous man will one die. It says, um it's unlikely, even unlikely, that a righteous man someone would choose to die for. And a good man, someone would even dare die. It's a rare thing that someone would want to sacrifice their lives even for someone who is good, someone who is righteous. Let alone a sinner. He's pointing to the fact, he's trying to get us across the fact that we are utterly, completely undeserving of being declared righteous by God. It totally makes no sense. God saw zero value in us and still saved us. Weakness there is talking about helplessness, total helplessness. God doesn't save anybody because you think, oh boy, that'd be a good Christian. I'd make him a Christian. It doesn't work that way. In our own helplessness, in our own utter valuelessness because of our depravity. Now we're valuable because we're made were created by God. But the only way that we that that value is is ever realized is because of we're b when we're saved by God. We're utterly helpless, utterly undeserving, and yet God saves us through Jesus Christ. You should never doubt the love of God. Anymore ever, because of that single truth, is what he's saying. And then the Spirit of God comes in and experientially pours out. That word pour is to me is like dumps out, not in uh immeasurable pouring out of the love of God in your heart. It's not based on us at all. It has nothing to do with our condition. And then we see, we move on to verses 9 through 11, and we see The future promise of justification. There is a future promise. It's based on reconciliation in the passage Much more than being now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him. And then the condition is found in verse 10. For if we, when we were enemies, we were reconciled to God through the death of his son. That's the peace. That's what he's talking about at the very beginning. That peace of God. It's a reconciliation that happens. We go from being an enemy of God to be reconciled in peace with God through the death of the Son. Much more, having been reconciled, we shall be saved Look at what it says, by his life. He says, we're declared righteous by the death of Christ. And we are saved by the life of Christ. Hebrews chapter 7, verse 25 says it this way. Therefore, he is also able to save to the uttermost those who come to God through him. Since he always lives to make intercession for them. He is ever living to make intercession for them. If you're wondering about how stable this hope is, Understand that it is not just the death of Christ that declares you righteous. It is the living Christ that will carry you to glory. Philippians 1. 6 says, being confident of this very thing, that he who has begun a good work in you will complete it unto the day of Jesus Christ. 2 Timothy 2 verse 13 through 14 says, if we are faithless, he remains faithful. He cannot deny himself. Remind them of these things, charging them before the Lord not to strive about words to no profit to the ruin of the hearers. So that, verse 11, we come to verse 11. And we now, because of all of this, can do what? Rejoice in God I love the words of David in Psalm 34, 3, where he says, O magnify the Lord with me, and let us exalt his name together. Psalm 33, 21, for our hearts shall rejoice in him, because we have trusted in his holy name. Psalm 43, 4. Then I will go to the altar of God, to God my exceeding joy, and on the harp I will praise you, O God my God. How do you go from possessing to appreciating? From knowing that you are a Christian to appreciating who you what the benefits that you have in Christ This passage teaches us just that. So I have three questions for us. Number one, are you standing in the grace of God? I think this is really key. You have to understand that you're at peace with God, and you have to have realize that you have open access to God. But are you standing in the grace of God? Or are you standing in your circumstances or your personal behavior or others' perceptions or something else? Are you standing firmly in the grace of God? Are you going to God openly because you are his child, boldly before the throne of grace, to obtain mercy and help in time of need? Number two, are you rejoicing in hope? And the hope of the glory of God. Are you rejoicing in it? Despite circumstances, even looking to the tribulations and realizing that it will cause you to have greater perseverance and character that will allow you to have even greater Confident hope in the glory of God. Are you rejoicing in hope? And number three, are you enjoying God? Are you enjoying God? Now, the truth is, we've gone through this entire passage, and I just want us to point out one want to point something else out about this, that this is all based upon one key issue. We get none of the benefits if we do not have, if we have not been declared righteous by God. That's what justification is. Well, how do you become declared righteous by God? It's by faith. The passage says that. Because God is holy And we are not, and we are separated from God. We are we're enemy enemies of uh enemies of God, scripture says. Because what Jesus has done for What Jesus did for us, he died on the cross, took our sin on himself, and offers us his righteousness. And if we will accept that righteousness that he offers us when he died on the cross, if we will accept that righteousness by faith, Then we God will declare us righteous, and then we will have all of these benefits. Has that happened in your life? Have you truly been declared righteous by God? Or are you still separated from God because of your sin? If there's anybody here that you don't know where you stand with God, I say this most weeks, let me encourage you. Come and talk with me after the service. Or I like what Brother Somerdorf says. Set up a an appointment with me. I'll that's great. If you if it if I mean any I'm I'd be glad to meet with you, talk with you about your spiritual about your your relationship with God to make sure that you you know for sure that you'll spend eternity. with the Lord. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and praise you because you are a great God that have given us truly so great salvation. And we see so so beautifully Presented in this passage the wonderful present benefits of justification And we see the secure hope that we have, the secure foundation that we have and the and the future hope that we have, Lord, we are truly blessed. And I pray, Lord, truly you there are, I'm sure, there are tribulations, there are struggles and trials that I don't know about That your people are going through even in our midst. And there are some that I do know about. I pray in That we would during those tribulations, during those trials, we would stand in your grace. Help us to realize when we're standing in something outside of your grace. May we openly come before you May there be an openness, perhaps an openness that we have with you that we don't have with anybody else because you know us better than we know ourselves. We thank you for this passage. May we apply it, Lord. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for Streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon. Hello, my name is Jim Gunam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet. or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes. and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called The Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God. according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone. or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.