Well, good morning. I hope you all had a blessed week. Why don't we bow our heads together and go to the Lord? Heavenly Father, we do come this morning with grateful hearts, Father, and thankful hearts. You have been so good to us, Father. Father, and so kind. You have blessed us beyond anything we deserve. And Father, we're thankful this morning for your word, and we're thankful, Lord, that we can come together here freely. This morning and sit under your teaching. And I pray that you would prepare our hearts, Lord, and our minds. Help us to set aside those things and those distractions from today. And help us Help us, Lord, to concentrate fully upon your word and what it is that you have for us this morning. And I pray that when we leave here we'll be changed more and more into your image. uh than when we came in. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. I'll be reading this morning from Matthew chapter twenty, verses one through sixteen. And you can follow along. For the kingdom of heaven is like a landowner who went out early in the morning to hire laborers for his vineyards. Now when he had agreed with the laborers for a denarius a day, he sent them into his vineyard, and he went out about the third hour and saw others standing idle in the marketplace. And said to them, You also go into the vineyard, and whatever is right I will give you. So they went, and again he went out about the sixth hour, and the ninth hour And did likewise. And about the eleventh hour he went out and found others standing idle. And he said to them, Why have you been standing here idle all day? They said to him, Because no one hired us. And he said to them, You also go into the vineyard, and whatever is right you will receive So when evening had come, the owners of the vineyard said to the steward, Call the laborers and give them their wages, beginning with the last, to the first. And when those came who were hired about the eleventh hour, they each received a denarius. But when the first came, they supposed that they would receive more. And they likewise received each a donation. And when they had received it, they complained against the landowner, saying Sorry, I lost my place. These last men have worked only one hour, and you made them equal to us. Who have been borne the burdens and the heat of the day. But he answered one of them and said, Friend, I am doing you no wrong. Did you not agree with me, Hurry Daenerys? Take what is yours and go your way. I wish to give this man the same as I It is not lawful, is it not lawful for me to do what I wish with my own things? Or is the your eye evil because I am good? So the last will be first, and the first shall be last. For many are called, but few are chosen. What is your view of God? Is your view of God that He is strict or that He is lenient? Now you may think, well that's an interesting question. If you think if your view of God is that he is very strict, it's going to cause you to think about uh all kinds of things on what he does as being quite strict. If your view of God is is that He is lenient, then you may have then what He does you're going to view in a certain way as well. But the truth is, maybe what you're saying is that's not a very fair question. Hopefully that's what you're saying, because it's not a very fair question. The reality is God is neither strict nor lenient. God is both just and gracious. God is both just and gracious. And what we're going to find from this passage is that God's justice and graciousness His generosity, his goodness, all of these things work together. People in our world have a ri really struggle with the concept of God being just. That he is a just God who will punish evil. But there are other people that actually really struggle with the idea of God being completely generous and gracious. Perhaps you might hear somebody say, well, nothing is completely free. Even religious people can be quite um quite adverse to the idea that you really there really is nothing. can do whatsoever to gain eternal life, to be right with God. There's got to be something that you that you've got to be able to do in order to do your part. Perhaps you've heard people say, well you've got to meet God halfway. Or God helps them to help themselves. Neither one of those are in the Bible. What Jesus is going to do here is he's presenting a parable. It's a picture to really help the disciples and others to understand something about God that they didn't understand up to this point. And that their culture was not going to teach them. Really, to understand this passage, there are a few things we've got to understand. First of all, we've got to understand the Jewish concept of God. At this point in the first century, when the disciples were here with Jesus, their concept of God was essentially that he is one who rewards good and punishes evil. And you see that throughout the Old Testament. You have this idea of God rewarding those who do good and punishing those who do evil. That is, if someone, as we noted last week, is really, really blessed of God, the conclusion would be, well, they must be doing good. And those who are not be blessed of God must be doing evil. That was the Jewish concept of God. Now, in the Old Testament, you You certainly see that God does bless those who do good and God rewards those who do evil. But there are other things that We're going to see actually that we're in the Old Testament as well. David's view of God that we read in the call to worship is that He is good and merciful and benevolent and gracious. And yet it seems as though the Jewish people during the first uh at the first century didn't really factor in the goodness and the grace. And what Jesus wants these folks and wants us to understand Is that God is both just and generous. And in fact, his generosity and his grace is entirely and completely Completely just. And what he's going to talk about in this, there's a few things we need to actually understand before we get into the passage to really understand it. it. And keep in mind that a parable is an illustration. And an illustration has to be, has to be identified, the point of the illustration has to be identified as the point at which Christ is making the point. And we have to not press the illustration beyond what God is wanting, or Christ is intending. And you'll see that in a few moments. But in understanding this, we need to look at a few things from last week. You remember that last week we looked at the rich young ruler. The rich younger ruler comes to Christ, says, How uh what do I do need to do in order to gain eternal life? And your call that Jesus Jesus says to him, he uses actually the law, which was the Jewish standard, and of course God's standard actually of morality. And in Matthew chapter 19, verse 17 from last week, it says, So he said to him, Why do you call me good? There is no there is one, uh no one is good but one that is God. That's going to be important to remember as we go through this. But if we want to enter into life, keep the commandments. He said to him, which ones? Jesus said, you shall not murder, you shall not Commit adultery, you should not steal, you should not bear false witness. Honor your father and mother, and you shall love your neighbor as yourself. The young man said to him, All these things I've kept since my youth, for my youth. What do I still lack? Jesus said to him If you want to be perfect, in other words, if you want to be singular in your heart, go sell all you have and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven and come follow me The problem that Jesus identifies, he uses the law to identify the heart problem in this rich young ruler. That the pro that that this rich young ruler could deceive himself into thinking that he has kept all the law, that he is a perfectly good person, but when it came to his heart it was duplicitous because money and got God was a dual master in his life. And you can't have, as we Noted from Matthew chapter six. You can't have two masters. You can only have one. You can't serve God and money. He had to give up money As a master in order to serve God. It doesn't mean that he couldn't have a high net worth. It just simply means that his master had to be God and God alone. Now, Peter goes into, if you recall from last week as well, he then responds, he says, Well, we've given up everything. Peter's speaking on behalf of the disciples. We've given up everything. What are we going to gain? They're thinking still, with this mindset of God giving what is good to those who have been who are doing good. And so he says, if you remember last week, then Peter answered and said to him, See, we have left all and followed you. Therefore, what shall we have? And you'll note that Jesus does not refuse He said, Assuredly, to you that in the generation uh regeneration, when the Son of Man sits on the throne of God, you who have followed me will also sit on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. And so he says you're going to have a place of of reward and responsibility in the kingdom towards Toward the the uh toward Israel. And then he expanded to everyone and he says, and in fact everyone who leaves houses, brothers, sisters, fathers, mothers, wife, all of that will actually be restored a hundredfold and they'll gain Eternal life. So he brings back in this reality that if you will follow Christ, you will gain eternal life. Now what Jesus wants to do then is he is going to express to the disciples through this illustration, through this parable, the basis of eternal life. What is What is the basis based on what character of God? And we'll see that in the passage as we go through it. What we're really going to see then Is that God's generous grace is perfectly just, even though sometimes it doesn't look like it. Even though sometimes God may look as though he is not being faithful. Or equitable, God's grace or God's uh generous grace is perfectly just. Well, why why is that? Why is God's generous grace perfectly just? We're gonna see Three things. Number one, God's justice is expressed through an agreement. We're going to see that first in verses one through two. God's justice is an expression. Through an agreement. Then we're going to see God's generosity is demonstrated by His grace. God's generosity is demonstrated by His grace. And in number three We're going to see that God's grace is explained as just and based on God's goodness. Now just take a look at these three. This is going essentially, you put these three things together. Together, these three statements together, that is what the illustration in the parable is going to be expressing. And we'll see, number one, God, God's justice is God's generosity is demonstrated by His grace, and God's grace then is finally explained As just based on God's goodness. And we'll flesh all of that out as we go along. First of all, we want to see God's justice expressed through an agreement. And we see in verses 1 It says, For the kingdom of heaven is like a landowner who went out early in the morning to hire laborers for his vineyard. Now when he had a agreed with laborers for denarius, a day uh uh the denarius a day, he sent them into the vineyard. So this was very common in the first century. Uh vineyards were very, very common. It was a a a a common um a common way of sub uh of supplying uh for a uh uh a a person and a landowner was a farmer who was tending to these vineyards and it was very common that during the harvest time he would need extra help because um grapes are such that they would ha mature at a certain time and then if you have a very very large field they've got to be picked at the right time if you wait too long they're going to rot and if you wait if you go too early uh then they're not going to be ready and they're not going to be fully mature. So they have to be picked very quickly uh and so you need extra laborers in order to do that So it would be common in that day that there would be these laborers that would just work for the day and they would get they would get payment for the work that they did. The day, the normal work day would start in our time from six AM to six PM and usually not with any breaks. They would just work through that day and they would get as a normal as a normal day's wage was a denarius. That was very, very normal. That was a denarius Day's day's wage. And so as we see in the passage, the the landowner goes, he uh he goes at six o'clock in the morning, basically, and he says uh to to the To these people, uh these laborers, he says, I'll make an agreement with you, you come work for me a day, I'll give you a day's wage. It was all very fair, very just. It was something, verse two, now when he had agreed with the laborers for a day, it was a an agreed upon amount that they they had. And they went and they worked for him for a day. So from dawn essentially to dusk, they would work for him for that day's wage. I want to pause here before moving on and just point out some implications of this passage so far. First of all, we need to understand that God was just that this this illustration, it is Illustrates that God is just in establishing an agreement. In other words, if you just look at the Old Testament, you actually find a just agreement as well. It's called the Mosaic Covenant. It was a fair and just agreement between God and the nation of Israel that if they will follow it, and included in that Mosaic covenant was the test. Commandments. If they will follow that completely, then they will be rightly related to God. It was an agreement that demonstrated the justice of God. That's what a covenant is. It's an agreement. Now, that's an important thing to understand. But you can actually expand that to everyone because we all have within us a moral law. We don't necessarily know every one of the Ten Commandments when we're born, but the Bible tells us there is actually a conscious within us That we are created with a moral law within us that helps us to understand and know right from wrong. It's not perfect. It doesn't mean that we will automatically always know right from wrong. The conscience and the moral law can be Informed a certain way, but there is a sense of right and wrong that we are all born with. In fact, that's one of the ways you know, even outside the Bible It's one of the ways you know that there is truly a God. That there is a there is a lawgiver, there is a moral there is a morality that is not tangible. that had to have been infused on some level by someone somehow that we are not just a a product of macroevolution that we We that that there is something more there that God created as we are in the image of God. And so it's important to understand this. In fact, when you take your Bibles and turn to Romans chapter 2 from I want you to see this because we're going to expand this by application to understand that God has given all of us, every person, a moral law in our hearts a conscience in our hearts, and in so doing, we we begin to understand how we must relate to him through as a just way of relating to him because God is the source of morality. Romans chapter two verse twelve verses and through six sixteen it says for as many as have sinned without law will all perish without law. And as many as have sinned in the law will be judged by the law. He's talking to Jewish people actually in Romans 2 And he says to the Jewish, righteous Jewish people of that day, the externally righteous Jewish people of that day, there is a law that you can abide. And you'll be judged by that law, but there is an there is an immaterial law. Verse thirteen, for not the hearers of the law are judged in the sight of God, but the doers of the law will be judged Justified. For when Gentiles who do not have the law, they don't have a written law, by nature do the things in the law, these also not having the law, are a law to themselves. There is a moral law within them Who show the work of the law written in their heart? There's a law God wrote in our heart, a morality, a moral code written in our heart. Their conscience also bearing witness, and between themselves their thoughts accusing or else excusing them, uh what they're doing is either excusing them or accusing them in the day when God will judge the secret secrets of men by Jesus Christ according to my God. The secrets mean the the the motives of the heart. So what we see from that passage is that this this just morality has been on some level Infused into every human being, we're born with this moral code in our hearts, which tells us whether or not by our actions we are in agreement with God. Now what the passage doesn't teach us, because it's not the point, is that we all fail that agreement. Right? We all fail the moral law of God. We all go against the moral law of God, and of course we know that. Romans 3. twenty three, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. So we know that we do that. In fact the Bible says in this passage in Romans two that we there's none that even seeks after after God. That we are we are we we are uh completely sinful and yet we still know we're wrong Because uh we still have a moral law in our hearts that shows us that we are essentially that we are condemned. Now I've expanded this beyond the beyond what it says here to simply make this Point that God is completely just. He is just in this way. In the Old Testament, what we do see is that the moral law is given very, very clearly and distinctly to the nation of God. of Israel so that they wouldn't they know how to rightly relate to God. Hypothetically, if you if a man a person was able to keep the entire law completely he would be rightly related to God. Of course, he cannot, right? Why? Because you have that sin nature within us that we're also born with with. So on one hand, we're born with a moral code that conscience that helps us know we're wrong when we're wrong, but we also, on the other hand, we are we are born with a sin nature that keeps us from always doing right. Now this is clearly in Scripture. It's not, it was laid out in writing to the Jewish people, but it's laid out in hearts to everyone. So that we are, the Bible says that we are clearly guilty before God and we are responsible. In fact, Romans 1 says we're without excuse to know who God is because creation shows that there is a creator. Romans 2 says essentially we're without excuse and we are guilty because we have we have a law in our hearts that tells us we know we are wrong. Now, all of that to say that the point that we do see in the passage that we're going to be flushing out is that God is completely just. He's just in revealing morality, in revealing the standard to us by which we come to him. And yet we see a total ch we see a very different view here now as we move to versus 11 through 12. Because what we're actually going to see is that God's generosity is actually demonstrated not by his justice, but by his grace. Look what it says in Matthew chapter 20, now, verse 2 three it says and he went out about the third hour and saw others standing idle in the marketplace and said to them You also into the vineyard uh uh go into the vineyard So they went, and again he went about the sixth hour and the ninth hour, and did likewise, and about the eleventh hour he went out and found others standing up Idle, and said to them, Why why have you been standing here idle all day? They said to him, Because we have no one has hired us, and he said to them, You also go into the vineyard and whatever is right you will receive. So he hires three different three extra phases. You've got phase one, he makes a very clear agreement, and he says you get a day's wage for a day's work. You have this very clear just agreement. He goes out again and the second phase, about uh nine o'clock in the morning, uh he he comes and he um and he hires these other folks But you don't see the same kind of language as there being a clear agreement here. And you actually don't see that in phase three, the third phase, which is at twelve noon, it roughly twelve noon the ninth hour. You see the same thing. You don't see the same see the same thing there. And then by the time you get to the eleventh hour, which is 5 p. m. , that means they're going to be working for one hour, you they ba it basically just says here, uh there there's no there's no agreement on payment at all, there's no assumption of payment It's just hey I'll give you come work for an hour and I'll give you what what you're worth. I'll give you what what you asked for. Or not what you ask for, but I'll give you I'll give you what's appropriate. Basically. So now we've moved from now we've moved from a agreement to a a trust based upon the character of the one who is being hi who is hiring. And now you also have a different a different so you have a different criteria here of the hiring. And we're going to learn more about this in a few moments. So, as is absolutely appropriate, they hit the the final hour, the uh the twelfth hour, and and now there comes time to be to pay. And And of course you have um you have a landover owner who says to the steward, go pay them. And this is cle completely accurate and appropriate and What we find in Scripture is necessary to abide by the moral law of God. In Leviticus nineteen, verse thirteen, for example, it says, You shall not cheat your neighbor nor rob him the wages of him who is hired shall remain with shall not remain with you all night until morning like pay immediately deal with it you don't hold it that kind of thing Deuteronomy twenty four verse fifteen Each day you shall give him his wages, and not let the sun go down on it, for he is poor and has set his heart on it, lest he cry out against you in the Lord and and it be sent to you. So he's very clear. Pay it. Some of you haven't paid monop played monopoly in a long time and you didn't get that that reference. The final payment then is in verse nine. And it's uh uh actually I'm sorry. The the first payment though, he says, I want you to pay the last first. And so in verse nine it says, When those came who were hired about the eleventh hour, so they worked one hour They receive an entire day's wage. They receive a denarius. They only work one hour And they receive a whole day's wage. And because they were paid first, the other guys standing there who worked all day watched this one these people who only worked one hour. They watched them. Get paid this and they're a little upset about it. And so it says in verse ten, but when The first came, they supposed that they would receive more. They're sort of going, oh, well, we'll receive more by the time they come to him us. But they didn't. They only received what was agreed upon, the denarius. Do you see that? Verse 10 And so what did they do? Well, they complained. They complained against the landowner, and they make two, they make two arguments here. They say, number one, the problem of time worked. We worked way longer than the other guy. Why are we getting the same wage? They're essentially saying, you landowner are not just You're not just in paying us far uh you're in paying us the same for a day's work as you paid them for one hour And then also the conditions. They went through the heat of the day, 12, 1, 2 o'clock. And all they did is work one hour from 5 to 6, the coolest time of that time period. The conditions were worse, the time was longer. These are actually fairly cogent arguments, aren't they? In fact, just pause for a minute before we get into what what the landowner is going to say. And just say, can you almost see these poor per the see see understand where these people are coming from? Can you understand that um this is this is actually hard to swallow. They're hot hot, they're tired, they they worked all day, and these people are getting the same wage as they are, and they're not hot, and they're not tired, and they're they're just perfectly fine And they are very upset about this and they complain about it. And I mean think of it this way. Let me s put it in the so last last um the week before last I was on vacation. I actually felt really bad because while I was on vacation these Th there's several guys all week that were in the hot sun working on this ramp out here. Right? Working it w they labored and they worked and they got it done and they had problems and they uh they they were they w they they persevered through the problems and all that. What would they have thought if I were to come in, you know, the next Monday and help them they were finishing I nailed two nails and then I said to the church, we got the thing done and made it sound like I you know like I I pretty much you know, did it and they all they all helped me. How would that how would that go across? I mean how would that feel? They're working in the hot sun all week and I'm like coming in after vacation and nailing two nails and and uh and or putting two screws in and like, yeah, I really boy, that was really hard. That just wouldn't have been right, right? I mean that would have been I they would have rightly so. I imagine somebody would have come to me and said, what are you doing? You didn't word that very well. So we understand that they might that that they are not real happy about this. But they are complaining too, on the other hand. They're murmuring, in fact. John chapter six verse forty one, the word complaining it says, The Jews then complained about him because he had said I am the bread who which came down from heaven and And the same word is used, and he says, do not murmur among yourselves. There is a complaining and a murmuring going on among these folks. There is a grumbling against this landowner. Now, let's just pause then and make some applications here. Are we ever tempted to complain Because we feel as though there is injustice. Are we ever tempted to complain even to God? Because we feel as though on some level God is not justified. We we have a culture, folks, of complaining in this in this country. A culture that finds itself complaining based upon the idea that I have received injustice. In other words, I am justified in complaining And it seems as though everybody thinks that they're that's that they are the brunt of injustice. And there's lots of complaints. And unfortunately, if we're not careful, we can have the same kind of attitude toward God. Where we feel as though God has not been just. God, for example, has not I've gone through a whole lot more suffering and a whole lot more pain and a whole lot more heartache and a whole lot more problems than that Christian over there that seems to have it all the the That seem to have everything going in his or her way. Why is it that I have to be the way I why is it that God has has to bring all this calamity in my life and that person over there, that Christian over there, uh they seem to be perfectly fine and everything? Everything's going well for them. If we're not careful, we can become bitter, even toward God, about what we perceive to be injustice in our lives. Because we are not seeing things from God's perspective. That's why Paul said in Philippians chapter 2, verse 14: Do all things without complaining and and disputing. Do all things without dis complaining or murmuring and disputing. We are so tempted to complain and to murder and to murmur. And part of this happens when we compare. In fact, you see that in the passage, right? Why are they complaining? If they had never seen what this what these other people got paid, they wouldn't complain at all. But because they were comparing with the other people that got paid, that got paid only only for an hour's worth of work, because there was a comparison That induced in them a complaining attitude. In 2 Corinthians chapter 10, verse 12, it says this: For we dare not class ourselves or compare ourselves with those who commend themselves. But they measuring themselves by themselves and comparing themselves among themselves are not wise. Brothers and sisters in Christ, you are not wise to compare yourself with somebody else. Else. We are unwise to compare ourselves and how and God's treatment of us uh relative to God's treatment of somebody else and to compare. It will breed in us a sense of bitterness and injustice that comes out in complaining. We ought not compare ourselves among ourselves. Frankly, there's a lot of reasons for this, but one reason, very practically, is you don't really know what your other brother what your brother or sister Christ is actually going through. Believe me, you can't tell from social media what's what's going on On. And sometimes we assume that this person's got it all together just because he's actually a bit more private about his suffering. And we ought not assume that We ought not assume that the person everybody else got it all together and I'm the one that's suffering. No, uh some people are private about their suffering, some people are not private. We need to be very, very careful about complaining and comparing. And the truth is the people that tend to be most inclined that way, and it's really implied in the passage, are those who are self-righteous, those who are depending upon their themselves for righteousness, those are the ones that tend to complain about other people. people. And we see Christ over and over in the New Testament, over and over in the life of Christ, and what and and through the disciples and the Pharisees and all them, he's constantly warning self-righteousness. And you put the two together, you put self-righteousness together with complaining, or self-righteousness with comparing, and you're going to get complaining. And that's going to be the result. The Bible is very clear: don't do anything with murmur and complaining. So, what is the right way to understand this parable? What why what do we what do we do with this? Well we've got to under look at what the landowner is saying because the landowner really represents Christ He is re or God. You could represent he's representing God's God's treatment of people and his dispensing of eternal life based upon the previous question. Passage. How is he choosing to dispense eternal life? Now, I just want to say before we get into this that remember that it is an illustration, it is a parable. God's not saying that there are some people that earn salvation and some people who don't or partially do. That's not the point of the passage. And we're going to see what the point is of the passage. That's not it. Hypothetically, there it somebody could earn salvation if they were able to keep the moral law and God's law a hundred percent entirely But the Bible says if you offend at one point you are guilty of all, and so there nobody, there has been nobody that ever has, except for Christ Himself And so because of that, uh we need to understand that what this is talking about. But ne next, then let's move on and see what this landowner says about all of this. Verses 13 through 16. He says that But he answered one of them and said, friend, I am doing you no wrong. He is very clear. I'm not doing anything wrong here. I'm not violating anything moral, morally wrong. I am doing nothing that is unjust. Did you not agree with me for a denarius? Take what is yours and go your way. I wish to give it to this last man the same as you. Is it lawful for me? to do what I wish with my own things? Or is you uh or or is your eye b uh evil because I am good So last will be first, the first will be last. So he says, first of all, friend, I am doing you no wrong. I'm not, I am, what I'm doing is entirely just It's entirely morally right. There is no moral problem with what I'm doing. He says, take what you have agreed to and go your way. First of all, we see the statement of justice. And then we see an explanation. He says, first of all If I wish to give to the last man the same as you, notice you have a different kind of way of looking at this. Now he's He's appealing not to what is just, but to what he desires to do. In so many words, he is essentially appealing to his generosity. This man may not, this man who has only worked one hour, he may not deserve from his work the a denarius, but he does he can receive it because of the generosity of the landowner owner. Let me put it this way, because of the grace of the landowner owner. And we know that from the passage because he's actually going to say it is based upon my goodness. My you're seeing my goodness. Now, understand then that we he says, is it not, first of all, he's making this argument, he says, uh, number one, this is based on my generosity. Number two He has an appeal to lawful justice. He says, is it not lawful for me to do what I wish to with my own things? I own this, and so there isn't it therefore lawful for me to to do what I want to with it. He's making this argument. What is he saying? He's saying my generosity is entirely Just. My graciousness, my grace is completely and fully just. And then he says this: here's the problem. Is your eye evil because I am good? Is your eye evil because I am good? So he identifies the real problem, which Jesus did in the previous passage. The real problem is actually the problem of the heart. We've seen this kind of language before in Matthew chapter 6 20 through 23. It says there, the lamp of the body is the eye. If therefore your eye is good, your whole body will be full of light. In other words, if you perceive what you perceive, if your perception is right Your whole body, that is, your inward self, your heart is going to be right. But if your eye is bad, if your perception of things is bad, your whole body will be full of darkness. If therefore the light that is in you is darkness, how great is that darkness. What Jesus is saying there in that passage is it's what matters is what's in you your heart. And their perception of what how they viewed the landowner was causing their heart to be to be jealous, to be envious to have to be complaining. The problem was the problem of the heart. And it was actually the goodness and the grace of God that caused that causes people To be jealous. In other words, let me put it this way. Here's what's practical. The reality is, folks, we all deserve hell. All of us. We deserve hell in this life, and we deserve hell in the next life. That's what the Bible says. We all deserve punishment for our sin. We are completely guilty, and we are completely responsible. That's what the Bible teaches. And so because and that's what we all deserve. So that if anybody doesn't get what they deserve, what's it based on? It's based upon the grace, the goodness of God. And so why is that the case? It's because of this. Because Jesus, with his own life and death purchased eternal life so that he could satisfy the justice of God, so that he then could be free To operate upon the grace of God. The justice of God appeased. The justice of God satisfied frees us or frees God to be able to offer the gift of eternal life by grace so that His grace is completely just And so we need to understand, and by the way, this is something that is clearly in the Old Testament. The goodness of God is in the Old Testament. It's just something that the Jewish people missed For example, in Matthew 19, verse 17 it says, so he said to him, Why do you call me good? No one is good but one. That is God. But if you want to enter into life, keep the commandments. Psalm 103. 8, the Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in mercy. Psalm 145, 8. The Lord is gracious and full of compassion, slow to anger and great in mercy. The Lord is good to all. His tender mercies are over all his works. Psalm 52, 1. Why do you boast in evil, O mighty man, the goodness of God endures continually. So God he says then the first will be last and the last will be first. So the last will be first actually says it this way. So the last will be first and the first will be last. So what is he saying here? There's a few things that we need to understand about what's going on here in the passage. Remember that the that the that the w s the that the recipients of this parable are the disciples The disciples are, God is preparing, Jesus is preparing the disciples to be able to lead in the kingdom. And the fact is the apostles and the first century Christians are going to go through intense persecution. They are going to go through, for the cause of Christ, they are going to go through all kinds of difficulty and persecution. There's a sense in which they're going to go through the heat of the day. They're going to go through the length of their lives in suffering for Christ. The reality is not all Christians have throughout church history. In fact, probably the ones the ones that have only done like, you know, a an hour's worth of work Uh compared to the compared to the long arduous suffering of the the apostles and the first century Christians Is us. We are the ones who are beneficiaries of God's grace. We are the ones that have been given eternal life by the grace of God. Now, in every situation Those who are given the grace of God will work, but we certainly do work a whole lot less than this the than the arduous work of the first century Christian. Christians and the Apostles, and yet we are all going to be given the same eternal life. It doesn't mean that we're given all the same rewards. That's actually another subject. But when it comes to eternal life, it is all going to be the same. So that the last will be first, and the first will be last. Frankly, we ought to be very thankful for this. The truth is sometimes I look through the Old Test I I look through the New Testament, I see these stories, the persecuted Christians, I see I see how difficult they had it and the things that they went through, and there are sometimes I think to myself, man, I mean, I, you know, they had to go through so much for the cause of Christ. How many of us are really even Christians at all? There's that kind of thinking that goes through my mind. But the reality is, salvation and eternal life is not based upon merit, human merit at all. Salvation and eternal life is not based upon our efforts at all. Salvation and eternal life is based entirely and completely on the grace of God. The goodness of God. And so when so the question, and some of you might struggle with it, some of some some of you might struggle with your own salvation because you You say to yourself, well, have I done enough? Or am I truly a Christian? I haven't gone through that much, or those kinds of questions It's not, it's the question is, who are you depending on? And what are you depending on for eternal life? We must fully and completely depend upon the grace of God and the goodness of God Who gives us eternal life on the merits of who Jesus is and what Jesus did in dying on the cross for us, entirely based upon what He did, not upon what we do. The only thing that we have, the only involvement that we have, the only responsibility that we have is to depend and to accept upon that gift of eternal life To accept that by faith. The Bible says when we do that, Romans 1:12, But as many as receive Him, to them gave you the power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on His name So when we are in concluding all of this, let's look at four important truths that this parable illustrates for us. Number one As the source of justice, God has established a standard of justice. As the source of justice, God has established the standard of justice. He has done that through the law, the original moral agreement in the Old Testament. And frankly, he's done that in our own hearts by giving us a conscience. So he is the source of justice, and he has established a standard of justice. Number two, eternal life Is purchased by the blood of Christ, so that Christ is the rightful owner of it. So he now he is the owner of eternal life because he's purchased it with his own blood. And so now Christ satisfies the justice of God through his own death on the cross, and now he is the owner of it so that Eternal life is applied by grace through faith. But the reality is, I just want to be clear about this, it always was Since even in the Old Testament, they were not able to follow that original agreement. Nobody was, that moral agreement. No one has ever gained eternal life by living by living a perfect life, by following that moral agreement. So that you find in Romans chapter 3 and Galatians chapter 4, that they believed God. Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him for righteousness. So that the Old Testament saints are saved by looking forward to the provision that would be made in Christ, just like we are saved by looking back at the provision that was already made in Christ. The point I'm simply making here in this passage, at the point that the passage made, Christ, the the the landowner says, he says, Hey, uh, I own this. Is it not right for me to be able to give it out based upon my goodness? Rather than what you deem to be fair and just. Number three As the owner, Christ has the right to bestow eternal life to whomever he will, as is accepted by faith. Christ has the right to bestow eternal life to whomever And the Bible says that he is desired. There is a universal call where all can come to Christ. This is an offer to all men, all people, because of what Christ has done. And to those who accept it by faith, he bestows on them eternal life. Number four, salvation is based on God's grace and goodness, not merited by our own human. effort. It's based on God's grace and goodness, not merited by our own human effort. Now you may say some of you are probably saying to yourself or thinking to yourself, well I've known this forever But understand that this is the key understanding Who God is and how He how He gives eternal life is critical to understanding salvation and critical for those who are going to come to Christ. In other words, if somebody has a perception of God, that God is just But not gracious or good or loving, they are going to have a real problem with this idea of salvation. But if somebody thinks that God is entirely gracious without being just, they're also going to have a problem as well. They need to understand that God is just, it's satisfied by Christ's death on the cross, and now they are, God is then free to save us by his. grace. And this is perfectly illustrated by the parable that we have. Craig Blomberg said it this way, true salvation will of necessity produce good works and submission to Christ's Lordship in every area of life, or else it is never it never was salvation to begin with. But all who are truly saved are equally precious in God's sight. And equally rewarded with eternal happiness in the company of Christ and all the redeemed. And can't aren't we rejoicing in that this morning? That despite that this is essentially entirely not based on human effort, but by the grace of God. Can we not appreciate that this morning? Can we not be grateful and thankful for the wonderful goodness and grace of God who saved our souls? Now you may be here this morning and there has never been a time in your life where you've really understood this. You've never understood that you are a sinner That you have a conscience, a moral conscience before God, that you have violated that conscience, and that puts you at odds with God and at odds with his moral agreement. And as and being in that state, the Bible actually says that you are in hostility against God, that you must receive a punishment from God for your sin. But that God put his son in in his own pla in that place of punishment, so that and he took on sin on himself. So that you could have eternal life. And if you are not sure where you stand with the Lord, you're not sure about that, let me encourage you. To come and see me after the service, I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you will spend eternity with the Lord. And for those of us who know the Lord is our Savior, we get to celebrate the grace of God this morning. As we as we partake together in in uh in communion, we are going to be able to To just show by what Christ has done for us that we are in full agreement and full dependency on the grace of God for our salvation. And as we think in terms of that, let's be look forward to that this morning. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you this morning, and we praise you, and we thank you for your We thank you that what we see from your word is that you have given us eternal life by your grace alone. We thank you that Christ satisfied your just demands. And Father, I pray, Lord, this morning, that you would really help us to appreciate Fresh and new your grace in our lives. And then Lord, would you motivate us to help others to understand that grace? If we know Christ our Savior, you have def you You call us ambassadors. Every Christian is an ambassador of Christ. And I pray, Lord, that you help us to fully understand these things. so that we can communicate them to others as well. And as we enter into this communion time, I pray, Lord, that it would be a time where we We understand the present your presence is with us that we can truly joy in your grace bought by your shed blood, by Christ's shed blood on the cross for us. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for Streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.