Psalm 119, we'll pick up in verse 25. It says this: My soul clings to the dust. Revive me according to your word. I have declared my ways, you answered me, teach me your statutes. Make me understand the way of your precepts. So shall I meditate on your wonderful works My soul melts from heaviness. Strengthen me according to your word. Remove from me the way of lying. And grant me your law graciously. I have chosen the way of truth, your judgments I have laid before me. I cling to your testimonies. O Lord, do not put me to shame. I will run the course of your commandments, for you shall enlarge my heart. Let's pray together. Father, we praise you because of your word. You have said in your word that you exalt your word above your very name. And that is because it requires all of your word to really reveal who you truly are. And we thank you for it, and we thank you that that is the basis of true revival in our spirit. We confess before you that often we look to other things to revive us. Churches will do this sometimes where they look to other things to revive. methods or um or programs, those kinds of things. But Father, we see from your word here and many other places that the The means of grace that you've given, the word, your word, your truth, the preaching of your word, prayer Those basic things that you have given in your word are the means to reviving our hearts, are the means to revival. And I pray, Lord, that you would help us to understand that and to remember that when our hearts are struggling, when our uh when we are uh Struggling in our spirit, may we go to your word and allow your word to enlarge our heart as this passage teaches us to do. Lord, would you do that for us this morning as we anticipate going to your word later on in the service? May you enlarge our hearts this morning To and revive us for the work ahead. We do pray, Lord, for Vacation Bible School coming up, and we pray that you would bring exactly the kids that you want to be here So that the gospel can go forward in their lives, so that your kingdom can be built the way you choose. And I pray for all the workers and all that are involved. I pray, Lord, that you would be with them. and strengthen them. And then Lord, there are many burdens in our midst of our church, many things that we are going through. And I pray, Lord, that you would strengthen in each of those cases And I pray, Lord, that we would see Christ as the supreme authority over all things and submit to Him and submit to your word. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Good morning. Aren't you grateful and thankful that God in all of his mercy would reach down and send his only begotten Son to die in your place, that you may may have salvation and be reconciled to God to Father. I am so grateful and so thankful. We're going to uh pray first, so if you would bow your heads with me and we'll pray together. Heavenly Father, you are an awesome God. You are holy, holy, holy. And Father, just to think, we praise you because of who you are, just to think that you are holy and high and lifted up and so far above us. And yet You love us and you reach down and you provide the way for us to be reconciled to you and be called your children. Father, we are so grateful and so thankful this morning for what you have done on our behalf and particularly. particularly sending your son Jesus to the cross on our behalf. And Father, as I think about this this morning, I think about what's coming up this week. week. We are going to have lots of children here, Lord, and we're asking that you would send many. And Father, just the messages in the lessons that we have been learning talks about you. And Father, I pray that these children's ears will be open and that God, you would give us a love and a desire to share with them this great gospel of yours, and that they may come to know you. And put their faith and trust in you. And Father, this morning I do pray for those who are unable to be here with us this morning for different reasons. But we do praise you and give you thanks, Father, for keeping watch over us during the week. And uh Father, I just lift up those who are going through uh health issues and uh recovery issues and I just pray, dear God, that you would keep your good hand upon them. You are so gracious and so kind. And I pray that you'd bring comfort where it's needed. Give strength where it's needed. And Father, I pray that you bring healing. Father, we desire. We are selfish. We desire, Lord, that all of our loved ones would be healed from whatever they are going through. So we pray that, dear God, you might have mercy. and uh be with us and guide us and help us to draw near to you and find our comfort in you and you alone. And Father, I pray this morning as we come to your word, I thank you for your word and I just thank you, Father, uh for what we're going to learn this morning. I pray that you would help us to set aside all of our cares and concerns for this day and for this week. And help us, Lord, to set it aside and listen intentionally To learn from you, and I pray that your word will make a difference in our hearts, in our minds. And as we leave here today, we will be changed more into your image as we have heard and listened to your word and as we apply it to our lives. And Father, we ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. We're going to be reading this morning from Matthew chapter 8, verses 1 through 17. If you want to follow along, Matthew 8, 1 through 17. When he had come down from the mountain, great multitudes gathered around him. And behold, a leper came and worshiped him, saying, Lord, if you are willing, you can make me clean. Then Jesus put out his hand and touched him, saying, I am willing. Be cleansed. Immediately his leprosy was cleansed. And Jesus said to him, See that you tell no one But go your way, show yourself to the priest, and offer the gift that Moses commanded as a testimony to them. Now when Jesus had entered Capernaum, a centurion came to him, pleading with him, saying, Lord, my servant is lying at home, paralyzed, dreadfully tormented. And Jesus said to him, I will come and heal him. The centurion answered and said, Lord, I am not worthy that you should come under my roof But only speak a word, and my servant will be healed. For I also am a man under authority. Having soldiers under me And I say to this one, go, and he goes, and to another, come, and he comes, and to my servant, do this, and he does it. When Jesus heard it, he marveled and said to those who followed, Assuredly, I say to you, I have not found such great faith, not even in Israel. And I say to you that many will come from east and west and sit down with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven, but the sons of the kingdom will be cast out into outer darkness. There will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. Then Jesus said to the centurion, Go your way, and as you have believed So it be done for you. And his servant was healed that same hour. Now when Jesus had come to Peter's house, he saw his wife's mother lying sick with a fever. So he touched her hand, and the fever left her, and she arose and served them. When evening had come, They brought to him many who were demon-possessed, and he cast out the spirits with a word, and healed all who were sick. That it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by Isaiah the prophet. He himself took our infirmities and bore our sicknesses. Why did Jesus perform so many miracles when he was here on this earth? How you answer that question may really deter really show your perspective on Jesus Unfortunately there are many people that have a very you know flat s uh one dimensional or two-dimensional uh view of Jesus' life and ministry within this in the earth rather than having a really you know multi-dimensional or three-dimensional um uh view of Jesus on this earth. earth. So the average person when you ask people why Jesus did so many miracles on the earth, I suspect even an average Christian would tell you, well, because he loves people and he wanted to see them healed or he wanted to see them And of course that's true. You do see in the Gospels that he had great compassion on people. But there is more to it than that. There's more to the character of God, there's more to the character of Christ, and there's more to the care more to what Jesus was doing when he was performing those miracles. And our view is going to become much fuller if we understand some things, particularly today, about what Jesus is. In fact, what he's really doing in these miracles is tangibly showing his authority. It's not so much about his love today. Yes, he does love them, and he, I mean, it's always within God's love that he does these things. But it really is going to demonstrate clearly his authority in all of these different areas. Now you say, well why would that be important for me as a Christian to to really understand the authority of Jesus? Why is that important? Because who you see as your ultimate authority is who you will ultimately live for. Who you see as your ultimate authority is who you will ultimately live for. Now some of some of you may be, when you hear the word authority, maybe sort of going, I don't like the, I don't like the whole idea of authority. I mean some people really struggle with ge with viewing Jesus as an authority. They want to view Jesus as a s you know s uh a gentle, meek and mild, compassionate, loving person, and certainly he was those things. But they have a real hard time seeing Jesus as an authority or the authority. Why would that be important? People s why do well people why do people struggle with authority? They don't want to be they they feel as though when they have authority that they're under bondage When somebody has an authority that over them, they feel as though some people feel as though that they're not free anymore. And some people say, you know, I am not going to be in under anybody's authority. I'm going to be my own boss. I'm going to be my own authority. But let me just tell you, I'm just going to suggest to you that's impossible. That is absolutely impossible. You were not created to be your own authority. It won't happen. You will have something else that you're living for. Some people live for their vocation. They live for their job But of course they get real really rather frustrated in one of two ways. Either they're living for their vac vocation and they're never ever able to measure up to what they hope to be in their job or in their vocation and they live lives that are totally frustrated. Or They reach a certain sort of pinnacle of where they want to be in their job and they get so they they get sort of realize it's not all it's cracked up to be and and And they've met everything they can and then they don't know what else to live for. They're sort of despairing or despondent because of that. Living for your job will not be that will will not be that rewarding ultimately Some people live for their children. Those of you who don't have children, you don't realize how easy it is to live for your kids. It's probably there's probably more of a temptation to live for your kids than maybe anything else, I think, because you know when your kids are born, uh, you know, they in order to survive you have to they have you know you have to be involved. Okay But if you live for your kids, one of two things is going to happen. Either you're going to drive them crazy or they're going to drive you crazy. It's true. If if you live for your kids, you might drive them crazy because you're so intent on them and controlling everything and gotta have everything a certain way and make it that you are that you will drive them crazy And they'll be out and you'll be sad. Or another possibility is they'll drive you crazy because they'll become so dependent upon you That they won't leave. And they won't develop and they won't uh be able to become sufficient in in in in uh being able to take care of themselves and that kind of thing. So so living for your kids is not going to end well either. Some people live for, they say, well, you know, I don't want an authority. I don't want somebody being my authority, but I'll live for being a good person. I'll be a really good person. That's what I'll live for. If somebody does that, then one of two things is going to happen. They're never going to match up to the moral standard that they see for themselves and they're going to feel constantly struggling and despondent. They're going to constantly feel bad about themselves because they're never quite reaching their what they believe to be that moral standard that they're meeting. Or worse, they have met it and they're totally full of themselves They have reached that standard and now they're self-righteous and they've got everything figured out and nobody else can live with them. And they are totally relationally not able to be, you know, they they because they've arrived. Do you see how we are we are designed to live for something? We're designed to have an authority that we're living for. Whatever we see as we're living for, that's what is our authority. And Ultimately, when we have those things in our lives, if we don't learn to live for Christ, who is the ultimate authority, we are going to end up rather frustrated in life. Pick any area whatsoever. You're gonna end up frustrated, you're going to end up discouraged or despairing or depressed. when you try to live for something other than Christ. And the reason that we know that there's a couple of reasons, but one of the main reasons is because God created us to live for his glory. That's why he created us. If you're not living for Christ, for God's glory, you're not living for the very reason that you're created. And no wonder you're going to find yourself frustrated. Now, there are certain things that you can live for for a time and you'll feel fulfilled, but eventually there's going to be a day where you're going to have a real problem. Until we learn to live for Christ. So that's why it's so important for us to understand that Jesus is the ultimate authority. And we've already gone through the Sermon on the Mount, and Jesus existed is explained. With great authority, the nature of his kingdom, the spiritual nature of his kingdom in the Sermon on the Mount. And now Matthew is going to as the as the the the uh As the person who is really trying to get across, the gospel that really tries to get across, that Jesus is king, is now going to highlight certain miracles that Jesus does to demonstrate his authority. Well, what are these areas? We're going to see four different areas in this text. We're going to see, first of all, that he has authority over religious barriers. He has authority over ethnic barriers. He has authority over gender barriers. And he has authority over a fallen world. Four areas, religious barriers, ethnic barriers, gender barriers, and a fallen world So those four areas. So first we're going to look at how the fact that he has authority over religious barriers or religious traditions. And we pick up here in Matthew chapter 8, and we'll look at verses 1 through 4 here. It says, When he had come down to the mountain, great multitudes followed him, and behold, a leper. Came and worshipped him, saying, Lord, if you are willing, you can make me clean. And Jesus put out his hand and touched him. This is these details are important. And touched him, touched the leper. And all and I uh and say saying, I am willing be cleansed. Immediately his leprosy was cleansed, and Jesus said to him, See that you tell no one, but go your way, show yourself to the priests, and offer the gift that Moses commanded as a testimony to them. Now in this setting, this leper has come to Jesus. He probably has heard that Jesus has is healing different ones, and it says that the leper has come and worshiped Jesus. He's giving Jesus uh proper awe, proper respect um as he as he comes to him. And he realizes that if Jesus wants to He's not really questioning whether Jesus can or not. He knows Jesus can. But if Jesus wants to, he says, I know that you can So there's a level of faith here on the part of the leper as he comes to him. Now the thing that's particularly uh uh interesting about the leper here coming to him is the fact that leprosy was really considered back in that day among the religious leaders to be an indicator that you are cursed by God because of your sin. That you are particularly cursed by God. In Job, all the way back in Job 1813, it says it devours patches of his skin, the firstborn of death devours his limbs. It's actually talking about about reference there to probably a reference there uh to uh leprosy but particularly back in numbers chapter uh twelve do you remember the story of mariam and how she got leprosy. In verse 9 of Numbers 12, it says this, so the anger of the Lord was aroused against them, and he departed. When the cloud departed from above the tabernacle, suddenly Miriam became leprous as white as snow. And Aaron turned toward Miriam, and there she was a leper. So Aaron said to Moses, Oh my Lord, please do not lay this sin on us. I mean, immediately, even then, they're identifying this leper as this leprosy as the sin. Now, it's interesting that, I mean, Miriam in this particular case was sinful, and she did, in this particular case, she did receive the leprosy because of her sin. And that is not always the case with sickness, but in this particular case it was. So then verse 12, please do not let her be one as be as one dead. whose flesh is half consumed when he comes out of his mother's womb. So Moses cried out of the Lord saying, Please uh please heal her, O God, I pray. And the Lord said to Moses, If her father had put a spit in her face, would she not be ashamed seven days? Let her be shut up shut out of the camp seven days, and afterwards she may be received again So Miriam was shut out of the camp seven days, and the people did not journey till Miriam was brought in again. And afterward the people moved from Hazarith in the camp of Miriam. So you see there from that text that there was great reproach even back then there was great reproach and great um uh sense of curse on on and sense of punishment, those kinds of things. And very likely that carried out throughout Israel's history that when someone got leprosy, it was because they had sinned against God in some particular way. And they were not just ceremonially unclean, not just physically unclean, they were spiritually unclean. And this really is a misunderstanding of the text of Scripture actually here. And let me just say this, that when you're going through narrative passages like Numbers 12, the narrative passage could you could derive an idea that leprosy is always because of sin, but that is not what it says in the text. It doesn't say that. And yet they sort of took from the text, that narrative text, this idea that leprosy is always as a result of personal sin. And they attribute it to leper, and they attribute it to all lepers, and they became, really they became a class of people that were considered to be inferior and sinful and to be shunned and Separated away from the rest of Israel. And yet when this leper comes to Jesus, what does Jesus do? Jesus Now, get this. Sometimes when people came to Jesus, he just spoke the word, and they're healed. But not this time. And it wasn't because he had to do this, but he was showing something. He touched the leper. Why did Jesus do that? Why did he touch the leper? Well, because that was not acceptable to the rabbinical uh to the rabbinical teachings of the day. Now it wasn't against the law in the Old Testament, but it was against the rabbinical teachings of the Old Testament uh the rabbinical teachings. and what was intend uh and and and all of that and the religious leaders of the day and so he goes and he touches them but here's what happens Usually the rabbinical teachings of the day taught that if you touch a leper, you are unclean. But what happened when Jesus touched the leper? He became clean. Usually it went from the clean person becomes unclean, but in Jesus' case, he is touching the leper, and the cleanly the cleanness goes and it And the leper is cleansed. You know what he's doing here, folks? He is showing that he has authority over all this. He has authority over even who is cleansed and who is not, who is defiled and who is not. Jesus has the authority over this. And what he says to the leper is he says, look, don't tell anybody about this. Keep it to yourself. The reason he's doing that is not because he's trying to keep, you know. Secrets needlessly, but Jesus actually does not did not come to earth primarily to he pe heal people physically. That's not why he primarily came. And what he tr wanted to avoid, very likely by saying that, is just flocks of people coming to him for this, because that would that would become the you know the the focus of his ministry of is just healing people. And folks, that was not what God intended. In fact, in Matthew chapter 1 it says, he came to save them from their sin. That had to be the focus, not this physical healing. And that's actually an important point that we'll bring up later on in the message as well. But there are some people that are so focused on the work of Jesus and healing, they think that they can claim the healing of Jesus today. Now it's not that God can't heal who he chooses to heal and who he wants to heal. We'll talk about that a little bit later later as well. But the claim somehow that by great if you have enough faith that you can be healed of disease today because that's what happened back then in Jesus. Jesus' day, they're missing the point of why Jesus mirac of miracles in the first place. They're really missing the point So Jesus was tangibly showing all of the nation of Israel that he was an authority, so much an authority that he said, go ahead and go back. And go, and go, this is really interesting, go back and tell the and show yourself to the priest so that you could be approved and they could see that you're clean again, that you could become ceremonially cleansed again. It's interesting that Jesus didn't rebel from the authorities of the day. He actually worked within the authority of the day, and he showed that he was he was so authoritative he could actually work within the system. It's pretty amazing that he, you know, most people when they exert authority, they end up having to defy somebody else in the process. He didn't do that. He he exerted his authority, his true authority, but didn't oppose someone else in the process. It's pretty amazing how he did that. There are three implications from this text that we see. Number one, Jesus reached the outcast and dejected in society. He reached out to them And he touched them, the outcast and the dejected in society. We're going to see that again later on. Number two, Jesus showed his ability to cleanse defilement. He has ability to do that. He has power over that. And there is an implication that if he can do that, then he can also cleanse sin as well. Not that they are the same thing. They're not. But he can also cleanse sin as well. And number three, Jesus showed it in his authority over the priesthood not by rebelling Not but by being re in rebellion to it, but listen to this. He shows authority over the priesthood by fulfilling it. This is a tangible example of how Jesus came not to destroy the law, but to fulfill the law. This is what he did here. And that is exactly what he said he came to do. Matthew chapter 5, verse seven verse uh twenty. It says, For I say that unless your righteous well actually I'll pick up in verse seventeen, do not think that I've come to destroy the law or the prophets I did not come to destroy, but to fulfill. And he shows that he's actually doing that. He is not destroying He's fulfilling. There are defilement laws in the Old Testament. There are those kinds of things in the Old Testament. What did Jesus come to do? Not to destroy them, but to fulfill them. fulfill them. So that when Jesus dies on the cross for us and when when all that is paid for us, he has fulfilled all those laws of the Old Testament. He's the fulfillment of them. And so that's why then the focus can be on Matthew 5. 20. It says, for I say unto you, unless your righteousness exceeds the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, you'll by no means enter the kingdom of God. Now, he shows that he has authority over these religious, he is the authority over these religious barriers. But secondly, he is an authority over ethnic barriers. And this is really an interesting story. And the bulk of the passage is in this story in verses 5 through 13. It says, Now when Jesus had entered Capernaum, a centurion came to him, pleading with him, saying, Lord, my servant is lying at home paralyzed. dreadfully tormented. And Jesus said to him, I will come and heal him. The centurion, look at what it says here. The centurion answered and said, Lord, I am not worthy that you should come under my roof. I'm not worthy. But only speak the word, and my servant will be healed. For also I am a man under authority And ha having soldiers under me, and I say to this one, go, and he goes, and another come, and he comes, and is and to me and to my servant do this, and he does it And Jesus heard it, he marveled, and said to those who followed, Assuredly I say to you, I have not found such great faith, not even in Israel. And I say to you that many will come from east and west and sit down with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven, but the sons of the kingdom will cast out into outer darkness, there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. Then Jesus said to the centurion, Go your way, and as you have believed, so let it be done for you. And his servant was healed that same hour. So the centurion comes to Jesus. And um and he let's little really we've got to understand a little bit about the centurion. So the centurion was a Roman soldier. The centurion was in charge of a hundred men usually. He was part of the Roman army. He was a Gentile. He was not a Jew. And he had apparently rubbed shoulders with the gent with the Jews so much so that he understood that for according to the rabbinical writings In order to for a Jew to go into the household of a Gentile, he would become ceremonially unclean. Again, that's rabbinical writings, not necessarily the law. Now it's interesting that the centurion understood this, and instead of reacting uh to that with sort of indignity and being offended by it. He actually goes to Jesus and he said and he makes allowance. He sort of says, he complies with it. He realizes his unworthiness. Um this is uh really I realized the centurion had great authority over over man uh the the hunger people he would they were the highest ranking uh uh soldier That had direct access to the day-to-day affairs of men. So if you think of If you think of different rankings of of military, some are with the troops and they're interacting with the troops every day and they're Showing, you know, they're they have detailed authority in the troops. And some of them are really just giving commands from the top to the centurions. So they're the highest They're the highest authority that had direct access to the common Roman soldier, to the troops. So the centurion was fully aware of the of the of the understanding of the idea of authority. Now what's amazing about this text Is that is that Jesus Jesus says there has been no one In all of Israel that has had faith like this man. Now that ought, you know, there you go through the Gospels and you see interactions with Jesus on every level with different kinds of people. That's pretty, can I say it this way, it's pretty high praise. Now, the truth is that faith was not his own. Okay. All right, that's God-given faith But there's a real sense in which that we really ought to listen up here and see, okay, what kind of quality of faith did this man have that Jesus would say, with all the people I've interacted with In Israel, this man has had a particular kind of faith. A couple of things that we need to understand. The Centurion, though he was very worthy in the sight of the Romans, saw himself as very unworthy. In fact, it's really interesting that the parallel passage in Luke chapter 7, there's a parallel passage here. And it really highlights, Luke highlights how the people around the centurion thought him to be highly respected and actually deserving of this miracle for his servant. And yet even though everyone around the Citurian thought that he was very worthy and very deserving, the Citurian Still didn't think he was very still did saw himself as unworthy. It says in Luke 7, I'll pick up in verse 6 there, it says, Then Jesus went to them. And when he when he had when he was ready not for the uh not far from the house, the centurion sent friends to him, saying to him, Lord, do not trouble yourself For I am not worthy that you should enter under my roof. Therefore I did not even think myself worthy to come to you, but say the word, and my servant will be In verse 4 of that same chapter it says, and when they had cut when they came to Jesus, they begged him earnestly, saying that the one for whom he should do this was deserving. Now, really, I mean just think about this man. This is really incredible. Everybody around him thinks he's great. Everybody around him thinks he's deserving. But this man has this humility to realize that he is utterly unworthy. Of Jesus to even heal not himself, but his servant. Now That really is a theme in the New Testament. Do you realize that? The idea that we are unworthy. Do you remember John? Back in Matthew, John the Baptist, back in Matthew chapter 3, and he says this, I indeed baptize you with water under repentance, but he who is coming after me is mightier than I, whose sandals I am not worthy even to carry. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire. Jesus, John the Baptist, as powerful as John the Baptist was, as a great prophecy was, as wonderful as incredible as his ministry was, he says, There's somebody coming, and I'm not even worthy to carry a sandals. Paul said something similar in 1 Corinthians 15, verse 9, it says, For I am the least of the apostles. who am not worthy to be called an apostle because I persecuted the church of God. He understood, Paul understood that he was not even worthy to be an apostle, even though God had made him to be an apostle. So let's let's ask this question. According to the text, by observing the text Why did Jesus say, centurion, you got the greatest faith I've seen anywhere? Why? Number three things. Number one. The centurion recognized Jesus' absolute authority. He recognized Jesus' absolute authority. In fact, he says, I understand authority. When I tell my troops to do something, they do it. I d I tell them to Walk, they walk, I tell them to stop, they stop, I tell I immediately and immediately they do it. And I'm under authority, and when I do something, when I'm my authorities tell me to do something, I do it By the way, under Roman military leadership, if you disobeyed an authority, what happened to you? You're dead. That's the kind of absolute authority that a centurion had over his pe uh uh over his troops. He could kill them on the spot if they disobeyed him That tells you that the centurion, he took all of this knowledge of authority and he applied it to Jesus. He says, I'm not even worthy for you to come to my house. And on the other hand, you have all authority. Number two, the centurion came to Christ in utter humility. This we've been talking about already. So number one He recognized God's Jesus' absolute authority. Number two, he came to Christ in utter humility. And number three, the basis of the centurion's faith was the word. He says all you need to do, you don't need to be there. He says, all you need to do, Jesus, is say the word. And the word will be enough. He understood. He is almost attributing, if he is not attributing deity to Jesus, he is he certainly is coming very close to that. And of course, Jesus is God It is the faith is based upon the word of Jesus. It's not some sort of form. It's not some sort of method of Jesus' healing and doing certain things. It's not the fact that he touched because Touch them or you know it's none of that. None of that. It's the word. It's the word of God that the centurion is trusting. Those three things demonstrate that here is a man of great faith. But Jesus then turns, by the way, this is a Gentile man, and Jesus takes this opportunity particularly. And he says, he and he contrasts the centurions with with Israel as a whole. And as you know already from Matthew and from other gospels, the Israel by the example and representation of their leaders. have been very um uh self-righteous and not had this kind of faith at all. In fact it's quite the opposite. So he takes the time to identify this in them. And he says that there are going to be many that come from all kinds of places. That is probably a fulfillment of scripture, of Old Testament scripture. There's several places, for example, in Psalm 107 and Isaiah 43 and 49, it talks about the gathering of Israel from four quarters of the earth But then in Isaiah forty-five and fifty-nine in Malachi one it talks about the Gentiles are all parts coming from all parts of the earth, and then the Gentiles are coming to Jerusalem. So this is uh uh You know, Jesus is saying this is going to happen. Well the Gentiles are all going to be coming, they're going to be incl included in my plan. And then he says there are going to be many people that are s that are sons of Abraham that are going to reject And what he's saying here is he's saying that the litmus test for whether or not you are truly a child of God is not your lineage, it's your faith. It's your dependency. This is earth-shattering. This is groundbreaking for Israel as they hear this from Jesus. And Jesus again is going to take this point and he's going to drive it home to help the Jews to understand that their self-righteousness And their connection to Abraham is not going to get them into heaven. Matthew 1. 1 tells us this, the book of genealogy of Jesus Christ, the Son of David, the Son of Abraham, and in that same verse 2 there, it says, He will save his people from their sin in Matthew 1. And later we see the same kind of thing in Matthew chapter 3, verses 9 through 10. It says, um Jesus interacting with them, and it says, and do not think that uh uh To say to yourselves, We have Abraham as our father, for I say to you that God is able to raise up children to Abraham from these stones. And even now the axe is laid to the root of the trees. Therefore every tree Which does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. And he says that there are going to be many Jewish people who do not trust in Christ. They're trusting in their own selves, their own religion, their own ethnic background And in not trusting in Christ, and they're going to hell. To a place called hell. They're going to a place where there is weeping and gnashing of teeth Dependency on self, on in any respect, on self-effort in any respect, or on your pedigree, or on any of that, will send you away from God in separation to God, not to him. him. Now the applications here are many. But I want us just to think for a moment, whether we're whether you're a Christian this morning or a non-Christian, a couple of things. Number one, are you are are you aware of your unworthiness? You are unworthy, and I am unworthy. This is something that the apostles began to be keenly aware of as they preached the gospel. As they serve the Lord. In 2 Corinthians 2, verse 14, it says, Now thanks be to God who always leads us to triumph in Christ through us and through us diffuses the fragrance of his knowledge in every place. For we are to God the fragrance of Christ among those who are being saved among those who are perishing. We're the fragrance of God to people. But then he says this. To one we are the aroma of death of death leading to death. To the other, the aroma of life leading to life. Who is sufficient for these things? For we are not as so many peddling the Word of God, but as sincerity, but as from God, we speak to the sight of God in Christ. He says, we're not sufficient to be what God's called us to be. We're not sufficient for these things. We are unworthy. Do you and I realize that as we serve the Lord, we are unworthy. We are, at best, unprofitable servants. How does a person have the kind of faith that God wants them to have? It starts with this kind of realizing how unworthy we are and humil and humbling ourselves before God. Do we see also Jesus' absolute authority? And is our faith rooted in the Word of God? Well, Jesus doesn't end there, but now he's going to move. uh move then and we're going to see the authority uh that he has with gender barriers now. I I want to very very quickly say um that this this could sound like a political buzzword or something like that. It's not. I just don't know how else to to say what it what I'm trying to say I mean it's clear in the text, but that's what he's talking about, at least in my mind, that's what's going on there. You have a mother-in-law of Peter who Jesus chooses. You know, you have all these people in this text. You've got first you've got the leper. And then you've got this Gentile centurion Roman soldier that God heal that Christ heals, and now you have you know you have a woman. And in Jesus' day, uh women were considered really second-class citizens. They were not elevated to the same level as men. They were really b beneath in fact some cases they were considered to be owned. Women were considered to be owned. to be owned by men. Jesus when Jesus comes to this earth, he he elevates women. Do you realize that? In the first, uh in the gen in the genealogies, you see all of these, you know, you have five different women in Jesus' name. genealogies. That was unheard of to have women at all in the genealogies. And the first witness to see Jesus' resurrection was a woman. You have on purpose Jesus elevating women because in that day they were not they were not considered equal in value with men. But let me just hasten to say this: here's what's amazing about Jesus. Jesus elevated women to an equal place with men as far as value is concerned without doing two things. Diminishing the value of men, he never does that. Or changing the role of women, he doesn't do that. In fact, you see immediately what does she get up and do here? She gets up and starts serving. She shows hospitality. She shows that sort of normal, normal woman's role back in that day. which is of which you know biblically the role of the woman the role of a man are uh uh I'm sorry the the the value of a woman and the value of man are absolutely equal scripturally Just as much as Jesus is as valuable as the Father. That's the comparison in 1 Corinthians. But you have Jesus who is so authoritative over society, that he is able to elevate women to a proper value And at the same time, not oppress or devalue men at the same time. You know, society can't do that. At least I've never seen it. Historically, society, they've got to reject one group to elevate another They've got to elevate somebody and then change roles that they have no ability to be able to do it. Is it true in our nation's history that in some respects We have not treated uh women properly, and there have been other other ethnic groups we've not treated properly. I think that there is some something to be said about that. But society is extremely flawed in how they deal with that It's only Jesus who has the wisdom and even the authority to be able to deal with such a problem. in a way that is going to truly show who he is, and he does this here in this passage. In Luke 4, the parallel passage, it says he stood over her and he rebuked with authority, he rebuked the fever. Now, I've just mentioned this for those of you who are in the medical field. We know that today the fever is a symptom, it's not a disease. Okay. But in that day the fever was considered to be the disease. They didn't really know the difference. So when somebody got a fever for a an extended period of time and it was a severe fever, they thought that that fever was actually the disease So when Matthew's writing this, he's just in his own understanding of what's going on, that's what he says. He rebukes the fever. But we understand that to be that he rebukes the disease. In other words, he has authority even over disease. He has authority over all that. And we see that in the text as well. What you see over and over and over again is the is that Jesus has authority. And then finally Jesus has full authority over a fallen world. Full authority over a fallen world, number four. And we see this in verses 16 and 17. In verse 16 it says, When Avon evening had come, they brought to him many who were demon-possessed. And he came out uh and he came, he cast out the spirits with with a word, and healed all who were sick that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by Israel Isaiah the prophet, saying, He himself took our infirmities and bore our sicknesses. We see here from this passage, first of all, he's going around and he is he is uh he is uh dealing with the those and casting out spirits of demon-possessed people. Now the significance of Matthew bringing this up is do you remember that in another text the disciples were unable to do this? They were able to heal. God had given them Christ had given them the power to be able to do that. uh uh you know limited the power to be able to do that. But when it came to casting out demons, particularly uh a lot of demons, they weren't able to do that. Jesus here is showing his power, his authority over the prince of the power of the air, the the evil of this world. He is demonstrating tangibly that he is an authority over that. But also, he's healing the sick. And he's doing a lot of it. He's healing the sick. Now it's interesting in the passage, then, that Matthew quotes Isaiah. And there is actually much confusion about this. He says, verse 17, and it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the prophet Isaiah, saying I, he himself took our infirmities and bore our sins. Bore our sicknesses, rather. He took our infirmities, infirmities, and bore our sicknesses. This comes from Isaiah 53, 4. Which says, surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows, yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted. Folks, there has been a lot of confusion about this because there have been certain groups of people, certain religious groups and churches and Christians Or professing Christians that have suggested that in the atonement, healing is included. That when Christ atoned for mankind, atoned for people on the cross, that there is a healing power associated with that. And that is the sort of core doctrine from which we get the health and wealth movement. Now, I really feel the need to demonstrate why this is really dangerous. Does healing is come from the substitutionary atonement of Christ? And the answer is yes and no. Yes in one way, no in another. And it's really important that we flesh this out a little bit, that we understand this. And I'm going to very quickly, I know I'm uh short on time, but I'm gonna very quickly go through a couple of things that I think is very important for us to understand Understand. Number the role of healing in Christ's work, there are five points here. Number one, and I'll go through them quickly. Let me suggest you do this After when you see point don't write them down because you're not gonna have time. Uh point number five, put your c cell phone up and take a picture of it. I have no problem with that. If I see cell phones everywhere for that, that's fine. Okay. Uh but that'll keep you from actually having to write them all down right away because We're going to go through them fairly quickly. Number one, the healing is uh in Isaiah 53 is clearly a spiritual healing from sin, not physical healing. We know that from 1 Peter 2, verse 25. It says this, who himself bore our sins in his own body on the tree. What did he bear? What did Jesus bear on the tree? Sins, that's what he bore. That we, having died to what? Sins, is what it says in the text, might live for righteousness. And then it says this: by whose stripes were what? Healed. Healed from what, folks? From sin. We're healed from sin. That's what we're healed from That's what Jesus is promising by the by his death on the cross. It's not some sort of possibility or some sort of physical healing. Now, let me pause and say, God can heal anybody he wants to, and he can perform miracles anytime. And if we want to pray for healing for us, that's great. There's nothing wrong with that. But don't attribute the atoning work of Christ to present-day healing. That's the danger. Don't do it, please. That's dangerous. Number two, the link, here is the link. Is there a link between sin and sickness? Yes. The link. Between sin and sickness is that sin has resulted in a fallen world, which includes sickness So is there a link? Yes, there is a link. In other words, because of Adam and Eve's original sin, you do have sickness in the world. And outside of sin, you wouldn't have sickness in the world. So there is a link between sin and sickness But the question becomes, how is Jesus in his redemptive work on the cross, in his substitutionary atonement on the cross, how is Jesus Dealing with this result of sin. And folks, that's important. And it brings me to number three. The atonement of Christ deals with the problem of sin. And ultimately redeems the fallen world. It deals immediately with the problem of sin and ultimately is this listed, guys? It's not? Oh. Okay. If you don't get it, it's okay. I'm going to I will email it to everybody. We'll do it that way. Okay. Um but anyway, okay, so um uh deals with the problem of sin. Almate r uh redeems the the uh Uh okay. Number three, the atonement of Christ deals with the problem of sin and ultimately redeems the fallen world. Number four, the atonement of Christ affords us forgiveness of sin now, but no makes no claim to heal now The atonement of Christ does not make a claim to heal now. Number five, here's what we're looking for. The atonement only promises healing through the redemption of our bodies in the future resurrection. See, folks, yes, we will be healed. Yes, because of the atonement of Christ, Christians will be healed. But the healing comes in the future. The healing comes through the redemption of our bodies that one day we will rise from the grave. In fact, if you look at Romans chapter 8, which we won't take the time to look at the 19th century, It becomes very clear that the plan of God during this time period in life in our lives, in our in in God's history is to cause us to really look to the day when the resurrection of our bodies will happen to really look to the day when we, when the world will be redeemed. To look to that day. And very candidly, those who say that I can claim healing by the power of the cross now are really shortchanging God's ultimate plan of healing in the future This is absolutely important for us to understand. It's not that God won't heal. It's when he will choose to heal. And very candidly, this is important, very candidly Can God do miracles today? Sure he can. Does he? Probably. But he has to actually have a a purpose for it. That is going to sort of be in conjunction with his redemptive, his ultimate biblical, clear redemptive plan. Which is why we have to be so careful when we say, when we are sort of claiming that God is going to heal somebody or that something like that. Be very careful about that. Because ultimately, yes, he will. But the biblical truth that we have is that the healing is going to come one day. Now, if God chooses to do it, I've heard of testimonies of God doing that That is wonderful. I am not n not, you know, uh I prayed for miracles lately myself, okay? I'm not at all suggesting that that is to diminish what God's work in a person's life that way. I'm just saying that when it comes to the death of Christ, we have to be very, very careful as to what we are really, what we'll really understanding the death of Christ promises for the Christian. Now I want to spend uh just say this finally, D. A. Carson puts it this way. From the perspective of the New Testament writers. The cross is the basis for all the benefits that accrue to believers. But this does not mean that all such benefits can be secured at the present time on demand. any more than we have the right and power to demand our resurrection bodies. The availability of any specific blessing can be determined only by appealing to the overall teaching of Scripture. Modern Christians should avoid the principal danger of Corinth, which they were really in the healings, an over-realized eschatology, which demands blessings that may not be ours to the end of the age. I think what Die Carson is saying there is very well said. Now, how do we wrap all of this up? I'd like you actually finally to take your Bibles, and this will be our final passage that we'll look at, and turn to Matthew chapter 11. Matthew chapter 11, and I want us to look at verses 27 through 30 for a moment because I really want us to apply the authority of Jesus in a very personal way here. I think this will really help us. We began the entire message by talking about who's going to be your authority and who are you going to live for and the frustration That comes with attempting to live for someone or something outside of Jesus. But now I want you to see what happens, what God says is, what Jesus says is going to happen when we consistently and continually live under the authority of Jesus. Now I want you to look at Matthew chapter 11 and pick up in verse 27. It says this. All things have been delivered to me by my Father And no one knows the Son except the Father, nor does anyone know the Father except the Son, and the one to whom God is the Son wills to reveal him. In other words, if you know Jesus, it's because it is the will of God. Verse 2028 Come to me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. You're laboring and you're heavy laden after living for yourself or living for vocation or living for your family or living for all these different things. I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me. For I am gentle and lowly in heart. If you'll do this, my words, you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy and my burden is light. Now, there is one particular word that I want us to focus on, and it's not yoke. Because if you focus on the word yoke, you are going to find that your the picture you're going to have is a burden again. Like, okay, so I'm just transferring burdens. I'm burdened by my family, I'm burdened by my own location, I'm burdened by my own idea of what is moral and being a good person, or I'm burdened by Jesus. Great, thanks. Just I'm transferring burdens. Now I'm burdened by Jesus. No, I want you to focus on the word my. We've talked about Jesus. He says, take my yoke upon you. And learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls, for my yoke is easy and my burden is light. Do you know what Jesus is inviting us to? I'm just going to say it this way, and it's going to sound bad, but it's really good. He's inviting us to submission to to submitting to his will, to resting in his will. to to throwing off the yokes, the authorities of everything else that that burdens us down. And to take Jesus' yoke, because his yoke is easy and his burden is light, at the end of living for Jesus, you're not going to find frustration. At the end of living for Jesus, you're not going to find despair and despondency and disappointment. You're not going to find those things if you're living at the end of living for Jesus. You're going to find rest. And Jesus says it's because of this, your yoke is easy and your burden. My yoke is easy and my burden is light. Tim Keller gave an illustration, I think it's really helpful. He he said that one day he was talking to his son. His son was uh you know very young, uh about six years old, and he was about you know forty years old And his son told him, Tim Keller said to him, I need you to obey. You need to obey. And his son said, Dad, you don't understand. I just, I'll obey because but I really have to understand. I just I really got to understand. Because if I understand, then I'll be able to obey. And Tim Keller said he said that's not obedience. That's agreement. He said, I didn't tell you I need you to agree with me. He said, I need you to obey me. Obedience by the very nature of it implies that you don't fully agree. Now we don't disagree with God because somehow we're in defiance of him, but very often we disagree with God because we don't understand. Right? We don't understand what we're going through. We don't understand God's will. And so we are sort of in disagreement with God. And you know this, you know the truth is? There is a sense in which that's okay. It's okay if you don't agree with God, but you have to submit to his will. Obedience, obedience and submission to his will, and saying, I don't understand, I'm not going to lean on our on my own understanding. In all my ways I'm going to acknowledge you and allow you to direct our paths. God calls for our trusting obedience, not our understanding agreement. Now sometimes in his word he gives us a glimpse of understanding his will. I mean his word is a glimpse of understanding his will. will. That is the revealed will of God. And we can be very thankful for the revealed word of God that does reveal and show us the the the measure of will that He wants us, that God wants us to know. But what God says in his word and what he calls us to is submissive obedience, not understanding agreement and we must learn the difference. And that is the difference, folks, between frustration and rest. So three things. Number one, robust faith, not only a sense to God Christ's power to forgive sin, but Christ's absolute authority over sin and self. It's not, okay, I know Jesus can forgive my sin. But his absolute authority over sin and self. Number two, the authority of Christ does not call us to fulfill understanding. To full understanding or complete agreement, but it calls us to submit. Doesn't call us to full understanding or complete agreement. It calls us to submit. And number three, rest for our souls comes with submission to Christ's yoke. Rest for our souls comes with submission to Christ's does not mean that there is not uh difficulties emotionally. It doesn't mean that there aren't sad times and hard times and difficult times and suffering and those kinds of things. But folks, there is there can be, if we will submit to the will of God in our lives, there can be a rest, a spiritual rest through the midst of it. For our souls, rather than one of frustration and despair and uh and depression and struggle and all those kinds of things. But uh those kinds of things that God really doesn't want us to have. Let's pray together. Father, we today, this morning, praise you for the authority of Christ. Your word later on tells us in 1 Corinthians chapter 15 that you have given him all Christ all authority and all things until all things will be put under his feet. And we're living in an already not yet time period where we see the completed work of Christ on the cross so that He is all-sufficient for all things. And yet we look forward to the redemption of our bodies, we look forward to the redemption of this world, we look forward to the day where Christ comes for us. In the midst of all that, Father, would you help us simply to submit, to submit to your will, to take Christ's yoke on us? to live under the complete and total authority of the headship of Jesus Christ. Would you teach us that this morning? Would you cause us through your Spirit on a day-to-day basis to simply submit to your will? And we pray these things in Christ's name Amen. Hello, my name is Jim. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273 or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon