And you were drowned in the depth of the sea. And if you should find it, assuredly I say to you, he rejoices more over that sheep than over the 99 that did not go astray. It says in that passage that a dispute arose among them as to which of them would be the greatest, and Jesus perceiving the thought of their heart And he said to her, What do you wish? 'Cause I've met a lot of non Christians that are nice and I met a few Christians that are mean. And so if you're listening today and you say, well, I've sinned and I'm separate and and God is a just God, and so I'm headed to hell because of my sin. Are you afraid somebody's going to take advantage of you? and transparency and humility and love for one another and acceptance and protection. So I was hiking up into the higher elevations of mountains and things like that. Yes, we'll grow in spiritual strength, but there is a sense in which we will also continue in weakness. and was clothed with humanity, he humbled himself. We start off here at we see the treatment of the humble is required for advancement in the kingdom. and by the other disciples and that kind of thing. something like that up in the mountains, but very, very rarely, and I've never seen a bear in Maryland. As she holds her perfect little baby. It's Mother's Day, so I figured I'd use a Mother's Illustr day illustration. and selling my kid beat up your anyway, it's amazing to me. And we're going to see this in three ways. In the Mark passage, he comes to them. And not to resist an evil person, but whoever slaps you on the right, turn the other. They said to him, we are able. And he says, are you ready for this? Him. And they're so mean. Uh just all things being equal, when someone grows up in a secure, loving home that they can truly be themselves. And he receives a righteous man in the name of a righteous man shall receive a righteous man's reward. Uh there's the term again, little ones, only a cup of cold water in the name of a disciple. In Matthew 17, 26 through 27, we see the same word here used. But before that point, while Jesus is on this earth, while they're learning from Jesus and following him and and and being discipled by him, It's going to say this, verse 30. And Jesus said to them, Assuredly I say to you that this night before the rooster clothes you will deny me three times. It says, don't despise them. So once you die, then your spirit that's talking about the mispirit after death. He protects uh uh he he is watching out for young Christians, and he uses generally not guardian angels, but generally angels to do it. The seven stars are the angels of the seven churches and the seven lampstands which you saw of the seven churches. where young believers can come, where new believers can come, where old believers can come, where weak believers can come, and we cannot compromise the truth. than over 99 just person who needs no repentance. He leads me in the paths of righteousness for his namesake. To have the best experience you can possibly have. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And if your eye causes you to sin, pluck it out and cast it from you. Whether you have more than everybody else. The disciples are discussing this concept of who will be greatest in the kingdom of heaven, he is going to answer a different question. that they are built on military might and who is better than the other and who will advance more than the other and who has more power, who has more riches, who has more had just recently come down from the mountain and of course they're set apart from the twelve from the rest of the twelve and so certainly that could have been uh An imminent possibility that Jesus is going to establish his kingdom, although they really have no clue on how he's going to do this yet. They had no significance rights, no way of advancing in that world. A child didn't uh he didn't have the kinds of things necessary to be a warrior in a kingdom. In Matthew 20, verse 20 it says, And the mother of Zebedee's sons came to him, came to Jesus with her sons, kneeling down and asking something from him. And seven says, Therefore, humble yourselves under the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you in due time, casting all your care upon him, for he cares for you. The Bible says we are all sinners and we are eternally separated from God And humility says, I understand that, that I can do nothing in of myself to come to God. And what Jesus is saying in this passage is that if you really want to come to God, the only people that are going to come to God are people that are humble and realize they need Jesus. Leon Morris said it this way. And then he he warns people about despising little ones, despising humble people. We learn to to we don't want people to see our our our bad sides or things like that because we are sort of What he is about, what he's going to say in this passage is that he he wants to create an environment needs to be created where they can they can express weakness without without uh um loving toward others, they end up having that kind of home themselves when they're older, all things being equal. It can't you know can't be differently on you know both ways, but that that tends to be the case. And he who receives me receives him who sent me. to disciples of Christ, when we care for them, then truly there is a reward there. Of course, we've already noted that these little ones are Christians who believe. distinct possibility that they can fall into into distrust of God, they can fall into sin, they can fall into stumbling. who instead of receiving and caring for, does the opposite and causes that person to sin. There is a spiritual immaturity that causes them to stumble. Remember that? We were very used to this by now. people and them that there is possibilities of stumbling going on. and cast it from you. It is better for you to enter into life lame or maimed rather than having two hands or two feet to be cast into eternal, into everlasting fire. So the offense, the person that causes offense, it'd be better for him to drown. We cannot take sin lightly. Well that Christian, he's really valuable. most recent ordination council I was in this question was asked the guy was are there guardian angels? We apply this, I think, in two ways. you know, people that um that are certainly kingdom citizens and there might be an application there. of God. Okay, so I tried to find some ways to protect myself, but I asked they said actually the bears are more afraid of you than you are of them. They said, as long as you don't get between a mother and a cub. freedom and there can be love and joy and those kinds of things. and one of them goes astray, does he not leave the 99 and go to the mountains to seek the one that is straying? And if he should find it, assuredly I say to you, he rejoices more over the sheep than over 99 that did not go astray. other brothers and sisters in Christ, even weak ones so well, certainly weak ones so well, is because that's the attitude of Jesus. But at the end of that illustration, it says this, it says, verse 7, I say to you that likewise there will be more joy in heaven over one sinner who repents. And he rejoices over that, who isn't part of the kingdom, to come become part of the kingdom. uh uh values and loves the individual person greatly. the strang person and the security of the believer relies on the shepherd You prepare a table before me in the presence of mine enemies. And I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. the power of Christ may rest upon me. It is called the Exchange. Therefore, whoever humbles himself as this little child is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven. Who is then the greatest in the kingdom of heaven? For the Son of Man has come to save that which was lost. Her child her best friend's child's making the honor roll and her child's not. Sometimes it's when we're better than everybody else in a particular area or another. We say that people are proud of being rich or clever or good looking, but they are not. I'm here to tell you that kind of happiness does not belong in the kingdom of heaven. Wealth, who will ascend beyond the other person? The economy of the kingdom of heaven is entirely different. And so when Jesus finds the disciples discussing this, he answers in a very clear and vivid way. We find from this passage that humility is of primary importance in Christ's kingdom citizen. And then took a little child. that the kingdom citizens are greater than John the Baptist. And so this keeps coming up. To take that as an opportunity to say, okay, well, let's take this as a teaching moment, and I'm going to teach you some very important truth here. That's exactly what Jesus is doing in this passage. Sometimes they're actually the center of attention, sometimes everything's focused on them, and they grow up thinking that they're the center of everything. Then they have rude awakenings as they're adults. between the the the concept of a powerful person in a kingdom of the world and a little child who he says is who we have to become like. And isn't that really true? to turn, to be converted, to turn and become as little children. This is totally different than any kingdom the disciples had been used to at this point. In Jesus' economy, there's always, in his light, there's always, and the way he does things, there's always humiliation before exaltation. The one you you don't need anything else. There is no self-effort, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy, he saved us. So we rely on all these other things, and we rely on ourselves. You must understand that there is nothing that we can do. A genuinely humble person is not the one that really counts in that kingdom. If you think of something think of a little child who's humble and transparent and vulnerable, he you know, there's not much barrier between what he what comes in here and what goes out there and some of your moms are saying, I got a kid like that. uh learn to protect ourselves. becoming uh w without stumbling. Although I'm meaner than I should be then because my mom hugged me a lot, so I don't know if that really works. people who bel believe in Christ. that they're not strong in Christ yet. actually means to lift up, to give respect to, to regard. And he is saying that we need those who receive young believers, new believers, weak believers, those who receive them receive Christ. So assuming that they're Christians, you're recognizing that they are they are children of God, they're a child of God, and you are receiving them that way. James 1. And the passage tells us that those who would cause someone to sin or cause someone to stumble It's better for a millstone to be wrapped around their neck and they to be to drown in the sea. uh strangers, Jesus said to them, Then the sons are are free. But then we move on and we see that there is a warning of mistreatment in verse 6. It would be better for him if a millstone were hung around his neck and he were drowned in the depths of the sea. Do we have some examples of this? And so said all the disciples. For it is written, I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock will be scattered. great problems in my conscience and there are others that say, it's just me. And this is such an important concept that Jesus says those who would cause a younger Christian, a weaker Christian to stumble, a millstone should be wrapped around their neck and they should drown. But we pick up here and we see uh we see this uh disclaimer again here in this passage, and it says, uh picking up verse 8, if your hand or your foot causes you to sin, cut it off. Romans 14, 13 says, Therefore let us not judge one another, but rather resolve this not to put a stumbling block or a cause to fall in a brother's way. 1 Corinthians 8. comes. Same thing, verse 9, and if you uh if your eyes cause you to sin, pluck it out and cast it from you, it is better for you to enter into life with one eye rather than having two eyes to be cast into hellfire. But there is a reason in this passage that that sin produces results in hellfire. He is a just God. than to enter into hell fully with all of your limbs. Understand this, that Jesus Christ died for you. For either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will be loyal to the one and despise the other. And that is uh that is a I suppose a possibility, but I think it's unlikely. The people inside wrote a heard Peter, went and told the people, and they said, it's got to be his angel. And so I think that's probably what it's talking about here. We need to be very careful about an unforgiving spirit, which is going to come in the next passage here, or the importance of restoration of the body, of people in the body of Christ, which you're going to see here. A little one would cause someone just who had just recently come to Christ to stumble. In 10 Thessalonians chapter 2, verse 6, I think of this often because I'm not good at it. We were well pleased to impart to you not only the gospel of God, but also our own lives, because you had become dear to us. For you remember, brethren, our labor and toil, for laboring night and day that we might not be a burden to you, to any of you, we preach to you the gospel. Let me tell you how it is. Unfortunately, I hate to say it, but there have been many people in churches that have been burned by people in churches. Just as a nursing mother cherishes her own children, so affectionately longing for you Where people really glow grow. And a care and an affection one for another. of uh of care and and and it's something that I have to tell myself quite often. One to show that he desires the lost person who doesn't know Christ to come to him The shepherd goes after the sheep that's going astray. In fact, if you look at the Old Testament, you see many, many times the use of the shepherd. God desires for us to remain humble, to remain dependent, to recognize our own weaknesses. Christ cares deeply about the treatment of weak believers. Is when we are truly serving you in humility and serving one another in the same way. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. Be with Pastor Jim as he preaches. Assuredly, I say to you, unless you are converted and become as little children, you will by no means enter the kingdom of heaven. Concern. In Matthew chapter 5, you have this idea of the fact that those who are in the kingdom are happy. What interrupts our happiness is the fact when we begin to compare with others. And if you think about our world and what really makes people happy, that is very often true. They were they were discussing this a while uh before Jesus even was in the room, apparently, is what it looks like And then we're going to see treatment of the humble is required for advancement in the kingdom. And there's really truth to that. And he puts the little child in the midst of them. I mean this is this is really a great way to teach. Well, what does it mean to be converted? And in Luke 10, 23, then he turned to his disciples and looked at them privately. He made himself of no reputation and took upon him the form of a bondservant and be and came in the likeness of man Neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none other name given among men whereby we must be saved, Scripture says. You know, we as adults, we get to the place where we learn to cover our weaknesses. that weak brethren, young Christians, uh, they should be protected. And Jesus says, if you receive them, you receive me. Jesus says in that passage he tells us that when we care for others, when we're attentive to It's how we love Jesus. And the truth is, as someone is beginning in the beginning stages of their faith and growing in the faith, there is a with carefulness, with respect, and that we we show deference. Christ is coming and he says, bid me to come to you. Maybe John is an exception, but the rest of them were not present at the crucifixion of Christ. And so we have another example. certain d uh uh ceremonial days. But then Jesus is going to look back at a teaching that he has already, we've already seen in the Sermon on the Mount before. And so Jesus reiterates a very important sort of a parenthetical disclaimer here. on those who are little ones. to care for them, not to despise them. It was in the first century a very common idea that each individual Israelite had its own had his own guardian angel. is a spirit, although that's probably also where you get the idea that once you die you become an angel, which you don't, by the way So be careful. I thought it was a good illustration of the way a mom is with her kids. Even so, it is not the will of your Father who is in heaven that one of these little ones should perish. for one who goes astray, a believer who's a weak believer that goes astray There is no such thing as coming to God proud. Please understand this. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. Dear Lord, thank you for your goodness to us. Uh holding her baby, maybe that the baby's you know very restful and well-fed and very quiet. just immediately started pie training and immediately went right and did exactly what they're supposed to do right away. That's the question that was asked. But they kept silent, it says, on the road, for on the road they disputed among themselves who would be the greatest. Spill it out. Probably more prominent in the disciples' minds is that three of the disciples were set apart to experience the Mount of Transfiguration and You have to become like this to become a king a citizen of the kingdom of heaven. Therefore, he says, whoever humbles himself as a little child is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven. Is going to come. Jesus answered and said, You do not know what you ask. But to think soberly as God has dealt to us one, each one, a measure of faith. Realizing our own sin. Um there there's something very special about that, but there's something very almost dangerous about that. And so as adults we are burned once or twice or three times and because of that we are we we become sort of callous and we kind of And um and I think to myself, well that person is so nice. And it also includes care for them. Those were the issues back then. This is so serious what he's about to say. Or you could get the idea that there could be sort of some blame shifting going on where, well, he caused me to do this and he caused me to do this You have to come as a little child, helpless, dependent. And then we see here this, he says even further, he says, take heed, verse 10, that you do not despise one of these little ones. Same idea there. This is a very curious verse. And this carried throughout the New Testament. They're very different things in Scripture. And so we ought to have the same value ourselves. Where you've got to be so careful about what you say and you've got to be, I mean you should be careful about what you say, but for different reasons entirely, not for self-protection in the body of Christ. It's a sad thing that we would do that to each other. Nor did we seek glory from men, either from you or from others, when we might have made demands as apostles of Christ. For the Son of Man has come to save that which was lost. And he says, the passage, verse 11 says, For the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost. My shepherd I shall not want. Of humility that Christ does. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. If your hand or foot causes you to sin, cut it off and cast it from you. Take heed that you do not despise one of these little ones. So that's why I ask what makes us happy. And she's not so happy anymore. And it is the person who is truly humble. So be understand what's happening. Mothers understand it's their role to keep the kids alive. That my the Bible says all of our righteousnesses are as filthy rags to God Nothing in my hands I bring, simply to thy cross I cling. Now, inhumility and vulnerability and transparency, the kind of the kind of thing we're talking about here I know what that looks like. little children, uh a little child in m like this in my name receives me. He's painting a picture here of treatment and relationships among Christians. They're required to pay taxes. with those who are immature Christians, those who don't, those who are weak in their faith And died in your place. Christian, do you ever find yourself doing that? I think there's no question that the church is intended to apply this passage. Which is actually scriptural, then it would be a secular kingdom in the sense that we would think of it. Uh there are bears up there in western Pennsylvania. Jesus uses this illustration to show how much he values the humble. Now it's interesting that in the Luke passage there's a parallel passage that has the same illustration about the shepherd going after the one sheep. Brings them back into the fold, restores them. Christ's kingdom is made of humble, dependent believers. I mean, do you remember what Paul said in 2 Corinthians? of how Christ values and cares for us. Lord, that your kingdom is entirely different. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Even so, it is not the will of your Father who is in heaven that one of these little ones should perish. a cause of why they began to say who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven. A child could do nothing for himself. It presupposes really that we're all born prideful. He took upon himself, he left his glory, and he took upon himself Christ really sets the example for humility. So you can't work to become close enough to God. That those who know Christ as their Savior, those who are in the kingdom, those who are kingdom citizens, must be very careful with those who are coming into the kingdom. then then they grow up in an environment that allows them to really develop and grow in a healthy, appropriate way. Using a child as an example at this point, we see it clearly verse six, whosoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me, the little ones, the children, these are We need to be careful that we treat Christ's little ones For your weaker brothers in the Lord and sisters in the Lord, you need to withhold for their sake. I want to say in no uncertain terms here that God is a loving God, and he is a gracious God. We we take this concept of hell and we throw it around and it's used as an expletive and all kinds of words and we think it's just a fairy idea and you'll hear people sort of say Well, it's talking about uh n the opposite of loyalty. then we are dis we will be despising them, we'll neglect them. So what is it going what's going on here? Christ intends his church to be a place of love and acceptance and protection of disciples of Christ. Where you go into the workplace and you got to cover your backside all the time. Folks, it does mean that the the our manner, our love needs to be that kind of He values, loves, and secures each individual believer. And if you think that doesn't happen, of course it does, because we there are bumper stickers all over the place that say that. Jesus Himself was dependent on the will of his Father. They were largely immature believers. I'd rather be in hell because that's where all my friends are and that kind of a thing. You can be rightly related to God. And I have to remember this, that they came in gentleness as a nursing mother caring for people Humility is necessary for entrance in the kingdom, but humility is necessary for reward in the kingdom as well. The good-looking and the talented, and you value those who will humble themselves before you. In this passage, we're going to be looking this morning at who the disciples are discussing who is the greatest in the kingdom. And then fast forward a little bit more and uh you're uh f fast forward a little bit more and it's in they're in school and I'm content with what the Lord has given me. And then somebody, and it doesn't say in the passage who, but probably my guess is Peter, but anyway, somebody says, who's the greatest in the kingdom? And Jesus takes this dispute, he takes this question, and he is going to teach them what is truly valuable in the kingdom of heaven. God resists the proud and gives grace to the humble. This is Jesus' economy. And he was saying in order to have the kind of greatness that they were aspiring to, they were going to have to suffer and die. There are all kinds of things that people say, well, I've done this or I am this and therefore I can be rightly related to God. Just make sure you're not the one that causes the offense. And so because of this, sin must be punished. So that God's justice could be satisfied, and yet He loves you so much that if you will accept that payment by faith, That helps us a little bit. And if we're not careful as Christians, sometimes we can think of certain Christians as really important and other Christians as lesser in importance. Where there can be an expression of weakness. And so we all have a responsibility in the culture of the local church to realize this. And that needs to be our kind that that needs to be in our church as well. And you know, that's it's sort of that's the way we ought to we ought to be protective of each other that way. This morning, as we look at your word, remind us again of your care for us, your love for us, whether we be elderly or very young. Conversion to humility, treatment of the humble, and value of the humble. So we have this question. And Jesus perceives what's going on even without hearing it, of course that's what Jesus can do. Well, back then little children were not considered to be very valuable. And sometimes that's a valid thought, but we need to be very careful. Sin is a very serious thing, and we all we all will stand in judgment because of our sin. But that's one view. We must treat weak believers well. Who see, who are dependent upon you, who realize that they are the weak ones. But whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me to sin, it would be better for him if a millstone was hung around his neck. And yet, being happy is something that in its purest of times with your child, there is a kind of happiness. But at a s at certain ages of a child's life, he's so dependent that without his parents he he won't even live The passage is going to indicate to us that we need to continue to realize our own, our need for Christ, our own dependency on Christ. Romans twelve tells us verses three through five that we must not think of ourselves as high. Uh afraid someone might take advantage of us. And you know, I was reading this passage and I was looking, and it's what he's going to say next is whosoever receives one little child like this in my name receives me Now, what is it talking about here? We need to be careful. But at the same time, we can receive and love and protect each other, not be judgmental of each other's motives. We see then finally the value of the humble is demonstrated by God in the keeping of the kingdom. And so, Lord, I pray that you would help us that have the same mind, according to Philippians 2, that you have He says, we came to you in gentleness as a nursing mother. Lord, you care about those you have made, and you want us to know you. A few chapters later in Matthew 20, there's going to be another very similar discussion, but this time a mother. And so we see the value of humility here, and the need to come to God in humility. I think that's probably the best way to look at it. That is the way that God wants us to be with each other. Our scripturing this morning is in Matthew chapter eighteen. And so there is a lot we can learn from the example that Jesus set before us as one Do you realize that the only way you can truly come to God is in humility? And he does this because when someone is truly humble and truly vulnerable There's the example of stumbling. So let me ask you a question this morning. At that time the disciples came to Jesus saying, Who then is greatest in the kingdom of heaven? 27 says it this way, just by practical application: pure and undefiled religion before God and the Father is this, to visit orphans and widows in their trouble, and to keep oneself unspotted from the world. And because of God's great love for you, he went to the cross, took his sin, took your sin, not his sin, he was righteous, took your sin on himself. So are there guardian angels? He thinks the idea is this idea of a spirit after death Father, we come to you this morning and we thank you for these truths. You ever wonder why some people are nice and some people are mean? And then he says, Woe to the world because of offenses, for offenses must come. You see a cub go the other direction, make sure you see where the mother is and and like like avoid that because you're not gonna get out of that. The shepherd goes after the lost sheep that's not part of the fold at all and brings them in. 9, but beware lest somehow this liberty of yours become a stumbling block to those who are weak. If we have that kind of worldly view, then when it comes to the little ones, when it comes to the least of these, Thought it was appropriate on Mother's Day to use this. The answer is yes. Don't despise the riches of God. And I have to admit to you that there are times where I wanna you know somebody somebody needs something and or whatever and I want to give them five truths. You humbled yourself and became a servant. It's amazing, frankly, when you go into the book of Acts and you see these great spiritually mature Christians that go out and change the world, right? In just a moment we're reading the we'll be reading verses one to fourteen, but let's go to the Lord in prayer first. And he said to him, Grant that these two sons of mine may sit one on your right hand and the other on your left in your kingdom. He's actually pointing out that the members of your own body have a great greater likelihood of causing you to sin, perhaps, than other people. I think the best view here is that these are just generally angels. If everyone else became equally rich or clever or good-looking, there would be nothing to be proud about. It's not about having talent. And they say we are. But he's saying to them that in order for there to be greatness, there must be humility or humiliation first. And I want to say to them, your mother didn't hug you enough. And when they had sung a hymn, they went out of the Mount of Olives. Uh eat eat meat offered to idols was one of the main things that they were idols were m one of the main things. And the reason that hell is a real place is because God is a just God. What does it mean to despise these little ones? We become self-protective, anything but what a child does. It's how we receive Jesus in a sense as we care for his children. Peter answered and said to him, Even if all are made to stumble because of you, I will never be made to stumble. One direct application might be here that the Millennial Kingdom is going to be full of full of Let me give you five verses or more, and you just need to do what I tell you to do, and you'll be fine. What's the question? There is a it in the in the book of Acts there's a place where this is used where it's the least and it's talking about the least in importance And I want to hasten to say, it doesn't mean that you compromise on doctrine or sin. In fact, the Bible says we need to be, verse 3, converted. And folks, that ought not be foreign to us in the body of Christ. And every day of our lives we are we must we must realize our own humility before Him. Well, what does despise mean? Romans 2. In verse 15 of this passage, on through that next passage, it's going to be talking literally about the church. That should not be in his church in the body of Christ. The word means to turn, to be going one direction and to turn the other way. The Bible says that God can by no means overlook sin. The point is this, God the that young Christians are so valuable to God that that he uses angels to protect them Perhaps you're listening today and you're not sure about your relationship with God. We're first going to see in verses 1 through 4, conversion to humility is needed for entrance into the kingdom. Being in the kingdom does not mean entering a competition for a supreme place, but engaging in lowly service. Jesus says we're actually not required to, but we're going to do it anyway so that we don't cause anyone to stumble. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible So they were discussing among themselves, maybe off the side, maybe in a different room, and then Jesus is perceiving what's going on. And also Jesus keeps talking about the future of the kingdom. Actually the disciples are perfect examples of stumbling. It is very a s very serious thing Thank you that you do hold us fast. There is a lot of disputing going on among them. Now pause for a minute. You go through the New Testament, you come to Romans chapter 14 and 1 Corinthians chapter 8. He's got all these talents. In fact, the book of Acts, do you remember? They're not just children. You say, but I mean nothing? But before that question was actually asked of Jesus, according to the Luke passage that's parallel to this. Now, before we get too hard on the disciples, it's kind of understandable that they would ask this question, who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven? There's a there's they're weak. Another view that's that's by uh that's B. Paul himself knew sometimes he's weak. In Jesus' name. Woe to the world because of offenses, for offenses must come, but woe to that man by whom the offense comes. 4 says, Or do not despise the riches of his goodness, forbearance, and long-suffering, nor knowing not knowing that the goodness of God leads you to repentance. It says, and he came into Capernaum, and when they had when he was in the house, he asked them, What was it you disputed among yourselves on the road? He makes me to lie down in green pastures. But back then they were not really considered, they really weren't the center of attention. And he it's interesting. Even a more clear example of stumbling is Matthew 26 in verses 30 through 35. All the disciples are saying, I'm not going to stumble, I won't stumble. He took your judgment, your punishment on himself. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. And he comes and he's walking on the water, and then suddenly he stumbles. Very content, very happy. Uh imagine a mother who has just had her firstborn baby and uh you know it's several days after the trauma of having birth and she's Happiness is beyond that. It's whether you are more talented than everybody else. Those who are great, those who are even entering into the kingdom of heaven, are different. We need to turn from our pride and self-seeking and turn to humility You could get the idea that causing someone to sin would be even more serious than the person sinning They said, be careful of bears and rattlesnakes. Even though we are sinful, you sent your son to die for us. Who fights better? And what he does as a tangible illustration, he calls a little child to him. You don't need to be a great person. You are seeing all kinds of missteps, certainly by Peter. Jesus uses this illustration in two veins. So in summing all this up, number one, Christ's kingdom is made up of humble, dependent believers. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. We know that from another passage in Matthew chapter 10. Now, it's interesting, there's a reason for this. Revelation chapter 1 verse 20 says this, the mystery of the seven stars which you saw in my right hand and the seven golden land stamps. I'm not used to that. Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me. Especially since her best friend uh her since her best friend's kid who's about the same age A mother is going to come, and she is going to come on behalf of her sons. Don't turn your back on it. For I say to you that in heaven their angels always see the face of my Father in heaven. Actually I never saw a bear in Pennsylvania. You anoint my head with oil. And at first they're silent. The truth is, um the the truth is there is a great In just the passage prior, last week we we actually mentioned this You ever thought to yourself, well, that person just needs to get over it. He was totally dependent. What was Jesus about to do? I don't have to do anything? Amen. Barclay says the very fact that they asked the question shows that they had no idea at all what the kingdom of heaven was. He who receives a prophet in the name of the prophet shall receive a prophet, a prophet's reward. But that's that may be where they get that idea. And we need to have the same view that Christ does toward the little ones. Do you remember that passage where it says that? The insignificant ones. Jesus set the example as the prime person who was great and yet became humble for us. The the two issues back then were the issues of uh certain following certain Old Testament diets and We need to we need to follow this day and do this on this day and eat this and don't eat this. To despise uh uh a a Christian who is uh young in the faith? That Christian, he's not all that valuable. It needs to be that way for us to grow in the way that God intends for us to grow. A good mom is protective of her kids, a good mom loves her kids, and provides an atmosphere in the home where there can be And it's a sad thing that when someone who had been saved for many years would would would cause And as we do that, that provides the kind of atmosphere in the church where people really flourish. And Christ desires for us to do that. When you have people, when you have things, questions and there's disputing and there's things going on. What makes them so nice? They certainly could include children, but not just children. Does each person have their own special angel? And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. Then Jesus called a little child to him, set him in the midst of them, and said, You remember back in Matthew 14 when Peter jumps out on the water? But you know, the point is really the same. So please open your Bibles to Matthew chapter eighteen. It's better for you to enter into life with one eye rather than having two eyes to be cast into hellfire. When Peter came to the house and Rhoda knocked on the door, do you remember the story? What makes you happy? Yeah, you don't have to do anything. So there are three views. Now I want to mention here a very important application. In this area, I've never seen a bear. And number three, Christ values, loves, and secures each individual believer, and so should we. He says, well, actually, that's just not the way it works. Catch what Jesus says here, how he answers. So she gets a bumper sticker that says, I beat up your kid and my uh your honor roll students. May Bethel Baptist Church, honestly, may Bethel Baptist Church be a place The other the right sheep turn the other. If we're relying on ourselves at all, we will not enter the kingdom of heaven. The Bible says, I've already mentioned this already, Matthew 5. Nevertheless, lest we offend. It shouldn't be that way in the church You must humble yourself before Him. Clearly it's not, motherhood is not all happiness. It's a very important role, by the way, mothers. I don't care about the idol. Matthew chapter 18, starting in verse 1. Christ's requirement of us is humility as well. Frankly even older Christians perhaps have areas of weakness in their lives So it's a post-death spirit here And so he says in verse fourteen, even so it is not the will of your Father who is in heaven that one of these little ones would perish. In fact, at a certain age of a child, we don't know the age of this child particularly, and it could have been Peter's child, actually. In fact, in Philippians chapter 2, verse 7, we see in that passage Verse five, it says, Whoever receives little children like this in my name receives me. Well, in Matthew chapter 6, a few chapters back, Matthew chapter 6, verse 24, it says, you can't serve two masters. But anyway, they said they're up there all the time. Now why would Jesus use a little child to answer their question? We're all born kind of full of ourselves You can't work in order to be able to get to God or have a relationship with God. It would be better to to that that that's how serious sin is No, the Bible says something very different. There can be a vulnerability. And so we need to have that same value and care for one another. C. You're regarding them as Christians. But after I have been raised, I will go before you to Galilee. You have to come completely open and say, I can do nothing of myself. That there's a general idea here that God protects his own. What do you think? What do you think? This idea of turning, for example, in Matthew chapter 5, verse 39, it says, But I tell you to resist an evil person Someone might uh uh someone might exploit us. We become sort of uh competitive and those kinds of things. So we need to be loyal, we ought to we ought to be careful about turning our backs on It is better for you to enter into life lame or maimed, rather than having two hands or two feet to be cast into the everlasting fire. But the point I'm actually I am making a point. Hell is a real place. And they went to this passage. Now, he is very serious about this. So we know that angels are involved in the in the working, the protection, the spiritual protection of churches generally Lord, may we remember that the greatest that we can be S. In fact, I think that's it. You know what's another interesting thing about these little ones in this passage, the humble ones in this passage, frankly, all of us are supposed to be humble before the Lord all the time. And we know that because the church is going to be mentioned in the very next passage. For I say to you that in heaven their angels always see the face of my Father who is in heaven So what Jesus is going to do today as And they're disputing who would be who would be the greatest. Why is he doing this? But the person who sins, he is in danger of hellfire. And that's the kind of atmosphere that we need in our church as well. My cup runs over. But you know what? Lewis said it this way. So there's a comparison made there. And God uh Christ is setting he he's saying that his kingdom is to be set up in such a way It is not as though a child could advance to become something greater than he was. He was, he exampled dependency and humility. Well he's clearly using this as an example And whoever gives one of these little ones Whosoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me to sin. It ought to be a place where there can be openness. The one sheep that's gone astray, he will leave the 99 and go after the one. He keeps saying it is coming, it's going to happen. You don't need to have done great things. We learn to put on a good front. Now I I think I think an appropriate illustration uh illustration will help with this. Then Jesus said to them, Listen to what he said to them. So he came to earth. He says, For I say to you that in heaven their angels always see the face of the Father who is in heaven. I'm going to give you all three. He leads me besides the still waters. He says, if you receive them in my name. Again we're saying this. What's it talking about? I think the illustration of a mother is a great illustration. But not the kingdom of heaven. And so it is actually true that it would be better for you to literally cut off your arm This morning I pray you'd open our eyes to see what your word says, open our ears to hear what your spirit says through your word You see, the kingdoms of the earth, they Even if we are citizens of the kingdom of heaven, if we are children of the king, They stumbled. He said, my strength is made perfect in weakness. Peter had been singled out on multiple occasions by now, or he singled himself out, one of the two, multiple times by now. And I I've wondered about that. If you think about this, were the disciples before the resurrection of Christ, were the disciples mature or immature believers? I we don't see anywhere else in scripture that angel, the word messenger, is And uh yeah, it made me a little nervous, but I thought They are proud of being richer or cleverer or better looking than others. It's a comparison because that is the kind of pride that makes us happy. Let's begin by looking at conversion to humility as needed for the entrance of the kingdom versus And there's a sense in which, can I just say it this way, there are times, there are at times we're all weak. If a man has a hundred sheep and one of them goes astray, does he not leave the ninety-nine and go to the mountains to seek the one that is straying? Of course they're silent. Get over it. In fact, you can't do anything. Okay, we see there a disciple, assuredly I say to you, he shall by no means lose his reward. Peter's saying, I'm not going to stumble. But let me let me hasten on to a more appropriate application, and that is the church. If a man has a hundred sheep The lost person In fact, sometimes in answering the question, what will make us most happy? He was about to suffer a cruel death and die. It's as though we are receiving Jesus himself. Among our leadership, there needs to be a gentleness and a ch and a and a cherishing Imagine a mother. Happiness is not just The truth is, in our day and age, children sometimes are rule in the house. I mean really. There's other times I m meet somebody and I didn't do anything to them and And some some Christians said I could never eat meat offered to idols because I was an idol worshipper and the association would cause So tell us whether there's guardian angels or not. There's like nothing more gentle than that. And I I I said that's hard to believe, but okay. Thank you, Lord, for so great salvation. Whoever receives one little child like this in my name receives me. She's holding her baby just in the calmness and quietness of the moment and just extremely happy. Be converted as a child. Ready? Not only is there entrance into the kingdom that is necessary, Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. And then, fast forward a little bit, and there's potty training. Can you imagine literally publishing and producing, mass-producing these bumper stickers? And then we're going to see value of the humble as demonstrated by God in the keeping of the kingdom. And he asks, he probably doesn't really need to ask, but he's asking, he wants them to sort of Remember the story last week that It's got to be this spirit that's, you know, it can't be actually him. And her child is, you know, peeing everywhere except for the toilet. Another Luke 22, 61, and the Lord turned and looked at Peter. The humble person is the greatest. So we see here it says, don't turn your back on the little ones. In 1 Thessalonians chapter 2, verse 6, it says Apparently occasionally I maybe out in Western Maryland you just might see a bear or something. You get between a mother and a cub, and you're done. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It's because, folks, Jesus is going to say here essentially I think that if your mother hugged you a lot, you're you end up nice. It's not about having what you need. Peter said to him, Even if I even if I had to die with you, I will not deny you. B. He joys in that. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. He says, I'm going to be on my father's right hand. Are you able to drink the cup that I am able about to drink and be baptized with a baptism that I'm baptized with? Back in Matthew chapter 10, verses 40 through 42, it says, He who receives you receives me. Well what does it mean to stumble? And I think it's kind of unlikely. And so I was a little nervous and I was sort of asking around the you know, I like to hike And may we remember that this day. Pride gets no pleasure out of having something, only out of having more of it than the next person. He falls into the water. Warfield was a proponent of this view. It should be far more like a loving family The point is that Jesus That you value the humble. Christ even showed us the importance of being completely dependent upon The first view is they're guardian angels. They don't want to talk about this. There was with a child you have humility, you have vulnerability. He can no means ignore the guilty, the Bible says. That is that should not be in the kingdom of heaven. If you don't do this, he says, you will by no means enter the kingdom of heaven. For I say, through the grace given to me to everyone who is among you, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think. And the most familiar passage probably in the entire Old Testament is Psalm 23, where it says, The Lord is my what? What makes you happy? In fact You have churches that are now established, and they've got We thank you 3 says, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. And he says, woe to that person. This is mentioned already in chapter 5, verses 29 through 30. Jesus now explains that the reason that we should have the attitude of treating And so they want to know who is the greatest of the kingdom. You know, and I I I I've traveled around Maryland and I met a lot of unsafe people last couple of years and Peter said to him, from If everybody else stumbles, I won't stumble. They will come. And he he said, I will withhold because of that. We in the body of Christ, brothers and sisters of Christ, it ought be different than it is in the world. When we were uh when I was in Pennsylvania um And he goes after the lost sheep that is part of the fold and strang. We thank you that you use the weak ones according to 1 Corinthians 1. And the Bible says there is nothing we can do of ourselves. But I need someone to do what I cannot do for myself. Later on. There can be a sharing of burdens. Do you know what it's saying to us? All of you will be made to stumble because of me this night. It tells us to receive them. How do we apply this? May the Lord richly bless you. At that time the disciples came to Jesus saying, It's not just because, okay, well all the Christians are nice and all the non-Christians are mean. You're regarding them as fellow believers, as fellow kingdom citizens. And Jesus and Paul says, it is true that it's just me, but he says, out of deference. Loyalty despise. It says, blessed are, for example, the poor in spirit. This is very, very severe language, isn't it? It's sad. The greatest in the kingdom of heaven is entirely different. He was weak and defenseless and vulnerable. To enter, in fact, the kingdom of heaven. That's the whole point here. And there is much application for us here in this passage as well. It is eternal separation from God in suffering forever. Is that how it works? You're not gonna survive These are Christians, new Christians, young Christians, people that are coming to the faith. I mean, we're going to see that later on. Number two, Christ cares deeply about the treatment of weak believers. It doesn't mean that they What's what is this? Verse 11, it says this. There's a rejoicing in that. Of course, all of Matthew is talking about the kingdom and the nature of the kingdom. First Peter five six Some of it's funny, but but but the but but there is actually a point there that when when someone Christ has to grab him. He restores my soul. They probably know they shouldn't be talking about this. But we really would love to meet you in person. People will stumble. He's going to reiterate a very important teaching. Understand that you cannot come to God proud You value those who are content in you. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. You don't need to have your good outweigh your bad. This is where you get the idea of guardian angels. This has been talked about throughout church history. Man, that Christian, he just needs to get over himself. But we were gentle among you. And so they know that it's The world values the strong and the smart and the We pray these things in Christ's name. We are not worthy of your love. There's a paradox here. Lord, thank you that you're not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. That means that there's that we need to be very careful about judgmentalism. True greatness consists not of receiving service, but in giving it. It's saying that we need to be very careful. This is how we serve Jesus. Your rod and your staff they comfort me. They end up becoming And What is going on here? And frankly, folks, we need to have the same attitude. This is the very core of the gospel. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. It could have been Peter's children, Peter's child, we don't know. God protects the little ones. You know what they all stumbles It's going to happen. We hope to see you soon. That's the way that's going to happen. The word So despise is the opposite of loyalty to. This is actually the And I suspect that that's not the case. He's going to say who has entrance into the kingdom of heaven. Most gladly will, therefore, will I glory in my infirmities. Then there's another way that he uses it in this passage Whoever is the lowest is the greatest. And if your mother didn't hug you a lot, then you end up mean. And of course Peter opens his mouth again. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. What does it mean, whoever receives Why is this mentioned in the passage I mean, think about a couple of things. Same kind of idea. When he came into maybe Peter's house. He didn't own property. He says, but woe to that man by whom the offense. That wouldn't be of great concern to Jesus There's a turning that takes place. And by the way, do you see the contrast there? We covered that when we were there. There can be a expression of dependence. If you do this, this and this this you'll be out of you know We're not worthy of your He's just so worried about every little thing. Because Amen. You don't need to have gone to church all your life. I need Christ entirely. They're happy. First of all, in Matthew 11, 11, it actually says There was great contrast. I'm sorry, I wish it was that way. The shepherd goes after both. It's not that way. This passage says You don't