Let us go to the Lord in prayer this morning. There's going to be suffering in this world. There's not going to be one stone that is upon another. He's going to talk about some signals, if you will, of what of the end. Now, this is technically during the tribulation period, but there is a sense in which the disciples did, didn't they not, experience persecution, suffering right in the first century? And that my name may be declared to all the earth. But that Jesus came to this earth, lived a perfect life that you could not live, took on sin, our sin on himself. One of his disciples said to him, Teacher, see what manner of stones and what buildings are here. But the eminency of Christ is a reality. You know, if we'll do this and do that and do this and be more respectful and all those kind of things, we can get unified and then we'll have one world peace. And the woman shall uh with child is uh is in pain and cries out in her pangs uh when she draws near the time of her delivery. And join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. May the Lord richly bless you. or with a couple of clicks on our computer. As we just sang, that you are also Lord of our lives, Lord of our souls. and I was also first year as an assistant pastor, and I discovered that the ministry is a little different than what I expected. Ascend to his father, and he's going to leave these disciples to go out and do what he's called them to do. In fact, D. Luke 21. And Jesus is predicting this, and he is certainly predicting this, but some would say that all of Matthew 24, the passage we're going to be looking at in the next couple of weeks. They're there for Passover. So the disciples are probably thinking, okay, well, they're not going to be part of Christ's kingdom. Then some spoke of the temple, how it was adorned with beautiful stones and donations. Going through that. And the mountains of the temple like the bare hills of the forest. And we see it in the New Testament. And there are prophecies looking ahead that are still yet to be fulfilled. And will deceive many, and you will hear of wars and rumors of wars, see that you are not troubled, for they are for all these things must come to pass, but the end is not yet And the gr and the presence of Christ, all of that was they're very confused about all this. Secretly bring in destructive heresies, even denying the Lord who brought them, and bring on themselves swift destruction By covetousness they will exploit you with deceptive words. that that that's not the case. until you turn forty and you get downright cynical and you think everybody's against you. Revelation period. and they will be afraid pangs and sorrows will take hold of them. So the deliverance of Israel, the end of the age, and the kingdom and the coming of Christ are all in a single event at the end of what we would know now as the tribulation period. Even we ourselves grown within ourselves eagerly awaiting the adoption, the redemption of our body. First Thessalonians five verse one. For when they say peace and safety, then suddenly destruction will come upon them, as labor pains upon a pregnant woman, and they shall not But notice what the text says, verse 9, then they will deliver you to true to tribulation and kill you, and you will be hated by all nations for my name's sake. It says then they will deliver you, verse nine, they do they will deliver you up um yeah, they will deliver you up to tribulation and kill you But my but my n uh name, Lord, I was not known to them. Many false prophets have gone out into the world. At least sin is always bad, but it's more public, it's more accessible now than it was, you know, thirty years ago. Christians, does it not? It's the person that is that endures. Help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. It is called the Exchange. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And if you if you're not sure whether or not you have truly accepted the gospel or not, let me encourage you to come and talk with me after the service. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. And in this church. And you will hear war of wars and rumors of wars. Now Matthew 24 is no easy passage. And as you know, as I've preached for many years now in this church, eleven years, I don't skip passages, I don't skip over hard things. Really, this is such a critical passage for us for two reasons. And it's kind of mixed in there. because Jesus was preparing them. But Jesus was there to usher in his kingdom. As Jesus was already there. They really didn't put that together and they didn't see it, and they were expecting to be part of a kingdom that Jesus was establishing. A few days ago, you've got Jesus on a donkey. his kingdom on earth when really in a few days he's gonna go he's going to go to the cross and die. And in so doing, we also can be prepared for what is going to happen. How can we, in other words, how can we live in light of God's future program? Verse 1 says, Then Jesus went out and departed from the temple, and his disciples came up to show him the buildings of the temple. Not one stone shall be left upon them. And they're they're anticipating this. The temple is kind of important for the coming of the Messiah and the Jewish people to be able to send around and all of that and the end of the age and and fulfilled prophecy and how Jesus, for example, came to earth, which is prophesied in the Old Testament. And then notice what they do here. And Jesus is going to find, you're going to find as we go through this, it's going to be very much separated. Jesus is still yet to come. And then would have had to suffer often since the foundation of the world. Essentially, he began the end of the ages, but there is a finality to the coming of Christ. But which we na uh by which we know that this is the last hour. In 2 Timothy 3, verse 13, but evil men and impostors will grow worse and worse, deceiving and being deceived. And may will uh uh and many will follow follow their destructive ways, because of whom the way of truth will be blasphemed Folks, this is the reality of of the present age. In the uh first judgments there you see um you see these things happening. Isaiah 42, 14, and I held my peace a long time, and I have been still and restrained myself. see these kinds of things, there's a sense in which you realize you are living in a fallen world. And I think that an appropriate application is simply to realize that we during this present age are living in a fallen world and it will not entirely be set right until the coming of Christ. Escape. And then many will be offended, will betray one another, will hate one another. And because lawlessness will abound, the love of many will grow cold, but he who endures to the end shall be saved. Now I want to say that this is technically speaking of the tribulation period. One was used greatly of God, and the other was not. And betray one another and will hate one another. True to scripture, we've got to know this book inside and out. Lawlessness is unrighteousness. And the lawlessness will continue. says, for the mystery of lawlessness is already at work, only he who now restrains will do so until he is taken away out of the world. It isn't going to be long long before we don't love the way we ought to. Together as the manner of some is, but don't stop there. he who endures to the end shall be saved. But they went out that they might be made manifest that none of them were of us. By which you now notice the last hour that they went out from us, but they were not of us. No, no. That phrase, gospel of the kingdom, pause for a minute. There are some people that erroneously suggest that the gospel of the Old Testament is different than the Gospel of the New Testament, or the Gospel of the Gospels is different from the Gospel of the Epistles. In mighty signs and wonders by the power of the Spirit of God, so that the Jerusalem and roundabout like Elycrum, I have fully preached the gospel of Christ. That would draw us away from Christ. And his defense against God, and that you cannot save yourself. To prepare them for what was to come, and in so doing, we can be prepared of this present age. To thank you for streaming our service. Community. Use your word to impact our hearts. We pray in Christ's name. Matthew 24, 1 through 14. Do you not see all these things? And Jesus answered and said to them, Take heed that no one deceives you, for many will come in my name, saying, I am the Christ, and will deceive many. For nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom, and there will be famines, pestilences, and earthquakes in various places. But he who endures to the end shall be saved, and this gospel of the kingdom will be preached in all the world as a witness to all the nations, and then the end will come. But not only are they not expecting what is going to happen, they have a totally wrong expectation. Realize that over half of the Bible is prophecy, probably 60% different estimates depending on what you see as prophecy. Half of the Bible is prophecy or over it, and you need to understand the connections between the Old Testament prophecy and the New Testament prophecy, like the book of Revelation, and Matthew 24 is it. view uh views this prophecy in Matthew 24 as a as basically all being fulfilled with the coming temple that's going to be destroyed, the the dis destruction of the temple in 70 AD. in uh in the uh with the the destruction of the temple and in the first century that all of it is future even to date. all are fulfilled in the destruction of the temple some years later from this text. And they see this, and they're looking at the temple, this massive, beautiful building. And we're actually going to see five, there are really five movements here in the passage, in the verse, just in verses 1 through 14. The disciples had very different expectations than Jesus than were consistent with Jesus' plans. the Mount of Olives, and they're looking back and they're looking at this massive, glorious, beautiful temple. Some of the stones of this temple were 40 feet by 12 feet by 12 feet. So almost the length of the of the sanctuary, of the sanctuary, you've got forty feet, foot And you're going to set up your kingdom here. our tyranny over the Roman Empire and all of what's going on, Jesus, that the temple's going to be destroyed? In the mountain of the temple like the bare hills of the forest. He even kind of alluded to this when he said that he's able to destroy destroy the temple of God and to rebuild it in three days in Matthew 26, 61. Well, how is this all going to work? So the disciples, they privately come to him. This concept of the coming of the Messiah certainly is throughout the Old Testament, but we actually know that the coming of Jesus 2 Thessalonians 2. And it's then what is the end of the age? He has appeared to put away sin for by the sacrifice of himself. Would be focused on making disciples. to do something until the end of the age. Little children, it is the last hour, and you have heard that the Antichrist is coming, even now many Antichrists have come Proclaim themselves as the one to whom you should trust, the one to whom you should look. Do you catch that? And kingdom against kingdom. Now notice verse 8, because this is a very important phrase, all of these are the beginning of sorrows. Birth pangs are those of you who have had children know what a birth pang is. Over and over in the Old Testament, God uses this illustration of a woman in labor as great suffering, and that is very appropriate. That you know you'll have somebody getting on there and saying, well, this is what we need to do. And that's why we find in Romans 8, verses 22 through 23, for we know that the whole creation groans and labors with birth pangs together until now. So when we see Israel being attacked by Hamas in 27 different places, we look forward to the redemption of Christ as Christians. We need the the disciples were called on to to anticipate initial uh uh anticipate suffering. as initial birth pangs of the tribulation period are we do see some of those things going on today What will be the relationship both in the tribulation period and in the first century as well and oftentimes throughout the last 2,000 years? This is my name forever. Does that sound similar to go therefore into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature? And tribulation as a result. over the culture. This is the spirit of the Antichrist, which you have heard was coming and is now already in the world. They are of the world, therefore they speak of as of the world, and the world hears them. He who is not of God does not hear us. It says this because lawlessness will abound. But there is a uh a very common uh uh uh tendency to fall away Why? To think that there is no law, to believe that there is no law, that I can do whatever I want. Well, I just need to find some sort of convent and get away from the culture and the world. I'm in an environment where it's all cold around me and I stand there for five minutes. Folks, that is why assembling together is so absolutely necessary. But the focus, Jesus now culminates all of this with a focus on verse 14, focusing on the predicted divine purpose of the entire age. Look at verse 14. But you know, he's basically saying you got a lot of things that are going to happen before the coming of Christ. And hell is real. If you're not getting opposition to the gospel, you may want to check your gospel. To prevent our love from growing cold. You're not against the Bible, but you've never come to a place where you've understood that God is holy, that you have sinned, that your sin separates you from God. For by grace are you saved through faith, and that not of yourselves. That we ultimately and rightfully deserve to pay ourselves. of physical struggle, mental turmoil, difficulties that both small and great Perhaps you hear a warning on the news that there is a possible tornado or hurricane or snowstorm. And she said, What do you expect? And so Jesus, before he leaves, he knows he's going to die. And then we need to focus on God's divine purpose. So, verse 1, they're coming, they're departing from the temple a little bit. massive temple, the glorious temple that had been built for the nation of Israel, for the Jewish people. Why you know large stones by twelve feet worth some of the law how large these stones were. Suddenly they're going, what? And Jesus answered verse four and said to them, Take heed that no one deceives you, for many will come in my name, saying, I am the Christ, and I Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you. Seem to be even preaching the gospel. But usually it's you you feel a few of them before you actually get to the point of actual delivery. Indication of the end of the age, but it is also an indication of a deliverance of the nation of Israel, which will happen at the second coming of Christ. And you have geologic issues, Revelation chapter 6, verses 9 through 11 are fulfillments of this passage. So that passage teaches us that we need to be ready. Persecution, the word there is tr for tribulation is persecution or distress or tribulation. We see how the the relationship that will be among the disciples of those who follow Christ The covenant of Moses was developed by God and Moses on that mountain. ironic is that when I was a kid I heard Bible prophecy preached and taught and they would say the same thing and yet it's so much worse now, at least in my mind It's like um you know when I was working at Chick-fil-A uh years ago, they had these big walk-in this big walk-in refrigerator You realize Jesus is a good person and and uh said good things and you you don't you don't like think badly about God and you pray sometimes and We thank you for the truth of this chapter. So we can walk you through this helpful resource. And in that re in that realm you are altogether not like us at all. Cause us to commit ourselves more fully to you, to live faithful lives, to be your servants, to understand that you are a kind and wonderful Master, and that you have saved us from a cruel and terrible master in sin. to save us from our sins, that we were so desperately lost, without hope. And 70 years, uh 70 A. They know the Old Testament prophecies of how the Messiah is going to stand on the on the Mount of Jerusalem, it says in the Old Testament. And the mountain of Jerusalem was right there where the temple was, and they're putting all this together and they're saying this is where Jesus is going to set up his kingdom. Now, that's consistent actually with the Old Testament. So this is a prophecy, and Jesus is sort of saying, you got some prophecy here that needs to be fulfilled, and that is the destruction of the temple that's going to happen. In life that's true. They've got it all together. The Parisia. It's only insofar as we follow the text of the Word of God, we follow the truth of the Word of God, the gospel of Christ, and stick to it. Candidly. That's what the word means. And that's essentially how Jesus is using this illustration. I think he uses it for another reason, though, and that is because it actually says that pain in childbearing is a result of the curse. That's important to know, by the way. This is the kind of persecution. The namesake of Christ, the namesake, God's namesake, is very important. are living in an in an anomaly. John spoke of this in his epistle, first John chapter four. Both of them turned their back on Christ before the crucifixion, right? Verse 2, by this you know the Spirit of God. They had to have had love in the first place. Well, in 2 Corinthians chapter 6 verse 14, it says this, do not be an equioque together with unbelievers. The answer is the assembly. That's what Paul's war Christ was warning the disciples. Number three, we should be attentive to deception that would draw us away from Christ. And you stepped in, sending your only son to take our place to pay the punishment that pay for the punishment that Lord, I pray that your truth would offer us great hope and comfort, and that it would also challenge us as we live in this world, but not be of it. All these are the beginning of sorrows. And then there is a meeting position, which is the position that we're going to take as we go through this passage that sees some of this as historically fulfilled and some of this as future fulfilled. that shall not be thrown down. 1 John 2, 28, and now, little children, abide in him that when he appears, we may have confidence and not be ashamed before him at his coming. The end of the age. And what we're going to see is he explains, we're going to begin to understand our present age. He says, first of all, verse 4, take heed that no one deceives you. Everybody that names the name of Christ is not of Christ. And in all those times, Christians sometimes sort of go, oh no, now, you know, it's getting bad. And I won't take the time to read it, although I'd love to. And then we see we see he warns them of a problem. To the end, those will be, those are truly Christ's. Why? You know why Christ doesn't come? And his and should be our desire as well. And the exclusivity of who Jesus is won't offend. To be a solo island kind of experience. Died in our place, and desires to give us his righteousness. Now, as he sat on the Mount of Olives, the disciples came to him privately saying, Tell us, when will these things be? And then many will be offended, will betray one another, and will hate one another. Well, in this text, Jesus is actually wanting to prepare his disciples for what is going to happen respond how should we receive those kinds that kind of news in our world this passage is going to help us with that And so this passage becomes a very important passage. As the commentator said, there are a dizzying amount of interpretations, a number of interpretations. We need to identify, number three, preliminary signals. Jesus says this very shocking thing. Verse 26 of Jeremiah 18, Zion shall be plowed like a field, Jerusalem shall become heaps of ruins. God does what he wants to do in his way and his time. In second Peter chapter two, verses one through three it says this But there were also false prophets among the people, even as there were false teachers among you, who will see Oh no, the end's coming. I have been a Christian for a long time. Um before my lifetime. Personally, I've lived through, and you many of you have lived through much more than this, but I've lived through the Cold War, Desert Storm, the War in Afghan Afghanistan. It just feels worse because the older we get, the more aware we are of how bad things are. Don't be troubled. He offered the kingdom to the nation of Israel, but they rejected it. is is headed that a certain direction. So how do we make application of this? We do have indications in the sense that there are wars and rumors of wars there aren't there. And we always have, by the way, for the last 2,000 years. That the commission of the disciples was that we would make disciples, that we would preach the gospel to all the world. Make it known to the nations. Is the problem of falling away, or some would call it apostasy. Judas betrayed Christ to the Jewish leaders. There's going to be false prophets, and there are false prophets even today that that deceive many, that rise up and deceive many See the day approaching. I used to love it in the summertime because I get blazing hot running around and if you think you don't run around as a Chick-fil-A worker, you hadn't been a Chick-fil-A worker. Get in there, I feel so afterwards, I feel so good, feel refreshed, get back to work, you know. So in thinking through all of what we've gone through, we've gone through a lot. When everybody else is going, I can't believe that happened, we should not not believe it. We should expect opposition to the gospel. But the gospel where Christ is the only way, and repentance is necessary, and sin is a reality. We must be careful to assemble together to prevent our love from growing cold. And may that reality, Lord, cause us to love you more and more Jesus has been interacting with the Pharisees and the Sadducees and all the different questions. They've gone c down the Kidri Valley up to Mount of Olives, they're still overlooking the temple and they're saying and they say, tell us, when will these things be? But we don't also we don't need to be worried either. Paul applies the birth pangs to at this point. you know in a in our in the prophetic timeline, the tribulation period. Lord, we look forward to the coming of Christ. Then Jesus went out and departed from the temple, and his disciples came up to show him the buildings of the temple. A. We picked certain passages we want to focus on to the exclusion of other passages that we don't. And so you kinda you gotta wrap around try to wrap your mind around what God is doing. Every time you see wars and rumors of wars, every time you see these birth pangs, every time you It's the second coming of Christ. They will be hated by the nations for my namesake. But certainly Christians do and will, and we ought to anticipate it and expect it. then you are going to go out. Or our love is going to go cold. And I would just say this finally, maybe you're listening to all of this, and you realize that you don't really know Christ. And we ask, Father, that in all the various situations that all of us find ourselves in, some of us are in times of peace, some of us are in times of And it's very pivotal because, I mean, just think about what we've been going through. John is going to say in his up in his epistle, don't trust every spirit. That we can truly know the truth and understand the truth and not be deceived by false teachers. We wouldn't know it directly from this text, but when you put everything together, we know this to be the case from Revelation chapter six, which we won't take the time to look at, but you might want to write down uh that that you see in the Isaiah forty one Isaiah twenty-one three, therefore my loins are filled with pain. You will not have world peace for any sustainable amount of time until Christ comes. You have the same thing in Matthew chapter or Micah chapter 4. So what are the results? And they're illustrated actually by the disciples themselves. Now, Jesus is going to give some very keen insight here as to why people fall away. This is very clear. But what can we learn from this? Because when we get together, there is a culture here of love for God and love for others. Uh you've you're thinking we're thinking through all of this and maybe the gospel that you've heard before is a gospel that, yes, it it accepts Jesus and Well, one of the things that that shows that we're prepared is that we are anticipating or expecting something to happen. Carson says this, few chapters of the Bible have called forth more disagreement among interpreters than Matthew 24 and its parallel in Mark 13 and Luke. The disciples, that's kind of what they were doing. But you brethren are not in darkness, so that the day shall overtake you as a thief. The love of many will grow cold. Our value system will change. This is not uh boy you need to be in the pew uh have be in the pew because if you're not you're sending No, you you need we need this. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. Years ago now. Cassitus, who was a his church, so who was a historian back then, said, he that never saw the temple of Herod never saw a fine building. So there's a few things that we can learn from this. I mean honestly. It's absolutely necessary. How do you know what kind of falling away there is? And as a witness to all the nations. And Jesus wants to prepare them for what is actually going to happen. But Jesus then is going to begin uh the the disciples are thinking about all this and realizing, okay, this isn't going to play out exactly how we think it's going to play out, that this the temple's going to be destroyed. And then it says verse 6, there will be, you will hear, of wars and rumors of wars. And the ultimate deliverance of Israel by Christ alone So Jesus forms this thing called the church, which the disciples had no clue about except for what he taught them, but I think they really didn't get at this point. It says the the world is to is to be preached, uh the gospel is to be preached, and then the end will come. And then the end will finally come. The gospel. Another commentator said this Jesus' predictions in this discourse have produced almost dizzying array of interpretations. Saying, I am the Christ and will deceive many. Should we assume that the Lord is coming today? First Corinthians eight or actually second Corinthians eight makes this very clear where he says it's not lawless but law but a law to Christ. If we allow ourselves to be influenced by the culture around us, it doesn't mean we isolate ourselves, we don't, but if we if we allow ourselves to just think like the culture around us And uh I get hot and I go I I I'd see there w you know I I I go in there for five like five minutes, I just totally cool off And we pray these things in Christ's name. We can also realize this, that God will keep his promises, but our expectations have to be adjusted to his. So that is who we look to. We are going to see persecution again. Or on YouTube. How you can know for sure that you have a relationship with God. Depend upon, and that we can do so without fear of disappointment. Now it's really interesting, I want to sort of flesh this out this way. There's a sense in which the Christians should expect this. And so as a result of this, we can learn some things here, even personally, as we see here, it says this first of all, are the behavior. Why is why why is the del What's the delay of the coming of Christ? He's teaching them, doing miracles, and they're trying to trip him up. That no one deceives you. I mean there is definitely wars and rumors of wars this week, today, this morning, on the news probably. And we should be prepared. And I have, you know, one of the keys to being prepared for something is to expect or anticipate what is going to happen. There's going to be suffering in this life. Folks, do we have wars and rumors of wars today? They stumble over the problems. Because the lawlessness will abound. It tells us this. But he is he says the point, the point is this: the gospel of the kingdom will be preached in all the world, and then the end will come. And um and uh yet on the sa at the same time Matthew twenty four is a very pivotal passage. 8. No doubt I believe with the Lord, but they were wrong. It's the idea of birth pangs, the beginning of sorrows. And truly, as we saw in the psalm earlier, in in the world and in nations, you are above all, and you are in control of all Just a very practical application here. Those kinds of things do offend. We hope to see you soon. They think that the the temple is supposed to be along with the s the coming and the end that all this is supposed to be together The culture is lawless. Amen. They did not anticipate a second coming. What's going on here? They're excited about it. But concerning the times and season, brethren, you have no need that I should write to you, for you yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord so come as a thief in the night And we have a long history of that. I would imagine you know of Christians where this has happened. Do you know why he tarries? This gospel of the kingdom that Jesus preached here will be preached to the end of the age. What is Christ's goal? There's wars and rumors of wars. Why? And we should be really careful about deception. You've got several questions. First Thessalonians chapter 3, verse 13 says, So that he may establish your hearts blameless in holiness before our God and Father in the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ with all his saints. Don't be troubled, he says. I grew up as a Christian. Man, I can you imagine what it's going to be like in the tribulation period if it's as lawless as it is now? Look, we live in a spiritually cold world. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. Some people say, well, we're living the la I've been living brother, we're living the last days. Please read along with me if you will. And uh my wife was a PK, a preacher's kid, and I was not. You see, the disciples thought that the coming of the Messiah was like really going to happen. You know, you think of the whole world is like, you know, lollipops and and uh roses, you know. This is my memorial to all generations. 1 John chapter 2 verse 18. What does kingdom mean? It's all going to be busted down. And we're going to be on your right hand and your left hand. But we really would love to meet you in person. And so they asked the question, verse 3 of Matthew 24. And then the lawless who will be revealed, whom the Lord will consume with the breath of his mouth, and destroy the brightness, destroy with the brightness of his coming. They seem to be doing uh saying good things even from a pulpit, and yet they are preaching a false gospel. It's the kind of persecution that the disciples that all almost all, with the exception of John, they were all martyred, the disciples were. That is happening now. And there will be famines, pestilences, and earthquakes in various places. We never gain God's favor by keeping a set of rules. God decides how he is going to fulfill it, and often it's not the same as what we expect. He may. That is the hope of every true Christian. The presence of Jesus. The disciples thought at this point that the end of the age was going to be right around the corner, and they're really confused because why would you destroy the temple if the end of the age Because God is in control. But in doing so, as the Christian does the work of Christ, in making known the name of Christ, there is no doubt going to be persecution. He said, look, you're going to go under persecution, there's going to be tribulation, there's going to be problems. Assuredly, I say to you, not one stone shall be left here upon another that shall not be thrown down. Well, they've got this impressive temple. They're saying to Jesus, Jesus, look at this massive temple. It says the coming and then the end of the age. There's a lot we can learn. Like, this is duh. And I kind of already have, because although we are not seeing the official start of the tribulation period, the birth pangs necessarily. We should trust God's k God's sovereignty in it. We'll see that as we as we continue through Matthew 24. What we really want will change. There's going to be suffering in the next age, the next time period, which we will see. Verse 2. That is the present reality that we are supposed to be doing as well until the end of the age. 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 speaks of this as well. By this we know the spirit of truth, the spirit of error. We'll see that in verse 14. The marked passage, the parallel passage, is actually Peter, James, and John and Andrew come and talk to him privately, representing the rest of the disciples. The heart of the love that we have for God will grow cold without the assembly. Do you ever realize that's one of the reasons God calls us to assemble? Now, the reason that Jesus did this is very simple They're predicting the future. There is an offense, a fall, a stumbling that occurs. It is the rule of God. We thank you for how it shapes and molds us into your Son's image that we can become more and more like you. One is that although we see prophecy of Scripture in the Old Testament And lo, I am with you always, even unto the what? We're living in a time that's unusual. I don't know if we'll see it in our time period, although it certainly feels like maybe we will Beloved, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits whether they are of God, because This is in Micah. What happens as a result of these initial birth pangs? Then nobody has love in in and of themselves. But you put multiple coals together and it together, if you've done anything with a fire before, you put multiple coals together and they feed off of each other and they stay warm. It's right here. You know that? Then they will deliver you up to tribulation and kill you, and you will be hated by all nations for my name's sake And I have heard many Christians say, I believe the Lord's coming in my lifetime. And very few frankly, we as Christians in this time period in our world It's happened in the first century. That that uh that there is there are people that seem to be good people, they seem to be And he he may gave many signals of that, but they were not hearing those because they didn't want to. And there is even a betrayal and a and a and a animosity toward one another. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us In fact, it is one of those passages where every preacher comes up to it and they they are sort of realizing that this is a really hard passage. It's interesting how we pick and choose passages. When will these things be? The end's not yet. Read Fox's Burke Book of Martyrs. Every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is of God. Second Thessalonians chapter 2, verses 1 through 8 says something very similar, verse 7. Matthew 21, 43, therefore I say the kingdom of God will be taken from you and given to nations bearing fruits of it. This is a natural result of living in a fallen world. Father, we are so grateful for your continual working and guidance in our lives This was not in the plan, Jesus. In life that's true. The culture is not righteous. Why it you know by this point, I don't know if the disciples really understood all this or not. Do you not see all these things? Especially on YouTube. Amen. They didn't anticipate him going to his father. Take heed that no one deceives you. There are many that are going to be deceived. There you will be delivered. The express purpose of the nation of Israel was that the name of God would be declared to all the earth. Little children is the last hour, and you have heard that the Antichrist is coming. He's in the kingdom. For sure he may. Happens with national uprisings. Number one, we should not be worried by the calamity of our world, we should expect it. They're probably going down toward the Kindred Valley and up toward the olive uh uh uh uh up toward um uh um It says, and this gospel of the kingdom will be preached in all the world as a witness to all the nations, and then the end will come. We just should expect it as Christians through for we And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call. Matthew 24, 1 through 14. See that you are not troubled, for all these things must come to pass, but the end is not yet. And we see in the text here that there is a uh that that um in Isaiah twenty-six verses seventeen through nineteen it says D. It's all going to be desecrated. And we can trust that those will be fulfilled, but maybe not in the always of the way that we expect. We need to be looking and watching for the return of the Lord and be ready for his return. It's got to be the foundation of our lives, of our minds Folks, that is a very dangerous place to be in a world, in a culture of lawlessness. Reading from the text today, we will be in Matthew twenty four, one through fourteen He's going to um he's going to rise from the grave. And he finally, last week we saw he there were seven woe judgments, seven, seven indictments against the Pharisees Well, Jesus is now going to switch gears here. If we'll just all talk and get together and if we'll start stuff if we'll stop being And in Micah chapter 3, verse 12, it says, Zion shall be plowed like a field, Jerusalem shall become heaps of ruins. For a long time their judgment has not been idle, and destruction does not slumber They see the Old Testament prophecies, they put a few things together that they want to see, and they think Christ is going to set up his kingdom right then and there. Think of two names, Peter and Judas. Don't forsake it. So Hebrews indicates that when Christ sacrificed himself, when he died on the cross, All the nations will witness this You can't work to do it. As we think of the background of this passage and the various interpretations, there are as , which is like 30, 40 years after this passage, the temple is going to be destroyed. Instead we gotta just gotta trust Him. Realize that in Matthew 28, one of the final things that Jesus says to his disciples is that he calls them Now not only that, but we also who have the first fruits of the Spirit And they were expecting this to happen any day. We'll need to focus on God's divine purpose. Jesus here is forecasting the destruction of the temple. But now, once at the end of the ages And so Jesus is going to begin to explain some things to them First John, we find in verse in chapter 4 that there are many antichrists. Everybody that says that they are preaching truth is not necessarily preaching truth. The response of the Christian is not to worry. But I want us to make some applications. And both of these kinds of falling away are mentioned in this text. It happened in the first century. It is used in the Old Testament of general suffering, and that's appropriate, right, ladies We cannot the the Christianity is not it is not designed It is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. He wants them, first of all, he wants them to understand what not to expect, and he also wants them to ex- uh to understand what to expect. One, it is a critical passage in understanding what the Bible says in connecting Old Testament prophecy and New Testament prophecy. Think about what has happened recently in on the international scene with the Hamas attacking Israel. That's the answer. By the way, it's just begun. Let's pray together. The culture, folks, the culture. What does it mean for someone to be prepared for something? We're going to see that. You expect God to work a certain way, and God doesn't work that way. The word coming means presence Usually you don't get one or two birth pangs and suddenly you have a baby, right? And it's really interesting how how the how the news reacts to all this stuff. Other people open the thing up, well, how can you stand there that long? There is all kinds of deception. Then many false prophets will rise up and deceive many. In fact it was a lot different than what I expected. Not sure if you're aware of this or not, but of course you have Herod's ke Herod's temple, which is this massive temple during the time of Christ. There's palm branches saying, save now. But they're they're up, they're in Jerusalem, and they're they're headed away from Jerusalem a little bit. We're looking forward to the redemption of Christ. Our desires will change. This is after Babylonian captivity. This is the beginning of sorrows, and we know this to be the beginning of the tribulation. Do you remember what the path rest of the passage says? Because he has more people to save. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet. The nations will hate them. And folks, do you know do you know Christians fall into this? This glorious temple Assurely I say to you, not one stone shall be left here upon another. And the the wonderful thing about it is we can look back at Scripture and we can see prophecy. What is that? He's got it figured out. I mean, always somebody saying something like that. The Bible describes it this way, that we are living in the last days. Exodus nine sixteen, and indeed for the purpose I have raised you up that I may show my power in you In both cases, they fell away, but one came back, right? You're gonna see a long history of that. We are of God. The love of many will grow cold. Matthew twenty eight, nineteen says, Go there, therefore, and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Then many false prophets will rise and deceive many When he's saying we are of God, he's talking about the apostles, he's making reference to the New Testament. That you in your great wisdom sought to seek a way to They're trying to trip him up. There the Lord will redeem you from the hands of your enemies. You are all uh sons of light and sons of the day. The love of God they love is we love him because he first loved us, we realize his love for us for us, and then we love him. What why did I cool off? You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. They're looking for this. We also can't assume that he's not, right? I know we are. You can go all the way back to Exodus when the nation of Israel was formed on Mount Sinai. We don't devote ourselves to the things of God. And for this we are eternally grateful. It's going to be destroyed. We're going to be right here with you. And what will be the sign of your coming and of the end of the age? Just by that. It's a pang that indicates that you are approaching labor. Pangs have taken hold of me like the pangs of a woman in labor. The problem, the general problem that's going to happen during the tribulation period, and also frankly during this period as well time Well, what does it mean by lawlessness? You can't be good enough to do it. We thank you that Christ did warn his disciples. We thank you, Lord, that we have you to rely on and to Um she knew what it's kinda like being in the ministry and seeing things that you otherwise wouldn't see. Think of the triumphal entry that just happened days ago. He said, These things which you see, the days will come in which We talked about this in new in Sunday school a little bit. Hebrews 9. So I will not stand up in this pulpit and say I believe that the l the Lord is coming. Well, what are those? You ever wanted that? That's not going to offend. It it's almost applied. This was not what I expected. He starts there, verses 3 through 6. I just need to isolate because I man, I don't want that to happen to me. Because a watered-down gospel, a gospel that doesn't name sin and the need for repentance. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. And that helps us understand that this Bible is true. In Exodus 6. It will happen in the tribulation period. They didn't anticipate all that. That during this present age, which by the way, this is us, this is the present age. There are many like this. I mean like have you uh you gotta bait have your head in a hole if you don't if you think We find it in verses 9 through 13. For 2,000 years, the vast majority of church history, Christians have been persecuted for their faith. Now I would assume that this is talking about the Peter kind of falling away, not the Judas kind of falling away. It's those who endure. The gospel that allows us to be under the rule of God. Now as he sat at the Mount of Olives, the disciples came to him privately saying 1 John 2 verse 18. But certainly we do not want to assume that just because we look at the news the newspaper, we look at the websites and things, because nobody reads the newspaper anymore. We must be careful to assemble together. They're sort of indicators. What is the antidote to this? What kind of Peter falling away or Judas falling away? But you can categorize them into three general categories. And I'll tell you what's going on here. We should expect opposition. It was the largest of the three temples built for the Jewish people. The end of the age. Notice 24, verses 7 through 8. You can find, maybe jot this down. So what is where are these birth pangs? What is it saying? We can do so with confidence. Number four, we need to anticipate suffering. But in Jeremiah 26, for example, it actually says that the city is going to be destroyed. For if they had been of us, they would have continued with us In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. 26 says this Be careful who you're watching and who you're listening to. Except that the Bible says this, don't be worried. He's got a plan. What are birth pangs? We should be attentive to deception. Father, we come to you this morning and we thank you. And Father, I pray, Lord, that you'd help us to be faithful in proclaiming the gospel until you come. He's gaining popularity with the multitudes. Notice what he says here. He who knows God hears us This is interesting. Doesn't mean we don't have our personal relationship with the Lord, we do. There are others, another view that says that it's all future, that there really isn't anything that's being fulfilled In Exodus chapter 3, verse 15, it says this You ever wanted just, Lord, would you please take us out of our misery? How can we be prepared? Peter denied Christ three times. And the love that we had for God will grow cold. And I thought and I said to her, you know, people are a little crazy Isn't it going to be great? I am going to read it. It's actually a prophetic passage saying that during the tribulation period you'll have the restrainer, Holy Spirit, will be kind of set aside. Because if you are a coal on your own, You cannot believe every preacher you see on TV. When is the coming? Why? Essentially, Israel failed in making the name of Christ known, the name of God known to all the earth. And many Christians stumble. For what fellowship has righteousness with lawlessness? We're living in an icebox. And the disciples are waiting for this. They're reveling over the building. He knows what He's doing. How should we respond to all of what is going on? Remember what Hebrews says? Number two. You should expect opposition to the gospel. And Jesus said to them, The truth of the matter is I have lived in um I think there are some very many applications that we can make here because many of the things that are talked about I cooled off because of the environment that I was in. I'd be m thrilled. In Luke 21, verses 5 through 6 it says then there's another parallel passage. Verse 5, for many will come in my name. Or literally, all of these are birth pangs. Now I will cry like a woman in labor. They needed to anticipate suffering And then we see And there actually is two kinds of falling away in We need to see each other worshiping and devoted to Christ. And we can be ready. Their expectation is totally different than what is actually going to happen. We're going to see 3, I appeared to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob as God Almighty It says, because of not my name. I'm like, look, I run hot, okay? And it is getting bad, but it's been bad for a long time, actually. That helps a lot. You are of God's little children and have overcome them because he who is in you is greater than he who is in the world. We go right through them and we want to see what God's Word says about them. This is where you're gonna be And what's funny is funny, it's not funny, what is Those are ones who have endured. Although Jesus prophesied he was going to do all of that The Mark parallel passage says this, Mark 13, 1, then as he went out of the temple There is going to be result of wars and rulers of wars. You might want to write those down. Harry did a good job of them. The next period in our in our This gospel of the kingdom, it says It's the same gospel all the way through. Can you imagine the disciples, their expectations? You know why? And he is now going to give, he's going to answer their question, he's going to talk about some signs. And and yes, they are. For the namesake of Christ. It's really only it's really m been in more modern times that we have not, but folks, that will not last. There are many false prophets that go folks, that is why we have got to say so And every spirit that does not confess that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is not of God. Saying that those those who continue Matthew 24 is a long chapter. How is that going to work? Number four. And the only way that we apply that righteousness is by faith alone. There's this expectation that Jesus is going to establish The disciples, they are anticipating something. When Christ comes, it ends an age, and he will come, by the way. And we ought not be troubled or worried. Revelation chapter 6, verses 1 through 7. Rest of the verse? Even now many Antichrists have come. We pray, Lord, that you would work in the in the time to come, that you would use When is the end of the age? They're telling you something's happening, something's going on, something is He has more people. That is the commission for the disciples and all who would follow Christ. First, we need to adjust our expectations, verses 1 and 2. We don't give ourselves to the things. Probably not actually, but um And the admonition is to be prepared, be prepared for that kind of thing. Because God's way bigger than you are. And they may not have put all this together They're excited. Actually in the Old Testament uh you see, for example, Isaiah 13, 8 But folks, we also ought not be lawless. And uh we were first year in America. Massive stones. It's not a collection of stories. This is not what we thought was going to happen We have our commission. See that you are not troubled. You know that's true by the way? And then you get older and you see more and more problems and more and more issues and you get less and less optimistic about And the Christian looks at it and goes, that ain't going to happen until Christ comes There are many that come and proclaim themselves as the Savior of all. And then verse 11 it says, then many false prophets will rise up and deceive many. It's like I'd be more than happy. And because lawlessness will abound, the love of many will grow cold. Later on he's going to say that He is the Prince of Peace. It says, For nation will rise against nation. Look at verse 10. Well, I don't want to be legalistic. It says, don't forsake the assembling of ourselves. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee. We ought not attempt to predict the future. And we can take comfort in knowing that you have an overall plan. And what will be the sign of your coming in the end of the age? And they're dead now. Antinomianism is the word for it. Just do. We're living in a spiritual refrigerator. If you have a family, we can help you Number one, we need to adjust our expectations. We are not night uh we are of the night nor of darkness We should expect it. Just to give you a comparison. Insomuch the more as you what He has more people that the gospel is supposed to go to Lucky me. When are these things going to be? Do you remember that from Genesis? And Jesus says to them, This is a That is not the answer. And then Matthew 25 continues the Olive discourse. Remember when I was first in the ministry, uh many He's been interacting with you'll recall from last week, the week a couple weeks before the disciples have been Are we living in the last days? And many will be offended And very frankly We pray, Lord, and thank you even for as we We need to understand our present age. Many are going to come in my name. In fact, most of them you should not believe But we must assemble together His mind is way broader than yours is. I was distressed when I heard it, I was dismayed and I saw it. Well, we find the answer, verse 13. I'd like to take a minute. There is truth because we have Isaiah prophecies that are fulfilled by Jesus. I mean if you think about it, when you're young you got you you know nothing. And no doubt, if we do, our love is going to grow cold Take a Bible and help you to know for sure how you can spend One believes that this is a prophecy. You see national uprisings. We are, but we have been doing it for 2,000 years. So this is a very pivotal passage. He will bring peace to this world. Folks, it happens all the time among Christians. This sanctuary from there to there is 50 feet. Christ actually gave many signals that he wasn't going to do that. Would you please just come? I mean, there's no question that they did. Yes, we should not be legalistic. He said, take heed, the end is not yet. We ought not also attempt to predict the future. It contrasts righteousness. Yes, but we have been for 2,000 years. Then finally, we we see then And in fact Do you know what the answer is? That was Paul's desire. We shouldn't be surprised by it. That's a fulfillment of this. Peter did. How should Christians One uh So what is lawlessness? Absolutely, we should not be legalistic. He does not think like you do. They failed in that. That is the great commission.