In 1 Corinthians 15, verses 47 through 49, it says, the first Adam was of this earth made of dust. But secondly, these temptations we're going to find Jesus deliberately, he voluntarily went to these temptations. In fact, if you look at the book of James, chapter 1, you're going to see testing and temptation used interchangeably along with trials. And sometimes Satan's temptations are very subtle, but it's always going to cause us, his temptations will always cause us to want to depend on self rather than depending on God. Folks, sometimes, you know, just because you have a Bible verse for it doesn't mean it's right. And Satan is allowed to uh to bring into uh into being this sort of vision experience, and which kind of by the way tells you something about Satan's power. Now we find then right after that you have this divine provision. Now when the devil had ended every temptation, he departed from him until the opportune time. It's not happening here. When you identify it, you can't say, well, I was powerless. After arriving at Bethel, feel free to park at one of our guest parking spaces, close to the front doors. We accomplish this through corporate worship on Sunday morning, through adult Bible studies where we learn God's Word and how to effectively apply it to our lives, and through our discipleship home groups that meet in various locations throughout the region. Psalm one hundred says, Make a joyful shout to the Lord, all you lands. Who in the days of his flesh, when he'd offered up the prayers and supplications with behemoth cries and tears to him who was able to save him from death and was heard because of his godly fear, though he was a son If they just listened to me, they'd so I'd solve all their problems, which is, you know, obviously boasting and wrong. Or we believe the lie that we're living in the feet when actually we are already have won the victory if we truly have placed our trust in Christ alone. And we pray, Lord, that you would help us with hearts that are ready to worship. I pray that you'd help us to understand that more this morning, and we pray these things in Christ's name. Again, the devil took him up on an exceedingly high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory. uh genres to read is biography. uh you know, a ministry book or or theology book or something with biblic I I usually grow grab a biography or maybe historical uh a historical book but but really I love biography because you get to s I'll just give you that ahead of time. So looking in the past, he's going to correct failures, and in the future, he's, what is he doing here? Those are the two things. But also, folks, it's very important for us to understand that Jesus was man. And he did it for this reason. who has passed through heavens, Jesus, the Son of God, which is the word, the phrase is going to be used a lot in this passage. And yet you have the Spirit of God leading Jesus into temptation. And with that in mind, then we need to see that Jesus is now going to hit the root of the problem. He's going to quote Deuteronomy 8. For if I have come down from heaven, not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me, Jesus came and he relinquished it his own will, and he chose to do the will of the Father when he came to earth. And if God's not supplying what we need the way we think he's supplying what we need, or we think he should, then you know we just ought to do that ourselves. Folks, it's very, very important. Why is that interesting? Again, the devil took him up on an exceedingly high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of the world in their glory. I'll just pause for a minute there. He will be given all of the kingdoms of the earth. The last enemy that is destroyed is death. You shall fear the Lord your God and serve him, and shall take oaths in his name. sweating great drops of blood, there's this suffering, there's this all of this anguish going on and and um and and you have Judas on the scene and all of that First Corinthians ten thirteen says this. And we can be rightly related to him. to come and talk with me. But we all have one thing in common. Before you even drive into our parking lot, we'd like to give you an idea of what to expect on your first visit to Bethel Baptist Church. We are ready to assist you in understanding your needs and locating facilities such as the nursery, coffee area, and the specific ministries and classes available for you and your family. We hope that we've been able to show you a small glimpse of what Bethel is like. I I'd had some some spiritual struggles in my own life that have sort of turned around night and day, just just having come here and love them and want what is best for them. And even getting involved in the ministry, I'm looking forward to uh being able to help out and and to help build up others in the faith the way that they've helped build me up. Let us be a blessing to you and your family. Enter into his gates with thanksgiving and into his courts with praise. that we are encouraged and strengthened to go out and live victorious lives in Christ. The work that you begin in us will continue until the day of Jesus Christ. We will see him as he is. And it's interesting that in the New Testament you have a lot you know you have some passages that just list commands or principles, and those are very, very important. Other than the cross, that's the most potent event. And actually what you see from this event ultimately is you're going to see Christ as the victor. And there are a lot of reasons and a lot of things that we're going to learn from it. But I want you to know that I'm going to get a PDF and I'm going to email you. And I will send if you register on our website, I will send that out to you as well. Uh and and as we have borne the image of the man of dust, we shall also bear the image of the heavenly man. But obviously he is, for Israel to fail into idolatry over and over and over again, Satan is obviously at work there. And Jesus is going to fulfill what Israel could not fulfill. And we find in Hebrews chapter 3, verses 5 through 6 it says, And Moses indeed was faithful in all his house as a servant, for a testimony of those what Israel failed to do. futile. And Satan knows well how to do this. In things pertaining to God, to make propitiation for the sins of the people, for in that he himself has suffered being tempted, he is able to aid those who are tempted. He is tempted in all points, like as we are, yet without sin. Then it's not long before we're going to promote self rather than God, and it then isn't long before we're going to worship self rather than God. Verses one think of verse one it says this and Jesus was led by the Spirit in the wilderness to be tempted by the devil. It's like they're used interchangeably, although there's a difference. But God uses the temptation of Satan in the book of Job, in Christ's life, and in our lives as well, to test us for a very different reason. That's what it's going to do in Jesus' life. knowing that the testing of your faith produces endurance, patience. have its perfect work that you may be perfect, that you may be complete, you may be matured, lacking nothing. Now let me let me illustrate it this way, and not even in my that much in my message yet, but let me just ill illustrate it this way. where you're it you're now going to reveal is eventually going to reveal Christ's likeness in you. nights, I think it shows us that he is doing this voluntarily. And Jesus is now going through these 40 days. It says in verse 3, and when the tempter came to him, he said, If you are the Son of God, command that those these stones become bread. And he answered and said, It is written, Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds from the mouth of God. And in so doing, this is a matter of dependency. self and power. The sin is the dependency on self rather than God, not the action that you're doing. Folks, you know that's true when you begin to say, why isn't God doing this in my life? I mean, it's almost hard out outside of how Christ rebuked them, it would almost be hard to say, well, what's wrong with this? He says the devil took him up into the holy city and set him on the pinnacle of the temple. If you are the Son of God, throw yourself down. Jesus said to him, it is written again, you shall not tempt the Lord your God. He is pulling a passage of scripture out of its context. tempting Jesus to do because what would happen now God serving the father serving the son which isn't supposed to happen biblically the father's From who we are in Christ. serving the son by saving him, rescuing him, and now Jesus is getting the attention and recognition through the servitude of the Father. That's where it comes from. Like the army, for example. Let me just say this is a little hard to understand exactly how this is happening. Why are they not harmless? And in a world where much more of this kind of thing is happening, this isn't all that hard for us to imagine this occurring in this situation as well. who who do not believe lest the light of the gospel, the glory of Christ, who is in the image of God, should shine on them. And Satan, by the way, will be defeated and banished in the process. Jesus paraphrases that verse and he says, it's only God that we serve. Do you remember, this is going to be coming in Matthew 16, several many chapters to come here. All the way through this, Satan has a different plan. 40 days uh without food. And and of course the greatest temptation is at the cross. So Satan is doing his work throughout Christ's ministry. But God is faithful, who will not allow you to be tempted beyond your able, but will with the temptation also make a way of escape that you will be able to bear it. from being a servant of the king, not from self-promotion. In summarizing all of this up, let's understand three things. family. here. Uh this this is a place for them. Teachers and nursery workers will be available to introduce themselves and assist you in signing your children in and out of their classrooms. Know that the Lord He is God. Let's pray together. In spirit and in truth. I pray, Lord, that we would be encouraged and strengthened and ultimately that Christ won the victory over temptation so that death, there is no more sting in death. Some sort of writing. And when he had fasted forty days and forty nights, afterward he was hungry. And if you will fall down and worship me. to experience a life lived out and you can learn so much from a biography. And perhaps one of the most potent um potent uh events in the life of Christ to see struggle that he went through and uh difficulty and and the and the battle and all of that that you that Jesus faced when he was on this earth really is the event that we're going to be looking at today, the temptations of Christ. But with that in mind, we get into this text here and we we find that what Jesus is doing two major things. And also, looking into the future, he's going to give an example of what it means to he demonstrates victory. As was the man of dust, so also are those who are made of dust, and as is the heavenly man, so also are those who are heavenly. in this passage. Jesus is the second Adam, and as man's second representative, he is going to do what Adam and Eve failed to do. Well, why could Jesus be tempted? But was in all points tempted, as we are, yet without sin. In fact, it's really interesting. Now, I really think this is important for us to understand. In a new and fresh way. You you and I do not have a Savior who can't empathize with us. Literally, Jesus, because he's been through it himself, is able to help you more. five you know scientific principles or five academic principles on how this will help your situation when they have no experience at it. We're going to actually see the experience of Jesus as he put himself in a place where he was tempted by Satan and then was victorious. That's the common thread throughout every one of these temptations. And then we're going to see the temptation to promote self rather than God. promotion on self rather than God and finally worship self rather than God. Now, stop there for a minute. He uses temptation. And that testing has two goals. to test us, to grow us in our character, to grow us in Christ-likeness, so that when we're tested further, it will reveal Christ-likeness. But what it will do is reveal his absolute victory. But also, I think there's another thing going on here. And he now I just want us to picture this. He's eaten nothing. The situation here is that there are he is he is gone he is he has gone into fasting for Christ has for 40 days and 40 nights. One is I think it's a reflection on the 40 years in the wilderness where Israel is there. where now they they essentially uh they were tried and had to had to go through those forty years in order then to be allowed into the promised land as a as a matter of temptation, as a matter of of punishment, as a matter of chastening. All right, but we would so he is drinking, but he is eating absolutely nothing. completely lonely. And he says, look, if you are if you are the Son of God, turn these stones to bread. This this humanly speaking, physiologically and even psychologically, Jesus has chosen to put himself in a place of complete weakness and vulnerability. This word if this a conditional clause there, it doesn't actually mean he's questioning whether Jesus is the Son of God or not. He's actually saying to them, he's challenging Jesus as the Son of God. You have the prerogative to do this. this human human sense of of prerogative, of deser I'm deserving of this. by bread alone, but by but man lives by every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God. Temptations don't always include a violation of God's law, but a distraction from God's will. Satan will tempt us in a way that it's not a violation of the law of God, but it's clearly a diversion or a distraction from the will of God. Temptations of necessity entice us to believe that we know what we need better than God does. Is a great temptation to get the right thing the wrong way. Fighting this temptation requires us to resolve to live by the word of God and the will of God, not through our own self-effort and personal power. on so promote self instead of God. He would now receive all of those things, folks, that you and I in our humanness crave. The problem, folks, is when we want to get that sense of importance apart from God. What will happen if Jesus, if Jesus hypothetically were to do this and the angels saved him? didn't rightly divide the Word of God, and they ended up doing stupid things, sinful things, wrong things, because they didn't interpret the Word of God correctly. You shall diligently keep the commands of the Lord your God, his testimonies, and his statutes, which he has commanded you. Right? That's really what he's tempting Jesus to do. Let me illustrate it this way. All these things I will give you if you will fall down and worship me. To self-worship. So we have to assume that there is a sense in which this is in a vision. And that's why he he thinks anyway that he he is in control. So Satan is the prince and power of the air, Scripture says. God's plan is that Jesus will gain the kingdom through servitude and suffering and eventually death and then resurrection and ascension. That's God's plan. Now, it's interesting, there's another time that it almost looks as though that that bypassed, this is a suggestion that that plan be bypassed. Now, let me give you three lessons from this temptation. but under Christ and with Christ. to be able to resist temptation, to be able to have victory over temptation. As Romans 1 very clearly tells us. um uh th those kinds of things apart from the church, you know in your heart there's a sense of morality that you are sinful. Father, we come to you this morning and we praise you for your word. And we thank you for this, and we pray these things in Christ's name. When that same person belongs to a loving community where God's word is taught, they will grow in their relationship with the Lord, and their life grows in purpose and meaning. Additionally, there are one-on-one and couple-to-couple counseling and discipleship opportunities. Our children's ministries are extremely important to us. My family is involved in the church. And for that we are so grateful and so thankful. Then the devil left him, and behold, angels came and ministered to him. things which would be spoken afterward, but Christ as the Son over his own house, whose house we are if we hold fast the confidence and the rejoicing of the hope firm to the end. Our church does, and historically, churches, in order to stay doctrinally pure, doctrinally right, we emphasize the fact that Jesus is the one and only true God, and rightly so. And you really see the humanity of Jesus in this passage. You know, we would fall way faster than Christ ever fell. And so understand that when you're going through suffering and trial and temptation and those kinds of things, Jesus has already gone through it. But he is also human, so much so that as a human being, he learned obedience. Yet he learned obedience by the things which he suffered. And that is Satan's goal for all of humanity. You are, look, it's one thing to go to somebody who has no clue what you're going through and say, how can I have how can I help? But understand this, that whether it's the Spirit of God or whether it is leading Christ or whether it is God leading us, And then later on in that passage, it says this about those temptations. Or two weeks, or three weeks, or four weeks, we're or or five weeks. This is the gateway, it's the first temptation, not the last one. actually extends higher because it's on a mount and so it really is extremely high. You might want to write this down. There's a reason that some people feel like they've got to share everything all over the place about everything. A servant of ourselves. John is taken and placed in certain situations and he sees these things. Number two, Satan's temptations often include a shortcut, an offer of the right thing at the wrong time. Folks, there are times where I get really impatient with the world. As far of Christ, we must worship only Christ, knowing that one day we will rule and reign with him. That's the ultimate temptation. And that sense of morality comes from a God who is righteous and just. You know, reading in the Bible is helping me to grow spiritually. Spiritually immature through hearing God's word, preached, studying God's word, and continuing Uh genuinely we have a real unity in the faith because we believe in that objective truth in the scriptures and um it just draws us together as a And Lord, we also thank you for the fact that you are there ready and waiting and helping us to deliver us from temptations. We can live and walk the Christian life that you call us to. And your promises are new every morning. Pray these things in Jesus' name. Then the devil took him up into the holy city, set him on the pinnacle of the temple, and said to him, If you are the Son of God, throw yourself down, for it is written He shall give his angels charge over you, and in their hands they shall bear you up, lest you dash your foot against a stone. Jesus said to him, It is written again, you shall not tempt the Lord your God God chose for them to be set in narrative story so that we can actually see Christ, the life of Christ, actually lived out. And there are lots of reasons. does what Israel couldn't do uh in in because they failed to they failed in the temptations of of Satan. because he was tempted himself. So what are we going to see in this? So he endures temptation and then is a and then and then is able to receive the crown of life. And failed. He's allowing that second temptation, or third, or fourth, or fifth, or however many it takes, okay, to to get you to the place And you said, oh no, not this time. For us to live out by reading this the experience of Jesus as he was victorious with the goal that you and I can find victory in Christ as well. Why would Jesus, being led by the Spirit, go into the wilderness and be tempted, or I'm sorry, go into the wilderness and fast for 40 days and 40 nights? In John 4. to to to feel as though we know what we need, maybe even better than God knows what we need, and we ought to go ahead and do it. And we need to be aware of that. To do the right thing the wrong way. We are basically, when we're tempted to take it in our own hands, we're tempted to do to do what God can do. Fighting this temptation. of scripture with you that shows you that balances this out. God must provide for us. comes from being in God's kingdom, not through self-promotion. The dutation appeals to our desire for self-importance, self-relevance, recognition, and attention. We are made in the image of God, and there is a sense in which wanting to feel relevant and important is not wrong. And in this particular temptation, it says that he shows him all of the kingdoms of the world. God wants true followers of him. And in the process of all of that, Jesus says to them, He says, in the whole context of everything, he says, I'm going to go, and basically tells them, I'm going to go and die. When he said when he when he speaks to Satan. Get out of here. There's no you know, most of us don't stop by the local temple and and and worship you know a Buddha or something like that. Through the work of Christ, not only his death, but also his life and what he did, gives us all of the help we need. Number three, our followers of Christ, as followers of Christ, we must worship only Christ, knowing that we will only, that we will one day rule with him. You know in your own heart God has put in you and me a conscience. voluntarily not only said that we have victory in him, but showed us through incredible means that we have victory in Christ over sin. And Father, I pray, Lord, that you would help us today to glory in our Redeemer. The glory in our Redeemer, that Jesus has paid our ransom, so that there is no sting and death anymore. more faithful. The the church family here is just so uh great in terms of their unity and their activeness and involvement in the church. And the same is true for anyone who has trusted in the name of Christ for salvation. That you would give us great encouragement and challenge from your word as we see your son and how he handled the temptations from the devil himself. Jesus is going to really show his humanity here. Submitted himself to the temptations of Satan. He there is nothing that you can pray to him, nothing that you can ask him to help you with that he hasn't been through. Depend, promote, and worship. And Satan's goal with Christ is to undermine Christ's mission. Temptation, the goal of temptation is to undermine the mission of God's kingdom, to undermine the mission. In Christ's case, of course, Christ like this, Christ is already Christ, he's Christ. Oh I gotta put my hand down because I definitely have it. so that he can experience the trials and the sufferings and the and the and the temptations Now, with that in mind, that kind of hunger, that kind of loneliness, being in the wilderness, all of that, Satan comes to him. So there's no command here, and yet he is c he is he is evoking in Jesus this he's trying to evoke in Jesus That's really interesting, isn't it? Well, there's nothing wrong with asking the question to God, but it is entirely something different when in defiance or rebellion you say, God, you should be doing this in my life. Now we move then to a subtle temptation to a much deeper temptation. We have this um this uh this great temptation that's occurring here. Suddenly everyone would know exactly who Jesus was. A sense of relevance, a sense of of of wanting to be someone or something. Now the truth of the matter is you and I are made in the image of God, and in our humanity, we do have a desire to feel important or to have a sense of importance. What is he appealing to? And now he is saying to Jesus, if you'll worship me, I'll give this all to you. Here, let me tell let me you want you you want all this to happen and candidly Jesus does want Jesus is promised by the Father that Get thee behind me what? If they want to grow spiritually, if they're ready to take the the next steps in their spiritual walk with God in their Christian life Truly, Lord, we do not have the strength and the power in ourselves to Some days we are so far from you and so far from your word. That those you foreknew, you predestined to be conformed to the image of your Son. Who came to Adam and Eve to tempt them? But also he is and and also Moses and Israel, particularly Israel. Why? And actually, that's God's goal for us as well, except that often what has to happen first is it also, number two, has to build character So we find that actually in James. To the extent to which we really, as we've already said before, there really isn't anyone that can say Jesus doesn't know what I'm going through. To take care of your own needs. And Jesus says this. When we feel tempted, these kinds of temptations of necessity, of things that we think we need. Satan uses the Bible. And the reality is we have to be very careful here because what is what is Satan doing? They are putting God beneath them. The temptation of self-promotion appeals to our desire for self-importance, self-relevance, recognition, and attention. We are joint heirs with Christ. And when we are tempted to gain a sense of self-importance from outside of God's intended way, we are on our way to making God Then the devil left him, and behold, angels came and ministered to him. I'll give you all the kingdoms for your ownership. And they are they're really anticipating that Christ is going to come and he's going to set up his mediated kingdom on earth. Do you remember what Peter says? In fact, folks, I would suggest to you that that is the form, that is the most prominent form of idolatry in our Western world today. Satan will offer a shortcut. so that we can be followers of Christ and we can be his servants As a young mom I have two small kids and so I am very much looking forward to seeing them grow up in this church where I know there are gonna be people who care about them Now, we then move to verses 3 through 4, and we find this particular temptation and and and also the situation. But so no problem with that, but Satan's temptation was to have him get the right thing the wrong way. To be, you know, to not be worthless, to be worth something. Withstand our own flesh and withstand the devil, but uh through your strength and power and through your spirit empowering us. Jesus was clearly here to do the will of the Father, not to do his own will, certainly not to do the will of Satan. And if you're listening today and you don't know the Lord as your Savior, understand, look, you have sinned and you know that. And he won the victory with his own shed blood on the cross and broken body on the cross for us. Who rely on your power and rely on your truth to live the life that you've called us to. So let's then begin the temptation to depend on self rather than God in verses 1 through 4 Why is Jesus choosing to do this? Jesus is doing this because he is choosing to be our Savior. Now I'm saying when I need more than got more than God uh more than I believe God knows what I need. We need to be careful with this book and careful with how we study it and know it. We've seen that lots and lots of times when we went to the book of Exodus. Number two, Satan mixes right truth with wrong thinking even by twisting Scripture. And that would be a reasonable illustration to help us to understand where our confidence and our sense of importance should come from. Now with all of that in mind, I want us to have just three three things to summarize all of this. You have delivered us from the chains of darkness, from the sin that we are born with. He's also doing something else. I wrote down four four lessons we can learn from this first temptation. That's the problem. This is comparing Scripture with Scripture, seeing the whole mind of God on a matter, taking Scripture in its context. And actually he does provide fruit from them, but he also commands them in the process, don't tempt me. What is really going on when we are tempted when we what's really happening when someone tempts God? And that is what Satan was actually tempting through a very s very conniving, deceitful way. To place God in the place of serving us. There is so much we can learn from this temptation. What's the temptation here, folks? Realize that. But Jesus has paid our sin debt for us to satisfy the justice of God. Satan is going to appeal to Christ's humanity. And we're going to see exactly how Satan does this in this passage. He's going to do it. We want the attention from God. I'd be glad to take a Bible and help you know for sure how you will spend how you can truly be a follower of Christ. So being new members here, I'm most looking forward to uh continuing to deepen my walk with Christ and and grow in my relationship with him. But he answered and said, It is written, man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds from the mouth of God. That God cannot be tempted. And I and we're gonna we're gonna understand hopefully more today the humanity of Jesus But you are there to pick us up again. because Christ has given us the victory through him and what he has done for us. Now, within that, what is this is all background information to really help us to understand this text. Because Deuteronomy describes the life of Israel. So Jesus eventually is going to receive all the kings of the world, isn't he? We mentally and willfully at times disregard your truth and promises For when he has been approved, he will receive the crown of life which the Lord has promised to those who love him. And God the Father and the Spirit of God, all of them are working together in two major ways. I mean the Bible says, we just I just you know quoted earlier James 1. We must learn to depend fully on God and avoid getting the right thing the wrong way. That's the antidote to this particular temptation. It must be that we find our sense of importance and significance from being a servant of God. He's totally weak, totally totally vulnerable. 34 it says, Jesus said to them, My food is to do the will of him who sent me and to finish his work. Why? We're not very often tempted, uh, you know, we're not tempted to have some sort of graven image in our home. And if you don't know Christ as your Lord and Savior, understand that there is this temptation to make yourself God. Father, we come to you this morning in worship. This is a reference to Exodus chapter 17, verses 2 through 7. Just by will of uh by way of illustration, we are, we are, uh, we do have a desire to be important. That's my words, not his. It's something else entirely to have a biography that you're reading that you can actually experience how things work out. He did it so that he would be a relatable Savior who could empathize with you. Some people say, well, he's God. He has no one around him. And they get a sense of identity, they get a sense of of of uh community, they get a sense of of those things are meant mentioned, and it really helps them with their confidence If you don't know for sure whether or not you would spend eternity with the Lord, if you don't know whether you are truly a follower of Christ, let me encourage you. Since I uh started coming to Bethel, I noticed that my walk with the Lord became more serious. The church has impacted my walk with the Lord in terms that my faith became real. I started this way and I'll end this way. And folks, we are all very, very tempted to to provide for ourselves by our own strength. There are many people who've done mer many terrible things because they pulled a scripture out of its context. So in this is there's a there's like cosmic ramifications here, these massive historical things that are happening here that we need to be aware of. Here's what we're going to see, actually, in all three of these temptations. Because Satan does have a considerable amount of power to change your perspective on reality. But folks, we're not going to reign on this earth until Christ comes. We would have to assume he's he has drunk something. There are people that have really gained a lot of confidence that people grow up and they're not very confident and then they grow they get into the military. I will email it to you and you can get a hold of that. And then finally, Jesus did this. The Spirit of God literally led Jesus into the wilderness to be tempted. It's not as though he says uh he says he says to do something, the Bible says don't do it. So that we can accept Christ as our Lord and Savior and follow his rule internally, not just externally, from external pressure. Father, we come to you this morning. It's all going to be under the feet of Christ eventually. When a person discovers how to have a genuine relationship with God, they are given a sense of purpose and meaning in life. We thank you for who you are. How many of you all really enjoy biography? He's done it for years, and he continues to do it in our lives as well. In Jesus' life, when he is tempted to the severity that he is tempted, it's going to reveal Jesus' character. We have found a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. Now notice what it says in the text, Matthew 5, Matthew 4, rather, verse 8 We sincerely desire to help people grow in the relationship with the Lord, with their families, and with one another. Like just flat on your face. It says that in second fifteen, it says this verse twenty five. The temptation in our Western world is to worship self. It is He who has made us, and not we ourselves. We're so thankful, Lord, that you have called us to be your children. There's going to be a temptation to depend on self rather than God, to depend. My children are growing in the church. Folks, this is the gateway to all sin. We're hungry. It actually says in Hebrews 5 that Jesus learned, he learned obedience. No tempt there is no temptation as taken you, but such as is common to man Okay. There is a right way to receive these things. Amen. In fact, there is so much here in this passage. Because he is both God and man. Hebrews 2 tells us this. And there's there's a bit of a progression here. 3. So we uh he's coming up on the temp p pinnacle of the temple. He is appealing uh to this this idea of self-worship. Well, first of all, understand there is a difference between tempting and leading into temptation. In James chapter 1, verses 2 through 4, it actually says, My brethren, count all joy when you fall into various trials To promote self instead of God. And so Jesus says this, you shall not tempt the Lord your God. Number one, the temptation of self-worship is a form of idolatry. Well, it was the serpent, or Satan came to Adam and Eve, and in a very similar sense, he's going to come to Christ now. It's the same reason that he chose chooses by his own voluntary volition to go to the cross. Our identity is with Christ. The occult and those kinds of things, stay away from them. Satan. But uh you know, he rebukes him and he and he f and Satan flees Rather than submitting yourself under the rule of God, that is actually the question on the table. We look at the circumstances of our lives, we look at the difficulties that we face, we look at our world, and we think we are living in defeat. He doesn't tempt, but he uses temptation as testing. He is calling Jesus to act independently of the Father and the Son in doing this. There is that goal. But other than that, perhaps one of the most potent events to see the struggle and the and the We should want the attention from God. And then he rebukes Satan and and perhaps at this point he evokes some divine power at this point and he says No. It's a body of believers that is striving together to serve the Lord. He's lonely and he has he is in the wilderness and he is fasting completely. They are saying that God must do for them. That's God's plan. Peter says, not so, Lord. But before we mention that, let's mention also that a couple of things. And we should not be trying to reign in any other sense as Christians. It tells us that we make ourselves to be God when we refuse to put ourselves under the one and only true God. And um and Luke 4, verses 13 says this, that's a parallel passage. Number one, as followers of Christ, we must learn to depend fully on God and avoid getting the right thing the wrong way. We have a lot of young families with children, and we believe in the importance of teaching truth to the next generation. You are there to rebuke us and correct us and put us back on the path of righteousness. We can almost experience it with him. The ends justify the means. How many of you have ever fasted for a meal? It's a matter of choosing to depend, and so choosing to depend on self rather than the Father and the Spirit. What does Jesus do? God must provide. That's kind of similar to the previous one. Christ has given us the ability, if we genuinely know Christ our Savior, He has given us the power over the temptation so that we may be able to bear it. It says that in James chapter 1. He did this to help us with our suffering and tape temptations He quotes Deuteronomy 8. He uses Scripture for the temptation. Number three, we are joint heirs with Christ, but we must patiently wait for the reign of Jesus. This starts all of that, but what we find here is that Jesus is the victor in all three of these. Then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil. Was there anything wrong with him eating bread? For it is written, He shall give his angels charge over you, and in their hands they shall bear you up, lest you dash your foot against a stone. Yes, okay, he will not cause God's not going to cause anything to happen to Jesus outside of his will. And then finally, we move to the third temptation. Now, with all of that in mind, how does Jesus deal with this? The angels come and now God is going to provide, I think very likely, food for him. In fact, he underwent more temptation than you and I will ever will ever have to go through. It's very the these are these are quite interesting. You can have them if you'll worship me. Of course he's going to be victorious. I'm curious. And everybody, any Christian, ought to be raising their hands. Nobody, everybody put their hand down. If you are the Son of God, throw yourself down. Satan's goal was that humanity would act independently of God. Amen. We're thankful that the promise that His goal, Satan's goal in this passage, is to get the Son of God to act independently from his Father and from the Spirit. What's the significance of that number to identify with Israel and to again be able to do what Israel could not do, Israel ultimately failed at. And usually when this happens, it is a it's to get us to depend on ourselves rather than God. And in 2 Corinthians chapter 4, verse 4, it says, Whose mind the God of this age, he's the God of this age that has blinded There are times where I get really, I just like, what's wrong with this world? But we'd love to meet you personally. You obviously have the right. You shall not go before after other gods, the gods of the peoples who who uh are all around you Be thankful to him and bless his name. Your mercies are new every morning. It's the subtlest of the temptations. He would now receive recognition. Folks, be careful about the temptation to promote self And even apart from the Bible, and apart from Christ and apart from Therefore, in all things he had made uh he had he had to be made like his brethren, that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest He's going to do it in three ways. Why would Jesus, led by the Spirit, but not forced by the Spirit? He's in the wilderness. And he tempts them in this way. And Satan is now bringing Jesus to a place where he is observing all of this in in a sort of a vision. There it is. The one goal we're going to see very clearly here, and that is to reveal character. It should be because we are servants of the King and we're followers of Christ. Then Jesus said to him, Away with you, Satan, for it is written, You shall worship the Lord your God, and him only shall you serve Let us therefore come boldly to the throne of grace that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. To act independently through unbelief, to act independently from God. You're going to see absolute victory. And they essentially demand of God that He provide food for them. We'll be reading from chapter 4 of Matthew, and we'll go from verses 1 through 11. He was clothed in humanity. We think of Jesus as God, and he is, and I would never question that. Making God serve us instead of us serving God. That's not wrong. The reality is Satan's going to come back, and throughout his ministry, he's going to tempt him, very likely. Call to worship this morning. And as we anticipate the message and look at how Christ experienced victory over temptation I'm going to give you a heads up. Now we we really emphasize, and rightly so, we emphasize the deity of Christ. We're getting close to five weeks and and then a little bit after, but later than that, more than that. That's the best we can understand of what's going on here at this point. And the ministry and the love of the people of the church is helping my children and my family to stay faithful to the Lord. And as we just sang, we praise you for being truly our strong deliverer. He is going to be victorious and to do. And that brings us to verse five of this passage. We should want a sense of importance Serve the Lord with gladness. Amen. That is true for each and every one of us. So it is one thing uh to have a list of principles that you have in a book or in a But because Christ didn't fall, the severity of the temptation was greater, arguably greater than we'll ever experience. Satan tempts people to act independently of God. God's doing, God is allowing that in your life. He is saying, look, you are the Son of God, you obviously then have the prerogative. Now um this is what's what's he doing here? Jesus says, well let me share another passage of Number four, tempting God attempts to place him in the place of serving us. It is it is other than scripture and and there's and things related to scripture, if I if I'm going to read something outside of Blessed is the man who endures temptation. And number five, our sense of in listen, this is important. I have five things for you. We have to assume, first of all, there are there are some high mountains in Israel, but not exceedingly high mountains We thank you for the truth of it. And all three of these temptations, he is going to appeal to the humanity of Christ. So it's not going to build his character at all. Why? Did you know that? So he's the prince of the power of the air. And so what we're actually going to see are those points today. The difference between testing and temptation is that they have two very different goals. God can't be tempted, and he doesn't tempt anybody else. And Satan's goal with each one of us is to undermine his mission. Bethel is a place for someone And Deuteronomy 6, verses 16 through 17 says this, You shall not tempt the Lord your God as you tempted in Massah. Then Jesus said to him, Away with you, Satan, for it is written, You shall worship the Lord your God, and him only you shall serve. If you're listening by way of streaming, you can actually register online. Folks, we want attention. This is how human Jesus is. So we have Satan, he's taking him up on the pinnacle of the temple. And we will all have to answer to him someday. And I pray, Lord, today, that you would help us to put away the distractions in our mind. We thank you for that, Lord, because we recognize our insufficiencies and our inadequacies. Israel was also a failure. So so Satan is acting is not going to appeal to the deity of Christ. But what Satan is doing is Satan is causing Jesus, or tempting Jesus to a shortcut. We genuinely desire to help you grow spiritually any way we possibly can. And we find it, it's actually that it's actually the case in a couple of different ways. 3. So how does how does this work? That is who it is. We also understand that looking for a church to attend can be unsettling Just put your email address in there. He starts, if Satan get it can get can get us to depend on self rather than God. Absolutely not. And in that passage, the people of God, the Israelites are complaining. There's going to be quite a bit of PowerPoint today. It is our privilege to have you visit us, and we want you to feel at home while you're here. Jesus voluntarily 13 that says God doesn't tempt anyone But let patience or endurance He is on some level in control, but of course not ultimate control of the kingdoms of the world Do you remember you might remember the story, so the disciples are are getting together and they're talking about who's going to be graced for the kingdom of heaven? One of my favorite Now when the tempter came to him, he said, If you are the Son of God, command that these stones become bread. We're going to see dependency on self rather than God. Just think, what would happen? Yes What is he appealing to? Because I can't solve anybody's problems very well. We praise you for that this morning. Number one, he's going to correct historic failures. Final temptation, Jesus took him on an ex-dev the devil takes him on an exceedingly high mountain. Depend, promote, worship. Because you can't live without drinking by that long. He quotes the Bible and he says, man shall not live This was the clear plan of God, and he and Jesus, even when Peter said it, identified it as a plan of Satan. That's the greatest temptation, I think, in the Western world. Let's pray together. And they will all I'll send them to you, so don't feel like you've got to write these all down, but I just want to mention four of them. Um hang on one second. Join us for a worship service, a small group for Bible study. There is just a lot. Within that, what is what failures is he correcting? Folks, do you realize because he is victorious, there was no end Now that's a very different big difference between trials that we experience and trials that he's experiencing. That means, folks, he is entirely alone. Number three We don't live by this, and we start living by our own will. We are His people and the sheep of His pasture But through your grace and power you bring us back to your truth. I have a right to this You ever said that before? For he must reign till he has put all under his feet And I want you to understand this: that if you know Christ is your Savior, or maybe you don't know Christ as your Savior, that Satan has the same goal for you. The second man is the Lord from heaven. He is going to appeal to the humanity of Christ. Number two, pragmatism. So that folks, there really is no excuse. If you're on our normal email, I will email you the PDF. So Jesus Got folks, this is not one week Notice there's no sin here. Sometimes This is subtle Don't feel like you gotta write them all down. There is going to be a time where finally Jesus will sit on the throne and rule over the kings of the world. Number two, as followers of Christ, we must find our sense of identity and importance. We look to you to help us to be able to do this. He's going to, number one I think it's sort of a tipping of the hat back to that time. Jesus is doing all of this so that The problem is when we receive them outside of God's intended way. But we need to understand that it happens as we are part of the kingdom of God. What is going on here? You got the right to do this, Jesus. This is a matter of living life in dependency on God, or living life in dependency on my own. That's exactly what was happening in Exodus. Because Satan knows the Bible better than you do. That's what they're w expecting to happen. We thank you for the victory that we have in Christ, and we thank you that Christ Okay? Instead of finding our sense of importance in God. He quotes from Deuteronomy, which is really interesting. We want these things. Remember? Even as we anticipate and look forward to the Lord's Supper that we'll be partaking. And that's what you have here is you have a biography, parts of a biography of the life of Christ. He is the one that is going to experience the victory. He is giving us an example of what it looks like to be victorious. And when he had fasted forty days and forty nights, after afterward he was hungry. And I want to say this finally I pray that we would worship together in spirit and in truth this morning and that we would worship you in such a way And this is intended, folks, as we've already seen, it's intended to Although, you know, you it wouldn't be crazy to think that he's questioning that, but he's not actually questioning that It says this Then the devil took him up into the holy city, set him on the pinnacle of the temple, and said to him, Number three, presumptuous living places self over God. You know that. Come before his presence with singing. Thank you, Lord, that you deliver us from our sin. We look forward to that day, Father, when faith will become sight and we will be like him. Make sure you include that and I'll send that out to you as well this afternoon. Let us hold fast our confession, for we do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses. And the third temptation is to worship self rather than God. And they ring true every day. And as he And they give you, you know Now I won't take the time to go Remember, he's not appealing to the deity of Christ, he's appealing to the humanity of Christ. It is him and him alone. The Lord is good, his mercy is everlasting, and his truth endures to all generations. Understand that. Why is that important? He is very God, and he is also human. Do you see that? Our goal is to wait patiently to the day where we will reign not above Christ. Just understand this. Later on, the angels are going to come and feed him very likely food. They're not harmless. Bethel Baptist Church is a family made up of people from very different backgrounds and from every age group. It's incredible. Okay? Now, I just want to inform us about this root, the root of the problem By the way, that is not in and of itself a wrong motive He is the God of this age, Lord Keys G, God of this age. Let's pray together. And he said to him, All these things I will give you That's the one thing you're not going to see in this passage. Well Now And we may not be that bold about it, but in our hearts we sometimes think that way He would now receive attention. Now, what is he really actually appealing to here here? I mean nobody can do this, so there's no command to to to not make stones into bread, right? And he said to him Satan wants to bypass that plan. And what does Jesus do? He deals with this again from Scripture. Truly, Lord, it does look hopeless for us sometimes. Number four I pray, Lord, that as we enter into this text You say, well, that sounds like heresy. How many of you have ever fasted for a day? What's going on here? But where do we get that sense of importance from? There is going to be, there is God's plan, and there is Satan's plan. John 6. Let me give you, let me mention this thought and then we'll move on. I want to quote this verse for you and then we'll close first. That's pragmatism. Now you say to yourself, how does the Spirit of God lead someone into temptation? And we're tempted to say, well, I know what I need better than what God knows what I need. Our sense of importance That is where we get our self-importance from. Like there's no violation of a command here. In other words, folks, God uses temptations. And then the same temptation came around again. Not Jesus. Now let me just pause. He comes to Jesus and he knows exactly where to hit him. What's going on here? And I, you know, if we, you know Hebrews chapter 4, verses 14 through 16 says this, seeing that we have a great high priest He learned obedience by the things he suffered. Have you ever been tempted by something? It's important to know this. Number one It comes from who we are in Christ and being part of his kingdom. That's not what's happening. He's going to be victorious when Satan comes and tempts him. And it's interesting in the Old Testament you don't see Satan on the scene very often except in the very beginning 38 says this. A sense of importance. It's totally backwards, it's totally wrong. He's been starving, you know, 40 years, or 40 years When I first came to Bethel I was a babe in Christ. There's a reason why social media is so popular. But in the first four books of the of the New Testament So don't feel like you've got to write everything down that's here Yes, that's true. It failed to do what God had called it to do. He is Our focus is on making and building disciples for God's glory. Bethel Baptist Church is a growing loving family community We're going to see that in a few moments. It's in Matthew 16, 21-23. What is Satan appealing to? In the Eastern World it does happen. Why 40 days and 40 nights? Each one of these are quotes from Deuteronomy. Lord, help us, Lord, to be a people. I'll tell you what's happening. When you recognize the temptation, Not according to Hebrews 5. You're the Son of God. God's desire for the Christian First of all, the Bible actually tells us that Jesus Well For Jesus said Jesus deals with the taste. Well, the one failure he's correcting is actually the failure of Adam and Eve, right? All of these things, trials, temptations, testing. Over five weeks Um and from all counts it's it's We're thankful for the promise that Christ is the victor. He's been through it. And the Bible tells us that Jesus is the second Adam. Jesus experienced it. And here's the situation. He cites Scripture again, uses it in Deuteronomy 6, 13-14, he says, He's going to tempt the humanity of Christ. It's because of who we are in Christ. But on the other hand, the Bible says, don't tempt the Lord your God. Like you think of Revelation we've been going through and you see these kinds of visions where We confess before you, Father, that oftentimes How many of you have ever fasted for a week? I think there's two reasons You have the right. That's actually the sin. It should be from who we are in Christ. Number one, It says it right there, verse 7 I'm going to be I'm going to die. They are making God their servant. God wants He's going to correct failures. He is man. He uses the temptations that come from Satan. We move from self-importance Read along with me, if you will, please. What does Jesus do? But secondly, to promote That's Satan's goal. He hasn't suffered like I have 2 Corinthians 4. So Christ Christ But also this. Something else, by the way. I was You realize that? 4 says