That is, we are to be salt to the world. That's what we'll talk about. There's another implication here about, there's so much here actually, but there's another implication here about salt. In Philippians chapter 2, verse 15, it says that you may become blameless and harmless children of God without fault in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation. And the Christian is intended to shine as a light to the world. And because there were so many people within those cities that were using these little lamps, you couldn't miss them at night either. Number five, strategically place, we need to strategically place ourselves in areas where we can let our lot our light shine brightly We are ready to assist you in understanding your needs and locating facilities such as the nursery, coffee area, and the specific ministries and classes available for you and your family. Join us for a worship service, a small group for Bible study. We accomplish this through corporate worship on Sunday mornings, through adult Bible studies where we learn God's Word and how to effectively apply it to our lives, and through our discipleship home groups that meet in various locations throughout the region. Amen. And to establish it with judgment and justice from the time forward, even forever, the zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform this. For you have broken the yoke of his burden and the staff of his shoulder, the rod of his oppressor, as in the day of Midian. uh uh bombing those cities and there is much destruction happening. yourself, why are we thinking why are we reading a Christmas uh passage? Which is going to go very, very well with our sermon later on today. We confess these things before you, and I pray this morning that as we look at your word later on today, that you would help us. just really something. Or more particularly, is that our influence? The Roman soldiers were often paid in salt. Salt was involved in paying through the seal of a covenant and friendship. But particularly salt was useful, most useful for the for preservation of food. Uh refrigeration back then, like they do now, to the same to the same extent they do now. We have a preservative effect because we our lives are intended to make people thirsty. And who is he that will harm you if you be followers of that which is good? And be not afraid of their terror, neither be troubled, but sanctify the Lord God in your heart, and be ready always to give an answer to every man that asketh you a reason of the hope that is in you with meekness and fear. its composition so therefore it can't lose flavor. stepping on salt. We ought to live separated lives, but separated lives means that we don't live rudely and we don't live in such a way where we are ready to fight. In the sense that we know that one day there's going to be, we can affect 100% peace and there will be world peace and all this. Kings shall see and arise. that was given to the entire nation of Israel to now those who were defined particularly as his disciples, and eventually anticipating the fact that his church would be that light. would they would they would put it on a pedestal. And we're going to explore that for the next few minutes. That is, Jesus was life, and the life was the light of man. In 2 Corinthians 4, verses 1 through 6 it says this Therefore, seeing we have this ministry and we receive mercy, we faint not. For God, who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, has shined in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. And putting a bowl on top of it, that is a ridiculous idea. is to really give due consideration to the fact that what we say and what we do and how we live has a, we need to be concerned about our testimony. And there are certain times in our world where it's really dark right now, where it should we have the opportunity to shine brightly. How does the gospel shine through someone who is a non-Christian and becomes a Christian? of our lamp by rehearsing the bat the beatitudes. But we all have one thing in common. After arriving at Bethel, feel free to park at one of our guest parking spaces, close to the front doors. uh I'd had some some spiritual struggles in my own life that have sort of turned around night and day, just just having come here and love them and want what is best for them. You have multiplied the nation and increased its joy. Of the increase of his government and peace there will be no end upon the throne of David and o uh and over his kingdom to order it s with savor and to to place our light in a way that is going to uh let it shine so that men will see our good works and glorify And instruct others who are newly saved to grow in their following, their discipleship in Christ And that through those who have been saved, you would reach this world. Then he opened his mouth and taught them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. uh a sermon written by David Martin Lloyd Jones that on this passage. And he was preaching and he mentioned communism. And I knew, you know, there was unrest with uh Russia and Ukraine and all of that. Or th through military uh s uh uh tactics, is that the way the problems of the world are truly solved where we can be salt and light to the world. at the disciples' influence through preservation of the world. But if the salt loses its flavor, how shall it be seasoned? This is not all the masses of people that were following him because of miracles. You are not going to be absorbed able to absorb water. Substances, and they understood this back then. You've got the the key is to really understand this. and then it comes out in his lifestyle that causes the world to desire to realize their need for something In 1 Peter 3, verses 12 through 17 it says this. so that they will actually see this person is responding differently to the difficulties and trials in life. Another major implication of this is that this cites the very purpose of a Christian. to the problems and the news of the day. And the very first sermon given to disciples recorded in the New Testament, that the disciple of Christ, the kingdom citizen uh because there was really no other good purpose for them. We are to be the merciful, the compassionate, the peacemakers. that the believer is able to have on this world. Newspaper articles do not seem to touch them. than the pollution and the rottenness and the evil and the vice. But we as light in the world can have an effect on this world that is for the sake of the gospel Look at the decay that is set setting in amongst all classes of people. When the disciples heard the idea of saying, you are the light of the world, they very likely, they were Jewish disciples, they very likely would have immediately thought of Israel being called the light of the world. be my servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob and to restore the pre uh the preserved of Israel. you actually see from the first century artifacts of an actual lamp that they had back then, a couple of them. And so what they would do to get the maximum use out of these small, we we would by our standards it would be really, really dim, but to get the maximum use out of these small, dimly lit lamps But now are you light in the world? and truth. And upon those who sat in the region of the shadow of death, light has dawned. God would choose to light that lamp through the gospel of Christ, and then we put a bowl on top of it. Now this is packed full as well. can live the kind of life where he is just really worried about what God thinks, and he's not really worried about what anybody else thinks. That is a dangerous Christianity. This is not to say that we don't that we live sort of as hypocrites to the world. as we see it fleshed out in the Beatitudes. But God says in His Word here that we are on display and we need to realize that we are on display before others That when they speak against you as evildoers, they may, by your good works, which they observe, glorify God in the day of visitation. Now, it's interesting. And less motivated to give exemplary service. And what the world and what the world is doing. that is explained in the facets of this diamond of the Beatitudes in verses 3 through 12. And concluding applications, number one, remember the source of light is Christ and the gospel. And he understands that he is utterly destitute before God. Number three, we live, respond, react differently than the world does. worried about their own self-interest. No. Before you even drive into our parking lot, we'd like to give you an idea of what to expect on your first visit to Bethel Baptist Church. family. Bethel Baptist Church is a growing loving family community. Uh this this is a place for them. Teachers and nursery workers will be available to introduce themselves and assist you in signing your children in and out of their classrooms. We see decay, we see sin and problems. And then not only did he do that, but he commissioned disciples, us, those of us who know Christ as our Lord and Savior, to be light, to be salt and light. you. That you would give great help and insight for us and provide for us the challenge that we need to hear, we ask in Jesus' name. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. And say all kinds of evil against you falsely for my sake. You have more access to knowledge than you ever have in the history of art of the world, arguably. with political and military answers to the problems of our world that we actually missed the primary role that we ought to be placing as salt and light to the world. to have an influence on the world. As warm-blooded people and uh actually uh uh warm-blooded animals as well, there there there is a need for salt in the diet. Uh if we did you know that that that's necessary. He was sort of, Jesus understood that they really saw these things as the most essential things in the world, and now he is saying the same thing about us. uh a little bit colder and they would have places where things were a little bit uh more chilled in in areas within a place that they dug in their houses. of the world. It implies that the earth has a, the world, that is people, the culture, has a tendency toward rottenness and pollution. was a preserving effect on food back then. And the Christian actually is intended to flavor the world, as we see in the text, if a uh it says if salt has lost its flavor. then wherewith shall it be salted? We hunger and thirst after righteousness. We are intended by God to show a world who has no thirst for righteousness that they are actually thirsty. God's desire for us as Christians is to live in such a way that the world sees their need. Having a good conscience, that whereas they speak evil of you as evildoers, they may be be ashamed, that falsely accuse your good conduct in Christ, for it is better if the will of God be so that you suffer for well-doing than His responsibility in this world is to be salt. There was a kind of s there's arguments about this that the that the that uh the scientifically that uh salt could not be could not can't actually change Are we as Christians really being salt and light, or particularly salt here to the world? and compassion. Because we don't fear. And there is a potential, you know, of uh if somebody truly is following after the Beatitudes and rehearsing those, and we're going to learn more about that in a few moments, there is there is such an effect And he will come back one day and he will return and he will be able to do what nobody else could ever do in causing people to realize their own their own thirstiness, their own need for something And in Isaiah 49, 6 through 7, we see that it says there in that passage, and he said, it is a light thing that you should have For do they light a lamp and put it under basket, but in a lamp but uh but on a lampstand, and it gives light to all who are in the house You are the light of the world. that and the truth of that and they would burn the wick and it would actually draw from from that oil. And spiritual light symbolizes the opposite of filth. In John 8, verse 12, it says this, and Jesus spoke to them, saying, I am the light of the world. He says, Jesus says to us, to the disciples of Christ, to the followers of Christ, you are the light of the world. nor handling handling the word of God deceitfully by but um but by the manifestation of the truth, commending ourselves every man's conscience in the sight of God. In whom the God of this world hath blinded the minds of them that believe not, lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, who is in the image of God, shall shine unto them Christ and the source of life is the working of the gospel in our own hearts, so that we then can shine forth the light of Christ. Notice then what it says here. In John chapter 3, verse 19, it says this, and this is the condemnation, that light has come in the world, and men loved darkness rather than light because their deeds are evil. Our responsibility is to influence the world then through placement. In verse 16, we finally now have a command. God's goal for us is to display ourselves. This is not just saying that we are to by our lives glorify God. I mean, look at what it says in the passage. Well, it's because there's a worker shortage, right? And we certainly want to make sure that we are taking those opportunities. that this really all goes together from chapter 5. Verses 13 through 16 are an outflow of verses of what happens when there is an internal working of the gospel Who has shown in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ? 2 Corinthians 4 verse 6 says this, for it is the God who commanded light to shine out of darkness. through us to others. And as we rehearse them and realize who we really are, the effect of the gospel takes place in our heart, and that wick is lit. Living on display. Putin and all these different things going on in our world and man, you know, I just can't I can't wait to, you know, sort of die and then I'll be with the Lord and it'll be all done and you know, that kind of thing. Let's pray together. When that same person belongs to a loving community where God's word is taught, they will grow in their relationship with the Lord, and their life grows in purpose and meaning. spiritually immature through hearing God's word preached studying God's word and continuing My family is involved in the church. Additionally, there are one-on-one and couple-to-couple counseling and discipleship opportunities. in in the Ukraine right now. For the burn for the burning and fuel of fire. I think it's going to be a very appropriate message as we think about our world today. anymore like it was back then prior to the Cold War. And he was using this passage and explaining that it ought to be different than how a non-Christian does this. is that the same problems that that he was discussing you know decades ago, we're still seeing the same problems come up again today, essentially. And it tells us something, folks, about the fact that the world has absolutely no idea how to solve its problems. So he says, first of all, you are the salt of the earth. that were it was that the beatitudes were already spoken to to them. that we have, as I've already mentioned, implies that we have a role of spiritual preservation of the world, but it also implies something else Meat has a tendency, you just leave it alone by itself, meat has a tendency toward rottenness, toward pollution, and the world does too. be my salvation unto the end of the earth. uh oil lamps. on a you know, lampstand and all this kind of thing. The truth and the life, and no one comes to the Father except through me. It's ridiculous. And glorify God in heaven. There just should be such a contrast between why how we do what we do Well, how does an unbeliever come to a place in understanding his own sin in need of a savior? He's he's just desperate for Christ. It's connected when we begin to rehearse for ourselves these beatitudes, when we really consider the fact that we are destitute before God. Amen. You know, reading in the Bible is helping me to grow spiritually. Uh genuinely we have a real unity in the faith because we believe in that objective truth in the scriptures and um it just draws us together as a faith. Our children's ministries are extremely important to us. The people who walked in darkness have seen a great light. not the salt that you want us to be. Light to the dark world that is around us. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. then we will solve the problems of the world. in this world as we look at verses 13 through 16. Nothing is more useful than salt and sunshine. And the only way that a disciple of Christ sees his need is to understand he is poor in spirit, he is mourning over his sin, and all those things causes him to desire righteousness. Clearly different. There is to be that kind of a contrast. He says, it seems to me, uh that it seems to me is the great call to us at a time like this. Ephesians 5 really helps us with this. In other words, he is the source of that light. among whom you shine as lights to the world. There's no way around it. To place a bowl over us, either, to hide ourselves from the light. That they may see your good works and glorify your Father in heaven. That is more conducive to my freedoms and what I want to do. God says for us to place ourselves in areas where more light is needed. Like when it says good works, what exactly is good works talking about here? No, the Bible says, work hardly as unto the Lord and not unto men. I really uh there was something, I don't know if I could get it right this week, but I s I saw uh uh there was actually a meme on Facebook that was And we mourn over our sin. So you're you y if you live in if you live in the East Coast in Maryland and in between Baltimore and DC, you it's pretty dark. that will please the Lord. The the church family here is just so uh great in terms of their unity and their activeness and involvement in the church. And even getting involved in the ministry, I'm looking forward to uh being able to help out and and to help build up others in the faith the way that they've helped build me up. If they want to grow spiritually, if they're ready to take the the next steps in their spiritual walk with God in their Christian life And that we also have the honor and privilege to teach. It came from your plan before the foundation of the world. Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father in heaven. Is the problem that we don't have enough knowledge? And God says that the disciples of Christ, Christians, are to be salt to the world. People do not naturally have a hunger and thirst after righteousness. And God is actually saying in this passage that the preservative effect that the Christian, the true disciple of Christ, is to have on the world is that because we understand the value of righteousness. We look at the world today and we see need everywhere. So we're going to have to, we, Saul should be responding differently to the to the trials, to the difficulties, to the things we face. So how is that supposed to all happen? They're very small lamps and they were and they had olive oil that they would use to fuel these lamps, not the extra version of olive oil. Uh and and they would have a they would fill the fill the little um fill the little reservoir and they would put a wick in it and then they would act they would burn. Light is righteousness and truth and goodness. For which we preach not ourselves, but Christ Jesus our Lord, and ourselves your servants, for Jesus' sake This was an illustration for Jesus as he explained to the disciples and as they would have understood. And Jesus is saying here, as disciples of Christ, you can't hide us either. But our role, the command for us, is to let our light shine I'm just simply saying that we need to really give consideration to the fact that God actually says that placement matters here. Very practically, as a church, we ought to really consider how we can reach our community for Christ. As we live our lives, as we go about the workplace, as we rub shoulders with people, as we interact with people, as we just do our responsibilities faithfully in all over the place, we are to be A Christian, the reservoir of the oil, the light shines brighter. Reaction to the world is that we are we have faith when there's fear. As a young mom I have two small kids and so I am very much looking forward to seeing them grow up in this church where I know there are gonna be people who care about them Father, we confess before you that our salt is not as salty as it ought to be. would be in a position where they would turn to you now. You all are the salt of the earth, but if the salt loses its flavor, how shall it be seasoned? You are the light of the world. Two, revelation to the world. That folks implies that those who are not blessed, those who are not disciples, do not have a natural thirst and hunger for righteousness. And they are in desperate need. This often happens as we respond in the right way to difficulties and problems of life. It says later, if you hide a light under a bushel, it is ridiculous, is essentially what it's saying there. How do we respond to the calamities of this world? Doesn't mean we don't compromise, doesn't mean we compromise our beliefs. Preservation, but then also revelation in this world. Think of the context. We are literally to think about the fact that we are on display. Now I uh want to say this. But in the in the last couple of years, and I've even heard this before that, but in the last couple of years, I have heard not one, not two, but many, many people who live in Maryland say, you know, I just need to find another state And that means we're going to have to really think about where we place ourselves to let it shine. God wants us to let our light shine. For a Christian, the motivation is to, in everything I do, whether you eat or drink or whatsoever I do, to do all of the glory of God. So for the Christian, the Christian should never be saying, should never be saying in the workplace, well, I don't need to work as hard because I know they'll put up with less. Let me then give you five points here on how we can apply all of this together. Because it's by applying the gospel that we are able to sh our our light is to best be able to shine. Good. I pray, Lord, that you would help us in a lost and dying and dark world to shine brightly for Christ. more faithful. And the need for light. Hearts are full of gratitude and praise to you this morning. It's an outgrowth of the previous verses the Beatitudes. Not very much. And there is all kinds of intent intentional picture that Jesus wants to show by what he is saying here. And Father, we confess before you that often we respond and react and live in such a way that we are To those who don't know it. And you ha there is not a nation that does anything that does not go through the filter of your plan first. Turn from their sin and turn to you, the one true God. Let us read together. I mean why why would you salt meat? By our lives. The passage there, folks, is saying that you're going to come under suffering and trials in life because of your righteousness, but that is going to actually have an effect on people When others are fearing and trembling and worried and occupied, preoccupied, it shows a difference. There is a cumul there is sort of a an exponential effect of salt. And so it is also equally no good reason for us as Christians who have the light of Christ. Von Hoffer said it this way, flight into the invisible is a denial of the call. God wants us place, in other words, folks, placement matters. No, I realize my sin is an offense against the Holy God, and I come to Christ. And we mourn over it. And reaction differently than the world does not mean that we are more militant. That if we're not doing this, then we are not living for the purpose that you placed us here We are sobered by the reality that you are all wise and all sovereign, and when we look at the world, we see darkness We pray all these things in Christ's name. During the Enlightenment era, which he mentions as well in his sermon, during the Enlightenment era, there was this idea that the problems of the world is there just isn't enough knowledge. So let's just think then about what what does it mean when we're thinking about this idea of the fact that we are the salt of the world? Remember that it says, just prior, blessed are they that hunger and thirst after what? It says, if a salt has lost its savor, its flavor, then it is good for nothing. Why then would we put it in a place where there's already more light? But we have a really great opportunity to just let our light shine before men. the more contrast there should be and the greater opportunities there are for the believer. Are a testament to that, that you are transforming our lives into the image of your Son. It did not come from the heart or the logic of an individual, but it came from your mind. But Lord, we do ask, because there are many that we know that are either in harm's way or close to harm's way. So let's look at what Christ says we are supposed and how Christ says we are supposed to be living and a dark place usually, but they did not have the means of refrigeration that we do today, and so they used instead salt. This is telling us, remember, this is telling us in the very first book of the New Testament, in the beginning chapters of the very first book of the New Testament. What is light? They were for strategic reasons set up on a hill, and they could you couldn't miss them in the daytime It is ridiculous for us to put for for the idea of, as we've already said, lighting a can light lighting a lamp The goal of Christ for us is actually to be on display to the world Why would you place yourself in an area where less light is needed? in restaurants and places like that these days. Are we living in an area like that, folks? To let our light shine before men. So being new members here, I'm most looking forward to uh continuing to deepen my walk with Christ and and grow in my relationship with him. What an incredible thing, Lord, the church is. And Lord, as we think of the world and as we look at it today, there is much unrest. Revelation to the world and placement in the world. Sending the light in the person of Jesus Christ first. In your great plan and wisdom, that you have chosen us as weak vessels to proclaim the powerful truth of the gospel. Many of them are our missionaries. You, as as disciples of Christ, are intended to have a preservative effect on the earth. Christian, don't get into the place where you're pessimistic about this world. And comfort and reminding them of your presence. Your gospel and your truth. And he he he was explaining how Christians should respond to the threat of communism. People would be stepping on salt during that during that time. You are the light of the world. Then the question then becomes, how is it that we can live out that light the best? No. What we really want to look at today, and one of the things that Lloyd Jones pointed out in his sermon, was that we if we're not careful, we can be actually so preoccupied I looked up good works and I really tried to find this word good this phrase good works. Number two, live, respond, and react differently than the world does. The life of a Christian, sh his actions, his reactions, his responses should be It's not precise. And then we think about where we must place it. Christ even said in Matthew 24 that there would be wars and rumors of war. We ask that that you would do that now. When others are self-serving, we are ready to serve. So God tells us that we need to be deeply concerned about our testimony. Number four, intentionally living on display before the world so that they will glorify God. Since I uh started coming to Bethel, I noticed that my walk with the Lord became more serious. Are we really causing by our lives, are we showing that people ought to be thirsty for righteousness' sake? Princes also shall worship, because the Lord is faithful and the Holy One of Israel, and he shall choose thee. What we see here in this passage is salt is different. It's goodness, righteousness, and truth. Putting your lamp up on a lampstand. The church has impacted my walk with the Lord in terms that my faith became real. Father, we come to you and we see what you say in your word about how our responsibility The nation of Israel was following after the multitudes were following after him. And that will that people will have a chance to glorify God. Because you say that if we lose our savor, we're good for nothing. There's nothing here about verbal yet. The re that had a they're very usually very small. When a person discovers how to have a genuine relationship with God, they are given a sense of purpose and meaning in life There's going to be all kinds of things that happen physically that's going to be a problem. No, it's dark, which gives us the respon the ability to be able to shine brightly. We sincerely desire to help people grow in the relationship with the Lord, with their families, and with one another. And we thank you that Christ is that light. We're supposed to have a preservative effect in our world. It says that salt is good for nothing but to be trodden underfoot of men. If a light is put, same thing as the salt, if a light is, it is a ridiculous idea to take a lamp, to light the lamp, and then put a bowl on top of it. And it's the same kind of ridiculous idea that a Christian, Jesus is saying that a Christian And I think in our world today, we ought to be able to see this contrast more than ever before. We have found a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, a man, uh a philosopher during the time of the first century, uh said this about salt. What's the usefulness of that? They would put it on a maybe we'd call it a lampstand, on a pedestal, up high. At least we're not supposed to. We finally have a command. Because we are living before the world and we are on display in the world and God's desire for us That is what it means to be separated as a disciple of Christ. And what does Jesus say? And of course, you'll remember from last week, this idea of hunger and thirst is an utter starvation, an utter desperate need. We are on display for the world. We recognize our sin. I don't know. My children are growing in the church. Um Russia has now going into every city in Ukraine every major city in Ukraine and You you say we are salt, and yet we do have a role to play in our saltiness and in our light shining before men. Thus saith the Lord, the Redeemer of Israel, the and his Holy One, to him whom man despises, and him whom the nation abhorreth, and the servants of the rulers You might want to write this passage down. And it said something in the effect of it's not that it's not that the unbeliever chooses Christ, it's that the unbeliever comes comes to God realizing he's begging after he he's so empty and he's Reading this morning, we will uh amend the plan slightly and read from verse one all the way to verse sixteen before Pastor comes to preach the word. And then this sort of comes up. It is an an essential part of our diet. But in their mindset, in their day, there was a kind of salt that they would actually put on the roofs of houses. Walk as children of light. 1 Peter 2 verse 12 says, this having your conduct honorable among the Gentiles. Amen. And that that gospel can transform lives. And truly, Lord, we know that we shouldn't be surprised. But let's first ask the question, okay, then, what is light? They rejoice before you according to the joy of harvest as men rejoice when they divide the spoil. May this now be the time where they turn to you in light of the hostilities that they would humbly repent. In fact, it's not hard to oversalt something, is it? Indeed, nothing ever will, save the presence of an increasing number of individual Christians who will control the putrefication We need to purposely fill up our reservoir by rehearsing the beatitudes. For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulder. And seeing the multitudes, he went up on a mountain, and when he was seated, his disciples came to him. And the question is, how are we supposed to have that influence? And as that comes to fruition in our lives, we actually have the ability to cause people to realize they are lacking it. It ought to be distinctly different than the way the world is responding, and we'll look at how that difference is supposed to be in a few moments. Why would you do that? It's intentionally general. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hidden, nor do they light a lamp and put it under a basket, but on a lampstand, and it gives light to all who are in the house Well, what's he referring to? It's not righteousness from the outside in, it's righteousness from the inside out. In Matthew chapter 4, verse 16, it says, And the people who sat in darkness have seen a great light. He understands that he is undeserving of any kind of anything. God, Christ, and the gospel is the source of that light. It's a body of believers that is striving together to serve the Lord. And then on those roofs of houses, they actually that's where they would actually spend time up there on the on the flat roofs of houses of houses. Well he moved we move on secondly then to the disciples' influence is through revelation It says it uses this concept of putting the lamp on a lampstand for it to be useful. 1 all the way through verse 16 of this passage. Christians are just not going to be able to do much these days, you know, because of COVID. Preservation, revelation, and placement. Well, it talks about in that passage light, that Christ has come as the light of the world and that he also is coming to establish his kingdom. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be filled. But if you suffer for righteousness' sake, happy are ye Now I want to say, folks, that the answer that that our goal as Christians is not to fix all the problems of the world Well back in that that day in the first century they had what they would they what they had was oil We have a lot of young families with children, and we believe in the importance of teaching truth to the next generation. So the passage that we are looking at this morning, uh particularly verses thirteen through sixteen, is really And he mentioned how and I'm literally thinking to myself, wrongly, thinking to myself, this is our big the begin more toward the beginning of the week. Let us be a blessing to you and your family. Let us pray together. And we know that you can do that. They are, he is now, there is a sense in which he is now transferring the responsibility And it says this in the passage, that a city set on a hill cannot be hid. And the command is: let your light so shine before men. Let your light shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven. Help us to learn how to have salty salt, how to be salty salt. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Well folks, you've got knowledge on your fingertips now And three, placement in the world, preservation of the world. These were the particular disciples that were following him, that pledged to follow him wherever he would go. We hope that we've been able to show you a small glimpse of what Bethel is like. We need to really consider how we are responding. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Ephesians 5, 8, and 9, it says this. It would have no purpose whatsoever. We don't discount our sin. We ought to stand firm. In other words, if you have the light of ge life of Jesus, you it will it is the light of man. And we are we we become meek. We have peace when there's unrest. Rejoice and be exceedingly glad, for great is your reward in heaven. It's really ironic. We are to respond through through through those kinds of means to the world. And it says in verse chapter 5, verse 14, you are the light of the world. Well, let's take our minds back to the first century century and ask the questions, these disciples that were up on this mountain, this is not the You go out and fish, you bring it back in, you need to save it for a few days. For the eyes of the Lord are over the righteous, and his ears are open unto their prayers, but the face of the Lord is against them that do evil. So that's where the idea get comes from. Bethel Baptist Church is a family made up of people from very different backgrounds and from every age group. And we ask, Lord, that you would give great protection. But I'm thinking to myself, yeah, that that's not our main problem That is not the problem. And we'll pick up here then in verse 13 where it says, you are the salt of the earth. It is then and is then good for nothing but to be thrown out and trampled underfoot by men. Every one of us in our circle has thus the control this to control this process, and to the whole lump, the whole mass will be preserved. In the Old Testament, the seal of a covenant, a friendship, was all often So you've got this worker shortage where workers are requiring more payment and they also know they have better job security and they're less motivated to work. Have you noticed that? And it was really quite interesting because he mentions in that passage, remember that uh he was he was pastoring prior to the you know during the Cold War Salt, as you know, is an essential aspect of the diet of human beings. It is obvious that men by passing acts of parliament cannot deal with them. Your command and my command is you are the light, and you must let that light shine before men. I have very practically, and I I understand the sentiment, I do understand it So number two, purposely fill up your reservoir Uh he says, you're the salt of the wor world. I will also give for a light to the Gentiles that thou mayest be a It's the exact opposite of the darkness of the world, and its source is found then in Christ himself. Well, he understands his sin, right? It's not like, okay, yeah, I'm good, and I got this option, this option, this option, I'm good, but and I'll just kind of pick this option. We're going to see that we are intended by God You are the salt of the world and what? And so that kind when we have the right kind of response, which is mercy and compassion and love. Actually, how many of you have been to the Museum of the Bible? It's a dark world, it's crooked, it's perverse Uh Isaiah nine, and we'll look at two through seven. Uh back then they would actually have in their houses, usually they would uh either dig or places uh there were where there was Those who dwelt in the land of the shadow of death, upon them a light has shined. Um and it it shows us in living color man's depravity, the darkness of this world And uh I was I was studying this week and part of in my part of my study I was reading Preservation of the world. It was not very bright In John 1. So that it may, the world, may see the good works. And the ministry and the love of the people of the church is helping my children and my family to stay faithful to the Lord. We are very much aware of the of of uh the depravity of man this week as we look at the news and see what's going on. And that is the main thing that Christ very likely was talking about when he said, you are the salt. We we are that way. We certainly are. We pray, Lord, now as we are about to enter to your word. That's not how they say it, but that's kind of how they say it. Now, we have already said We remember today that it is not a man-made idea. That's not normal. When others are, we are to be remember, remember folks that la from last week You don't need much to have great influence You knew you would send your Son to die on the cross for our sins, to save many. Is that intended to be the primary influence that we have as Christians, as disciples of Christ on the world? Bethel is a place for someone It's essential. Then it says, for the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness, righteousness. No. I really tried to find like what's it talking about? Perhaps many that our our dear missionaries have been working with have been rejecting for some time. But the individual is so full of pride, including ourselves from birth, that we don't see our need. This is not, this does away with the idea that a Christian Oh man, it's everything so bad, you know, COVID and Father, we praise you and thank you for who you are. Salt is absolutely a necessary aspect of a diet. That salt also, he says in the text, how do we have a preservative effect in the world? It is through the crucible of trials and tribulation that you do some of your most amazing And light is different. And then we find the source of light is not only Christ, but it is the gospel itself. There is no good reason to do that ever. We genuinely desire to help you grow spiritually any way we possibly can. We thank you that He came into the world to be the light of the world. So we see here that that is the idea of salt. By our very lives and our very motivations and our very focus This all this talk of a lamps lamp and on a uh on a putting it on a Truth, righteousness and goodness. We do thank you, Father, for He goes up into the mountains, only some follow him up there, and now Jesus is saying to that few people versus the people that were down below. See, see, the con there ought to be a contrast. We don't look the other way and say, ah, everybody sins, and I'll just do what I want. We also understand that looking for a church to attend can be unsettling. May you, Lord, advance your kingdom and your gospel in these regions that are How much salt do you have to put on something for it to be effective? Did you know, folks, that's the way you apply the gospel every day of your life as well? It doesn't mean that we are It is our privilege to have you visit us, and we want you to feel at home while you're here. God has particularly placed this and wants us to place ourselves in places in the world. 4, it says this, in him How how but for a Christian it shouldn't matter. We are salt and light. I'm driving to church today thinking about this and thinking, well, you know, this is it's ki it's There's not a desire for that normally. They just couldn't be missed. And we know that that is what you are doing. Spiritually, we know what it is physically, what is it spiritually? Through placement. We already know that all of this is based upon the internal working of the gospel And we ex when we have mercy when everybody else is at everybody else's throat. If you don't have salt at all in your diet How do we respond? It is also saying that we are to by our lives cause others to glorify God. Why is that? And here's the great thing about it. There is all kinds of good works we are supposed to be doing in the world. Lord, even through all this turmoil, we ask that the hearts of those who do not know you. How is it, let me put it this way, how is it that we can apply the gospel? And frankly, it is so clear here. But our response to the things of the world, we don't have to flee or fight. For you were once darkness I'm and yet are we any better off Or we hide it under a bushel. So that's why a Christian can look at everything and go, this is, I'm optimistic. And we're going to see three ways here. So let's first look Lloyd Jones says this. And if we've lost our flavor, then we are not useful anymore. Isn't it? For every warrior's sandal from the noisy battle and garments rolled in blood will be used And our light is often hid under a bushel instead of placed on a lampstand. And you know the answer to that is? Do we solve the problems of the world by through political He who follows me shall not walk in darkness, but have the light of life. Are we really, what is our role in this? Let your light shine brightly by thinking, by placing yourselves in a way, in a place So that now we have the ability to turn around and be that Revelation to the world. Are we having a preservative effect in our world? Actually they're on loan from Bob Jens University there in that in that first uh uh in that on that second floor And we find ourselves then in verse 16 of this passage. What would they have thought of? You are the light. The earth is full of vanity. This is such an important thing for us to ask ourselves The cities of those days, the major cities of those days, were often in white, often built in white limestone. He realizes that there is nothing in of himself that has any value apart from the grace of God. When others fear, we need faith. And then it says this. A community of Jesus which seeks to hide itself has ceased to follow him. Now I'm not saying that everybody who moves to Tennessee is wrong. Have you all noticed, I'm just going to use this as an illustration, have you all noticed that you're not getting as good a service? For the first time, the gospel is shining in him. In those days Israel was intended to be that light, and now Jesus is saying, You are the light. Right? How we can let that light shine better outside these walls. And frankly, that factors in our world as well. So the placement of that lamp would be where it would be able to shine out And you might be saying God doesn't say to do that. Um we we ought not to be shocked or amazed. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. It is then good for nothing but to be thrown out and trampled underfoot by men They did not have uh It's talking about truth and knowledge and righteousness. The fact of the matter is, brothers and sisters in Christ, we are on display. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God. Blessed are you when they revile and persecute you. But Jesus also said that he was the light of the world, or is the light of the world. More conducive to Christian, Christianity and those kind of things. He understands that he is accountable to a holy God. You really should see I think it's the second floor that that you can actually see actual you can So what then is our responsibility? We have strength. Father, we come before you and our All of us here who have trusted in your son The world should be able to see God through us because of the light that has been shined. But we'd love to meet you personally. But having re renounced the hidden things of dishonesty and walking and craftiness So salt Look at life. A city set up on a hill, you just can't hide it. Number one His name shall be called Wonderful Counselor of the Mighty God, the Everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace It doesn't allow us to live in isolation from others. And Lord, we take comfort in the fact that you have laid the plan out. We're to shed light a certain kind of truth and righteousness. That's light and it's found through Jesus. It's connected to this reservoir of the Beatitudes. Well, a couple of things for us to understand about salt back then. We go through those and we rehearse those beatitudes. First, preservation of the world. He said, Nothing is more useful than salt and sunshine. It implies several things. When I first came to Bethel I was a babe in Christ, I was And we're going to learn, we're going to learn that today. And we are to be salt in the world. No, we know that Christ is going to, he's the only one that can really do that And when the world gets dark And Lord, we are For so they persecuted the prophets who were before you When others express anger, we show mercy. Our focus is on making and building disciples for God's glory. You are the salt and the sunshine. Intentionally And usually we can get that through general food. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hidden. They would be an older kind of olive oil you wouldn't use for eating. And frankly all over the world it's dark and the country is dark and everybody's everywhere is dark Look at society in this world. But if our gospel be hid, it is hid to them that are lost. No, we recognize our sin. You've got um salt as being very common The darker things get Our role is not to produce the light. And that is true, isn't it? No, we're ready to show mercy and compassion and love. Amen First of all, it implies And that is where you would actually have them How does that light shine? It's not like that Because We're poor in spirit And if there can be more knowledge That's why Jesus would say, I am the way, the what. Just think about it this way. You are the salt and the light of the world. Is it not obviously rotten? I'm not saying that at all. It's just what's amazing to me. First of all So we then move to the source of this light. Everybody else is pessimistic. We don't need extra salt, but sometimes That's what light is biblically. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Christ has already done that in us. The source of light is You said it would be like this. Now this is really interesting. Why? I'm optimistic.