Will he not lay hold on it and lift it out? And what's interesting is this time they don't go to the disciples. Why were they having a problem? I mean, th remember what I said about the entire culture when it came to when it came to the Sabbath. And you know what it says in the Mark, I think it's in the Mark passage? I thought that was pretty good. By the mercies of God, you present your bodies a living sacrifice, wholly acceptable unto God. I I literally I d I have nothing. And what is also interesting is that Jesus is actually going to use this issue of observing observ observing the Sabbath The king has ordered me to some uh business and said to me, Do not let anyone know anything about the business on which I sent send you It didn't seem like a direct vi there doesn't seem to be a real clear prohibition against what David did, but he he he certainly didn't he it was it was to be primarily for the priest When the accuser regards himself as more authoritative than he ought to be. repentance. So Jacob was greatly afraid and distressed. And the story of Ruth and how the uh Ruth and Naomi they were they were widowers and they were left uh to to deal with all the problems of being that kind of The king said, Is there not still someone of the house of Saul to whom I may show the kindness? He sent he went into their synagogue, and behold there was a man who had with with withered hand, and they asked him, saying, Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath? the Lord of the Sabbath and all those things, right? and are blameless. Something that you can't really wrap your mind around that's causing you to be restless. I s I slept just fine last night. if you even if it's not a matter of not being able to sleep, what was happening in the Jewish life, in the life of the Jewish people Cephas and had a great victory in battle because they just simply would not fight during the Sabbath. The Mishnah, which was in the rabbinical writings, they even admitted that the rules about the Sabbath are as mountains hang by a hair, for teaching of scripture thereon is scanty and the rules many the temple profane the Sabbath and are blameless? to the temple. standards, you weren't allowed to prepare food on the Sabbath. Or some kind of vision from somewhere. Jesus, in the way that he deals with them, he's actually going to refer to the law of God. correctly. So if you take your Bibles, turn to 1 Samuel chapter 21, and of course we pick up here with David and his men who are hungry. It says this now David came to Nob and Ahimelech the priest, and he met David, and said to him, Why are you alone and no one is with you? was consecrated yesterday. Jesus, by bringing this up, is putting a question mark in the minds of the Pharisees. Except one group of people who worked really hard on a Sabbath, and that was the priests and the Levites. thing he says here is this. And the temple entirely. Scripture says. Read through the Old Testament, we see the law that begs to be uh begs for a Savior because nobody can keep it. And we have the church that's moving forward. Have you read about David? seeing here in Matthew, Jesus said this. Paying particular attention to. Because this was to be the guiding principle that the Pharisees were missing as to why they were not interpreting Scripture correctly. The Lord who said to me, Return to your country and to your family, and I will deal uh well with you. Uh in that kind of state. This is still the son of Jonathan, who is lame in his feet. Now, when Mephibosheth, the son of Jonathan, the son of Saul, had come to David, he fell on his face and prostrated himself. And the whole idea of commitment and covenant and all of these things to this word to really understand what Jesus is getting at. So that we could be restored to God in a covenant relationship with Him. So God is a just God, but God's intention for for got for people is that they would come into You don't need to. that actually says it's the very next Sabbath, okay, that this happens. This is implying, Matthew is implying that they're that the cities in this area and the synagogues in this area are really heavily influenced, if not controlled, really they are controlled by the Pharisees and the Pharisees. the and the scribes of the day and it's it's theirs. And he we flesh it out here, or to do evil, to save life, or to destroy? And he said he did it did so, and his hand was restored as a whole as the other. On the Lord's Day. Christian, but you really aren't. And we praise you for your word. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And behold, there was a man which had his hand withered. to expressing the importance of right interpretation, then he moves on to right application and considering the priorities of scripture. Um anyway, let's get back on the subject. And it says in there, gives us a little more information, it says that they plucked the heads of grain and ate them, rubbing them in their hands. To the same level as the law of God. And it and and uh and what had what was it? But there is ol there is holy bread. Samuel is that there's nowhere that he that it says that David did wrong here, or that the priests in offering the bread did wrong. Of course the Pharisees and scribes were were considered experts on the Old Testament law. of eating bread brings that up as an example and then brings up the fact that no one was supposed to work on the Sabbath, that's true, except task. And he is saying to himself, I do have the authority. What can we learn from this? Scripture. as authority that he ought not. completely. You would not have condemned the guiltless, the innocent, for the Son of Man is Lord even of the Sabbath. And I I was looking at this and I said, you know what, I need to make sure I get it. Look at verse 6. In fact, if you look at this word, and I started looking up this word in all the different occurrences in the Old Testament, it's found in Genesis, it's found in Exodus, it's found in Deuteronomy, it's found in Judges. for multitude. and the children's children to the third and fourth generation. He is God, the faithful God who keeps covenant and mercy for a thousand generations with those who love him and keep his commandments. to your holy habitation. Covenant-loving, kind, merciful, compassionate relationship with him. life. And how do you know how to do justly? says this. Pleased with thousands of rams, ten thousand rivers of oil? And this is in sequence for a reason. Sheep. that they might find an accusation again. Now that is a very different reply than the reply when he was just with the Pharisees and his disciples. down to. Number one, since Christ is Lord of the Word applied, we must carefully consider the whole counsel of God on any matter of scriptural application. It's so important for us to take the whole mind of God on any matter to really flesh out how to interpret Scripture and then apply Scripture. The rags to God. Christ. It is called the Exchange. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Ye would not have condemned the guiltless. of the day, the Pharisees. I'm preaching in a uh that I would often have a hard time sleeping the night before I preached. for them. Uh it's interesting that that the rules of the Sabbath were were many. He's the Lord of the application of the Word of God, the Lord of the Word applied. Jesus is going to say, I have primary authority over the law. In verse one of Ch Matthew twelve, and it says this At that time Jesus went through the grain fields on the Sabbath, and his disciples were hungry, and began to pluck heads of grain and and And so they're still a little on the cowardice side, probably. It was it was a little bit of a you know, he was dealing with their their posturing of authority here when he says, Have you not read this? Men are holy, and the bread is in effect common, even though it was consecrated in the vessel this day. Somewhat permissible to allow this to be done. being taken from the children of Israel by an everlasting covenant. Yet I say to you that in this place there is one greater than the temple. the uh the disciples for being law uh unlawful. So that it becomes the final, you come to the New Testament and you're like, oh, finally we have victory. In a parallel passage in Mark 2, 27, a parallel passage dealing with the same issue that's dealing with that we're seeing It's this word Hesed. This is a covenantal word, a covenantal kindness, a covenantal mercy, and God is all about this. It's not found in Leviticus. Read for you, and I won't take too much time with this, but I want to really flesh this out enough that you get a good idea of this concept that God has for his people to grasp in the Old Testament. As they looked at Scripture, even though it was everywhere in the Old Testament. In how he delivered Israel out of the hands of Egypt. Not forsaken his kindness in the living to the living and the dead. Amil in Lodabar, the king David sent and brought him to the house of Macr, the son of Emil, from Lodabar of this covenant word. We are trying to perform for God rather than doing what we do for God out of love for him. as a hard person who is going to punish them. And certainly God cannot let sin go unpunished, which is why he gave his own son Jesus to die to wrath, to pay the price for the wrath of God. than self-sacrifice merely to make uh ourselves feel good or feel better. He has shown you, O man, what is good, and what does the Lord require of you, but to do justly And he said to them, What man is there among you who uh has one sheep, and if it falls into a pit on the Sabbath, will not lay hold of it and lift it out? Now the Pharisees came and they apparently knew that Jesus was going to be there. But yet he still he still follows the Sabbath, and actually there was no specific law, I don't think, that says that he must go into the synagogue on the Sabbath, but he still did that. Well, how does this work out? Then he said to them, What man is there among you who has one sheep, and if it falls into a pit on the Sabbath, will not lay hold of it and lift it out? Or God sees this pharaoh, how much more, how much greater is it for you to do it? That was a priority. We must prioritize compassion over sacrifice because God does. Romans 12 says this, I present you therefore by the mercies of God to present your bodies a living sacrifice Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. To what Jesus did in purchasing that kind of covenant love for us on the cross, on our behalf which was not lawful for him to eat, neither for them which were with him, but only for the priest. said remember from last week I said uh uh come unto me all you who labor and are heavy laden and I will give you rest And this entire issue of observing the Sabbath. Testament. The enemy attacked Israel during on the Sabbath day, and they allowed themselves, many of them, to be slaughtered because they would not fight on the Sabbath. You couldn't do what in the rabbinical writings. In other words, I mean you do have teaching about the Sabbath in the Old Testament. But on the way, they're hungry and they pick uh they pick some grain from which is very much allowed. That's important, I think, for us to understand. uh what the re what the rabbinical writings said. And yet the Pharisees had this and were opposing this. What they were really doing was they were equating these rabbinical writings and these rules to the law of God. He deals with them by sort of at by as he often does, he returns with a question Or what I have commanded you, I have directed my young men to such and such a place. Which he had been taken from the from before the Lord in order to put a hot bread in its place on the day when it was taken away. And they shall eat it in its holy place, for it is most holy to him from the offering of the Lord made by fire by perpetual statute. to a second appeal that we find in verses 5 through 6. Well, we'll just pick up in verse 5. And we judge them based on that. Israel constantly falling into idolatry. But he he has something else that he wants to he wants to deal with these people. Verse 7, you'll see this. of the text, and we will then, that has to be our guiding principle as to as to how we understand the text so that we can apply it correctly. word uh in in the old testament in in Hosea 6. To to be mentioned that many times, this is an extremely prominent theme that God wants his people. of my brother from the hand of Esau, for I fear him, lest he come and attack me and the mother with the children. of God. And David found that that um that there was one who was offspring of day of of Jonathan. With what shall I come before the Lord? It's not about feeling good about yourself. Verse 8, he knew their thoughts, and said to the man who had had the withered hand, Arise and stand here. Israel did that in general. or email us at info at bbcofmd. Then said he to the man, Stretch forth thy hand, and he stretched forth stretched it forth, and it was restored whole like the other. And he said unto them, What man shall there be among you that shall have one sheep? What causes restlessness? They were misapplying the truths of Scripture. It's because that door should be locked by now. And the disciples were eating the grain. And so they come to Christ asserting their authority and saying to Christ, why do the disciples do these things, trying to trip him up? So there was a process by which they had to pluck the grain, they had to rub it in their hands, they had to do these different things in order to then Now, what does the law actually say about this? Where they were honored for that, where that was something that was certainly allowed. And then Jesus says this the Son of Man is the Lord of the Sabbath. He's referring to himself. And not man for the Sabbath. So the man was not made. Genesis 32, and we're going to pick up in verse 6. It is it is all uh it's it's like in almost every psalm. Exodus 34, 7 says, Keeping mercy for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin, by no means clearing the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children And by the way, all all of the intention of the Word is to understand the covenant love of God. And we have to be careful about that. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. But we really would love to meet you in person. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. There's a a burden that is in the passage that he is taught that's there and a passage that uh we're gonna be looking at today. as a really as a to deal with a larger issue of the fact that the Pharisees and the nation of Israel as a whole, they weren't applying the word correctly And then that's going to be followed by showing right priorities when applying Scripture. He and those who were with him, how he entered the house of God and ate the sh uh the showbread, which was not lawful for him to eat. But in this case, it's reversed, and they say they go to Christ. Now that is that we you know when they do that, that's on they're on dangerous ground. And number three, since Christ is the authority for the application of Scripture and the interpretation of Scripture. for us today. It begs though for the New Testament. Now, they did have the gospel, by the way, in the Old Testament. You need to understand what this means. And what were they doing? Remember that passage? He summarizes it, Hosea 6. God refers also in the book of Exodus three different times, if not more, three different times to this word. was respectful of the of the traditions and respectful of the Lord's day. And Jesus says, how much more would it be to deal with a person and to heal a person on the Sabbath? He want they want uh to catch him off guard, or they want to catch him, and for all of the people to turn against him. He is restored as the other hand is. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Uh they were they took it very seriously. And all of this will really help us to understand exactly how we are to approach Scripture as well, and understanding that Jesus ultimately So we pick up here, and Jesus is with his disciples here, and they are very likely, what they're doing is they're probably on their way to Before he asserts his authority and says, look, I'm the Lord of the Sabbath. In Leviticus 24, verses 5 through 9, it says, And you shall take fine flour and bake twelve cakes with it. If he violated the law for the sake of expediency, then should we not be able to take a man-made rule and and and violate it if we're hungry. To apply, to interpret the law, and to apply it correctly. In other words, if you look at the Old Testament, you see lots of commands, lots of prohibitions, all kinds of truth. This covenant compassion, when he hears of his brother Esau and he's afraid for his life, he turns to God and he says, Remember this covenant kindness that you have toward me. That God desires to bring loving, kind mercy, a covenantal mercy and love and kindness and compassion to the nation of Israel. Why is it so important that you understand the word right? Our sins were not merely erased. Jesus didn't say Sabbath doesn't matter, Lord's Day doesn't matter, just do what you want on the Lord's Day. But zeal for externals and hatred for spiritual religion, when united, create a narrow bigotry as cruel as it is ridiculous. And later on, uh Pompeii attacked them. And I want us to read through this because I think some of the details of this will help us to understand why Jesus used this passage to deal with the Pharisees here. I wanted to look at some of them and mention some of them and we're going to, but it was really hard to actually for me to choose which one which ones we would look at today because there were so many People to understand that he is a God of compassion, he is a God of kindness, he is a God of mercy. Do not fear, for I will surely show you kindness for Jonathan your father's sake, and I will restore to you the land of Saul, your grandfather, and you shall eat bread at my table continually. I love the new hymn today. Why do we why are we compelled to perform for God rather than do what we do out of love for God? Therefore it is lawful to do good on the Sabbath. This is similar to what it says in another passage in Matthew 10 and Matthew 11, where it says, their synagogues and their cities. But when he goes into the this, they think they're going to catch him. And Jesus goes and he heals them. You must do be a good person for. Think about being late at night, not being able to go to sleep. And in his first appeal, what what he is essentially saying is this, if David actually violated the law on some level They were bloody and and and had to work extremely hard on that one day of the week. But folks, it is very important for us to realize that false accusations of someone often occur when we take on a position of authority that we ought not take. We must very closely follow his teachings and his example to learn how to rightly follow Scripture. the purpose of the command. Everybody there relates to it. That was one of the things the Pharisees did wrongly. And may out of that gratefulness for who God is and what He has done for us in the cross, may we serve out of love for Him. We love him because he first loved us. In doing so, when you do that, Christ declares you righteous by what he did on the cross and dying in your place. It is one of the Ten Commandments. They were extremely meticulous about these things. So what it's saying here is it should be only eaten by the priest because it is a kind of bread that was dedicated as holy bread to the Lord. This is so important, folks, so vital, and I've not something I have not emphasized in the past, but I think it's really important to come to this and realize this Have shown your servant for I crossed over his uh this Jordan with my staff, and now I have come b now I have become two companies. We're following it out of obligation. What was the problem with the Pharisees ultimately? But he said unto them, Have you not read what David did when he was unhungered, and they and they that were with him, how he entered into the house of God and did eat the showbread Now we see those things and but Jesus does not stop there. They hey, you don't understand what you're talking about. If we are to interpret the Word of God correctly, we must understand the divine intention, the purpose of the text. Israel and led by these religious leaders, they were searching the scriptures because they thought that they had eternal life, and certainly they do, but they revealed Jesus and they would not accept Jesus as the one If we're not careful, sometimes we're more like the Far scribes and Pharisees than we are of Jesus, where we interpret Scripture and it is stringent in the sense that we are following it out of guilt. Jude said, keep yourself in the love of God. the synagogue and taught. A legalistic approach to the text leads to unreasonable demands on people. And when the Pharisees saw it, they said to him, Look, your disciples are doing what is not lawful to do on the Sabbath. They're on their way to practice uh to to assemble together during on on that on that uh Sabbath day. And he said, If Esau comes to the one company and attacks it, then the other company which is left will escape. We move ahead and we see in the book of Ruth and there's many, many places in between, but the in the book of Ruth, do you remember Ruth And also they're watching him to see if they're gonna he's gonna heal. But when the Pharisees saw it, they said unto him, Behold, thy disciples do that which is not lawful to do upon the Sabbath day. Let me ask you a question. And in this question he says, but but he said to them, have you not read that what David did when he was hungry? There's several things we can learn from this. We will think judgmentally of people that didn't violate a actual command of Scripture. And we see leader after leader after leader that fail and fall and falter. A legalistic approach to the text leads to unreasonable demands on people. Have you gotten caught up over those things? And the Pharisees said that was preparing food. Jesus is not saying, well, the Sabbath law doesn't matter. He points out the importance of m the meaning of the understanding of scripture. Who was uh and they said they were not willing to come to me. So what does Jesus say here? But not only did Jesus show the importance of right understanding, but now they're going to see the example of right application. Who is folks, who is the accuser of the brethren? This law that they had made up, they had turned what should have been a day of rest and worship into a day of burden. Brothers and sisters in Christ, have you gotten caught up into serving out of guilt or serving out of make feeling better about yourself because you serve? May we return. And now Christ comes, and we need to pay very careful attention to the New Testament to understand how to apply the Old Testament correctly. Keep yourselves in the love of God, looking for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ unto eternal life. Jesus understood right priorities. You've never really understood Jesus and his great love for you. It says, uh, but if you had known what it means. Naomi said to her, This man is a relation of ours who is who one of our close relatives. He did good on the Lord's Day. We have to be very careful about this. Then and only then are your sins forgiven, and then you you live for Him and grow in Him out of love for what He's done for you. Have you read that? This is this has been quoted before. And the messengers returned to Jacob, saying, He came to your brother Esau, and also and he also is coming to meet you, and 400 men with him. For you said, I will surely treat you well and make your descendants as the sand of the sea, which cannot be numbered. We interpret scripture correctly because it is critical for applying the text accurately. Because they think they are in the right here. Why do we love him? Even in the Old Testament, God was far more concerned about doing good from the heart of compassion. Why? He says to God, he reminds God, look, would you deliver me and protect me based upon your covenant love and mercy and kindness that you have with me. David uh made a covenant with uh with Jonathan. May we know what it means that you desire mercy rather than sacrifice. And folks, that is that is very dangerous to do. And isn't it true that you and I need to go and learn what this means? Number four, we sh uh what do we seek to serve out of compassion rather than sacrifice? But I say unto you that in this place is one greater than the temple. We have the church that did that was doing in the book of Acts what Israel never was able to do. Because they forgot the very purpose why God instituted the Sabbath. Now, I'm not saying Leviticus is not the word of God. Um and Ruth uh uh two twenty says this Naomi said to her daughter in law, Blessed be he of the Lord who has It says, Or have you not read in the law that the Sabbath, the priests in the temple profane the Sabbath and are blameless? That is the kind of kindness and just s just some illustrations in the Old Testament. You'll see this different ways. But in the early days uh I did. So what does Jesus say about this? Yet I say to you that in this place there is one greater than the temple. You in your mercy, it's that word. When he gets around the people and the set and the Pharisees come, Jesus knows what's in their thought. Because he says finally, he says, I'm going to tell you right now, I'm the Lord of the Sabbath, and it's good to do good on the Sabbath. And all of those two hundred and forty-four five times that's mentioned in the Old Testament leads us up to the They were turning it on its head and making it a day of burden. And so Jesus says, stretch out your hand. We thank you for its wonderful truth, and we are so grateful for the compassion, the covenant mercy of Christ. Alright. And there's been certain things that have not happened recently with you men that it it is What were the Pharisees missing? Now that's ironic because that never happens. You'll recall that Esau earlier wanted to kill him, and Jacob had to leave, had to get out of there. So they're watching him. So the Pharisees, this is like the best way to catch him doing something that they thought surely all of the people would absolutely turn against Jesus. They were heavy laden by the burden of so many things. If the young men have at least kept themselves from women. The Old Testament is the Word of God, and it is there for very important reasons. Look at the reply of Jesus. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible And unfortunately sometimes Christians do the same thing. You're loved by God. At that time Jesus went on the Sabbath day through the corn, and his disciples were in hunger, and began to pluck the ears of corn and to eat Folks, we need to be very, very careful about doing such a thing. It's such a word that you can't it really cannot be contained by just one word. Did you catch what it said? It was sort of a I I guess I would say it this way, a bit of a gray area. And that is, and then he says, I am, he's saying the Son of Man, he referred to himself a lot that way, is Lord of the Sabbath. I'm not saying that. To love mercy. And he's actually going to do something on the Sabbath. It's an agrarian society, farming society, everybody's got animals, they understand, everybody relates to this. You must be declared righteous by God. Now I'm not talking about clear, verifiable, sinful trespasses that are unrepentant. And now he says, but if you had known what this means, I desire mercy and not sacrifice And bow myself before the high God. If it's not something physical, if it's not something you know actually physiological, what what causes restlessness? So so the whole point of what Jesus, what we're see here then is that Jesus shows that he is the Lord of the Word applied. Now, when the disciples are eating this, it says in the text that they're hungry, the Luke, uh Luke chapter 6 is a parallel passage. He was saying there is somebody here that's greater than Number one, we must be careful about equating man-made moral standards with commands from school. It's also not found in Joshua. And since we have the explanation by Jesus Himself and then His apostles who pen these things down. 6. Because now Jesus is going to be coming into uh into the temple, into the uh into the place uh into the synagogue rather. You don't understand the old the scripture. The Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath. Hesed. And there was a servant of the house of Saul whose name was Zeba. Well actually what I'd like you to do is take your Bibles to First Samuel chapter twelve, for or twenty-one. And a man was there whose right hand was withered. Yet I say to you that in this place there is one greater than the temple. What causes restlessness? So we're first going to see that he asserted himself as the primary authority over the law. You'll actually see this in other religions. The Sabbath, what's the problem? I desire mercy and not sacrifice and knowledge of God more than burnt offerings, but that is a summary of a of a whole intention That's not why you ought to serve God. It says they said nothing. Now that is important for us to understand when we come into the mentality of Israel as we look at this passage. Plucking grain and doing a little bit with the grain in order to be able to eat the grain is is hardly work. That is always a very dangerous place to be. Jesus though, even despite I mean there's nothing that Jesus could learn from them at all, of course. May we live our lives in serving him. For the Son of Man is Lord even on the Sabbath day. How much then is a man better than a sheep? In fact, prior to the New Testament during the time of the Maccabees um We must be careful about sometimes we elevate man made moral standards to what scripture Because he first loved us. Uh and if you did them you would be violating the Sabbath. If I can get a deacon to Oh, okay. And it shall be for Aaron and his sons. He's going to show that he is the Lord of the Word applied by establishing the importance of understanding Scripture correctly. Therefore, the Son of Man is also Lord of the Sabbath. Because you're going to apply the word wrong if you don't. And the Jewish people were very, very religious about keeping the Sabbath. Why? That means that Jesus has cited this twice in a couple of different you know in a within a short period of time to the Pharisees because they're not getting it Our sins were paid for by Christ And then we're going to see that he establishes the importance of the understanding of the scriptures. But the other reason I think perhaps is they are taking Christ head on here I mean they're really convinced that they ha they are an authority on the Sabbath and that they've got the upper hand here with Christ Shall I give my firstborn for my transgression, the fruit of my body for the sin of my soul? Okay. The Old Testament is the gospel concealed. We see Abraham was justified by faith. That kindness is that covenant faithfulness, that covenant kindness and love and mercy and May we anew be refreshed in the compassion and the kindness and the mercy and the love of God We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Therefore, it is lawful to do good on the Lord's Day. They were misapplying the commands of Scripture. And I think there's probably two reasons for that. So for for Jesus to say, have you not read, was a a And they asked him, saying, Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath days that they might accuse him? He's saying to them, essentially, not in the first person, but he's saying to them, I do have the authority. When does it happen? And it's really in verse seven that he deals with these Pharisees on as we pick up Well, what he says that he quotes Hosea 6. So the king said to him, Where is he? That our sins were not merely erased. Then he said to the man, Stretch out your hand, and he stretched it out, and it was restored as the whole as whole as the other The Luke passage is interesting. Genesis 32. He erected earthworks and uh la and laid siege to Jerusalem and then went and attacked them on the Sabbath, according to Joseph Joseph They plucked the heads of the grain, the text says. It is, but if you take the whole counsel of God, which is so important to do, you see this in almost every book of the Old Testament Deuteronomy seven nine says this therefore know that the Lord your God It becomes heavy to us. They were isolating certain things in the Sabbath, but they were not looking at the whole mind of God, or the, for that matter, the whole heart of God on all of this. And frankly, they just said to Jesus, why are they doing something that's unlawful? That's really the the argument that Jesus is making here. And we will always go wrong when we misinterpret the purpose. 6. It's mentioned 245 times in the Old Testament. You've got it as a one of the Ten Commandments, but to in proportion to the amount of rules that were associated with the Sabbath in the rabbinical writings, it was Because it's begging for something that is missing. And the priest answered David and said, There is no common bread on hand. How do you explain this? He taught first. I think this is such practical wisdom here. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. I I I rarely got much sleep the night before I preached. Jesus says, well, in this particular case, David, the men were hungry, and they ate of this bread. Why were they not interpreting things correctly? Why? And this time he is moving over to the issue of the priesthood, the Old Testament again. I'm not sure about why that is, but it's but it's not found in uh in Leviticus at all. There's our word. Now he has made f similar arguments in other pla places about this comparison of animals. They had a wrong view of God. Have you lost have you left your first love? org. Exodus 25, 30 says, And you shall eat the showbread of the table before me always, talking about the priests particularly When when do false accusations occur? He is telling these Pharisees they don't understand Scripture. So in concluding all of this, what are some things that we can in our final concluding application They go to Christ. And Jesus says, well what do you what do you think about that? I need to make sure I really understand what Jesus is saying here. You ought to serve God because you love him. He doesn't just say, okay, well I'm the authority. And these are they which testify of me. And why don't we love him? And that was one of the thirty-nine kinds of work forbidden on the Sabbath. You need to understand what this means. This is this word has said. I usually have have more to say than I have time to say it in. Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath? So so verse five now is dealing with a particular Sabb Sabbath Sabbath exception. Exodus twenty verse six says, But showing mercy to thousands, to those who love me and keep my commandment Or have you not read that the law uh uh that on the Sabbath the priests He's going to refer to the Word of God, the Old Testament. When the accuser often sets himself up as an authority beyond what he ought to It's the word mercy in the New Testament. And then of course we know from the Matthew passage that they ask the question of him, is it lawful? And if you don't know Christ, perhaps you're here today and you don't really know the Lord as your Savior. May the Lord richly bless you. You can never be a good person for God. Because there's some burden that you have. Why did God institute the Sabbath? And the Pharisees need to go and learn what this means, and you and I need to be reminded of what this means. That's what he's going to do. They will sell set themselves up in authority and they will accuse the brethren of things It's translated sometimes loving-kindness there in Psalms. No, he didn't say that. So it says who it shall be for. He's not saying that the law of God doesn't matter. The Sabbath was what? We're just going to look at a couple of samplings of this word. In Exodus 15, verse 13, it says, You in your mercy have led forth the people whom you have redeemed. Shall I come before him with burnt offerings, with calves a year old? He asked this question. Now the Pharisees were probably very, very much convinced that they uh that they had him dead to rights here. One is it wasn't Christ that was picking grain, it was the disciples. Satan is. You can't feel any better about yourself than when you realize that you're in a covenant-loving relationship with God. This flushes out. It is always on dangerous ground to elevate a man-made rule or a man-made decree Luke six, verse six, it says this. He's basically saying to the Pharisees. I'm not at all saying that. And Ziba said to the king, Indeed he is the house of Macker, the son of Now therefore, what have you on hand? The priority of healing someone on the Sabbath Now in the past, we've seen that the Pharisees do not like going directly to Christ. Genesis chapter 32, verse 6, we pick up Jacob is appealing to this, this covenant kindness. You remember that? Let's pray together. Of course, the Sabbath was, is a one of the commandments in the old I would just be restless because there would be sort of this pressure the next day. That was enough to call it preparing food, and you weren't allowed by the by the rabbinical You'll see this uh uh uh uh where they elevate something uh up to the same level as God. And the issue there To love mercy and to walk humbly with your God. Well, how is he going to show this? And when then we will attempt to try to come we will try to condemn There is the word, the kindness of God. It becomes, we are burdened and heavy laden with it. And certainly God is a just God. You have seen Jesus, you've seen God as one whom you must appease. Alright, sorry, that threw me a little bit, so I apologize. Why? And he ha and he quotes Hosea 6. They had missed the, they had they had not misinterpreted the intent. So so the the m these men were extremely hungry. Verse six, so the priest gave him holy bread, for there was no bread there but the the show bread Micah 6 verses 6 through 8 says this. It's interesting that it says he went into their synagogue. He stands, stretches out his hand, and he is healed. And if it is fall into a pit on the Sabbath day We pick up in verse 9, it says this now when he had departed from there Charles Spurgeon said this. Jesus said, Come unto me all your labor and heavy laden. There were thirty-nine different activities that you They worked extremely hard on the Sabbath. Because we do not realize his love for us. So the scribes and Pharisees watched him closely whether he would heal on the Sabbath. Wherefore it is lawful to do well on the Sabbath days Because you have the gospel. And how do you know that? And so he says to all the people, which of you has an animal stuck and won't take care of it on the Sabbath? Like they had nothing to say to that. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. But if ye had known what this meaneth, I will have mercy and not sacrifice First he establishes himself as the authority, then he moves on to under to First he said, have you ever read have you read this? I'd like you to take your Bibles for just a few moments and turn to Genesis 32. He talked about the interpretation of the law, how he's He understood, here's what he was First, he he When some when does somebody accuse because we have a false accusation here against the And he divided the people that were with him and the flocks and the herds and the camels in What can we learn from this? Okay, Jesus still was respectful of the Lord's day. He's teaching. What he said was it is good to do good on the Lord You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. So there was the priest is basically saying there is a commonality to the bread now, even though I am not worthy to be the least uh w not worthy of the least of all the mercies of all the truth which you have The key to understanding the word is to understand the intention of the word in the passage. Folks, that's what it gets into Why? It shall be for Aaron and his sons. The covenant love of God does not dis That they might accuse him. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this But it is clearly laid out in the New Testament Made for man. Sometimes it's translated compassion. Because sometimes if we're not careful, we're rather pharisaical. So when he had called him to David, the king said to him, Are you Zeba? Mercy by itself doesn't really do it justice. The text says that. We hope to see you soon We're going to see it three different ways. And that's where these Pharisees were, where they said that they were breaking the law of God. And we see Finally we have resurrection. It's Jesus. A covenant that he would he would show grace and show favor to his offspring. And the reason that they were misapplying the truths and the commands of Scripture He's implying, Pharisees, you don't have the authority. They violated a commonly held application of a command. And he arose and stood. And one one uh Satan sets himself up as an authority We have Matthew 18 coming up here that's going to deal with And it says in 2 Samuel 9, verse 1, and David said, Is there still anyone who is left of the house of Saul that I may show? And the way you do that is by accepting what Christ did on the cross by faith. Or have ye not read in the law how that on the Sabbath day the priest in the temple profaned the Sabbath Like, yeah, I take it, uh yeah, I gotta deal with my animal on the sap. And of course, as you saw in the text, the prop the Pharisees saw it, and they And he's going to refer to two different examples in the Old Testament What's missing? 6, and this isn't the first time he's quoting Hosea. Because we're trying to we get into this, I want to appease my guilt, I want to feel better about myself, I want to He coming he cut he comes in. That was how religious they were, how strict they were with keeping the Sabbath. Verse 1 And yet they weren't condemned for that. It was a burden for everyone to make sure they were keeping all of the various commandments within. David in dealing with Mephibosheth uses this word. Then David said, Mephibosheth, and he answered, Here is your servant. Remember from last week, Christ has There's some responsibility. And the New Testament is the gospel revealed. As a day of rest. And Jesus is saying to the Pharisees, you need to go and understand what this means. Because he first loved you. And when he looked around at them all, he said to a man, stretch out your hand and And in number four, and absolutely most importantly. It's reasonable. Two-tenths of an ephah shall be 6, which we're going to look at in just a moment. The entire culture of Israel took the Sabbath extremely seriously, stringently, and strictly. That was something that was normal, that was allowed to be done, so they pick some grain Every Sabbath he shall set it in order before the Lord continually What do you do with this? They had forgotten the very intention of the Sabbath. It's all it's everywhere. Then Jacob said, O God of my father Abraham, and God of my father Isaac And when he was departed thence, he went into their synagogue And and it all seems to be very concrete and tangible. Now his second appeal, oh for what one one important Remember what Jesus said before? They viewed God as one who was stringent and strict. Number three. He knows what's in their thinking They were saying that they were the same. He is saying that I have the authority He said, one wonders what that anybody ever thought otherwise But that's not the only argument that he makes. Some of them I'd like you to actually turn to, and others I will just I I almost well anyway. This morning we're reading from Matthew chapter twelve, verses one through thirteen. It was because they were not understanding the actual intention. This is an example of That's good theology, by the way. It adds a little bit to it to help us on it, it flushes it out a little bit. I'm the Lord of the Sabbath and he moves But you are not willing to come to me, that you may have life Jude twenty-one says, Now who was Jesus referring to? Number one, misunderstanding of the Word leads to misapplication of the Word. Failure to do so will lead to all kinds of wrong behavior. Father, we come to you this morning. And we pick up And Ziba said to the king, By the way, that was insulting just as a hair It's the gospel, it's Christ that is presented clearly in the New Testament. So I took some time and I looked up this word mercy. They had to sacrifice animals, and that's no easy Because the Bible says all of your righteousnesses and all my righteousnesses are as filth First, we're going to see by asserting primary authority over the law. Then Jesus said to them, I will ask you one thing: Is it lawful for the Sabbath to do to do good? He appeals to their sensibilities. Also, false accusations often occur when Finally we have the gospel. I'm sure that was very insulting to the Pharisees. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. And he said to them, Have you not read what David did when he was hungry? So it's so I wake up and I'm going, oh yeah, that's like that. So now he Now, if you've done word studies, you know that that is a lot. Sometimes in the Old Testament it's translated kindness, but it's all the same word. Will the Lord be I still, to this day, uh some I've I have a reoccurring Come to me, all you who labor in heavy laden, and I will give you rest. He's teaching It is a reasonable response Maybe there's a pressure that's on you. What what book of the Bible do you think the Pharisees and Scribes were partaking A lot of times restlessness is caused by burden. I remember you know when I was younger I I don't have a problem anymore with that I um for the most part. Now, what do we what do we gain from Now this was not in Scripture. They were not seeing the heart of God He says, look, you'll do this for animals. Number two, we interpret Scripture correctly because it is critical for applying the text. How do you deal with this? You've got to add kindness and compassion. He's going to be coming into the synagogue on the Sabbath, the next Sabbath, one of the We have Christ They'll go to the disciples and say, why is Jesus doing such and such? Doesn't matter if it's apparent or not, I gotta they're caught in something, I gotta deal with it. They were actually, it was a clear exception Maybe you think you're a Christian. But so so there is a sort of restlessness and even Obviously they had read that. It seemed to have been obvious by the priests that they needed food badly because they He m moves on Did you notice what skip word what uh book I skipped? Deliver me, I pray, from the hand Of how much more value than is a man than a sheep? And we pray that This became a weakness So this according to I think it's the Luke passage And he said, At your service. When we go to the Old Testament and we read Pharisees, go learn what this means. Maybe there's some So you have so what Jesus is doing is he's taking the issue He says Now it happened on another Sabbath also they entered So David said to him He Jesus What is Jesus? And what you find in the text in 1 Samuel Maybe it's a decree from a leader or You have guided them in your strength. So David said to Ahimelech the priest, That was their hope. And the king Pick up in verse 11 there. This was simply what Now Um