Good morning. We will be in Romans chapter eight, seventeen through twenty-five this morning. But before we do, let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning with grateful and thankful. Hearts. Father, we praise you for who you are. You are the one true living God, the creator and sustainer of all life. You are Almighty, all-wise, and all-knowing. And Father, we are grateful this morning that in your greatness and in your love, you sent your only begotten Son, Jesus To come and take on the sin of the world in our place and sacrifice his own life in our place that we may have salvation through him. and trusting and believing in him. And Father, I pray this morning as we come to the time that we sit under your word That you would help us to set aside all the cares and all the thoughts that we've had this day and help us to concentrate fully upon your word this morning May you open our eyes and our ears to hear and see what you have for us this morning. And I pray that as we hear your word, Father And as we see the truth being presented, that Father, we will be changed more and more into your image as we meditate upon what we learn and apply it to our lives. And Lord, we thank you from the bottom of our heart. In Jesus' name. Amen. So we are in Romans chapter 8, and we are looking at verse 17 through 25. And he says, if children then heirs, heirs of God, and joint heirs with Christ, if indeed we suffer with him, that we may also be glorified together For I consider that the suffering of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which we shall, which shall be revealed in us. For the earnest expectation of the creation eagerly waits for the revealing of the sons of God For the creation was subjected to fertility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it in hope Because the creation itself also will be delivered from the bondage of corruption into the glorious liberty of the children of God. For we know that the whole creation groans and labors with birth pangs together until now. Not only that But we also who have the first fruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves groan within ourselves, eagerly awaiting for the adoption, for the Redemption of our body. For we were saved in this hope. But hope that is seen is not hope For why does one still hope for what he sees? But if we hope for what we do not see, we eagerly wait for it with perseverance. Fact is that people naturally pursue glory. We want to have an impact. We want to have a legacy. We desire to achieve and excel and to do our There seems to be actually in us this realization that we are void of a particular glory that perhaps we should have. People naturally pursue glory. I think Perhaps a good illustration of this is this modern illustration is this idea that people want to be a social media influencer as their career. Oh, I guess I'm not on. Um apparently I don't want to be an influencer. Okay. Um and so uh apparently people um peop you know you You've got this desire as a career to be a social media influencer, to have a YouTube page and make millions of dollars and influence the whole world and leave a legacy that way. The fact is, we are born for glory. We're born to bring gl God glory. And salvation, as we have been learning through the book of Romans, is ultimately for us to be able to be restored to a place where we are able to glorify God. And what we're going to see in this passage is that salvation ultimately is going to drive us to a place of ultimate perfection, not a perfection that will occur this side of heaven, but when we see him, the Bible says we will be like him, for we will see him as He is. Lloyd Jones says it this way, that salvation cannot stop before perfection, or it is not salvation. And we're going to see that in this passage. If you'll notice from last week We saw in Romans chapter 8 verse 14 it says, For as many as are led by the Spirit, these are the sons of God. For you did not receive the spirit of bondage again to fear, but you received the spirit of adoption by whom we cry out, Abba, Father. The Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are the children of God. So it tells us the Spirit of God gives us this assurance of knowing That we are, if we know Christ our Savior, that we are truly a child of God, the spirit of adoption. And the spirit of adoption shows us that we are truly, we've truly been adopted into the family of God, and embedded in this concept of adoption is the idea of future inheritance. We noted last week that as a Roman citizen, if you were to adopt someone, that particular person that you adopted would automatically have a right to your inheritance. And as children of God, we automatically have a right to the inheritance that God gives us and God has promised us. That is an aspect of our hope. We don't just hope in some sort of nebulous way. There is clear, specific detailed promises that we have that give us the hope as the uh give us hope as the believer. And actually when the Spirit of God as a Christian comes comes in comes to indwell us as a Christian and actually seal us as a Christian, we find in Romans chapter 8 verse 23, which is in our passage. You can look down there, it says, not only that, but we also have the first fruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves grown within ourselves. eagerly waiting for the adoption, the redemption of our body. So that those of us who know Christ as our Savior, we are a child of God And yet, and there are certain things that have clearly established we are declared righteous by God, we have a relationship with God, we have access to God. We have peace with God, like we've seen in Romans chapter 5, but we also have this future promise of a hope that is not yet seen. We are living in the already And also the not yet at the same time. And so as we live in the already and not yet, how then should we live? And God desires, and as we're going to see in this passage, that the hope of future glory Should motivate us to faithfully persevere. The idea of hope in this passage is going to be this joyful anticipation. of being able to to to to uh fulfill to see fulfill the promises of God And that anticipation should propel us and motivate us to persevere in this life. And to please God and to serve him as he is making us what he wants us to be in ultimately being able to purely and perfectly glorify him. This is a very trite example of illustration, but it'll kind of help us a little bit. Some of you, some of the kids here going in teenagers or in school. Or college students. I'm talking my my daughter is calling me every day now. Every day she calls me for about thirty seconds. Um and uh I guess she just wants to hear my wonderful voice. No, she she she's found a a spot where she walks from work to lunch and she calls me during that time and uh and we talk for just a minute And she is ready to come home. She is homesick. She is looking forward to the days where she can come home. And some of you, kids, are you looking forward to Thanksgiving break? How many of you are looking forward to Thanksgiving break? Where do you get a few days off? So sometimes when you're looking ahead to Thanksgiving break or Christmas break or I know spring people looking for ahead to summer vacation It's like if I can I know I can just get through these next few weeks and then I'll have a break. This anticipation of what is to come motivates me to get through what I have to do in the meantime. That's a very, very trivial example to what we have here. But there is a sense in which the hope of the future glory that we have should motivate us to be able to persevere and to serve God in the way that he wants us to. How? How is that to take place? We're going to see. three phases as this passage works works works its way through. First we're going to see a comparison, a very important comparison. That comparison is the comparison of the present suffering to our future inheritance As a Christian, sometimes people come to Christ and they think that everything's going to be better for the rest of their lives. There's going to be no problems. Everything is just going to all work out. And those of us who are Christians who are for any length of time know that there that that's not the case. That there is great suffering, great problems. We still live in a corrupt world, we still have the sin nature, we still have all these problems. And there is certainly suffering for the Christian, but we need to compare it, we're going to see in this passage, compare it to a future inheritance. Then we're actually going to see how is it that we live in the already and not yet? Then we're actually going to see frustration. We are going to, we need to realize that in light of future glory, where God sets everything right, where everything is perfect, We live in present futility. And that causes us, as we're going to see in the passage, to groan There is a frustration in this life. What we want to be and what will be is not yet And so we groan. There's this frustration. But ultimately, we ought to live in eager anticipation. Eagerly waiting for the unseen glory. So Paul begins with, we've got to get this right. How are we supposed to How are we supposed to frame the suffering in this life that we go through? We frame it in light of future inheritance. But it is still frustrating in this life. All of us have experienced this past week frustrations. I I I would I dare say that at some point this past week Maybe every day this past week, maybe every minute this week, you've experienced some kind of frustration in your life that makes you realize you're not in heaven. And sometimes what we are trying to do with the frustration that we feel is to make heaven on earth. And that's not what God wants us to do. You will never make heaven on earth. It's not possible. There's only one person that can make heaven on earth, and that's Jesus. And you're not Him. So there's frustration. But then second, but then thirdly, there's this eager anticipation. So let's work through this first of all, understanding the comparison of the present suffering and the future inheritance. And we pick up in verse 17 Which is kind of a hinge verse from last week. We we saw it a little bit, and it really moves us into this idea of present adoption, into the future aspect of adoption, which is our future inheritance. And we see it says, if we are children, then we are also, we're heirs. We're heirs of God, it says. Well, what does heirs of God include? When it says that we are heirs to an inheritance, what is this inheritance talking about? Now, I I can't spend a lot of time on this. But I want to give us a little bit of a flavor of what it's going to be like just by a few things that Scripture says. Actually, Scripture says quite a bit about this inheritance, both in the Old Testament and in the New Testament and in the book of Revelation. We see it all the way through. But the reason I think it's so important for me just to mention a few things is because can I be honest with you? Yeah, we prefer you be honest with us. I don't like uh it doesn't thrill me that I've got a mansion on a hillside just over that land. that doesn't grow old and I won't grow old. Like like the song I got a mansion just over the hillside in that bright land where we'll never grow old. I I just think of it and I go Okay, it'll be nice not to grow old, but I mean like like is that all I gotta look forward to, this mansion on the hillside where we're walking the streets of gold? I mean I I maybe that I'm the only one that's fine with asphalt. I mean uh I I mean I I I I I'm good with that. Now now I don't wanna I I don't want to be overly uh you know, scripture talks about the street of gold and it's going to and it's expressing the beauty in ro in Revelation 21. And and Revelation 22. So there heaven's going to be beautiful, and I don't want to diminish that at all, and it's going to be way better than than than the earth that we live in now. But I want us just to think of a few things that inheritance is going to include. It's going to include the kingdom, Matthew 25, 34 says. then the king will say to those on his right hand, Come, you blessed of my father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. The Bible actually says on many occasions, I was surprised at how many times it says, that we will inherit the earth. Psalm 37 verse 11 says, But the meek shall inherit the earth. But here's the part that I really like, and shall delight themselves in the abundance of peace. That we are the inheritance that we have will be able to enjoy and to delight in the abundance of peace. Or Isaiah 61, 7, that just says it this way, instead of your shame you shall be you shall have double honor, and instead of confusion, they shall rejoice in their portion. Therefore in their land they will possess double everlasting joy shall be theirs. That's our inheritance. Abundant peace, everlasting joy. Fulfillment, meaning, purpose. We will be completely. . There will be no void in us There will be nothing in us that wants more. We will be completely and utterly joyfully content in the abundance of peace. And that's just a little bit of the inheritance that we will enjoy. And God desires for us to look forward to that. Well, how do we get this inheritance? Actually, we get it because we are joint heirs with Christ. We're joint heirs with him Hebrews chapter 1 verse 2 says, has in these last days spoken to us by his Son whom he has appointed heir of all things. So it's actually Christ who is the heir of all things. It's all going to be Christ. He's going to own it all And yet, because we are in Christ, we are joint heirs with him. Ephesians, I think, maybe explains this the best. In Ephesians chapter 1, verse 3, it says, Blessed be the God and Father of the Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual bl blessing in heavenly places in Christ, later on verse 11, Ephesians 1, in Him also we have obtained an inheritance being predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things in the counsel of his will. So we've obtained an inheritance. And it's interesting that later on in Ephesians chapter 3 verses 6 We have this idea of inheritance again, where it says the Gentiles should be fellow heirs of the same body and partakers of his promise in Christ through the gospel. So that those who know Christ are in Christ and therefore are partakers of all of the glories of the inheritance of the future, of heaven and a new heaven, and a new earth, as we see in Revelation 21, and the joy and the peace and the fulfillment of the purpose with which we are created, perfect peace with God, perfect fellowship with God, no sin, no problems, no sorrow, no suffering. That's the inheritance that we have as a Christian. Later, then it says, if indeed we suffer, actually you could translate this since indeed we suffer, for those of you Greek people out there, it's a first-class condition. It's a since Since indeed we suffer with him, it says, that we may also be glorified together with him. This is what we have in Christ. There is a real sense in which, as it's going to say later on in the passage, we are saved in We're saved, yes, to realize certain things about our current relationship with God, but there is so much more that we are looking forward to in the next life. 1 Peter 5 verse 10 says it this way, but may the God of all grace who called us to his eternal glory by Christ Jesus after you have suffered a while perfect, established. strengthen and settle you. Now Paul goes on in verse 18 here to explain this. He says, for I consider or I calculate That the suffering of this present time is not worthy to be compared with the glory that shall be revealed in us, this idea of sufferings calculated in comparison with the glory that we have. And here's what he says. He says there's no comparison. That compared to the sufferings that we have now, the glory that we have in the future is incomprehensibly greater Romans chapter 4, verse 3 uses the word account. So does 4 22, account. He's literally saying, look, we need to make a calculation. When you go through sufferings in this life, make the calculation that the severity of the suffering that you are going through is proportionally incomparable to the glory. That will be revealed in us. Now that's interesting, isn't it? Because it actually says the glory that will be revealed where Did you catch that? I mean, so far I talked about heaven and joy and all that, but it actually says the glory that shall be revealed in us. Why does he say that? Because there is an indication in this passage, and it's really fleshed out very clearly in many other passages. that the suffering that we go through now actually works out and produces glory in us. Would you look down at Romans 8 verse 28 for a minute, and you're going to see this. He says, For I know that the things That all things work together for good to those who love God, to those who are called according to purpose. We know that verse. Folks, you cannot separate that from verse 29. For whom he did foreknow, or for whom he foreknew, he also predestined to be what? Conformed to the image of his son, that he might be for the fur be the f firstborn among many brethren. Moreover, whom he predestined, these he also called, and whom he called, these he also glor justified, and whom he justified, these he also what? Glorified. See, what God is saying here is that He works in us through His through the sufferings that we go through, He is working in us A means to coming to a place where we are like Christ. We can then participate in the glory in us. See, the fact is suffering is a reality of a Christian. There's no way around it. You will go through suffering. It's funny, it's interesting that the non-Christian goes through suffering as well. I mean, there's no question about it. We live in a fallen world, and the non-Christian does as well. But as Christians, there is a sense in which it may even be, in some cases, more severe. Because we are a Christian, tell that to the health and wealth folks. And God is choosing. And here's the thing. So you may be saying to yourself, I don't know why God's going through the, why I'm going through the suffering I'm going through. I imagine there are some people even in this room who say, why am I going through the suffering that I'm going through? Now, although there are things that we go through and we don't exactly know how God is going to use it, that's fair, right? Here's what we always know for the Christian, always, every time, every situation, always, that God will always Take the sufferings of our lives and use it in such a way that it causes us to be more like Christ. Many, many people over the years have come to me and said, hey, I I'm going through this suffering and I can't figure out why. And if they're a Christian, I will immediately tell them I know why. Like that's not what you tell them. suffering. I usually say, well the Bible says why. Let me show you this. Now the now it what's what's often a mystery is how God is going to use the sufferings to make us like Christ. There's a mystery there sometimes. But we need to understand the baseline for the things that we go through, the suffering that we go through, is that God will. He will use it for to conform you to the image of his son, if you are truly a Christian. Uh I was uh in my uh uh m my house I've got m my dad must most of you know worked did wordworking. And he did some pretty intricate stuff. If you go into my workshop, it's now mine, I inherit it from my dad, go into my workshop and there are all kinds of tools. There's carving tools, there's whittling tools, there's coping saws, there's sanding tools, all of all of which are used to make wood into something. He would he actually I found all these little carvings he made that were chess pieces, pretty intricate stuff. He he literally made from scratch a mandolin And he used all of these different tools to do it. Do you know what God's tool is? To whittle you into being Christ-like? Suffering. That's what God's tool is. I look, we need to understand that. We need to establish that. We need to be clear about that. We need to know that We need to not allow suffering to tend send us into a tailspin that we don't know what God's doing. Yes, we do know what God's doing. Now, there's still a mystery and I'll be number I'll be first to to express that mystery. We don't know how God's using that tool. You ever seen a painter um like um Bob Rossell do this? Um And he'll paint me painting, I haven't seen him in a long time, but he'll paint something, he'll have this beautiful painting, and he'll go right through the middle of it. And you'll be like, what did he do that for? Why on the world would he mess that beautiful painting up with a thing that went just straight? And by the end you're like, oh, that's why he did that. There's sometimes in our suffering, that's what God's doing. Right through the suffering, and we don't know why he's doing it. We know we know from this passage, all things work together for good to them that love God, to them that are called the cross. So that we will one day be glorified. 2 Corinthians says it so well. 2 Corinthians chapter 4, verses 16 through 18. It's actually become one of my favorite favorite passages in the entire Bible. It says, therefore we do not lose heart. That's what God does not want us to do. Therefore, we do not lose heart, even though our outward man is perishing. Yet the inward man is being renewed day by day for our light affliction. which is but for a moment, is working for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory While we do not look on the things which are seen, but the things which are not seen. Did you catch that? The focus of the Christian's life are on the things that are not seen, not on the things that are seen. For the things which are seen are temporary. And by the way, aren't you glad about that? The things that are seen are temporary. Your suffering is temporary. The world in its corruption, your own heart in its corruption, the sin nature that you have now, it's all temporary. But the things which are not seen, what are they? They're eternal. See, that gives us hope There are times in our lives where we get into it situations where we where the things that are seen are seen to be unbearable. But they've got to be viewed in light of the glory that will be revealed in us. So, folks, this is what's amazing about the Christian life It brings such meaning to suffering. We were discussing on Wednesday night different world religions. Buddhism and Hinduism and their view of suffering or how they deal with suffering. And almost no other religion that I know of actually attributes meaning to suffering. There's methods on how to avoid suffering or imagine that suffering is not there or it's just a construct of your mind or all those different kinds of things. But the idea that actually no, it's here and it's not going anywhere At least for the time being, it's temporary, but it's right here, right now. But that there is great meaning in suffering is something that is unique to the Christian faith Now, once we have established that, that our suffering is actually light and compared to glory, and our suffering is a tool with which God uses us to prepare us for glory. We then move to frustration. Doesn't seem right. The Bible actually talks about frustration? Yeah. Not frustration in the sense that you are going against what God says or you're discontent with what God has allowed. But notice what it says in the text, for the earnest expectation of the creation. Now it moves its attention now from just us to all of creation. And it personifies creation and it says, eagerly waits for the revealing of the sons of God. For creation was subjected to futility, not willing, but because of him who subjected in hope, because creation itself is also itself also will be delivered from a bondage of corruption into the glorious liberty of the children of God. So he says, first of all, these this earnest expectation of creation Is waiting for the revealing of the sons of God. Now, it's it pr he's personifying creation here as waiting for us to the re the revealing of us. Isaiah 55 puts it this way, verse 12. You shall go out in joy, be led forth in peace. The mountains and the hills shall break forth into singing before you, and all the trees of the field shall clap their hands. Creation, he says, is just waiting for this revealing of the children of God to happen It's in suspense. It's anticipating something as well. Well, what's it anticipating? What is this revealing of the sons of God? I mean that's a good question. What is it looking forward to? What is it revealing? Well, we need to understand, first of all, that there is a sense in which, as a Christian, when we come to Christ, there are certain things that are veiled. 1 John explains this really well, chapter 3, verses 1 through 3. It says, Behold what manner of love the Father has bestowed on us that we should be called the children of God. Therefore, the world does not know us. See? Well, right now there's a veiling, there's a concealing. The world does not know us because it did not know him. Beloved, now we are present day children of God, but it has not yet been revealed what we shall be. But we know future that when he, Christ, is revealed first We shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. That's our revealing. That one day we will be glorified We will see him, we will be like him, for we will see him as he is. And look, notice what it says in the passage. And everyone who has this hope in him purifies himself just as he is pure. That's the hope of the believer. Second Corinthians chapter three verse eighteen says it this way, but we all with unveiled face, beholding as in a mirror the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same From glory to glory, just as by the Spirit of the Lord. The Spirit of the Lord is is making us into the glory of God. And we will never arrive this this side of heaven. But when we seek Jesus and He is revealed, we will be like him. So there's a sense in which we are waiting for the revealing of Christ. Christ is going to come, he will come, and when he comes, We will be like him, and then and then the creation then is going to be able to begin a restoration. So the creation is waiting for us to be revealed, and we're waiting for Christ to be revealed. It's interesting that the order has to be that way. It actually makes sense if you think about it. Can you think of being Can you think of what it would be like to be completely perfected in Christ and then to have to live in a corrupted world? Um it seems almost impossible, and that is probably why one has to happen before the other And then he explains more. He says, well, what happened? Well, it says, for creation was subjected to futility. Not able. So what does it mean? What does this futility mean? Well, it's not able to fulfill its purpose. The word futility means empty or purposeless I think of Ecclesiastes. Remember that book Ecclesiastes? Vanity, vanity. All is vanity. The world is subjected to utter emptiness and vanity. There have been people that have that, you know, billionaires that have been asked, what gets you up in the morning? Billionaire Mark Cuban said, it's not about money, it's about competition. I want to be the best. Donald Trump said, life is basically a game. Some play it better than others. I play it pretty well. Futility. All of you are surprised by that comment, I'm sure. Futility Is life just a game? Is it just a competition? I mean it's is it just okay you y you get up and you play the game and then you die? I mean some of us, some people would say, what gets up in the morning is my kids, I gotta help them survive. Right? But after you're a b uh I gotta make enough money to you know pay the bills. But when you're a billionaire, what's left? It's a game. Um We see this in in the fact that things are going from naturally from order to disorder. It's a law called entropy. A very practical thing. How many of you are gardeners? How many of y'all hate weeds? I mean, I gotta tell you, we did we had this glorious idea of having a garden during COVID. Back in COVID, and things grew, and we did all right. It's perfect sun and all that kind of thing. We really tried to avoid the weeds and all that kind of thing. The weeds grow so much faster than the plants. You're watering the plants and you're watering the weeds at the same time. And then you're like, man, I this is too much work. I can, you know, and actually expensive and you you think, man, I could just go to the store and buy the Buy this for a whole lot. The weeds, like the I mean um Lloyd Jones used this illustration. I thought this was uh interesting, sort of the cyc cyclical futility. That ever you have the four seasons and You know, you have this d dead winter every winter and then it moods moves uh t into spring and life be you know, you've got ev all everything's budding and there's life that comes out and there's and there's you know green and everything starts growing again and we're all like oh I l hate winter and I I mean I if you hate w if you l love winter and you love death like that, I don't know. But but I I don't. I I I I don't like winter. I like spring. So everything's coming out and it's beautiful. I'm joking about that by the way. I don't want anybody be offended. There is a beauty in in winter as well. But anyway, I like spring better. And so it's be it's it's it's beautiful, right? And then we get into fall and the leaves fall and we get to death again in winter. And it just cycles every single year. It's like this un unending cycle. Why can't it just stay green? I mean I know we like the fall colors, but it's the problem after the fall colors. that we're beginning to experience now where you have these craggly trees. My trees look like Scooby-Doo trees when you don't have leaves on them. That's what I'm told. I mean I have horse chestnuts at home and they're really pretty when you got leaves on 'em, but I lum lose my leaves in like September and they look they just look like Scooby-Doo trees, as I'm told. Something like, where's Scooby-Doo trees? I don't know. How many have you watched Scooby-Doo before? Okay. Well you know what it is now. All right. So we're this is the futility of our lives. This is the futility of creation. It's not fulfilling the purpose with which God intended. It doesn't demonstrate the glory of God. And as soon as I say that, you go, wait a minute. I thought it did. Right? I mean the Psalm says Psalm says the heavens declared the glory of God in the firmament shows his handiwork. And even if even in Romans chapter 1 verse 20 it says, For since the creation of the world, his invisible attributes are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power and Godhead, so that they are without excuse. So how do you reconcile the fact that here it's saying it's subjected to futility, and on the other hand, we're seeing here that it actually is to show the glory of God. And I would illustrate it this way. This is how I'd illustrate it Some of us still use mirrors to back up in our cars. The side mirrors usually are the best mirrors to use. If you're using the mirror overhead, then you want you should use your side mirrors. But anyway, so so you've got side mirrors, and let's suppose that they're broken. Okay? They're all somebody smashed them. But it's but it's at night time it's nighttime and you've got to be able to see behind you to back up. And what you can see is there is a car Maybe because of the lights. But if you were to ask what kind of car it is, if you were to uh if you would have no idea what kind of car it is. You just know there is something there. And I think that's a reasonable illustration to help us understand that it is true that the universe, certainly the universe is created to glorify God perfectly But because of the fall, it still shows us that there is a God. And it still shows us certain things like the power of God. But there is- it does, it is distorted so that we can't see with the clarity with which God would want us to see his character. uh in the sense that that of what it would be like if we were not living in a corrupted world. So the corrupted world that we live in is few it's it's empty and there's futility Because it does not perfectly show the perfection of God. And it wasn't willing, it didn't willingly, it says, it's not willingly, it says, but because of him Who subjected it in hope? It was actually God who did this. He did this as a just punishment for what Adam and Eve did in the fall. In Genesis chapter 3, verses 17 it says, Because of he uh because you have heeded the voice of your wife and have uh eaten of the tree which I have commanded, saying, You shall not eat of it, cursed is the ground for your sake In toil you shall eat all the days of your lives, both thorns and thistles it shall bring forth to you, and you shall eat the herbs of the field. So so um so we see that and the ground is cursed all of that. So God as an as a just consequence for the fall subjected the earth in this futility so that it does not perfectly reflect God's perfection as it did prior to the fall. And then verse 21 says, because the creation itself also will be delivered from the bondage of corruption. into the glorious liberty of the children of God. So we will be glorified and then creation, there's this hope that creation will also be restored The scripture says there's there'll be a new heaven and a new earth. There's a sense in which even during the millennial kingdom there will be things that will be made right. Um it won't be a new heaven and new earth till after that, but things will be made right. Christ will be in in charge and and rule, you'll see peace and those kinds of things, there will be a restoration to our world. I think one of the best ways to illustr I just want to illustrate this for you, what will happen in Isaiah 35 verses 1 through 7. I'll have it up there on the screen for you, or you could turn to it. It says, the wilderness and the wasteland shall be glad for them, and the desert shall rejoice. and blossom as the rose. It shall blossom abundantly and rejoice, even with joy and singing. The glory of Lebanon shall be given shall give be given to it. The excellence of Carmel and Sharon They shall see the glory of the Lord, the excellence of our God, strengthen the weak hands, and make firm the feeble knees. Say to those who are fearful-hearted, be strong and do not fear. Behold, your God will come with vengeance, with the recompense of God. He will come and save you. Then the eyes of the blind shall be opened, the ears of the deaf shall be unstopped. Then the lame shall leap like a deer, the tongue of the dumb sing, For water shall burst forth in the wilderness and streams in the desert, the parched ground shall become a pool, and the thirsty land springs frings of water, and the habitation of jackals there uh where each lay, there shall be grass with reed and rushes. The desert places will bring forth water. The land will be healed. There's going to be joy and singing. There's going to be a reversal of deformity and disease. God is going to make things finally right. There's other passages we could go to. Isaiah 32 says unto the Spirit is poured upon us from uh from on high until the Spirit was poured upon us from on high. And the wilderness becomes a fruitful field, and the fruitful field is counted as a forest. Then justice will dwell in the wilderness and righteousness remain in the fruitful field. There will be a restoring. But that is not the way it is now. Verse 22 For we know that the whole for now the whole creation, what does it do in verse 22? It groans. See, there I think I think Paul is essentially saying that when we know what will occur in creation and in ourselves There is this groaning that takes place and it says, and labors with birth pangs together It's actually amazing. I looked at how many times birth pangs are used to illustrate the plight of humanity. It's an amazing amount of times it's used in Isaiah and other places in Scripture. But Jesus, when he was talking to the disciples before he uh went to the cross, knowing that he would leave them and his presence with them. And John 16, 20 says, Most assuredly I say to you, that you will weep and lament, but the world will rejoice, and you will be sorrowful, but your sorrow will be turned to joy. A woman, when she is in labor, has sorrow because her hour has come, but as soon as she has given birth to the child, she no longer remembers the anguish but joy for joy that a human being has been born into the world. Therefore you now have sorrow. But I will see you again, and your heart will rejoice, and your joy no one will take from you. This describes This birth pangs, this describes the world that we live in, the fallen world, the corrupt world. But It is temporary. There will be a time where the joy will be in an unsurpassing way, not unsurpassing, it will surpass The groaning and the travail and the birth pangs, if you will. There's nothing, maybe there's nothing more beautiful than a mom who takes takes her newborn baby into her arms. And has this joy, so much so that she is able to say the pain was worth it. I mean, I look at it all of it and I go, you want another one? But obviously the joy that the joy that they have is worth the pain. And that will be the case for us as well. We see here then next that it says in verse 23, not only that, but we also who have the first fruits of the Spirit. He moves now his direction, he's talking about creation, now he moves to us. particularly. And he says, you've been given the first fruits of the Spirit. And I think what he's talking about here is the sealing of the Spirit I think what he's talking about here is the fact that we have been given an initial down payment on that future inheritance that we have It explains this in Ephesians chapter 1, verses 13 through 14. In him you also trusted after you heard of the Word of Truth and the Gospel of your salvation. And whom also having believed, you were sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise Who is the guarantee, like the down payment of your inheritance under the redemption of the purchased possession to the praise of his glory? And so there is this eager anticipation, it says, for the adoption, the redemption of our body. The eager anticipation, the hope that we have, and the Spirit of God guaranteeing that hope within us as we become a Christian Leaves us with this anticipation, but there's something else it leaves us with. And I skipped this on purpose to just show you how the whole thing works together Even we ourselves groan. We groan within ourselves. Folks, that is the nature of what we are dealing with in this world, there is going to be groaning. We ought to be realized that we are not going to be able to make heaven on earth here. There is groaning in this life. This is a normal, natural uh understandable way that we are living in the in the already and not yet There's a tension here. We know how things should be. We know how things will be, and yet we groan. Apparently, this is how I respond when I'm sick. My wife tells me this. She says, you are, and it is true, I'm glad I don't get shit very often. Um uh I you she says you groan. You just groan all the time. Like you just groan Next time that happens, I'm gonna say it's biblical. But we do. If you think of sickness and being sick and just go, oh man, you know it's not gonna last forever, you're gonna get better, but in the meantime you're just groaning. That's that's the that's the present that's how we live. But what keeps us motivated? What keeps us persevering through the groaning? Through the frustration. Look at what it says in verses 25 through 24 and 25. For we were saved in this hope. But hope that is seen is not hope. For why does one still hope for what he sees? But if we hope for what we do not see, we eagerly wait for it with perseverance. He reminds us, look, this is what you are saved in. You are saved in hope. See, he reminds us that hope by its very definition is something that is not yet realized. It's promised. But it's not yet realized. And he says, at the very outset of this, understand that that's what you're saved into. It's all not going to be right. What a terrible, frankly, what a terrible thing To tell a Christian that now if you just have enough faith, everything's going to be wonderful. I mean, no wonder you have Christians that have these ideas from the Health and Wealth books. and from these self-help Christian books that every- that you can do, you can be, you can, everything's going to be wonderful if you just do these five things and if you just have enough faith and they end up blowing away From Christianity. Because that's not the Christianity of the Bible. The Christian faith of the Bible is a hope that is not seen yet. We're saved in this hope. Folks, it's still extremely, it's still very, very real. In fact, it is it works in conjunction with faith. Faith is the substance of what? Of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. Hope is the object of faith. What are we placing our faith in? In the hope that God Christ gives us because of what He has done for us. Faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen Hope then gives us a great advantage. The scripture describes this advantage in several ways. For example, 1 Peter 1 verses 3 through 4. It says that we have divine power because of this hope, as his divine power has given to us in all things that pertain to life and godliness. Through the knowledge of him who called us by glory and virtue, by which we have been given to us exceeding great and precious promises. But it also anchors us. This hope anchors us, according to Hebrews 6, verses 17 through 19. Thus God determining to show more abundantly to the heirs of promise the immutability of his counsel, confirming uh confirmed by his own oath. That by two immutable things in which it is impossible for God to lie, we might have strong consolation who have fled for refuge to lay hold of the hope set before us. This hope we have as an anchor of the soul, both sure and steadfast. See, faith in this hope anchors us. It strengthens us to strengthen. for life and godliness. And it's actually described as a helmet, so it protects us. 1 Thessalonians 5, verse 8. But let us who are of the day be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love and as a helmet the hope of salvation. The darts of doubt that pervade our thinking are protected by the reality of the hope of our salvation. Verse 25 says this: But if we hope for what we have seen, or for what we do not see, if we hope for what we do not see, then what do we do? We eagerly wait for it with perseverance This motivates us and challenges us, for example, 1 John to purify ourselves even as he is pure. Hebrews 6. 12 encourage us not to become sluggish, it says, but imitate those who through faith and patience inherit the promises. Galatians 5, 5, for we through the Spirit eagerly wait for the hope of righteousness by faith. It is by the work of the Spirit that this happens. We are citizens of heaven where we eagerly wait for the Savior, Philippians 3. 20. And Hebrews 9. 28, to those who eagerly wait for him who will appear a second time apart from sin for salvation. This is the hope of the believer. How should we then live? We live eagerly anticipating what is to come. And we live persevering. Persevering in holiness. Persevering in godliness. Persevering in love for God. Ephesians 1, 4, just as he has chosen us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him in love. So there are three takeaways for us today as Christians. Number one: suffering is God's temporary instrument for our eternal glory. Folks, remember that. We've got to have a, we really need a good theology of suffering in our lives. We must remember this when we're going through it Suffering is God's temporary instrument for our eternal glory. Number two. Groaning in our our present situation in light of future redemption is a reality. Look, you know that it's interesting in the passage? It doesn't say you shouldn't groan. It doesn't command us not to groan. It just says we do. This is just a reality. Now, actually, just so you know, some of you are going to say, you know Romans 8 well, and there is actually an answer for a groaning, it's prayer. It's in the next passage, I guess. I'm just saying that groaning is a reality for us as Christians. Number three, eager anticipation of future glory motivates us to persevere. Eager anticipation of future glory motivates us to persevere. This This in Romans is such important critical truth for us to understand in order for us to live out the Christian life. in the way that God desires for us to live. But you may be saying here today, I don't know if I have a relationship with the Lord. Lord. But the truth is, this passage are for those who know they have a relationship with the Lord. This passage are for those who understand, realize, and accept the fact that they are Christians. And truly are. But if you're here today and you don't know where you stand with the Lord, you don't know what you would say to the Lord if he were to ask you, why should I let you into heaven? Let me really encourage you to come and talk with me after the service. I would be more than happy to help you to understand how how Scripture says that although you have sinned, Jesus died to pay the punishment for your sin. so that you could have your sins forgiven, so that you could have a be in right relationship with God. God has written his word for you to know that. These things are written that you may know that you have eternal life. Please come and talk with me after the service. I would be more than happy to help you. Or somebody else that you're comfortable with, we'd be happy to help you understand more about how you can have eternal life in Christ. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you this morning and we thank you for the hope that we have as Christians. This wonderful eternal hope. We confess to you, Father, that when we go through the sufferings that we go through, oftentimes we are not putting them in proper perspective. in perspective with the eternal the eternal hope that we have, the glory that will be revealed in us. And Lord, we confess, we agree, we know that we do groan in the world in which we live, the corruption that we experience, both internally and outside of ourselves. It causes us to groan. But Lord, would you cause us by your Spirit, would you cause us to joyfully and eagerly anticipate The glory that will be revealed in us when Christ comes. We look forward to the day where Christ comes for his own. That is the hope of the believer. Help us, Lord, to be faithful until he comes. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Gannam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.