The righteous judge of all the earth. We thank you for the fact that we can look to you and know that you in your wise wisdom, in your wise knowledge, can observe and see all things perfectly. There is no uncertainty with you when it comes to what is right and wrong. There is no gray area, for you know perfectly people's actions and their thoughts and their motives. We thank you that we do not have to worry about whether you will judge rightly, for your word speaks very loudly to the fact that you will. And we can rest in that, that you, and when it comes to your son and sending him to die on a cross for us, that you also have judged accordingly there. And you in fact have seen your son taking on the sins of the world, and any who accept him as their substitute, as their savior to take the penalty for their sin. You you have already poured your wrath out on your son, so that we as your children do not have to receive that wrath. What a glorious truth that is. Lord, it is true that we do not always judge correctly. We fall short in that so severely, and we confess that before you this morning. We need your help. We need your wisdom for discerning. We need your your guidance when it comes to navigating our own personal relationships, when it comes to navigating the events in the world, when it comes to looking at all of that, we desperately need your help to do that. So Lord, as we go to sing your praises and we go to listen to your word preached, we ask, Lord, that you would be in every aspect of our service today. that we would devote our hearts wholly to the worship and the hearing of your word preached. Do pray for Harry as he comes in a little bit, as you would work mightily through him To proclaim your truth clearly and powerfully to us. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, before we read uh the passage that uh Harry's gonna be preaching from, let's go ahead and go to the Lord in prayer. Lord, today we come to you and we thank you for your presence in our lives. We thank you for your perpetual goodness in our lives As we've just sung about, Lord, you you have rescued us from the darkest and deepest pits of despair. Done for us what we could have had no hope of doing for ourselves. We thank you that you gave hope to the hopeless. And I'm continuing to do that for those who don't know you. We thank you, Lord, that we have your promises and your word to rest on. All those promises that we even just sang about. We thank you, Lord, that there are so many things that you are doing in our lives and so many ways that we are seeing you work. We thank you for uh the way you've worked and and uh the butels and Dave and them being able to be back with us today. We thank you, Lord, for uh the the the the timing that you had in all of that and praising you that uh it was uh an easy fix more or less. And we pray that uh you continue to to help Dave. We ask, Lord, that you would continue to be with those who are traveling. We know that the shries are on a trip. We pray that you'd give them a a a good time together. We thank you now that the the Roths are back from their vacation. Uh we thank you that they were able to really get a good long time away uh with each other and all together and that's as Brad has been talking about it's going to be harder to do that in the future. So Lord, thank you for providing that for them. We ask, Lord, that you would continue to do the good work of sanctification in all of our lives. None of us have arrived. None of us have reached sinless perfection. But we know, Lord, that you are actively working in us to perform that work in us, to grow us in Christ-likeness. May we be a people who are simply yielded to the Spirit to allow you to do that work. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay. So we're reading from First Samuel chapter fifteen. Beginning in verse one Samuel also said to Saul, The Lord sent me to anoint you king over his people, over Israel. Now therefore he the voice of the words of the Lord. Thus says the Lord of hosts, I will punish Amalek for what he did to Israel, how he ambushed him on the way he came up from Egypt. Now go and attack Amalek and utterly destroy all that they have, and do not spare them, but kill both man, woman, infant, and nursing child, ox and sheep, and camel and donkey So Saul gathered the people together and numbered them in Telam, 200,000 foot soldiers and 10,000 men of Judah. And Saul came to a city of Amalek and lay in wait in the valley. Then Saul said to the Kenites, Go, depart, get down from among the Amalekites, lest I destroy you with them. For you showed kindness to all the children of Israel when they came up out of Egypt. So the Kenites departed from among the Amalekites. And Saul attacked the Amalekites from Havilah, all the way to Shur, which is east of Egypt. He also took Agag, king of the Amalekites, alive, and utterly destroyed all the people with the edge of the sword. But Saul and the people spared Agag, and the best of the sheep, the oxen, the fatlings, the lambs, and all that was good, and were unwilling to utterly destroy them. But everything despised and worthless that they utterly destroyed. Now the word of the Lord came to Samuel, saying, I greatly regret that I have set up Saul as king For he has turned back from following me, and has not performed my commandments. And it grieved Samuel. And he cried out to the Lord all night. So when Samuel rose early in the morning to meet Saul, it was told Samuel saying, Saul went up to Carmel, and indeed he set up a monument for himself, and he has gone on around, passed by, and gone down to Gilgal. And Samuel went to Saul, and Saul said to him, Blessed are you of the Lord, I have performed the commandment of the Lord. But Samuel said, What then is this bleeding of the sheep in my ears, and the lowing of the oxen which I hear? And Saul said, They have brought them from the Amalekites, for the people spared the best of the sheep and oxen to sacrifice to the Lord your God, and the rest we have utterly destroyed. Then Samuel said to Saul, Be quiet, and I will tell you what the Lord said to me last night. And he said to him, Speak on. So Samuel said, When you were little in your own eyes, were you not the head of the tribes of Israel? And did not the Lord anoint you king over Israel? Now the Lord sent you on a mission and said, go utterly destroy the sinners, the Amalekites, and fight against them until they are consumed. Why then did you not obey the voice of the Lord? Why did you swoop down and on the spoil and do evil in the sight of the Lord And Saul said to Samuel, But I have obeyed the Lord the voice of the Lord, and gone on a mission which the Lord sent me, and brought back Agag, King of Am of Amalek, and have utterly destroyed the Amalekites But the people took of the plunder, sheep and oxen, the best of the things which should have been utterly destroyed, to sacrifice to the Lord your God in Gilgal. So Samuel said Has the Lord as great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices as in obeying the voice of the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to heed than the fat of the rams. For rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft, and stubbornness is as iniquity and idolatry. Because you have rejected the word of the Lord, he also has rejected you from being king. Then Saul said to Samuel, I have sinned For I have transgressed the commandment of the Lord and your words, because I feared the people and obeyed their voice. Now therefore, please pardon my sin and return with me that I may worship the Lord. But Samuel said to Saul I will not return with you. For you have rejected the word of the Lord, and the Lord has rejected you from being king over Israel. And as Samuel turned around to go away, Saul seized the edge of his robe and tore it And it tore. So Samuel said to him, The Lord has torn the kingdom of Israel from you this day, and has given it to a neighbor of yours who is better than you. And also the strength of Israel will not lie or relent, for he is not a man that he should relent. Then he said, I have sinned, yet honor me now, please, before the elders of my people and before Israel, and return with me that I may worship the Lord your God. So Samuel turned back after Saul, and Saul worshipped the Lord. Then Samuel said, Bring Agag, king of the of the Amalekites, here to me. So Agag came to him cautiously, and Agag said, Surely the bitterness of death is past. But Samuel said, As your sword has made women childless, so also your mother be childless among women. And Samuel hacked Agag in pieces before the Lord in Gilgal. Then Samuel went to Ramah, and Saul went up to the house of Gibeah of Saul, and Saul went no more to see Saul until the day of his death. Nevertheless, Samuel mourned for Saul. And the Lord regretted that he had made Saul king over Israel. Quite a story there, huh? As I was preparing and thinking through what I was reading, I find myself To be a lot like Samuel. I mean like uh Saul. I wish I was more like Samuel. But as we're going to be looking at uh chapter 15 today I wanted to share a little bit of background that brings us up to chapter 15 so we can see what's going on here and get a better handle on the context of this passage. And in 1 Samuel 8, verses 1 through 7, Israel demanded and wanted a king. Now Samuel was a judge and he judged all their uh disagreements and all that And we didn't have a king back then. They were judges. And so Samuel's sons come up and he starts making them judges. Samuel is getting old. And so his sons were put in place, but they were very wicked. Uh they were very dishonest judges. They didn't uh they tipped the scales their way and and all these things. The people got upset. So they asked Samuel Or didn't ask Samuel. They demanded a king. And they wanted a king like all the other nations have. And Samuel was a little upset about it and uh God told him to take heed to what they said. He said, they are not angry at you and rejecting you, Samuel. They are rejecting me. God was their king. And so Samuel went ahead and God chose Saul in 1 Samuel chapter 9, verses 16 and 17. And then we find in chapter ten, Samuel makes him king according to God's direction. And we find in one um 1 Samuel chapter 12, I just want to read a portion of that. This is where uh Samuel uh addresses uh Saul and the people at uh Saul's coronation. And it says in verses thirteen through fifteen, Now therefore, here is the king whom you have chosen and whom you have desired. And take note, the Lord has set a king over you If you fear the Lord and serve him and obey his voice, and do not rebel against the commandments of the Lord, then both you and the King, who reigns over you, will continue following the Lord our God. However, if you do not obey his voice of the Lord, but rebel against the commandment of the Lord, then the hand of the Lord will be against you And it will be against as it was against your fathers. And if you move down to verse 25, he says, But if you still do wickedly, you will be swept away, both you and your king. So God gives a warning here to them. So Saul as as he became king and um he was a good military leader. He knew how to uh build up his forces and go in and take these uh uh Philistines and others. Philistines was their main enemy at that time. But they uh he was a good military leader. But one thing that was wrong that we will find about Saul, Saul did not have a heart after God. He did not have a heart after God. And this is something we got to catch here as we're reading through this. During Saul's many reigning years, he went his own way instead of obeying God. And specifically, uh, he offered a sacrifice on the altar one time that's only to be performed by priests. Now what happened there was they were getting ready for a battle with um The Philistines, and there were so many of these Philistines, and they were they had their chariots, they had all the stuff that they needed for the army. And it freaked out Israel. And they started fleeing from Saul, who was there to fight them. And Saul was given instructions to wait for seven days until Samuel came, and he would make an offering, and then they would go and fight, and God would be with them But the seventh day comes and Saul is so nervous and all, he just finally said, Get some fire, let's put it on the altar and and we'll burn the sacrifice. So they do it, and this is on the seventh day. And right when they finish doing that, Samuel comes walking in. And Samuel says, What have you done? You have done a foolish thing. And he says, and his kingdom will not continue. And so here we see some of the heart of Saul. He took things always upon himself. And so Along with the many battles with the Philistines and other neighbors, that brings us now to chapter 15 of 1 Samuel And I titled this beginning here, uh, verses 15 through 9. Obedience is not an option. It is a command. We need to remember this. Obedience is not an option. It is a command. And so we see here in the beginning Uh Samuel comes and he reminds Saul of his calling by God. God had chosen him to be king. So you would think if God chose him, he would look to that authority to guide him and direct him. But Saul did not. And here we see that uh Sammy reminds him and he also commands him to obey. Listen to what it says. in uh verse one, for the Lord sent me to anoint you over his c people, over Israel. Now therefore, what's he say? Heed the voice of the words of the Lord. Heed means to obey. Listen and obey. Then we go into chapter, I mean uh verses two and three, and Samuel gives God's reason for this direct command that he is giving to Saul. And this command is a judgment command. And I'm going to talk about it in a minute. But here's what uh this is what he says. He says, Thus saith the Lord of hosts. Okay? Saul's supposed to be paying attention here. He's supposed to obey, and he says, I will punish Amalek for what he did to Israel, how he ambushed him on the way. when he came up from Egypt. And he says, now go and attack Amalek and utterly destroy all that they have. Do not spare them, but kill both man, woman, infant, nursing child, kill every ox, sheep, camel, donkey, everything they have. I want it wiped out. Now I want to take you back real quick to Deuteronomy 25. And uh here, this is back before they even come into the land. Moses is getting instruction from from God as they've been fighting with uh Amalek and all. And he says here in verse um seventeen of chapter twenty-five of Deuteronomy, remember what Amalek did to you on the way as you were coming out of Egypt. He met you on the way and attacked your rear ranks, all the stragglers at your rear, when you were tired and weary, and he did not fear God. Therefore It shall be, when the Lord your God has given you rest from your enemies all around in the land which the Lord God is giving you to possess as an inheritance That you will blot out the remembrance of Amalek under heaven. You shall not forget. So now's the day God is giving Saul another opportunity. This is an opportunity for Saul to kind of Make up for all the stuff that he had done wrong against God. He has a great opportunity here. And one of the things that the reason that God wanted everything destroyed and out is because it was a judgment. Now if you realize and think that this is bad, you wait till the great white throne of judgment. Millions and millions of people. And they're going to put in hell and be separated from God for the eternity. So this is a judgment against these people because of their wickedness. And so we see here the response uh of uh Saul. I want to read a couple of things. You know he was a good uh leader, military leader So he gathers up all the men and everything, gets that all set up, he goes to the valley and waits, which was a common thing they did in those days. They get in the valley and get ready. And Joshua was very good at this. He was also a uh uh a good uh military leader. And Saul came to the city of Amalak and lay in wait. And he says to the Kenites, Go depart, get down among the Amalekites, from the Amalekites, lest we destroy you. Because we're going to destroy them. That's kind of what he's saying now. I'm just kind of paraphrasing. But they did show kindness, and that's why he didn't now you wonder why Saul, who's not a man after God's own heart, would show mercy to the Canaanite But the Cenites were kin to Jethro, who was Moses' father-in-law, and they were always very kind to Israel and helped them. in many ways. So he he did give them the opportunity to get out and they got out. So here's what he does, and we're going to read it right here in in uh verse seven. Saul attacked the Amalekites and Havilah all the way to Shur, which is east of Egypt. He also took King Agag and of the Amalekites alive, utterly destroyed all the people by the edge of the sword, all the men, women, children, babies and murderers. Babies. And all the animals are supposed to, but they didn't. Listen to what it says. But Saul and the people, this is an important verse. Saul and the people. Spared Agag, and the best of the sheep, the oxen, the fatling, the lamb, and all that was good. and were unwilling to utterly destroy them. But everything that was despised and worthless, that they utterly destroyed. So evidently all the people were worthless and despised. They destroyed all of them, except for the king. Now, when you think about obedience, obedience is not an option to you and I, to God. We need to keep this in our mind. It is a command given to us by God. And I'm going to read a couple of them here from the Old Testament and New Testament. But one of the things that I wanted us to really see here is it says that Saul and the people spared egg egg and the best of the ox and the sheep and the fatty. This kind of tells you here the mindset. They were hoping that they could get all these good sheep and and all that back to their place. They would be rich. They would have this and that And they also had the best of whatever was left in their uh villages. They uh pilfered and everything else they put to death. When you think about that, they had no regard whatsoever for God in this statement. And we're going to look down here and see the excuses that we get, which is going to bring you back to what you're hearing there So let's look at a couple uh passages that I wanted to give you from the Old Testament and the New Testament to show that o obedience is a command. It's not something you can pick and choose. And it's not an option. Well, I can obey this. I don't have to obey that. It's a command by God. Deuteronomy 5. 33 says, walk in obedience. To all that the Lord your God has commanded you, so that you may live and prosper and prolong your days in the land which you will possess. Then we go to Deuteronomy 6. 4, which also is a command to you and I. And it says here: Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all of your soul, and with all of your strength. Do you love God? Do you love him in that way? This is a command to us. He is our God. 1 Kings 2. 3, they give commands to the kings. It says, observe what the Lord God requires. Saul heard what God commanded, and he should have observed what he was requiring. And it says, walk in obedience to him, and keep his decrees and his commands, his laws, his regulations. As the laws of Moses. To do this so that, again, there's a reason, you may prosper. In all you do, wherever you go. Saul could have been really prosperous. We can be prosperous in our obedience to God. Note now, I want to go to the New Testament and see what God says to us today. We know that in the Old Testament they lived by the law. Obedience was very important and they could not keep it and it shows us that And that's one of the reasons why they had the sacrificial system. That never worked. It never cleansed the heart. It never caused them to be con uh their minds to be changed or anything. But here we see in Luke 1027. Then he said to them all, Whoever wants to be my disciple must deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me. So this is a command to you and I. If we want to be one of Jesus' disciples, we are to deny ourselves. You see, when you look at Saul and the people They were not denying themselves. They wanted to give themselves everything they wanted. They were selfish. They wanted everything for them. They were not thinking of God. Now I want to show you one other couple other scriptures here, but we are to pick up our cross daily and follow Jesus Jesus. If we are following Jesus, we are going to be obedient to Jesus. Otherwise, we're not following him, we're following ourselves. So go to James 4:17. This one the one that really convicts me Because therefore, to him who knows to do right and does not do it, to him is sin. Think about that for a minute. For him who knows to do right and does it not, to him it is sin. This is very convicting to me, because there's a lot I know in the scriptures. And there's much I do not do. Matthew 7, 21. Not everyone who says, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven. But those who do what? The will of the Father who is in heaven. Now, just to clarify some things here. There's no way you and I can be perfectly obedient to God. And so I just want to make this clear statement here. I'm not saying that we have to be obedient perfectly to everything But uh it is the goal. Let me let me uh show you something here. We know that there is only one person who could ever be perfectly obedient and that is Jesus Christ. Christ, Him alone. He humbled himself and became obedient to the point of death on the cross. He set the standard. Brothers and sisters, there's some things I want to speak about here Why is it that we want to be obedient to God? And what is the standard for obedience? God says, Jesus says, be perfect as my Father in heaven is perfect. So how do you interpret that? To be perfect as God is perfect. We can't be perfect. Christ is perfect. He can make us presentable and clean, but we still are not going to be perfect until the day that we receive our heavenly body because we are living in the flesh. But I want to say something about the perfection. If we ever change that That vision and that that should be our goal is perfection. We should want to live for perfection. Because perfection is who God is. If you don't live for that perfection, heading towards that perfection, then you are lowering God's standard down to you. That perfection is always our goal. Is perfection. Always because God is perfect and He has called us to be perfect as He is. Now, so what would be the motivation for our obedience? to God. What motivates us? What is the correct and right motivation? We will find this out here. The motivation for obedience for you and I is always, always love. Love is the motivation for our obedience. We love God the Father. We love Jesus Christ. I want to give you a couple scriptures here. John 14, 23. I appreciated uh Brother Josh last Sunday evening. bringing some of these out in his sermon is very good. It says in John 14, 23, Jesus answered and said to them, If anyone loves me, he will keep my word. He will keep my word. And my father will love him. And we will come to him and make our home with him. This is God the Father saying this to us. If you love Jesus. And you will keep his word. You will keep his word. And what does it say in verse 23? He who does not love me. Does not keep my words. And the word which you hear is not my word, Jesus says, but it is the Father who sent me. So here we see that love is the thing that should motivate us. John fifteen, thirteen. This is a great verse. It says, Greater love has no man than this, than to lay down one's life for his friends. And Jesus says, you are my friends, if you do what I command you, is your desire. To be obedient to God. Is your desire to be obedient to Him because you love Him and love what He has done on our behalf? He did what we could never do. And I think when I think about Jesus, the fact that he set aside his glory in heaven. And he came down and took on flesh, became man and God at the same time. And he walked this earth obediently. He walked with no sin. No sin. He was perfect And not only that, but what motivated Jesus to come here and sacrifice his life on our behalf, it was love. He had love for the Father. He obeyed the Father perfectly And he came to that cross and got on that cross because he loved you and I. And he went there and he took the sin of the world. When you think about taking on the sin of the world, he took your past sin. He took your present sin and he took your future sin, all of it, and he paid it in full on our behalf That is love. And he was obedient to the point of death. And he was buried and rose again, and he now sits at the right hand of God the Father, and he intercedes for each one of us. He loves us dearly. God loves us. Why would we not want to have that standard of perfection to be obedient to God? How much do we love him? How much do we appreciate and how grateful are we for the sacrifice that he made and provided salvation for us? Let's move on now to the second part of what we're looking at here. And here, I titled this Selective Obedience is Disobedience. Now you're probably wondering, selective obedience is disobedience. Are we selective in our obedience? I would be willing to say. That we probably are in some areas. We are selective. We choose to obey this, but don't choose to obey that. And I think we're all that way. Thank God we're under grace, right? Grace is not an excuse Grace is the helper. So here we read that God regrets that he chose Saul as king, causing Samuel to grieve, because Samuel loved Saul. He was one of him, and he loved him. And he knew God loved him too. But he grieved all night and cried out to the Lord all through the night, because God says that he regretted choosing Saul as king. So now we're going to see Saul's true heart is going to be revealed here. And it was not a heart after God. It says here. Saul went to Carmel, and indeed he set up a monument for himself. And he has gone around and passed by and gone down to Gilgal. What is Saul doing? He's got this king that he just c captured and didn't kill. Why he didn't kill him is It's not specifically understood why he didn't, but maybe because he was a king and he he liked him or whatever. But he didn't do what he was told to do And so he's parading this king around and all the stuff that they did. They went about they did this and they did that and went down and wiped out all his people, but I got him and uh we got all their sheep and stuff and they're they're just proud of themselves, fool of themselves. And here he builds a monument for himself. He has no heart for God. Do we build monuments sometimes for ourselves? Are we something Sometimes prideful of what we accomplish and don't give the glory to God. We find his true heart is revealed here. The fact that he built the monument for himself tells you his pride. Parading around the countryside boasting his great achievements shows his pride. Well, he now meets Samuel. Samuel goes after him. And this is where uh we see his pride revealed. And so it says here that Samuel went to Saul and said to Saul, And Saul says to Samuel, listen to this, blessed are you of the Lord. I have performed a commandment of the Lord. All in his mind. He thought he did it. His way. Then Samuel said, What then is that bleeding of sheep and mooing of cows that I'm hearing? What is that? And uh Saul said, Oh, oh, he said, They have brought them from the Amalekites, for the people spared the best of the sheep, the best of the oxen, and we're going to sacrifice them to the Lord your God. Notice he says that. to the Lord your God. God was not Saul's God. We see that here. And the rest we utterly destroyed. I'm thinking of how that probably went. Then Samuel said to Saul, be quiet, Saul. Be quiet, and I will tell you what the Lord said listen to the pride of Saul. Speak on. Like he has the authority. He said, speak on. He ain't gonna like what he hears. When you were little, in your own eyes, back when Saul was chosen, he said, Who am I? I am from the smallest tribe, Benjamin. And I am the smallest family in Benjamin. Why would you choose me to be the next king? He was humble. He was at that time He said, When you were little in your own eyes, were you not head of the tribes of Israel? And did not the Lord anoint you king over Israel while he was still Muhammad? He was hiding amongst the equipment, they were looking for him, to make him king. Now the Lord sent you on a mission and said, Go and utterly destroy the sinners of the Amalekites and fight against them until they are consumed. Why then did you not obey the voice of the Lord? Why did you swoop down on the spoil and do evil in the sight of the Lord? Listen to Saul's reply. He says, But I have obeyed the voice of the Lord, and I gone on a mission on which the Lord sent me, and I brought back Agat. That's kinda weird that he said that, isn't it? If you obeyed and you killed everybody as you were supposed to and wiped out everybody, why are you telling me that you got the king? That was a custom sometimes, by the way. in the old time. But he was instructed, wipe out everybody. And so he said, I did go on a mission, I brought back Agag and Amalek, and I utterly destroyed the Amalekites. Well he killed everybody else. But he wouldn't kill the king. And the people took the plunder. Here he is shifting the blame now. Listen to this. He said the people took the plunder of the sheep and the oxen and the best of the things, which should have been what? Utterly destroyed, he says So he's blaming he's shifting blame here now to the people. But we notice back in verse nine but Samuel and the people spared Agag and the best of the sheep in the next one. Yeah. So he's involved. He's in charge. He's responsible. He can't shift the blame. But that's what we do when we get caught in sin, don't we? We like to shift the blame. So Samuel comes to the key verse of this chapter and he says Has the Lord great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifice, as in obeying the voice of the Lord, and to heed then the fat of rams? For this for rebellion is the sin of witchcraft. Stubbornness is iniquity of idolatry. And because you have rejected the word of the Lord, he also has rejected you. So now his sin is revealed in three different areas. Rebellion was the first one, and it says that it is as of the sin of witchcraft. The Hebrew word here is gizim, denoting divination, astrology, communion with the dead, soothsayers, all these things in Deuteronomy 18, 10 through 12 were forbidden by God for the Israelite people. And Saul's rebellion was against God as the true source of wisdom. That is what this is about. And here we find that When you think about it later on in uh 1 Samuel chapter 28, 3 through 29, he actually goes to the witch of Endor. and starter's divination. So he never learned a lesson. He he never had a heart for God. But what I see here is Saul's rebellion, when we talk about rebellion, It was against God's true source of wisdom. When you are doing astronomy and all these other things, you are looking to something else other than God for wisdom for your life. And that is the sin of rebellion. Are we looking sometimes elsewhere? Maybe trying to find the truth here, there? We'll talk about that in a minute. Then we find out here the stubbornness. Stubbornness is as a sin of idolatry. Stubbornly going our own way. Saul had clear instruction. And he went his own way. So what does that tell you? Saul, when he talks about stubbornness, being as the sin of idolatry. What you have done if you are stubborn and going your own way is you set your own self up As God. You don't go to God. You set your own self up. Remember, remember he built that monument? He was building himself up. And he was the idol in that So then it says, rejecting God's word. So God rejected him as king. Any opportunity that he had to truly do good for God was lost due to his disobedience. due to his selective obedience. He was selective in the fact that he chose to kill all the people, but keep the king And keep the best of the flock and anything else that was of value and got rid of everything else. He was selective in obedience. And so that selective obedience is complete disobedience, as God says right here. God rejected him as king, any opportunity he had to do good for God lost to his disobedience. I've got a couple questions I want to put out here while we're here at this spot. It says, do we, like Saul, try to rationalize our disobedience? rather than admit that it amounts to outright rebellion against God, do we look at it as rebellion against our God? Or do we try to rationalize it? Well, I wouldn't have done this if it wasn't for that. And then you don't know my circumstance. We were talking about circumstances this morning. Circumstance cannot keep you from God. It actually draws you closer when you're going through it. He is there with us. Do we sometimes tell ourselves that partial obedience is good enough? Rather than admit stubbornness and selfishness From keeping us putting God first? Possible examples of selective obedience. How might we be doing that? Let me ask you a question. When you're riding down a highway and the sign says 65 miles an hour Are you doing sixty-five? Well the police won't pull you over unless you're doing seven miles over that. So I'm gonna do seven miles over that. Or I'm gonna do ten miles over that. I gotta get there. I'm in a hurry. I gotta get up there One example, we are selective in our obedience. You think that is not obedience to God? God set the government up, did he not? And he instructs us to be obedient to the government, as long as it doesn't pull us away from God. or in in opposition to God. So there's another pot one that I wanted to share that really came to my mind. I don't know about you, but I have met so many people that you told me this. And it's found in Hebrews. And it's in Hebrews chapter ten. We will you will recognize it when I get there. But this always comes to my mind. I talk to so many people. about church and about being together as believers. How many times do you hear people say, I don't have to go to church to be saved? I don't have to go to church to live for God. I don't have to go to church. I don't need church. I can do that on my own. They're a bunch of hypocrites. Verse 22 in chapter ten, let us draw nearer with a true heart, in full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience. And our bodies washed with pure water. Let us hold fast to the confession of our hope without wavering. For he who promised is faithful. And let us consider one another, the church, in order that we may stir up love and good works. If you're not in church, how are you going to do that? I mean if you can go to their house, you can come to church. And there's more people in church than there is at the house. Listen to what he says. Not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, as is the manner of some, but exhorting one another, and so much more as you see the day approaching. We are commanded by God To meet together in fellowship. We have studied this. Jim did a um a study on it a while back about the fellowship of believers and what that means. This actually is Christ's body We are working to help each other and encourage each other and to grow each other. And then we go out and we do the service that God has called us to. So here Why does God say it is better to obey than sacrifice? I just have a couple things. Religious observance without obedience Is empty before God. The best sacrificial offering we could bring to God is a truly repentative heart Psalm 51, 17 says, The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit and a broken contrite heart. These God will not despise. So why is it that God doesn't care? about the sacrifice as much as he does obedience. Surrendered to his service, Romans twelve one. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable. To God, which is your reasonable service. One could offer a thousand sacrifices unto God. One could offer a thousand hours of work to God and give millions of dollars to work But they will all be meaningless if there is not a surrendered heart to God shown by simple obedience. It is easy to sacrifice an animal, throw it up there and and then you walk off and you're done. I mean it's easy. It doesn't change the heart, doesn't change the mind. I don't have to confess that I have uh uh actually uh don't follow God, I'm disobedient. And you think about that, what it is is rather than sacrificing our own will to God We would rather throw an animal out there or something else. And a lot of times what happens, brothers and sisters, is this. We have sin in our life, and we're doing something that is sinful. And so to make up for that, instead of confessing it and turning away from it, getting help from brothers and sisters, what do we do? Well, I'll go read the Bible more. Or I will come to a Bible study, or I will give a little more money to the church. Maybe God will accept that. And I don't really want to give up that other thing that I know I I know is sin Yet I don't confess it. So we are also, we are also a lot, like Saul with our selective Obedience. There are things in all of our lives where we choose to be obedient really good. There's other places we don't want to quite let go And we don't want to confess it. We are ashamed maybe, or maybe we just don't want to give it up because we like it. Like I say, it's easy to sacrifice an animal in place and move on rather than sacrificing one's own will. Why did God accept Jesus' sacrifice on the cross? It was out of love for the Father and love for you and I. He went to the cross willingly and obediently to God. He was the only one who could And he wanted to straighten out the situation that we have in the Old Testament where they had to live by the law and make the sacrifices. Here he had one sacrifice once for all. And he made it a perfect sacrifice and he accepted it because Jesus was perfect. Jesus loved him. Jesus loved us. And he went willingly to that cross. Do we go willingly? Do we deny ourselves and pick up our cross and follow Jesus willingly? And do we do it out of love for him and what he's done for us? Sometimes today we want to sacrifice for our own sins Again, by often just going to church, giving more, reading a Bible more, or doing this and that. But not that these things are bad. They're not bad things, are they? We should be in church. We should be giving We should be doing the Bible study. But the problem here is, in truth, if we think these works will gain God's approval But really, we are unwilling to bring our disobedience to repentance. So that brings us to the last part. Sincere repentance brings about obedience. Saul's repentance is not true repentance. We see that there. He was sorry, he got caught, so on and so forth, but he really did not truly repent. And you know how you know that from Saul? Let me give you one verse. And it's down in uh okay, here we go. Verse thirty. Then he said, I have sinned, yet honor me now. Please, before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and return with me to worship the Lord your your God. He thought that a word from Samuel would straighten everything out. The people would still follow him. Yet he was going to be rejected as king. Saul's repentance is not true repentance. He feared men instead of God He sounds sincere, but he refuses to own up to his own sin, and he blames others for it. Instead of dealing with the deep issue of the heart of rebellion and stubbornness against God's word, Saul thinks a word from Samuel will help him save face between the people. God ultimately rejects Saul as king and his family line, no one from his family line. came into a king to be a king. Samuel finishes what Saul did not, and he hacks King Agag to pe pieces in the Lord's presence. That king thought he was getting off. He thought it wasn't surely the death is past me now. Here comes Samuel and does what God said for Saul to do. Samuel never again returns to Saul until his death at the hands of an Amalekite of all people. He fell on his own sword, but he wasn't dead, so he asked an Amalekite. kill him. That Amalekite went to David. David killed the Amalekite because he killed King David. It's an amazing thing. So the conclusion. Just to remember today, obedience is not an option. It means it is a command we are to obey. And the standard is always perfection. And we only have that perfection in Christ Jesus. Jesus. Selective obedience is disobedience. Anything that you select to obey and then not obey, it's all disobedience. God shows that there with Saul, no matter how much he believed and he did the He did kill all the people, except for Saul. That was selective. God rejected him. Sincere repentance brings about obedience. If you and I are willing to humbly go before God and ask forgiveness for our sins, he is faithful and just To forgive us our sins and to cleanse our hearts from all unrighteousness. Brothers and sisters, I might have gone a little over, but that's uh a great study that uh God has convicted me of this week. Hello, my name is Jim Gunam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. To have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon