Let's go ahead and pray together. Father, we are reminded even from the song that we just sang. How uh you have orchestrated and and built your church to be a place where we grow in Christ, where we are to be uh watching out for one another and caring for one another and Lord I pray that uh you would do that work in our lives here at Bethel. Pray Lord that That each of us would strive to be the example of Christ that we ought to be. The things that we have against us. We see it every day. It's our own flesh, it's the world, it's Satan and his legions. We have a big fight. Every day. But Lord, thank you that through Christ we have the victory, and through Christ we have the ability to serve you and to follow you and to obey your precepts, obey your word. We could never do that in our own strength. Thank you, Lord, for giving us through your spirit The power over sin. Pray, Lord, that while we still have the presence of sin in us, that we would choose you, that we would choose righteousness instead of sin. That we would be we would not go back to our old Master, our cruel Master of sin, but go and follow our kind Master, whose burden is light in Christ. Christ. Lord, I ask that you would continue to care for your people here. So many are are dealing with physical issues, so many are dealing with Struggles that they are unable at this point to overcome. We pray that you would comfort them Pray that you would continue to watch over them and remind them of your presence each and every day. We ask, Lord, that all of us would seek refuge in you That all of us would seek comfort in you, and we wouldn't be tempted to go places where no true comfort and no true satisfaction lies. I pray, Lord, as we go to your word in a moment, that our hearts would be softened to hear and respond to your word. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Reading from today's text, the pastor will be preaching from, be 1 Peter 4, verses 7 through 11. Verses 7 through eleven says, But the end of all things is at hand. Therefore be serious and watchful in your prayers. And above all things, have fervent love for one another, for love will cover a multitude of sins. Be hospitable to one another, without grumbling. As each one has received a gift, minister it to one another as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. If anyone speaks, let him speak as the oracles of God. If anyone ministers, let him do it as with the ability which God supplies. That in all things God may be glorified through Jesus Christ future that we've got to obviously and constantly keep in our minds. And uh when we think about the future, when we consider the future, something in our future, maybe plans that we have, whatever it is, uh, it causes us to change in our behavior. This happens the the opposite happens as well. If we don't think of anything in our future, we have no plans, we have no goals, then that also uh affects our behavior. Think of uh when the when the pandemic with COVID all started and everything was shut down and you basically had no plans because nobody could go anywhere and all that. What happened to people? Well, Netflix stock went through the roof despite a serious mar market correction because everybody was staying home getting fat and watching Netflix. So everybody gained their COVID nineteen here, whether you had cov got COVID or not, and uh and everybody got a little lazy and everybody was like, you know, I kinda like staying home and and then this some you know some people are like, I want to see people and other people were like, well, I just kinda like staying home and being lazy and all that kind of thing. But a as time went as time goes on, you start, you know, when you when you don't have any plans, nothing ahead, you just sort of Sort of float from one day to the next with really no with you just get loose, right? You get sort of sort of lazy. And not really aware, not really redeeming the time, not really thinking about things, not really focused, not really diligent. And it's interesting that the same kind of thing can happen when you think about uh use an illustration illustration to kind of help us understand this. So think about a teenager, you uh as my teenage group Geners get older, of course now they're allowed to stay home by themselves. It it's a great thing, I'm telling you. Uh you know, when you when they're when they're young, it's like uh you know, you're tied down and when you're when they're older they're like, okay, we'll see you guys. Um we'll be back, you know, when we uh when we're back. Um when you when you not our teenagers, our our teenagers don't do this, but but uh I'm gonna tell you. But some teenagers, if you were to leave them for a week and tell them exactly when they're gonna turn when they're gonna come back uh then they will ransack the place and wait, you know, fifteen minutes before you come back and then they'll clean up real fast. Whereas whereas the same teenagers, if you tell them we could be back at any time Well then they're going to be a little more vigilant about keeping things up and and managing things the right way because they're gonna parents could show up at any time And it's the same, and it's interesting that as you go through the New Testament constantly, over and over and over again The apostles exhort us to look and watch for the coming of Christ. It is all over the place. It's in nearly every epistle. Christ says it often. It is extremely frequent. It's constantly saying that, and it's telling us those kind of things to motivate us to walk the way that God wants us to walk with urgency and with focus. God wants us to be that way. For example, in 1 Corinthians 10 verse 11 it says, now all these things happen to them as examples that they were written for our ammunition. upon whom the end of the ages have come. In first 1 John chapter 2, verse 18 says, little children, it is the last hour In Romans chapter 13, verse 11, it says, and do this knowing the time that now it is high time to awaken out of sleep. For now our salvation is nearer than when we first believed. The night is far spent, the day is at hand, therefore let us cast off the works of darkness. and let's put on the armor of light. Let's get in the fight. Let's be vigilant. Let's be aware. This is the kind of thing you see over and over in the New Testament. Philippians 4, 5 says, let your gentleness be known to all men. The Lord is at hand. James chapter 5 verse 7 and 8 says, Therefore, be patient, brethren, until the coming of the Lord. See how the farmer waits for precious fruit and of the earth, waiting patiently for it until the recept It receives the early and the latter rain. So also be patient, establish your heart, for the coming of the Lord is at hand. Revelation one, verse three Blessed are those who read those, uh who reads and those who hear the words of this prophecy and keep those things which are written in it, for the time is near. Revelation chapter 2. I mean it I could keep going many, many places all over the New Testament. are telling us to constantly be aware that Christ could come at any time. Now some of you might be thinking, well, you know, that was 2,000 years ago and he hasn't come yet. The Bible actually addresses that in Thessalonians. It actually says, to God, a day is a thousand years, and a thousand years is as a day But what is absolutely clear throughout the entire New Testament, what is very, very clear, is that we are supposed to be waiting in a anticipation for the coming of Christ. We ought to be mindful of it when we wake up in the morning. We ought to be thinking about it throughout the day. And when we go to bed at night, we ought to be thinking about it as well. It ought to be on our minds that Christ is coming for us and he could come at any time. And that knowledge, that awareness, that kind of thing in the back of your mind all the time, it's like if you're working at a job and you know the boss could walk in at any time. You don't know when he's coming. It makes you vigilant in your behavior. You're attentive in your behavior. And that's exactly what Peter is going to say in this passage. He's going to say Because he could come at any time, you need to be and he and he uses two things here. Look at what it says. Verse 7. But the end of all things is at hand. Therefore, two things. Be serious. and be watchful in your prayers. Be serious and be watchful. Now these two words, be serious and watchful, are very, very close to each other in what they mean. There's a lot of similarities between these two words. The one means to be clear-minded, and the other means to be serious, to be sober-minded, to be ready. Now, why would God say that to these people? Remember the background in 1 Peter? Remember that these people are under persecution They're under the Roman government. There is much evil. There is much sin. There is much corruption. And there is much craziness in the world. Does that sound like something today? Do we not have that today? And here is the thing that's true about sin. The more sin is is public and the more sin is just uh rampant in any culture, whether it's in a a society, when it's in a culture in a country or a state or a or local area, whether it's in a church or whether it's in a the family, wherever it is, anytime you have rampant sin, you also have rampant confusion. You ever notice that? I think it's I see it in the I've I've experienced this in the workplace before. probably more than anywhere else. You're in the workplace and you know there's backbiting or people throwing each other under the bus or people taking credit for things they shouldn't be taking credit for, or people complaining about each other, or gossip going on. And when you have that kind of a work environment, there is mass confusion. And in our world, what do we have right now, folks? Mass confusion. And Peter reminds them, you've got to be sober-minded in the middle of confusion. You've got to be ready and aware of your environment. You've got to be clear-minded. It's interesting, this word clear-minded, or uh this this first word in this passage. And and and it's it's funny, it's that it's translated multiple different ways, and when you get something like that, it's because it's so hard to pin down to exactly one meaning. It means so many Different facets of different things. In Mark 5, 15, you remember the demon possessed man who had a legion of demons. Once that demon those demons were cast out, it says that he was sitting clothed in his right mind. That's this word. In Luke 8. 35, you have the same kind of thing actually there. In Romans chapter 12, verse 3, it says, For I say, though the great through the grace given to me in every one who is among you, not to think of himself more highly as he ought to think, but to think soberly as God has dealt to each one a measure of faith. To have a 2 Corinthians 5. 13, the same word is used. And it says, for we were beside ourselves, it is for God, but we are, but if we are of sound mind, it is for you. God wants us to have a sound mind mind, a clear thinking in the midst of all kinds of confusion, all kinds of chaos, all kinds of sin, all kinds of problems. God wants us to have a sound mind. Clear thinking. And I'm just going to tell you, the only way you're ever going to get that is from God's Word. The unchanging truth of the Word of God in the midst of craziness. It's only going to come when you keep meditating on this book and knowing this book and understanding the truth of this book and not assuming you already know this book and all that. That is when you will have to be able to have a clear mind that in the unchanging Word of God in the midst of a confusing world. But God also says in this text that we are to be watchful. We're to be aware of our environment. You know what it means to be aware of your environment? My grandfather growing up would often tell me, Jim, you need to learn to be aware of your environment. You need to keep an eye on what's going on. You've got to watch around you. I'm trying to teach my kids the same thing. You've got to be aware of your environment. Oh, okay, I'll just go to the next thing. You've got to know what's going on around you a little bit. That's particularly true if you go into a large city, isn't it? If you go into a to a a city where there's lots of people, a lot of things going on, you particularly then need to really be aware of your environment. Why? Because you've got all kinds of things happening. And that's the world we live in. We live in a world where you've ri you've got to be aware of what is going on. You ever drive you ever uh d uh been driving before, or you're driving before, you're really not paying any attention. Your mind is wiring to something else, and then suddenly something happens right in front of you or something, and you go, man, I was totally surprised by that. Why? Because you weren't aware of your environment. It's important for us as Christians. God says be clear thinking and be aware of our environment as Christians. Why? Because the coming of the Lord comes. This word sober-minded, serious-minded, is found in 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. Turn there for a minute, would you would you? 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, and we'll look at verses 1 through 8. It's mentioned, this word's mentioned several times in that passage. To be sober-minded, to be serious. Now that doesn't mean you can't joke around every once in a while. It doesn't mean that you can't have a good time, that to me doesn't mean you can't have a merry heart. But folks, the mindset of a Christian when he knows that the coming of Christ is near. He is going to be sober and watchful and serious and aware of his environment. He's going to be in the battle, on the battlefield as a soldier. In 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, verse 1, it says, But concerning the times and seasons, brethren, you have no need that I write to you, for you yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord so comes as a thief in the night For when they say peace and safety, they sudden then sudden destruction comes upon them as labor pains upon a pregnant woman, and they shall not escape. But you brethren are not in darkness So that this day shall overtake you as a thief. You know it's coming, he says. You are all sons of light and sons of the day. You're not of the night or the darkness. Therefore, what does he say? Verse 6, therefore, let us not sleep. As others do. But let us watch and be sober. For those who sleep, sleep at night, and those who get drunk are drunk at night. But those but let us who are of the day be sober, putting the breastplate of faith and love and as a helmet of hope and salvation God wants us to not be asleep in this world, to not be spiritually asleep, to not be just sort of coasting along and okay the culture will take me this way and then it'll take me this way and I'll think this way and I'll That is not what God wants us to He wants us to be watchful and sober-minded in a very, very perverse generation. Now, what's true is that God then is going to give us Very uh uh he's gonna give us some real help to do this. He's going to help us with this. And the what we find here next is how we essentially how we access that help. How do we, can I say it this way, how do we keep our heads screwed on straight when our culture and everything around us is turning it all kinds of different ways? How do we, what is the one thing that we need to do in order to live rightly knowing that the coming of Christ is at hand? What is it? And I'll tell you what it what it doesn't say It doesn't say well you need to witness it to as many people as you can. Now I'm not saying you shouldn't do that, but that's not what the text is going to tell us It doesn't say, well, you need to make sure you have your devotions for an hour a day. I'm not saying you shouldn't do that, but that's not what the text is going to tell us It's really interesting what the text tells us next. Out of all the things it could tell us, look at what it says, verse 7. But the end of all things are at hand. Therefore be serious and watchful in your prayers. We need to be praying. And then notice what it says, verse 8. And above all these things have what? fervent love for one another. Out of all the things that you could be doing and that I could be doing God says that you and I need to make sure that with the coming of Christ is happening, that we need to have Fervent love for one another. And when the New Testament talks about one another, you know what it's talking about? The one other statements in the New Testament are clearly talking about brothers and sisters That the main thing that we gotta make sure that we do is love one another and to do it fervently. Now that's incredible. Fervent love for one another. Now, Peter has already talked about love quite a bit. He has said in 1 Peter 1, verse 22. He says, he uses this term, sincere love of the brethren. Love one another fervently with a pure heart. He says again in 1 Peter 3, verse 8, finally all of you be of one mind, having compassion for one another. Love as brothers, be tender, be courteous. He says, love as brothers. You know what he's saying there? The same love you have for your family, you ought to have for your for your spiritual family. Love as though they are your brother because they are, or your sister because they are. Love as your own family. Do we do that? Do we regard our church family as the same kind of love as our own family? That is what the passage is saying. You can't get around it. Do we do that? God is actually telling us that we need to not love, oh yeah, yeah, I love them, sure I do, yeah, okay No, fervent love. It adds this term to make us understand that this is an active word that means constant and stretched. Now, why would God why would Peter here and by inspiration of God say this? Well, I'll tell you, I think there's two reasons for this. One reason is because of Christ's own words. In Matthew 24, speaking of the coming of Christ and laying out some things about what it's going to look like in anticipation of the coming of Christ. Jesus says this, the very short verse, he says this, and because lawlessness will abound, Matthew 24, 12 The love of many will grow cold. Because lawlessness abounds, the love of many will grow cold. Do you know, brothers and sisters in Christ, that the day in which we live, it is extremely easy for our love to grow cold? It's like what Christ said in the book of Revelation to the church at Ephesus when he said, You have left your first love. Have you and I done that? Have we left our first love? Jesus said in his high priestly prayer in John 17. He said that if we love God, we will love one another. The same kind of thing in John chapter in 1 John. You can't say you love God and you don't love one another. The reality is that you and I are, it's easy for our love to grow cold, and because of that, we are commanded to love fervently one another. Now there's another reason I think that Peter puts this here, and it's something that the writer of Hebrews identified as well as something that was absolutely needed In anticipation of the coming of Christ. And I actually like you to take your Bibles and turn there. Would you turn to Hebrews chapter 10 this morning and look at verse 23? Hebrews chapter 10. And we're going to look at verse 23 together. It says this in Hebrews chapter 10 verse 23. I'll just warn you ahead of time that at the end of this portion that we're going to look at, it says, as ye see the day approaching. It is anticipating the coming of Christ. And in verse 23, it says this, let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering. For he who promised is faithful. And how do we do that? How do we hold on to the hope without wavering when everybody else is wavering around us? How do we do that? Verse 24. And let us consider, there's our one another again. Let us consider one another in order to do what? To stir up love and good works. Well, how do you do that? Not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together. as the manner of some is, but exhorting one another so much the more as you see the day approaching. What God is saying here is that in the midst of an evil generation where you could go kind of nuts and crazy if you go the wrong direction and your thinking is pulled by every side. That if you want your love to remain warm, if you want your heart to remain pure before the Lord, if you want all of that to occur, then you've got to provoke love and good works among the body of Christ in the assembly That the assembly is there for us to stick together, if you will, to hold one another up to love one another in such a way that we are strengthened as a body of believers together. And so Peter, in the midst of these people having persecution and great stress stress and great frustration, Great, great issues. He says, make sure that you are fervently loving one another in the midst of all of it. People say, you know, I'd love that kind of kind of idea with our church uh uh church. I just don't th you know, I I'd love that'd be that'd be wonderful. And there are people right now all over this country. I don't know if you're aware of this, but there is a high percentage and on un It's an unsettling percentage of people who name the name of Christ who are deciding that it's just easier to stay home and watch the service online than to be with God's people in church. Now obviously the people I'm talking to here are, you know, you're obviously here, so thank you. But it's like it's like an amazing number, like twenty-five percent or something or more. It is staggering. And it is as the manner of some is. It is in direct opposition to this passage, and it's dangerous. And what the writer of the book of Hebrews is doing here is warning. He's warning us. Why? Because we need to love one another. Now Immediately somebody says, well, I don't think my church is doing that for me. I don't think my church is is is providing that kind of community for me. Well, it's interesting that he doesn't say that in 1 Peter. He says, fervently love one another. He doesn't say make sure that you are getting into a community where you feel supported, where you have everything you want, where everything is easy, where everything kind of Just gels and everything kind of fits together and everything is nice. He doesn't say that. He says to fervently love one another. Love is to give of oneself. Love is to fervent f and this is too fervently give of oneself to another. I think this is a major problem in our Christianity today. We look at the church as a smorgasbord of possibilities, and we're trying to find what we like and all of that. And what we really need to do is find a place where we could just love. Here's uh Dietrich Bonhoeffer in his book Life Together. I don't recommend everything about Dietrich Bonhoeffer, but he had a lot he was under persecution. He had a lot to say about the importance of assembling together and what Christian Christian community really looks like. He said this. The man who fashions a visionary ideal of community demands that is to be realized by God, by others, and by himself. He enters the community of Christians with his demands, sets up sets up his own law, and judges the brethren and God himself accordingly. When his ideal picture is destroyed, he sees the community going to smash. So he becomes first an accuser of his brethren, then an accuser of God, and finally the despairing accuser of himself. This is the demise of the Christian who chooses to find to say, well, things just aren't perfect and I can't find the community that I really want, and so I'm just gonna sort of, you know, I a it becomes a Becomes fatalistic. God doesn't say to do that. God says that we ought to fervently love one another. And I'll tell you another reason he says that we need to do that. It's the next phrase in 1 Peter chapter four, if you'll turn back there, it says this it says, and above all these things have fervent love for one another For love will cover a multitude of sins. Do you think that's needed in a body of believers? The kind of love that will cover a multitude of sins. I think it's really interesting he says that because the reality is if you spend any significant amount of time with anybody in an assembly together, rubbing shoulders together, you're going to get ticked off. You're gonna get annoyed by some personality. You're gonna get you're gonna get really irritated by something somebody does. It's really gonna bother you and you're gonna be hurt. You're gonna be hurt by somebody. Maybe you're gonna be hurt by many people. All of that is going to happen in a family, and then all of that is going to happen in a church family. And what Peter says to do is to fervently love because true biblical love covers a multitude of sin. Well, except the one that the guy did to me. Except that one. No. If you're saying, well, I don't really get ticked off by anybody, well, two things are happening. You're dead, you're not really human, or you're just not talking to anybody. And what God says is that we need as Christians to have the kind of love that covers a multitude of sins. We need to have the kind of love that just says, okay, that person wronged me, but I I love them How does that occur? What does this mean to cover a multitude of sins? Well, it's first mentioned in Proverbs 10, verse 12. It says, hatred stirs up strife. But love covers all sins. It's reiterated in the New Testament in James 5, verse 20. Let him who know that he who turns a sinner from the error of his ways will save a soul from death and cover a multitude of sins. Really, it's actually Christ that's our example, isn't it? Christ in Romans chapter 5 verse 8, it says this But God demonstrates his own love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. In 1 Corinthians chapter 13, verses 4 through 7, it says this about love. Love suffers long and is kind. Love does not envy. Love does not parade itself, is not puffed up, does not behave itself rudely, does not seek its own, is not provoked, thinks no evil. Does not rejoice in iniquity, but rejoices in the truth, bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things. Do you have that kind of approach to every brother and sister in Christ that you know? You're not looking for evil, you're looking for good. You're thinking the best. You're bearing all things, and you're hoping all things, and you're enduring all things. God says if you want to keep your head screwed on straight, it starts here. With this kind of love for one another. And then he says that, and then really to cover one another is to forgive, isn't it? Is it possible that somebody in the body of Christ could wrong you? Of course it is. In fact it's likely. And there is a time when you are trespassed against That's certainly appropriate, especially if it's a repeated kind of a thing, that it's certainly appropriate to follow Matthew 18, verse 15, and deal with that that way, and there's a way to deal with that. But there are a lot of things that really it ought to be that we just love the person so much that it's just covered. In our mind, it's just covered. Well, how do you do that? I'll tell you how you do that. I'll tell you how we we we we tend to r react wrongly. When somebody wrongs us, the first thing we do, what do we do? We look at them And we say that was wrong. And we immediately want to sort of separate ourselves from them because we've been hurt or wrong. And we immediately want to, in our minds, point out everything that's wrong with them. Do you know what Jesus says to do? You know it. I don't have to turn there. You know it. He says, look at yourself and take the beam out of your own eye. See, that's exactly the opposite reaction that we usually have when someone wrongs us. that we should we we look at them and say how wrong they are and how right we are when Jesus says immediately when somebody wrongs you you need to look at yourself first You need to see yourself first. And there is a sense in which even if you feel like you're right in the matter, you need to put yourself in their place. That's what love does. You know how I know that? Because that's exactly what Jesus did. Did he not do that? Jesus actually put ourselves and exact put himself exactly in our place when he went to the cross. He died in our place. He took on our sin on himself, and then you know what he did? He paid for it. See, forgiveness is not the idea of for I'm gonna just gonna forget what they did. No. Forgiveness in your mind is I'm this is paid for. It's covered. It's taken care of. It's the word to let it go, uh uh, to let it go. It's it's covered, it's paid for. If you're gonna really forgive someone, what you have to do in your mind is you need to say, number one, I need to put myself in their place. What You know, and and and think the best and consider the motive and understand that and then you say in your mind, you know, that's paid for. It's taken care of. Now the only way that you could do that is if Christ has forgiven you. The only way that you could do that is if in if you understand the forgiveness of Christ and how he paid for all of your sin And you know what should be coming to mind is that parable about how the the the the one man came to the king, the king forg gave all of his debt, and then what happened? He went and didn't forgive the debt, the small debts that were owed to him, or the one small debt that was owed to him. See, forgiveness, forgiveness in your mind, it's paid for, it's done. And God wants us to have that. He wants us to forgive in that way. And it's to be done over. And I'll tell you how you know you've really done that. Here's how you know. You know you've really done that when you can pray for them. When you can fervently pray for them. Matthew 5, 43 through 44 says this, you have heard that it was said, you have loved your neighbor and hated your enemy. But I say to you, love your enemies, bless those who curse you, do good to those who hate you, and pray for those who spitefully use you and persecute you. When you come to the place where you can pray for somebody consistently and earnestly and fervently, that's when you know That you truly have forgiven them. And you say, but they keep doing the same stupid thing over and over and over again. Well, you know the passage. I don't have to tell you the passage. You know the passage, right? Matthew 18, 21 through 22, the disciples said to Jesus, how often do we have to forgive somebody? And what did Jesus say? 70 times 7. He basically said just as many times as they sin. It's interesting. This is an in really interesting passage in Luke chapter 17, verses 3 through 5. This is amazing. Here's what goes on here. Jesus is talking to them about forgiveness. He says this. Verse 3 three. Take heed to yourselves if your brother sins against you, rebuke him, and if he repents, forgive him. And if he sins against you seven times in a day, and seven times in a day returns to you, saying, I repent, you shall forgive him. Here's what the disciples say to him, the disciples at the point. This is what they say to him. Verse 5 of that chapter, Lord, increase our faith. Does that sound like a strange response to this? He says, forgive as much as you possibly need to. And forgive as much as you possibly can. And I'll tell you why they said, Lord, increase our faith. Because anybody knows I that is really, really hard to do. See, when we when we are really interacting closely with each other in the body of Christ So that very likely there's going to be people that hurt us and annoy us and sin against us and all that kind of thing. When when we are really doing that, then you know what we're also going to need We're going to need the gospel working in our lives to be able to really, to really strengthen us and to increase our faith to be able to really trust the Lord in these situations and give it over to Him. And so to live fervently this way, loving our brothers and sisters in Christ in this way is going to require dependency on Christ. You can't do it on your own. And neither can I. Now that's the that is the n the one side of loving fervently. We're loving fervently so that love covers a multitude of sin. But on a positive note, on a proactive note, what is loving fervently talking about? And I want you to notice what it says here. In 1 Peter chapter 4. It says this Above all these things, having fervent love for one another, for love will cover a multitude of sins. And then it says this: be hospitable to one another without grumbling. Be hospitable to one another without grumbling. Now, what does hospitable mean? You know what hospitable means. Back in the first century, the way that hospitable the the way the hospitality worked, it was really simple. You opened up your home to let God do what he wanted to with your house. It was it's that simple. That's what hospit hospitality is Back in that day, they actually would have traveling preachers in. They would have apostles that would stop by and check on churches and those kind of things. And God said, make sure you're hospitable to them. And they need to open up their homes to do that. You know what else they did? They assembled in houses. In fact, there are there's archaeological evidence that actually there are certain people that actually rearranged their entire house. In order to be able to get more people in so that they could have more people in their assembly, in their house. In their house. And there was great cost and great risk to do it. If you were one of these, if you were using your house as an assembly, you were a target for pure persecution. and you had great risk and there was great cost involved. You basically just put your house on the map to be per to be to receive persecution. And with all of this in mind, Peter says, be hospitable without grumbling. I mean no wonder you had a little bit of complaining. No wonder you had a little bit of grumbling, and yet God says, be hospitable. And notice, notice, he doesn't say some of you need to be hospitable. A few of you you should be hospitable. Every believer ought to be hospitable, to use their homes in a way that pleases God and ministers to each other. So why don't we do we do this well? Why don't we see I'm going to meddle here for a minute? Why don't we? Why don't we use our homes in this way? To minister to God's people, to love each other in this way. Well, one thing is we've gone through COVID and we we started creating, we started making our houses like a fortress instead of a place to serve a God. And we've got to change our mindset about that. I wrote down a few ways why do we struggle with this today? Number one, we view our house homes as fortresses rather than places of ministry. It was very clear. It's very clear here, and there are several other places. In fact, it's a qualification of both an elder and a deacon to be lovers of hospitality. Do you know that? To be willing to use your homes in a way that loves brethren. Number two, our homes isolate us rather than bring us together. See the way th in the way our homes are constructed now. You know, it used to be that you'd stack homes on top of each other, and in some countries, in some areas that's the case. But we want our single family homes with lots of space in between. And I'm no exception. I like space in between. I don't want somebody who wrote up in the book against me and stuff. We use our homes to isolate ourselves. And number three, we feel like our homes have to be perfect. We feel like our homes Have we you know we have to create now I'm not saying it's wrong to have a a special you know time a special dinner, special thing, that kind of thing. That's great. It can be really nice and uh very helpful and all that. I'm not saying that, but you know what You know, if if we're brothers and sisters in Christ who are loving each other uh uh and and and loving each other in a way where love covers a multitude of sins, you ought to be able to deal with my dirty laundry. I mean you're supposed to deal with my sins. Certainly you could deal with my dirty laundry. And if I'm doing laundry when you come in, I'll give uh help me out. I'm serious you know, I'm I'm joking, but I'm serious. Like Rosara Butterfield wrote a book on hospitality and that's what she does. She has her house open all the time to anybody who wants to come in, and whatever chores are going on, come on and join. We'll eat dinner together or help clear the table. It is not where everything has to be perfect all of the time. That's not hospitality. That's pretension. But I will say this, I want to say there's nothing wrong with doing that sometimes to make somebody feel really special, those kind of things. But as a whole, we ought not feel like we've got to do that. Look, if I come to your home, I don't care if there's a it's a mess. Clean the toilet. That's all I care about. And if you don't clean the toilet, it's okay. Don't be offended if I ask for some you know cleaner and I'll do it. I'll show love to you by cleaning your toilet But other than that, I mean really, we really got to get past this Because God commands us to use our houses to love one another. And this is something that is very important for us to do. The other way that we need to do this is to serve one another. And we need to use our spiritual gifts to do it. And I'm out of my out of time, which is being Which which I kind of expected to be out of time. So we're going to pick up this tonight and we will finish this passage tonight and go over why how do we love each other by serving one another? another. What? We are to be stewards of grace. God's given us grace, and if we don't serve one another, we're not stewards. of the grace of God in our lives the way God wants us to be. Come back tonight and get more of a guilt trip and um no, I don't I don't mean that But I gotta tell you, I've been I I've gone through this message this week and I'm I was convicted. We need to make some changes in our home candidly. We need to open our home up more to more people and those kinds of things. And I I do hope that you will that we will all understand the importance of what's going on. Let's conclude all this. Number one. Are we living with the end in mind? Are we living that Christ could come at any time? Number two, are we loving in a way that forgives those who are in Christ readily and covers sin quickly? Are we loving in a way that forgives those who are in Christ readily and covers sin quickly? And number three, are we loving through hospitality, ministering with our gifts? Are we doing these things? This is what God says He wants to come back and find us doing. Are we doing it? Let's pray together. Father, we come to you this morning and we thank you for your word. There are some pat some places in your word that Give us clear teaching about who you are, and there are other places that we just need exhortation. We need to be reminded of truths we know We need to be reminded of commands. And Father, I I will be the first to admit that I need you in order to really be able to do this. I need to know your love for me. I need to know Christ's love. I need to understand what that looks like. Father, I pray, Lord, that as we see the day approaching, as we see the chaos in our society, As we maybe come up against persecution in the future, Lord, would you help us to learn what it means to fervently love one another. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. To have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon