Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Dear Lord, we pray this morning that you would speak to us through your word. May your Holy Spirit work through your word to convict us of sin. To show us where we need to change to be more like you. Lord, I pray you'd open our eyes so that we may see. Open our ears that we may hear what your Spirit says to us. Open our hearts so that we are willing to repent of sin. and turn towards you. And this morning I pray you'd encourage our hearts as we see what you've done in the past and we think on what you want to do in the future. future as you work in us as you work through us as you accomplish your purposes in this world be with Pastor Jim as he opens your word I pray you'd speak through him And this morning I pray you'd be honored and glorified through all this done here today. In Jesus' name. Amen. Take your Bibles, turn to Matthew chapter 15. We're going to read the end of this chapter. Matthew 15, verse 21 to 39. Matthew 15, 21 to 39. Then Jesus went out from there and departed to the region of Tyre and Sidon. And behold, a woman of Canaan came from that region and cried out to him, saying, Have mercy on me, O Lord, son of David, my daughter is severely demon-possessed. But he answered her not a word. And his disciples came and urged him, saying, Send her away, for she cries out after us. But he answered and said, I was not sent except to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. Then she came and worshipped him, saying, Lord, help me. But he answered and said, It is not good to take the children's bread and throw it to the little dogs. And she said, Yes, Lord, yet even the little dogs eat the crumbs which fall from their master's table. Then Jesus answered and said to her, O woman, great is your faith, let it be to you as you desire. And her daughter was healed from that very hour. Jesus departed from there, skirted the Sea of Galilee, and went up the mountain and sat down there. Then multitudes came to him, having with them the lame, blind, mute, maimed, and many others, and they laid them down at Jesus' feet. And he healed them. So the multitude marveled when they saw the mute speaking, the main mayhol, the lame walking, the blind seeing. And they glorified the God of Israel. Now Jesus called his disciples to himself and said, I have compassion on the multitude because they have now continued with me three days and have nothing to eat. And I do not want to send them away hungry, lest they faint on the way. Then his disciples said to him, Where could we get enough bread in the wilderness to fill such a great multitude? Jesus said to them, How many loaves do you have? And they said, Seven, and a few little fish. So he commanded the multitude to sit down on the ground And he took the seven loaves and the fish, and gave thanks, and broke them, and gave them to his disciples, and the disciples gave to the multitude. So they all ate and were filled, and they took up seven large baskets full of the fragments that were left. Now those who ate were four thousand men, besides women and children, and he sent away the multitude, got into a boat, and came to the region. So we have a major shift in this passage where Jesus is now going to be moving to uh to minister to gentiles. This was something that would have been totally foreign to um to the thinking even of the disciples. They had seen him minister a few times before uh this to different different Gentiles, but as a whole, their primary thrust Their focus, their mission was clearly to uh to the Jewish people. Um you ever has God ever worked in a way in your life That is totally different than what you expected. In fact, it kind of threw you a curveball the way he worked. That happens to us sometimes as Christians, doesn't it? You expect a certain God to work a certain way because maybe he's worked that way in the past and you kind of expect him to work the same way. And then sometimes he throws a curveball, so to speak. Uh I remember when I was uh you know many years ago now, um somebody said to me, you know, I in my life, somebody older been Uh the they said to me, uh every move I've made, every move from one house to another I've made it's always been better. I've always gone to a nicer house. ministry and things. And uh uh kind of said that's kind of the way God works. Kind of in in you know implied that. Didn't exactly say that, but implied that. And I thought I did think to myself, I bet he doesn't always work that way. way. But I at the same time I thought, yeah, that's probably generally true. And fourteen years ago we had a house up in Pennsylvania that was a nice house. It had a nice flat acre a half half acre of l uh of land and a nice area. It was not a big house, it was a modest house, but it was a nice L-shaped rancher and uh something we really enjoyed. And we then had to move and we moved down to What at the time was a house that was really it was the house I grew up in, but it was really in pretty bad shape. It needed a lot of maintenance, it needed a lot of work, we had to paint every room. Um the it was not very large, in fact square footage wise it was smaller, especially since my dad was already living there. We had to live in less space. There there there was all kind and I thought to myself, hmm, that's not exha that's not better. That's definitely not better. And I had to do that for well, for three years, but then the Lord allowed us to be able to improve the house over time and now it is better. But at the time it certainly wasn't. Not only that, three years, uh I had a pastor tell me one time, you know, every move I've made in ministry has always been better And uh well I you know uh I I was pastoring a church of about eighty-five people up there and I moved down to this area and um kind of th thought that I pastored some a church that was, you know, at least Maybe the same amount of people, maybe a little more, or whatever, and and the Lord leads me to a church of fifteen people. And I'm thinking to myself, Lord, uh I feel like I'm going backwards. I feel like I'm going down. I feel like I should be going up and I'm not. And I what are you doing, Lord? Of course, this is that was Bethel Baptist Church, and if you look around, there's a few more than fifteen people now. So praise the Lord for that. But the time, you know, God does things in certain ways sometimes, and you sort of go What's he doing? Like why is he doing it this way? Almost like Lord you're doing it wrong. This is not the way it's supposed to be. Of course, we would not necessarily say shouldn't say that to the Lord, but we kind of feel that way or think that way sometimes And I suspect, as we go through this, I think we'll see this in this passage, the disciples, they're headed up to a region that they are not used to, Tyran Sidon. It's a Gentile area. And they're probably saying to themselves throughout this, Jesus, you're doing this wrong. This is not what we're supposed to be doing. We're supposed to be reaching our people. We're supposed to be reaching Israel. We're supposed to be reaching the Jewish people. And you see that in the very first section of this passage. So in this ministry expansion, Jesus is now going to expand his ministry into the Gentile, into a Gentile area. And we're going to see some very, really, very positive responses from these Gentile people. We're going to see three. Faith from the lowly, all from healing, and satisfaction from providing. Those three. Faith from the lowly, all from healing and satisfaction from providing. We'll very candidly spend the bulk of the time on the first one actually. And so we get into this faith from the lowly. And we pick up here And we see in verses 21 through 28, you have the story of a woman who is certainly a Gentile. Certainly one who is in this region of Tyronsidon and certainly is in need of help from the Lord. And it's interesting to see what happens. But first notice about this particular region that we're in. And you can actually put the map up there if you'd like, the region of this area. There is ti they have gone from, and you can kind of zoom in there, they have gone from the Sea of Galilee up near Capernaum is where they're at, and they are headed up to tyran side right on the coast. Go zoom in a little bit more. There you go. Good. Um right on the coast there of the uh uh uh uh of the Mediterranean Sea and this is all Gentile area now that they're in. So I I I thought, you know it's Preachers twenty years ago never would have put a map up like this because you didn't you couldn't do that very easily, but why not? So you can kind of see where where they're going. They're on the coast here now and they're in this Gentile area. And it says in the text that they that Jesus went out from there and departed. So this was a deliberate departure. Jesus is departing from the Jewish people, he's going out, and now he's going to minister at least for a while to Gentile people. He is uh departing. And we see this in his ministry several different times. In Matthew 4. 12, we saw that he departed from Galilee. And again in 1215, he uh he departed He withdraws from people there. So he makes these movements, and this is a major movement for him in his ministry up to this Gentile area. And of course we find this woman in this area. Now, this woman, the Matthew's text calls it, Matthew calls her a woman from Canaan. The Mark text, the other text that is a parallel text to this, calls her a Syrophoenician woman. The reason that Matthew calls her a Canaan woman is really very likely to refer back to the Canaan people that were conquered by Israel many, many, many years prior to this. This woman is a Gentile woman. She is a woman from Canaan. And Matthew wants this to be highlighted for us as we see this interaction take place. And we pick up in verse 22 of this text and we see. Oh well actually, yeah. This is a Very emotional, the Mark text tells us, very repeated request from this woman, have mercy on me, O Lord. Notice the appeal to the mercy of God. That's going to become important in a few moments. Have mercy on me, O Lord, son of David, my daughter is severely demon-possessed. But Jesus' reply is kind of in some ways, at least for us, a little bit surprising. He says Well he actually doesn't answer a word. He doesn't say anything to her. Now keep in mind this Canaanite woman This Syrophoenician woman, she she is pleaded to the Lord, pled to the Lord here. And she notice, she notes that he is Lord. She recognized him as who he is. And says, son of David, recognizes him as he's not taking away anything from the fact that he is Jewish. He's not taking away anything from the thing. from the fact that that is his lineage. That's the even the focus of his ministry. She seems to understand that as we go on in the text. And yet Jesus doesn't answer her at all. Why doesn't Jesus answer her? And the answer to that, I think, is likely because Jesus is wanting to see how the disciples respond. That's what I think is going on here. He's wanting to see how the disciples respond to this Canaanite woman. who is repeatedly, according to the Mark parallel passage, repeatedly asking for her uh for help from Jesus Well well, what do the disciples do? The disciples, interestingly enough, are still in the f in even though they have moved now into this Gentile area and tire and Sidon, they still are under the mentality that there are some kinds of miracles and some kinds of things that Jesus really wouldn't be interested in doing for the Gentiles. We see that later on when she's gonna when uh what later on when they sort of say, well what kind of What kind of things do we have to feed them? We're going to see that later on. So so they're not expecting Jesus to do these kinds of miracles, especially casting out demons for Gentile people And so they say to Jesus, would you just send her away? Just would you would you get rid of her? And she says, they said, for she cries after us. She apparently, this was a repeat, she was not stopping. She was extremely persistent in her request for help here. And Jesus then says this. It's interesting how Jesus handles this, verse 24. He says, He says to the woman, I was not sent except to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. Now, we read that and we might say to ourselves, well, that doesn't sound very nice. That seems a little bit rude. Why would Jesus say that? Why would she say he say, Oh, I I'm not sent to you. I'm sent to Jewish people. Well, we have to assume at this point that Jesus is doing a couple of things. One is she know he he very likely knows the heart of this woman He knows her faith to some degree. And what we have seen so far in Matthew is that Jesus is very intent on teaching the disciples certain things. And I think what he's doing here is he is bringing up bringing about the disciples, he's bringing along the disciples in this journey to help them understand what's happening. He has said to the disciples before that you should go out, particularly to the house. to the house of of of Israel. Matthew 10, 5 says, these 12 Jesus sent out And commanded them, saying, Do not go into the way of the Gentiles, and do not enter a city of the Samaritans, but go rather the lost sheep of the house of Israel And so you go preach saying the kingdom of heaven is at hand. That was the directions that Jesus gave the disciples, and that was the mission, the marching orders that they had had so far. And Jesus said in Matthew 11, verse 27, that he was there to do the will of the Father. And so the disciples are thinking to themselves, this is what Jesus does. And so Jesus says, engaging them in this discussion, says to the Gentiles, because it is true, it is true that Jesus went first to the Jews. The priority was given to the Jews for the gospel. And in fact, if you think to another setting, you think of the Samaritan woman. You remember that passage in John chapter 4? The Samaritan woman, not a Jew either, and he goes to um he goes to her and talks with her, and of course they have a discussion about worship and the right place of worship. And in in that text It says in John chapter 4, verse 21. It explains a little more thoroughly. Jesus said to her, Woman, believe me, the hour is coming when you will neither on this mountain nor Jerusalem uh worship the Father. You worship what you do not know, and you know what uh what we worship. For he says, for salvation is of the Jews But the hour is coming, and now is, when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and in truth. For the Father is seeking such to worship him. God is spirit, those who worship him lest worship him in spirit and in truth. So so in that passage, which he is when he is talking to uh the Samaritan woman He explains that although salvation is of the Jews, there will be a time where certainly what he is looking for are those who are truly worshiping him. And that is going to, by implication, include the Gentiles, and the location where they worship is not really going to matter anymore. So Jesus is in this transitional period. And he wants to bring the disciples along in this. And just think about, we've already read the text. You know what this woman is going to say. What amazing testimony of faith this woman gives for the disciples. Right? And we're going to see that. And really, what amazing testimony she gives for And so Jesus says these this to uh to this woman And we then see that she is going to say, and she's going to say, um, then verse 25, then she came and worshipped him, saying, Lord, help me. He answered and said, it is not good to take the children's bread and throw it to the little dogs. Now, again, I'm I mean this doesn't sound very kind of Jesus. First of all, um dogs are not considered by the Jewish people to be very nice things. They are like rats to the Jewish people. Now this word, little dogs, there is a there is a I won't get into the details, but there's something in the Greek they're doing the Greek ending. that makes it seem like it's a little bit different than a normal uh you know kind of a large dog is a small dog. Uh so maybe he's referencing a kind of a pet dog rather than rather than um rather than just vermin. Jewish people did not keep dogs in their house, but Gentile people did. And so he says this. It's not, I don't want to get I'm not to give bread. Dogs were, the Jewish people did refer to Gentiles as dogs. Jesus is, in a sense, he is doing that. But this woman has such great faith. It is incredible the faith that she has. She says, what does she say? She says, Yes, Lord, yet even the little dogs eat the crumbs which fall from their master's table. What what what are we seeing in this woman? This is incredible. We are seeing such wonderful we're seeing faith, we're seeing humility, we're seeing a lack of feeling entitled. We're actually seeing a real contrast to what we saw from the Jewish people, right? And what do we see from the Pharisees, the sense of entitlement, the sense of righteous uh self-righteousness, the sense of uh and even from the people, from the Jewish people, we're seeing something The self-righteous kind of attitude, we see none of that here. And this woman has even reasoned in her mind That surely God is merciful enough to give me the scraps from the table. She's appealing to the very mercy of God. And when Jesus hears this, what does he say? He says that she has great faith. Now, interestingly enough, this woman in saying this, actually, she's quite theologically accurate in what she's saying. Because in Genesis chapter 12, it says this, given to Abraham, God said this to Abraham, get out of your country from your family, and from your uh father's house, to a land that I will show you, and I will make you a great nation, and I will bless you and make your name great, and you shall be a blessing. And I will bless those who bless you, and I will curse him who curses you, but and in you all of the families of the earth shall be blessed. So God's intention was always from the very beginning For Abraham to, of course, form a family who would then form a nation, and that nation would be a light to the Gentiles And all of the nations, all of the families of the earth would be blessed. That was God's original intention, that God would bless the world through the nation of Israel. And this woman then makes this assumption, this faith, not just an assumption, that Jesus is merciful. She appeals to the mercy of God. And Jesus says, How great is your faith. Now this is this is quite in contrast to the to how he has described the disciples. Do you remember how many times he has said to the disciples, O you of little faith? Not you of no faith But you of little faith, he said Matthew 6, verse 30. Now if God so clothe the grass of the field which today is and tomorrow thrown into the oven, will he not much more clothe you, O you of little faith Same thing again in Matthew 8. 26. Why are you fearful, O you of little faith? And we just saw, I believe it was last week, Matthew 14. or the week before Matthew 14, 31. And immediately Jesus stretched out his hand and caught him and said to him, O you of little faith Why do you doubt? And he's going to say it again in Matthew 16, 8. Oh you of little faith. He keeps saying to the disciples, O you of little faith, oh you have a little faith, oh you have a little faith, oh you have a little faith. This woman he goes, What great faith you have. I mean, think of it from the disciples' perspective. They're looking at this very likely, and they're looking at this and they're going, here is this Canaanite woman, this Syrophenician Gentile. And she and he she had this kind of faith and Christ pronounces her as having great faith and heal and and healed her daughter Where does Jesus begin to really put the priority? The priority is on this wonderful faith. What kind what do we see in this passage about this faith? What does great faith look like? I want to point out a few things here. Number one, great faith is completely undesirable. Deserving. This woman did not see herself as deserving. She didn't appeal to Jesus and say, yeah, but can't, you know, I'm a person too. Can't I sit at the table? You know, I'm entitled. You don't see that at all. There is not an ounce of entitlement in this woman. There is not an ounce of I deserve better. in this woman. Nothing. None of it. She is complet she's saying, can you, by your mercy, give something to me, a little dog, a little pet Great faith is completely undeserving. Number two, great faith is completely dependent. She's She's crying out to Jesus. She sees Jesus as her only hope. She is wanting Jesus to To do something, to help her, and she's incessant and repeatedly coming to him. She is dependent on him Number three, great faith is humble, completely humble. This woman is is and everything she is saying is humble. And then Great faith thinks rationally and biblically. See, she had had a rationale to her faith. She had thought this through. I don't think she came off of this idea, you know, just suddenly, but she had this She had thought through the re yes, Jesus is a Jew. Yes, he is going to the Jewish people primarily. Yes, all these things are true. He's obviously come up here in the Gentile area. Okay, uh when I come uh to to him and when i when i cry out to him on what basis is he going to uh is he going to heal my daughter and he says surely he's merciful enough And he cries out, have mercy. She cries out, have mercy on me. We see the same kind of thing with another Gentile in the book of Matthew. Do you remember the other Gentile that we've seen in Matthew chapter 8? In verses 5. Go ahead and take it real quick. Turn over there for a minute. I want you to see this again. This is worth looking at again. We've got this Gentile, the centurion. Remember him? And I'm just going to read through this kind of quickly, but I want you to see this. Verse 5, Matthew 8 says, And when Jesus had entered Capernaum, a cent a centurion came to him. pleading with him, saying, Lord, my servant is lying at home paralyzed, dreadfully tormented. And Jesus said to him, I will come and heal him The centurion answered and said, Lord, I am not worthy that you should come under my roof. Look at the humility here. But only speak a word, and my servant will be healed. For I also am a man under authority. Here's his reasoning. Here's his thinking. Having soldiers under me, and I say to this one go and he goes, and then another come and he comes, and to the to my servant do this, and he does it. When Jesus heard it, he it m he marvelled. How often Jesus is marveling. Jesus marvels and says to those who followed, Assuredly I say to you, I have not found such what? What is it? Great faith, not even in Israel. What did Jesus appeal to. I'm sorry, what did the centurion appeal to? The authority of Jesus. This woman appeals to the mercy of Jesus. The centurion appeals to the authority of Jesus. And Jesus goes on to say, verse 11, I say to you that many will come from east and west and sit down with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven. You'll sit down with us. But the sons of the kingdom will be cast out into utter darkness. There will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. And Jesus said to the centurion, Go your way, and as you have believed, so let it be done for you. Their servant was healed the same hour He's uh implying that there are going to be many from all over the place that's going to be included in the kingdom of heaven there. And by the example of the centurion, the great faith that he has, this is This is an example of that. These examples of gentile, humble, dependent faith really should be a challenge for us as well, right? Because most of us in this room are Gentiles. Say, well, I've got a Jewish heritage, but yeah, you're you're probably mixed in there quite a bit And so the reality, the question really we need to ask ourselves is, do we have that kind of faith? Would it be said would God say of us, oh you have little faith? Or would he say of us, oh you of great faith? I have to say very frequently, I think the Lord would probably say of me, oh you of little faith. I'm sure he would not say, Oh you of no faith And I'm I can I have had the assurance of the Lord about that. But oh you of great faith Do we have this kind of faith? And look, the reality is this is why we go through the difficulties, we go through the struggles and the trials. The suffering, what is God doing in our lives? He is growing our faith. But trying, James 1, of your faith works endurance. And so we need to realize that in our lives. What God is doing is bring us to a place through His sovereignty, through His providence, that we are growing in our faith so that it can be Well, immediately Matthew wants to let us know That although Jesus has said to this woman, okay, my main focus is the house of Israel, and that's what God has sent me to do overall, and salvation is of the Jews. Now it appears that Matthew really wants us to see that Jesus goes out and he does a lot of miracles for these Gentiles. Would you notice what it says verses 19 through 31? And Jesus departed from there, skirted the Sea of Galilee, and went onto the mountain and sat down there. Okay, so he he then goes from from uh Tyran Sidon and now he is going to travel um to a place according to Mark he's going to travel to Decapolis. Mark 731 tells us where he's going. Matthew says he skirts so he's coming from Tyran Sidon. Alright. You guys can you can see it there. See that there's a whole Gentile area there. He comes He comes again south um southeast there, uh maybe hits Capernaum area somewhere around there and he skirts the Ga Sea of Galilee and comes over to the capitalis, which is also a Gentile area as well. And so he is now in Then verse thirty, then the great multitude came to him, uh having with them the lame, blind, mute, maimed, and many others, and they laid them down that Jesus. And so the multitude marveled when they saw the mute and uh speaking, the maimed made whole, the lame walking, and the blind to see, and they glorified the God of Israel. Now Marx uh Mark's version does not list all of these different uh um healings Matthew goes into more length, and he says, great multitude came. So Jesus is doing a lot of healing of the Gentile people. And that's really sending us a signal. Matthew wants actually his Jewish readership, but also the rest of us to realize that Jesus is ultimately going to be the Savior. of not just just the Jewish people, but of the world. And Jesus begins to do this. This had to have been a serious surprise to the disciples as they go out and do all of this kind as Jesus does all of these kinds of miracles. And this actually is prophesied in Scripture in Isaiah twenty-nine 18 through 19 it says, In that day the deaf shall hear the words of the book, the eyes of the blind shall see out of obscurity and out of darkness The humble also shall increase their joy in the Lord, and the poor among men shall rejoice in the Holy One of Israel. Coming out of darkness, coming uh uh the the humble shall increase is probably a reference to the Gentiles there. So he heals them, and what's their response in verse 31? They are what? In awe. They marvel. And what do they do? They glorify who? The God of who They glorify the God of Israel. Now that is really significant because the Gentiles in this text As they see what is happening and the healings and all the things going on, they decide not to allow these racial issues to be involved at all in the worshiping of God. The Jewish people were pretty self-righteous. They definitely considered themselves to be better than certainly Samaritans and also Gentile people. And the Gentiles, you would just have to imagine, would know that, and you would just have to imagine that the Gentiles would not like it very much, and yet They are willing to s they are willing to marvel, to be in awe of all of this, and to glorify the God of Israel. You know what's really interesting as you as you kind of Contrast that with Jesus' previous ministry with the Jewish people. Did they have the same kind of marvel? I mean there were times where it says that they did, but as we've seen in the book of Matthew They keep asking for more, especially the Pharisees. They keep asking for more signs and more signs and more signs. Jesus is doing all kinds of stuff. He's casting out demons, and they just want more and more and more. And they're going to do it again later But what do these Gentile people do? They respond in awe of what Jesus has done. Well, what can we learn? Why do you think the Gentiles responded in awe? You know why? Very likely because they were not used to this. I mean that just makes good sense, right? That's not life that profound. They I'm pretty sure they're not used to somebody coming in and doing all these miracles, all this healing. And it certainly is an awe-inspiring thing to see that. But why would the Jewish people not be in awe every time Jesus did it? Because they were used to it. Do we ever lose our awe of God? Do we ever lose our awe of the things of God, of the truth of the Word of God? Do we lose our awe Do we lack the ability to marvel at the truth of Scripture, at the truth of what God is doing? Of course, we several years ago went over went through a book called Awe by David Tripp. It's a good book, as most of us noted, it was it does get a little little bit the truth is very good. It's a bit repetitive as he goes through uh through the book and talks about awe and all of these different things, uh different different aspects of uh what he talks about in the book. But he points out in the book, he uses an illustration, and I think it was a uh the way he writes it, there's it was actually a man who had everything. He had everything he could ever want. He had rich, he had money and houses, he had a family, he had everything, and yet he was absolutely miserable He had a great wife. He had four kids, four four grown children. And he comes to Tripp, Paul David Tripp, and he says How could it be that I that I have I have it all and yet feel so empty? Is that possible? To have everything you possi could ever want in life And yet you feel so empty. Tripp says it was a genius question, but he didn't know it. It was deeply theological, but he didn't see it. His depression kept him from understanding his own insight. It had all slipped through his fingers like a bone-dry s like bone-dry sand He had it all, but he had come up empty. He desperately wanted me to fix it, to do something that would make it all seem worthwhile, but I couldn't. As he talked impatiently with me, bitterness colored every word. He was crying for help, but he didn't know that the only help I had to offer he probably wouldn't want. As he talked in the background, these words kept crashing through my brain. For what does it profit a man to gain the whole world and forfeit his own soul? He didn't have a contentment problem. He had an awe problem And you and I, boy, it is easy for us to be so familiar, so familiar with the things of God. Those of us who have grown up in church, we have lived our lives uh in Scripture and And and all of it's so familiar to us that we lose that all. I I I love I love it when somebody comes to Christ and it's they're they're a new Christian you know Christian and everything is so amazing. I it's just, you know, everything they find something new. Oh, I didn't realize that. Oh, that's not that's amazing. That's awesome. Wow, that's so great. Nothing better than than helping a new Christian, discipling a new Christian Everything's so amazing. And you know, you know, you start you disciple somebody that's a new Christian, you start realizing they you know they they you start realizing, yeah it is. I kind of forgot it was We need to be go get back into you know w a wonderful prayer would simply be, Lord, help me to be in awe of you again. Help me to be in awe of what you do and who you are in the gospel of Christ. Lord, bring me back to a place of marveling and glorifying you. Then we move, Jesus now moves and and uh to we're now moved to the next portion of this, and we find it in in the book of Matthew again here, chapter 15, and we're at verse 32 now. And Jesus has called his disciples to himself because he has not only been healing these people, but they've also been uh he's been taking teaching them and they have been with him three days, presumably without food. Now that was longer, by the way, than Israel. Remember, of course, this is the feeding of the 4,000, not the feeding of the 5,000. But when he had fed the 5,000, they weren't with him for three days. It was much less, much less of the time. But these people were with him for three days learning from him. seeing what he was doing in their lives. And in this case, the disciples don't come to Jesus. Remember the other passage of Matthew chapter. in uh uh the disciples come to Jesus and say, hey, we've got to let these people go and get food. No, in this case, disciples keep it's kind of funny, the disciples keep their mouth shut this time. Because remember what happened back in back then? Jesus says to them, you feed them. Of course Jesus is trying to teach them the importance of being dependent on him, as we learn. But this time, Jesus comes to the disciples and says, hey, look at what it says verse 32. And Jesus called his disciples to himself and said, I have compassion on the multitude because they have now continued with me three days and have nothing to eat. And I do not want them want to send them away hungry lest they faint on the way. Is that a distinct possibility? You go three days without food and then you walk a long way. And it's pretty likely that you could pass out in the process. And so Jesus comes to them and says, hey, we need to do something about this And the disciples say this, verse 33. This is really curious, because I mean they've seen him do this. They've seen him feed 5,000 people. And yet, look at verse 33. Then the disciples said to him, Where could we get enough bread in the wilderness to fill such a great multitude? Now, I gotta be honest with you, I read that and I sort of go, Like, duh, right? I mean, he's already done this before, and yet they're saying this, where in this great wilderness, where are we to find this food? And the only thing I can assume is that they are just assuming that Jesus doesn't do these kind of miracles for Gentile people. And so they're looking for other ways here. And of course, Jesus says, verse 34, how many loaves do you have? Jesus is still wanting to use the disciples. Now this time, he's not trying to get them to learn to be dependent on him. But he is still trying to involve them in his work. And so he says, well, what do you have? And uh this time it's not as precise. They say seven loaves and a couple of a few fish. And verse 35, so he commanded the multitude to sit down on the ground, and he took the seven loaves and the fish and gave thanks, broke them, and gave them to his disciples, and the disciples gave to the multitude. So they ate all the and were filled with And they took up seven large baskets full of fragments that were left. Now those who were eight and were four thousand men besides women and children. And he sent them away the multitude got into the boat and uh away sent away the multitude got into the boat and came to the region of Magdala. So he feeds them in a very similar way to the to the to the the feeding of the 5,000. What was he doing here? Well he really, folks, what he was doing was he was showing that he had compassion on the Gentiles as much as he did the Jews. We've seen already on several occasions that it says in Scripture that he is moved in Matthew that he is he he was moved with compassion. But in every other time so far he has said this, he has said this in ri in reference to But this time is different. This time he is saying this in reference to the Gentile people. And so he is able to he feeds them and shows his great compassion and provision for these people. There's another slight difference I'd like you to note. At the end of this passage, you don't really see any response one way or the other from the multitude. Except they're filled. They're satisfied. We see that. And we did see that the Jewish people were satisfied as well. Clearly, Jesus provides well. They were completely satisfied. But in John chapter 6, Jesus actually has to scold the Jewish people for pursuing him Because he fed them. So apparently in that case they responded, didn't respond so well to to Jesus ultimately. And in this case, there's no response at all. We would assume then that it was a good response, or certainly not a bad response, in all of this. Now what happens then is similar to what happened before in in in the feeding of 5,000. They now go to a new region. This region um is they get on a boat, and that's really the only way you escape a multitude, I think, probably. Like, probably if they walked somewhere, the multitude followed them, and so they decided to get on a boat, which can only uh hand handle a few people. And they go to this place called Magdala. Incidentally, I'm not sure how important this is, but it's really interesting, so I'll mention it. Um Magdala for a while for uh years in the past uh uh some some translators would translate this different. differently because there wasn't a lot known about Magdala whether it was even real or not. But in in recent days there's been major archaeological digs to show to show that Magdala is in was indeed a a port city that was just north of Capernaum on the Sea of Galilee and uh and and was very likely the the home place of Mary Magdalene. And it's really quite interesting. So the Bible was right all along in using this word Magdala, and we see that here in this text. So and then he's gonna by the way return to Galilee and he's gonna again be be uh ministering to the min to to to Judah. Jewish people again. So what can we learn from all of this and summary all of this? I have three questions for us. Number one, is your faith undeserving, dependent? humble and biblically well reasoned. That's actually four questions in one, isn't it? Is your faith undeserving, dependent, humble, and biblically Well reasoned. That is great faith. Number two, are you in awe of God? Boy, I mean I I gotta be honest with you, when I read I I read this, it's so it's so easy. I I wanna I I admit before you that it's so easy to just keep going through life doing the next thing. And to not take the time to really just sit back and be in awe of our God and what he is doing, to be in awe of his word, to delight in it, to love it, to to see what he is doing in our lives Are you in awe of God? I really think that the way we deal with that primarily is to ask God for it. Lord, give me an awe of you And then number three, do we pray that God will take what we will what we have multiplied and use it for his purposes? That's not worded right. It's my fault. Um will you well you know what I mean by that. Take what God take what we have what we have, God, and but we pray that God uses it for his purposes. Are we good stewards with what God is doing with us. We see that both in the in the in the previous passage of the feeding 5000 and this passage as well. These are things that we need to ask ourselves. I think particularly the kind of faith that this woman had. Do we have that kind of faith? May we really think through this in our lives as Christians. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and thank you and praise you for who you are. We thank you that you that your in your plan, in your divine plan, you reached out beyond Israel into the regions of the Gentiles and and we are the beneficiaries ultimately. We thank you that you will even go further into And send the disciples even further into Jerusalem and Judea and Samaria and into the uttermost parts of the earth. Lord, thank you for your gospel. Thank you for your work. May we trust you in our lives and become utterly dependent and humble before you For you, so that we can have that kind of faith that this woman had. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Gannam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide It helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. Or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can