You ever seen that before? It elicits fearful submission by opposition. Interestingly enough, it says, for example, in the Mishnah, which was rabbinical writings at that day, it says this, he whose dead lies unburied before him is exactly It's very volatile. They looked around at the circumstances, and they had not yet learned to rely on the presence of Christ. And the response, of course, of the people are that they want him to leave. and to become a follower of Jesus. Let's pray together. And and the truth is this, very frequently in Christianity and in our world, um Christians are not, you know, when we when we give the gospel, when we explain the That was louder than I than usual. the Son of Man ascend where he was before. I mean, you know, you live in Maryland, you really know how volatile the weather is. And he said to them, Go. was cast in the lake of fire and grimstone where the beast and the prophet are, false prophet are, and they will be tormented day and night forever. and there's like, okay, you've gone as far as you can go in the in the revelation of God's word in a particular area, and there are still unanswered questions. Lord, would you strengthen us and encourage us and challenge us and teach us today how to rightly respond to your authority? and comfort and strength and help, so much so that your spirit even prays when we don't know what to pray. and to see how we can grow in our faith and trust in you. True living God, who is sovereign over all things. Jesus, you Son of God, have you come here to torment us before the time? Whether whether it's a job or a person or a house, any of those have uh there is no such thing as a perfect house, a perfect job or a perfect person. N none of 'em. I warn them? you you're gonna have to do it completely and it's gun there's going to be a cost that you're gonna have to look at. plan of salvation, very rarely do we say, hey, you know, there's a cost here too. And we're going to see that in this passage. on this for for the most part. And three, it actually causes a fearful submission by the devil, by opposition, by Satan and his demons. a command to depart to the other side. this great position, there would be, you know, there would be respect and honor in the community and a position, sort of like a if you think of a tenured professor today who has all that he, you know, he's his head. He also is pointing out that his discipleship under him was not going to be a place of comfort. So following Christ requires counting the cost. freed from reciting the Shema from the eighteen uh benedictions and from all the commandments stated in the Torah. He's great today and not tomorrow. That Christ revealed his revealed authority requires uh is required with growing faith over fear. Because he wants us to get this overall theme of the authority of Christ revealed. Then he arose and rebuked the winds and the sea, and there was a great calm. And personally in your life, he trumps all, and he is first over all. these guys. And waves are overtaking the boat. Jesus' perspective is, I'm here. to fear. you know, uh walk across the street uh without looking both ways, you know, that's not that's just stupid, you know. They needed to know more of who Christ really is. To know more of who he is and what he does and what he can do. the the the men are. If they can take these swine and run them two thousand swine, which is the livelihood likely of the city, and many of them like li you know the the uh disrupted because of this. to be destructive. To the authority of Jesus. you fear. don't have enough faith and man what what's my no no. Jesus and I know he loves me and you've kind of created your own your own God in a sense and and and if if you've got that all figured out then you probably don't know him. And you have to look back and you have to say, okay, Lord, I can't, I can only understand what you've revealed. with good. And if maybe you're listening today and you have never actually placed your trust in Jesus to be the savior of your sin. somebody that you're comfortable with, let us take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you belong to Jesus. in this text. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. Yet I do not turn aside from your law. us eternal life for those who put our faith and trust in Him and turn from our own ways. fully upon your word. But the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head. some sort of situation, a new house that they had bought or whatever, it really, really excited, really enthusiastic to the point where they it is though as though the whatever they're talking about, whatever they're excited about is perfect the the boat and they they're meeting up and uh and we'll see what happens here. with every volunteer who is willing to make a little profession and talk fluently of experience. He is going to focus on his authority revealed. But Jesus said to him, Follow me, and let the dead bury their own dead. is that a person who desires to follow the ca- follow Christ must count the cost. pretty much established, has respect of his community, has a good uh good uh job and he's sort of set for life, that kind of a thing. And that's why Jesus then replies, foxes have holes and the birds have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay it. And then there's an interesting story in John chapter 6, verses 60 through 66, actually. speak to your spirit they are their life. I'm reading there is that Jesus was feeding five feeding multitudes of people and doing all kinds of miracles. Now that sounds reasonable, doesn't it? the greatest urgency and the greatest priority, the greatest importance, that I actually even have to come before it. One person said this, Jesus is elevating his call to follow me above all other allegiances. So what was the solution? of God. three through thirty-two it says this those who go down to the sea in ships who do business on great waters, they seek the works of the Lord, and his wonders in the deed. change and you'll like you know at some point you're gonna like the weather but it won't be for very long because it'll change again. He calms the storm so that they that men may give thanks to the Lord for his goodness and for his wonderful works to the children of men. I want to make several observations that we can really glean from this glean from this portion of the passage. Number two, fear doesn't show no faith, thankfully, but it does show faith deficiency. When you have fear, don't worry, oh I've lost my faith because I have fear. there is fear. Because he wanted to show his authority, probably more likely uh that he wanted to show his authority there, and he revealed his authority, and when he got to that area, there were these there were these legions of demons that realized who Jesus was. What do we do with you, Jesus, you son of God? Now a good way off from them there was a herd of many swine feeding. Please leave. Interestingly enough, in the other parallel passages, they only mention one man. wrote it down but either way uh it's not a contradiction here. Jesus, recognizing who he is, and they recogn and they call out in fear. the the kingdom purposes of Jesus. It's really kind of an interesting passage. twenty four. of the great day. Secure. He's over Satan and the demons and the devils. Jesus is that you really have given your life to Jesus by your will. To following Christ. something not and it's something that they don't expect. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. It is called the Exchange. This is my comfort in my affliction. our source of truth and our future hope, all in one book. Lord, we are thankful for that, and we are so grateful for your word. Lord. Word. And he said to them, Go. There's three different responses uh in this passage as well. You're really concerned about their outlook on them, then you're probably going to warn them. But sometimes, I think sometimes when we present the gospel, it's all about the good stuff and nothing about the cost that's involved in discipleship. Learn from them, a scribe or rabbi learn for a while, and they would be their disciple. And he wanted them to understand this. When Jesus knew him himself that his disciples complained about this, he said to them, Does this offend you? And we see it here. For Jesus knew from the beginning who they were who did not believe and who would betray him. If you have someone that you need to respect in burial, that you need to go and do that. a cost of comfort, a cost of security, a cost of status, and also there is a there is you've got to follow me with no reservations and you've got to follow me and put exempt from reciting the Shema, from saying the telephia, and from wearing phylacteries. So we see the problem in verses 23 through 25. And they call out to Jesus to save him. But calling out in fear to save them. The disciples are fearful because they're looking around and they might die. Now understand the disciples' perspective. Matthew Henry puts it this way. There are other times in the Gospels where he will actually say, oh faithless generation, there's no faith here. He doesn't say that about these disciples. At your rebuke they fled. If you want to grow in your trust of Jesus, you must know him more. The more you know of the Word of God, the more you know God. God. Weeping, those things are part of life, those things are part of difficult things. Uh we know that because there's m large amounts. violently down the steep place into the sea and perished in the water. Including what had happened to the demon-possessed men. Is that a contradiction by the way? that their end is, there's going to be an end to their to their ability to be able to thwart the the authority of Jesus. Jude 6 says this, the angels who did not keep their proper domain, but left their own abode, he has reserved in everlasting chains under darkness for the judgment. It says in the passage now a good way off from them, there was a herd of many swine feeding. Now, there are different ideas as to why they wanted this. They're obviously pig farmers, you got two thousand of them, uh and their livelihood is is is um is in question because of this and they're you know it's being because they that tells you something about their values as well. And he said, and so Satan has to ask permission of Jesus, of God in that passage to do that, and God gives him permission and says, you gotta save his gotta keep his life. And he's powerful over all. You've got the disciples that are following Jesus, but they don't really understand who he is yet. Saving faith not just includes understanding that Jesus is God, but submitting my will to him. Number two, evil powers must must gain God's permission to act in opposition, which we mentioned already. Someone so powerful that were ab they were they were able to send he was able to send deans into s uh demons into swine and kill the sw they totally missed that. Is your fear hindering your faith? the volatility in the world, we look at the wars, we look at the diseases, we look at all of the different things in our world, and it is there is all kinds of, in our mind, legitimate reasons to fear one-dimensional or two-dimensional character of God, but a full a full understanding of the character of God. um with faith instead of fear, with total and complete dedication instead of reservations and expectations I remember your name in the night, O Lord, and keep your law. Today, we will be changed more and more into your image, and that Father, we would be light and salt in this world wherever we go, we ask in Jesus' name. Why are you fearful, O you of little faith? They're not seeing any flaws. We're first going to see that it's that the response that it calls for following Christ completely, then we're going to see that it requires faith that grows over fear. So it calls for following after Christ completely, requires faith that grows over fear, and then elicits fearful submission by opposition. One, following Christ completely. influence and notoriety in that day. In discipleship, if you follow me, if you mimic what I do, it's going to be different than what your expectation is. In Deuteronomy 27, verse 16, curses the one that treats his father and his mother with contempt, and all the people shall say Amen. He's not saying, okay, you have to dishonor your father, dishonor your parents, you need to dishonor them and follow after me. me as first priority. And it says, Now when he had gone when he got into a boat, his disciples followed him, and suddenly a great tempest arose on the sea, so that the boat was covered with the waves, but he was asleep And so they call out to him, and clearly by Jesus' response, they call out to him in fear, and they say, please save us, or do you not care if we perish? But by being by disturbing themselves with their own fears, that he is questioning. And then he basically answers his own question, Jesus does, by saying to them, here's the problem, O you of what? He immediately stretched out his hand and caught him and said, Oh you of little faith, why do you doubt? They really did not have a full understanding of who Jesus is at this point, of being the very God of the universe. the world, the climate, the storms, all of that. And praise him in the company of the elders. The Spirit of God indwells us if we know Him as our Savior. Inordinate fear is particularly senseless. In the midst of the storm. Jesus was. They are very clear about who Jesus is in this passage and as they respond to Jesus. that fell from heaven many years ago, they are still in the earth, they are still working, they are still very present, but there is a day that they that that will end. They want to do one last harm something harmful to the cause of the kingdom of God. And Job says, consider, or God says, consider my servant Job, and Satan says, look, you've got a hedge over around him, and I can't touch him. Folks, what it ought to cause us to do is just glory in the fact that Jesus is the authority over all. Now, I didn't come up with that phrase. That they what they actually should have done is gone to him and bowed before him in worship, but instead they valued what? But we really would love to meet you in person. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. or email us at info at bbcofmd. And the fact that he rose up out of the grave and is seated at your right hand gives us great hope. Matthew 8, 18 through 34. So that the boat was covered with waves. uh really excited about a particular person, maybe uh someone they were falling in love with, or a particular job that they were just starting, or And this teacher comes up to, or this a scribe rather, who who had a scribe has great um I don't have foxes have holes. Back then, during this time, and the scribe comes to Jesus, sees who he is, and says, I'll follow you wherever you go. This is what he wasn't saying. What he is saying is that following after me must be your highest priority. Then his disciples came to him and awoke him, saying, Lord, save us. So they are in the presence of Jesus, but their experience and their circumstances around them are telling them that they need to be fearful. And they do have some semblance of understanding Jesus' ability. The boat's filling with waves. And but Jesus' perspective is totally different. There he says, O faithless and perverse generation. And it tells us something about the rudimentary level of the disciples' understanding of Jesus. Because they say, what manner of man is this that even the winds and the waves obey him? That the psalmist in attributing to God who he is often talk about God being in control of the weather, God being in control of the Psalm 899, you rule the raging of the sea. For he commands and raises the stormy wind which lifts up the ways of the sea. That did not allow them to trust and rest in the presence of Jesus. And when you trust him, then you will know that you are aware of his presence. Exceedingly fierce, so that no one caught could pass that way. They know of a time that it's going to come. It tells us what? An acknowledgement of Jesus as God does not equal submission to God. But Jesus during this time offers the invitation to submit willingly and to become his child. But if we are overwhelmed with fear, it shows us something about our faith. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. look ahead to the message this this morning and seeing Christ reveal his authority and how we ought to respond to it. Now when he got into the boat, his disciples followed him, and suddenly a great tempest arose on the sea. Amen. So the demons begged him, saying, if you cast us out, permit us to go away into that herd of swine. In a sense, he's going to at least clarify, if not warn them, that following him has there's you you've is going to follow me, but there's no notoriety at the end. My, the priority with which you live for me, the priority of truly following me, has to be even above that grand priority in the culture that they understood was of the greatest Nothing less uh aimed at by our Lord than to have than to have followers unless they were genuine and sound. Of little faith. They don't, they have enough, they they have a deficiency in their faith which is causing them He is showing more of his authority. They didn't really, they couldn't have really understood him as the all-powerful God of the universe. I missed my calling. Something like that, maybe. It's interesting. so that these people would be turned against Jesus. Now you say, well, why would Jesus allow him to do anything destructive, them to do anything destructive? We're not into concluding applications yet. Do you feel overwhelmed by the evil of the world? And if you don't know for sure whether you have trusted Jesus as your Lord and Savior, please let me encourage you to come to talk with me afterwards. And so I pray, Lord, that you would help us in these areas and strengthen us today. So the men marveled, saying, Who can this be? It's not necessarily going to be a bed of roses if you become a Christian. There is a there are things to be considered. And Jesus said to him, Foxes have holes, and birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head. They had sort of a system of discipleship back then or apprenticeship where they would a scribe would go under another scribe or a rabbi would go under another rabbi and And then they would you it would usually give them the same position as that scribe. This is almost a surprising response of Jesus. Following after Christ lacks earthly comfort and security and status, and following after Christ allows for no reservations. over the storms and the sea and the wind. This is no foreign thing for them to be s uh in this boat. And they would have the experience of knowing when a severe storm was really happening. He's not chiding them or rebuking them for calling out to Jesus. Now, of course, what was he doing here? He says that many times throughout the text. And Jesus had to give approval of this. Knowledge of Jesus does not equal submission to Jesus. And folks, there are good reasons in our mind on the you know horizontal level of life to have fear. And he that is in the world. He took our sin on himself and died in our place and wants to give us his righteousness that is accepted by faith alone. We thank you for what it teaches us about how we can respond and how we should respond to you. We pray these things in Christ's name. So he says, so in Luke 6. What was going on here to what well a couple things to understand about this. extremely important. And from their perspective, they're sort of going, because we might die. And Jesus continually and patiently says in various different ways throughout his gospels, I am God, I am God's Son, I am the Son of God. They this they they uh we're to see that in the passage in just a moment. All will, every knee will bow, and every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. It is very frequently because they have misplaced expectations. That are outside of the box of our understanding of who God is. Good morning. We're thankful that we can come together and just sit under your word. Well, we see then that the authority that the authority produces this kind of discipleship, uh this kind of following after Christ, but then we see secondly And I'll and we don't know the way that you know there's there's mystery to the ways of God, but the best we can tell, uh the best I can tell you is this, that ultimately God even uses Satan Do you trust Christ as the authority over evil? who is in control of all things, and may we learn to trust him. And we there there is made much of experience and all of these different things, but truly, truly discipleship, truly following after Christ, there is a cause. He says, O you of little faith. Do you realize that Jesus is essentially saying, look, it makes no sense to be fearful when I am present. If you're struggling with fear, if you're looking ahead and you're fearful of the future, now it doesn't mean that there's not sadness, there's not hardship and difficulty and struggle and And in the next passage, Jesus goes away into a gentile area They even go they even say something even further in that passage. Do you see there that the that the Gentile look they they they totally missed the fact, these people, uh the Gentile, they totally miss the fact that there was some Indignation has taken hold of me because of the wicked who forsake your law. Father, we thank you that that your word does bring comfort. He was on mission and on point. So what Jesus is really getting to is if that you're truly going to be his disciple, that you must count the cost. But there is still not a phase in just his abiding presence. Now, what's really interesting is that there is, I think, a contrast here in the next portion of Scripture. And the devil and the demons for his ultimate purposes. It's when you don't understand him. Realize that. So I pray you will help us to set aside all the cares and concerns and thoughts of this week and help us to concentrate I I think all of us have one at a time or another. He's saying to this man, he's saying, do you understand that you're gonna the the a disciple of me, the follower of of me And and it and it indicates this actually several times in Scripture that that's the case. Exceedingly fierce, so that no one could pass that way. Okay. So it revealed, it calls for following after Christ completely. Sin separates me from God. And behold, the whole city came out to meet Jesus, and when they saw him, they begged him to depart from their region. Where really it doesn't make any sense to be fearful. Number three, the disciples were fearful of circumstances because they had not learned to rely on the presence of Christ. So he's gone in a Gentile area. And they're afraid of this. Lord, we come to you and thank you and praise you for who you are. May we fully understand that you are powerful over all things. Heavenly Father, it is so grateful to be in your house this morning, Father. That country. As secure as the hope of our future is in Christ, as secure as the hope uh as the as the destruction and the judgment of their future in the future in the future So it requires the mind, the will, and the emotions. And wrapping all of this up, I have three three things to uh to to just go over. J. You never know what's going to happen from one day to the next. Uh they have every right to they they need to be afraid. There's going to be a great day. And those are all f like things we tend to get really excited about. So Jesus wants true. Two very different perspectives. It's sort of like, okay, well were they looking for another home or something? And obviously you know we know that's the response. We will be in Matthew chapter 8 this morning. But we will be going beyond this uh into the other uh the other pat you know the next couple of uh texts as well and uh and we'll highlight some things when it comes to this uh this text I don't know. Jesus cares for people. So there are um I actually have a strange problem here. I printed two pages twice. May we worship you in spirit and in truth. C. And in contrast, they know who Jesus is. And they know that Jesus has the power to cast them out. Lord, I'll do whatever you want me to do, but not that. God does not want us, look, Jesus is authority over the devil. Um and it's interesting that um that he was he was the kind of um he uh They reel to and fro and stagger like a drunken man and are at every and and at their wits' end. Now, I want to pause and just point something out to you. So when they had come out, they went into the herd of swine. Alright, what's going on here? Everyone's going to submit eventually. Ryle says this. So first, Christ's revealed authority calls for following Christ completely. Jesus was very careful to make sure in his teaching, his instruction, of the cost of discipleship as well as the fact that discipleship requires no reservation. At the voice of your thunder, they hastened away. Maybe it's that or something else, but it works for me. It tells us that Jesus is authority not over all of creation and the wind and the storms, but he's over creation. Like should I warn them about this or warn them about that? And there is no, that's why for the Christian, there is no cause for fear. But anyway. Let me first go and bury my father. In fact, we know from the Old Testament, Exodus 20, verse 12, on your father and mother, that your days may be long upon the land which the Lord your God is giving you. That's what it means, folks, to follow after Christ. That is what is key to truly being a Christian is to is that we willingly, of our own free will, we come and we submit That was a phrase from a commentary I read, but I'll say it again. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible He says, he does not chide them for disturbing him with their prayers, but for disturbing themselves with their fears. Now, you know, if you define fear as being careful or cautious, if you define fear as being prudent, you know, you don't walk across the street without being hit No, because one plus one is two, and so it's okay to say one and not mention the other. So when they had come out, they went into the herd of swine, and suddenly the whole herd of a swine violently down the steep place into the They're seeing absolutely nothing wrong with it. Then a certain scribe came and said to him, Teacher, I will follow you wherever you go. He was highly educated, very well respected, very well uh very intelligent man. Now, keep in mind here that these are experienced fishermen. Jesus takes care of it. They know that there's an end coming. I'll just tell you this: that many, if not most, of the time, when someone falls away from Christ, when someone rejects their Christian belief, Amen. From that meant time many disciples went back and walked with him no more. I mean, they knew who he was. And by the way, it's still to come. Then those who kept them him kept them fled, and they went in away into the city and told everything, including what had happened to the demon possessed. I mean just think about it. He says, O you of little faith. And it becomes very clear, by the way, that that's the case because in their reaction, they're amazed. Ooh, that was weak. So again, the authority of Christ revealed is going to produce three different responses. It is the Spirit who gives life, and the flesh flesh profits nothing. It picks up here, and it says, and we see in verse um verse 21, then another of his disciples said to him, Lord, let me first go and bury my father. And you're sort of you're you're looking at them and you're sort of going, bless your heart. And there was not really intended to be an earthly reward for all of the disciples of the following that Jesus was calling his disciples to. It was considered to be something that was very, very um uh considered to be a a great a great duty of the people The antidote to fear is to increase our faith by knowing the character of And he is sufficient over all. But there are some who uh of you who do not believe And at that point, they begin to get very fearful. This is actually something that he very frequently told the disciples. And they're worried. Two, it requires faith that grows over fear. In Matthew 9. It's very possible, if not likely, that he went to that area because less people knew him and he needed a little break. But the best we can come up with, that I could think of anyway, is that these demons wanted to do their to do their final last destruction of Jesus' ministry. He is authority over all of it. I remembered your judgments of old, O Lord, and have controlled myself and comforted myself. But they they have a little hard time understanding this and getting it and and they really at this point did not fully understand all of this. Just pause on that for a minute. For your word has given me life. And Father, we're grateful that you have provided for us a way of salvation through your Son, Jesus Christ, and what He has done at the cross on our behalf. Jesus gets into the boat with his disciples, they followed him. They have a destination. Another the parallel passage tells us there are two thousand two thousand pigs, two thousand swine. And the two people that had these legion of demons, uh they they the demons cried out to Jesus Then another of his disciples said to him, Lord, let me first go and bury my father. So he first says, look, understand the there's going to be a cost Obviously we know a little bit of we've already mentioned a few things of what's going on here. It's very frequently that happens. Just know Jesus more. There met him two demon possessed men coming out of the tomb. He says, nothing has done more harm to Christianity than the practice of filling the ranks of Christian of Christ's army. Well, he is revealing more of himself to the disciples in this way. But he was asleep. For example, Psalm sixty five seven, who uh you who still the noise of the seas, the noise of waves, the tumult of the people Revelation twenty to ten describes that day. 13 it says, and when it was day he called his disciples to himself, and from those he chose twelve of the apostles. He doesn't want casual followers, people that will follow for a little while, people that have not counted the cost, naive people that just think Let that be an indicator in your life that you need to know more of Christ so that you can know more of the presence of Christ. He's close to them. We see the same kind of thing. If you've got him in a box where you kind of understand him completely, like it's all in a box, and like, okay, I I know Jesus You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. And we're going to see his authority revealed that has various responses. What does he do? In fact, the only vocation I know of where you can be wrong half the time and still get paid very well is a weatherman. And behold, the whole city came out to meet Jesus. It's Jesus who is the authority of he's the Son of God, he can do anything he wants, and he knows and and it seems as though they actually have a knowledge The people are like, Jesus you need to leave. And it's also interesting that they had to ask Jesus permission to do this. The winds are stormy. And that's what Jesus is going to do in the beginning of this passage. Can I ask you a question this morning? There there's an old saying in Maryland, uh if you don't like the weather in Maryland, just wait. Well, let's go ahead and oh here we go. Are you overwhelmed by the evil in your own heart, in your own life? Don't be overcome by evil, Romans 12 says, but overcome evil with what? Jesus has authority over all of that, and we're going to see that in this text. He is with us, He is present with us, and when we live aware of the presence of God, it makes fears No, but you do have little faith. Psalm one nineteen, verse forty-nine says, Remember the word to your servant upon which you have caused me to hope. I'm present. Jesus, he's looking and going, there is no reason to be fearful. And so they reach out to Jesus and they say, they propose that Jesus does something for them. What is the answer? 19, he says, O faithless and perse generation. But that's that's what starts this in this story, uh this passage that we're looking at. And we see that clearly in verses 18 through 20. God is truly in control of all things, even the weather. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. Is that a hard question to answer? There met him two uh demon-possessed men coming out of the of the tombs. Did you come to destroy us? If you are if fear is hindering your faith, know your God more. I'm going to be reading verses 18 through 34, if you'd like to follow along. So why was this why and it's interesting Jesus' question. He rebukes the wind and the w and the waves. And they actually say to Jesus, are you coming to torment us before the time where we're going to be actually living in torment for all of eternity? Jesus Christ died to pay the punishment for my sin and for your sin. And sometimes we see no flaws, we see all good things. He says, oh, you have little faith, but he doesn't say you're faithless. But if there is fear, then But they recognized who he was. org. And Father, I pray that as we hear your word proclaimed to us, our hearts and minds would be prepared and ready. That even the winds and the sea obey him? All right. We thank you for your word. Jesus, what does Jesus say? And suddenly they cried out, saying, What have we to do with you, Jesus, you Son of God? So the demons begged him, saying, If you cast us out, permit us to go away into the herd of swine. Why did they why did God uh why did they want this? He knows that these two men have demons in them. Or what you know and all of that is conjecture. But we willingly come and submit to Jesus and His and who He is and what He has done for us and in faith trust Him And Jesus said to him, Foxes have holes and birds have air, birds of the air have nests. And the birds have nests, but I have no place to lay my head. And yet God is in control of all of that. They had a very basic, rudimentary understanding of Jesus. In fact, let's let's look at the passage together. People will often prefer pigs to persons and swine to savior. And when Jesus saw the great multitudes about him, he gave a command to depart to the other side. And the more you know God, the more you trust Him. Good morning. There's no tenured professors for professorship for that. They were actually exempt from doing things and even perha perhaps prohibited from doing things until they went and buried their dead. Then those who kept them fled, and they went out went away into the sit city and told everything The presence of Jesus is there, and the opposition to the presence of Jesus is very fearful. Um you ever had someone that was so enthusiastic or you were s you know saw someone that was so enthusiastic and We're really good about telling about all the blessings of being a Christian. Why would he not allow someone to go and bury their father, bury their uh a parent? Satan and his legion of demons We won't take the time to turn there, but we see the same kind of thing. May the Lord richly bless you. There's a, there is a, there, you're not, it's not going to be necessarily a comfortable life if you become a Christian. And actually in the in atonement it carried it a step further. When its waves rise, you still them. The weather is constantly changing And suddenly the whole herd of swine ran Don't deceive yourself into thinking just because you know you have understanding of who And to know how we can uh what it what it looks like for you to be all powerful and And I pray this morning that many of us, Lord, I'm sure, have brought things with us this morning we'd like to leave. And you're probably going to say, well, there's some great things about this job or house or person, but you know, there are a couple It says this. So the men marveled, saying, Who can this be that even the winds and the sea obey him And so they know that they're going to have to leave there. They got to go to him for permission even to do anything that's destructive to him. That's what we ought to do when we're fearful In Matthew 16, 8 he says, Oh you of little faith again. In this passage in Matthew, there are two men. When you feel, when you look ahead at the future and And as we look ahead today, I pray that you would help us as we And suddenly they cried out, saying, What have we to do with you, Jesus? And one of the ways they knew it is when water is actually coming up into the boat. They think they might die. Um that's not what I'm talking about. So the demons begged him, saying, If you cast us out, permit us to go away into the herd of swine. In fact, it brings comfort because it it is our foundation, our place of security. Then he arose and rebuked the winds and the sea, and there was great calm He was traveling itinerately. Psalm 107 is a little bit lengthier passage. And the more that you know of the character of Jesus, to know him is to trust him. And there are things I'll never understand about you. May we worship you in spirit and in truth this morning. Then his disciples came and woke him up, saying, Lord, save us. And usually at the end of that, they would learn their particular order of scribe or particular way of teaching And what Jesus was saying was when he said, let the dead bury their dead, he's saying, I have to come above the evil. He's not saying don't bury, you know, don't don't go to funerals or let let that work its way out or what he's not saying that at all. And we see his great power here in this text. It requires a submission to him. This has become mine because I kept your precepts. Or should I just let them live in their own delusion? Now it's interesting that Pastor Matt just a couple of weeks ago preached on the parallel passage to this in chapter Luke. Jesus, you're following Jesus, he's authority over all. Their perspective is look around and you can see why I'm fearful. Do you live in fear because you're looking around at the circumstances of life? We are thankful that you are the one We are perishing. They mount up to the heavens, they go down again to the depths, their soul melts because But listen, listen to this. All right. They don't, they've expected Christianity to be one thing, they've expected the Christian to be what life, the Christian life to be something, and it's something You gotta get out of here. Three things. The proud have me in great derision That's the authority that Jesus has over his disciples. Why would you need to be fearful? He uses everything to ultimately glorify himself. You've got these people who fully, you've got people, these demons who fully understand who Jesus is, but they're not following him. If we will know more of who Do you feel overwhelmed by evil? And Father, we're thankful this morning for your word And he begins by saying, essentially what he's saying here. They've got to count the cost. Number one, the presence of Christ renders fear sensitive. Isn't that amazing? There are three I'm sorry, I apologize. Anything that gets in the way of unqualified commitment to him must be set aside. The devil deceived them with The devil, that's why it says later on in James, the devils believe and tremble. We thank you for your character. First of all, he is saying, he wasn't saying don't honor your parents. Want two very different perspectives. I know who you are, the holy one of God, it says in that passage Every day they were in a boat. Everyone is going to submit to Jesus eventually. You you're gonna have to see this in a way that is true and we're gonna look at that in a few moments. Therefore many of the disciples, when they had heard this, said, This is hard, a hard saying, who can understand it? He says, follow me and let the dead bury their dead. I mean they didn't say that, but I can imagine that's what was going through their mind And of course, you know him more through the word of God that reveals him. But when he said these words, when he indicated that there would be a sacrifice, then suddenly they're not following him anymore. There is deficiency in your faith. And when you are aware of his presence, it dissipates and diffuses fear. Verse 28. Or are they are we in a place in following Christ where we say, okay Lord I'll give you everything. And when you begin to look into those areas, or you read His Word, and you study it, and you study it, and you have questions So there's this clear obligation that before anything else Have you come here to torment us before the time? Now a good way off from them were a herd of many swine feeding. Number one, understanding. Okay, now think about it this way. Are we following after Christ with no reservations? He has conquered death, he has conquered sin, and he has given us So we pivot now and we move to another story here, and Matthew has these really closely in succession because This is so important. And Lord, I pray that you would help us to respond to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. And then also as they have this The word that I speak They've seen him do miracles at this point. It's a Gentile area. The entire passage The boat was covered in waves, the text says. In Matthew 6. Why would God allow them to continue to just And by the way, do you know how you really begin to know that you're uh having a f a more fuller understanding of the character of God? Ah yeah, that's better. He was going all over the place. What then if you should see the But this this kind of fear that's in the passage that Jesus is talking about, it's senseless when you're in the presence of Jesus. It doesn't show no faith at all. And what they really needed to do was to know Him more. And it's interesting in Mark chapter 1, verse 22. Not a In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this We hope to see you soon And really, it's a naive kind of enthusiasm. But he said to them, Why are you fearful, O you of little faith? It's not hard to answer. Um which is interesting. Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. And we know that your Spirit works directly with your word to give us assurance. That that's what that's what discipleship was thought of And then he says this. And he said, Therefore, I have said to you that no one can come to me unless he has been granted And he is saying to them, Why are you fearful? So this is something that he is very, very concerned about. Very likely Matthew, maybe he was aware that there were two and the others, the other disciples weren't aware that that that And number three, people will often prefer pigs to persons and swine to savior. And the little faith that they have is causing fear in them And isn't it wonderful to know that God is always present with me? That's not what he's not what he's talking about at all. And it's taken care of. We've got these rose colored colored glasses and we're naive about them. The story there that I mentioned that Jesus says, why are you fearful? This is really the key. They actually ascribe to him as being the Son of God. And of course That doesn't happen very often. And the key is not to beat ourselves up and say, man, I just I just So he's saying in this role of following after Christ and discipleship, number one, there is a cost When he had come to the other side, to the country of Gergeshenes, Harry, um Two thousand of their swine are missing. The most likely possibility is that before their destruction When he had come to the other side, uh to the country of okay And we pick up in this passage, and it says, and when Jesus saw great multitudes about him, he gave Now, the thing that's something we have to kind of keep in mind is that Jesus is in the boat You remember in Job, Job chapter one, he has his hand of protection on Job, and they can't and and Satan cannot touch him. And the more we know him, the more we will trust him. Your statutes have been my song songs in the house of my pilgrimage. Then you begin to know a little bit more about who God is. Their future is doomed. They were going to have to go with him. We thank you for the revealing of the authority of Jesus. So we pick up in verse 20. Three questions. Your biggest problem, and my biggest problem, is sin. There are three different responses in the passage. That would not be in a Jewish area. Because we are followers of the Savior. And a mild storm was no big deal to these people And at Matthew 17, 17. Psalm 104, 6 through 7, you covered it with the deep as with a garment. Here are disciples that really didn't know fully who Jesus is I I think that they assumed that Jesus was so close to them that he was going to cast the demons out of them. Listen to this. God is in control over everything, and that doesn't exclude the devil and his demons. I'll read it again. Then there's another another person that in the story that comes in in this text. 30, he says, O you of little faith. We look at the economy, the stock market, we look at So clearly in the Old Testament, there is a very clear mandate to honor parents. I'm here. They've seen him do miracles, but they haven't seen him do this. And they are made in his image. Why are you fearful? And we see that in the text as well. Are you overwhelmed by the Bible says this: greater is he that is in you. You have no idea what you're in for. Then another of the disciples said to him, Lord, let me first go and bury my father. Verses 25 I'll be your disciple. In that day, uh burying the dead was considered to be In atonement it says this he who is confronted by a dead relative is is fr Uh they've got a pl you know apparently they're in a place where you've got a a group of demons. And they're very fearful, they're very afraid, and they think that he has come to torment them. And it's interesting Maybe. Alright. May we walk with you in trust and faith in the day of the day. Number one, do we have misplaced expectations or reservations related to Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. He rebukes it and everything is calm. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Like how do I handle this? They've seen him do different things, and they know he has power. And now here's what's interesting. Uh there are three observations I would just make, three applications I would make of of that portion of the text. And Jesus is actually going to Then they cry out to the Lord in their trouble, and he brings them out of their distresses. He is as far from desiring this as it would have been from an easy attainment. Let them exalt him also in the assembly of the people. But Jesus said to him, Follow me and let the dead bury the dead. Maybe why. Understanding And number three Because eventually it's gonna change. What really did they need to grow in their faith? Let's go, Lord. Nothing has done more harm to Christianity than They valued their swine more than the Savior. But there are things that are happening in our lives and our circumstances But secondly, Jesus has authority over the creation. The weather is But it's interesting He says, Why are you fearful? You would not have that many pigs aga pigs together in one place Here's what else is interesting about this. In Matthew 14, 31, So what is he saying He says, O you of little faith. It is But if you're really close to somebody and you're Jesus' perspective is, why what do you think Jesus' perspective is? We know at least that is true. Jesus is asleep during this huge, massive storm. Or do you live in the presence of Christ? Number two. We are perishing. But the entire the But another text says, another parallel passage. And what do you want to do? Why would he not allow this Amen. If you would bow your heads with me as we go to the And in this case, Jesus doesn't say, Why are you afraid? They have to submit to him. Talk with some That that was something that they absolutely had to do that We don't know how, but we know that is true. And I pray that as we leave here Then a certain scribe came and said to him, I'll follow you wherever, but don't ask me to do this. Well s if you know them well, it's like man should I But he said to them, But what he is saying is The water stood above the mountains.