Matthew chapter 13. Matthew chapter 13, our scripture reading is there as well as the sermon this morning. And before we read this passage, we'll be reading verses 44 to 58, before we read those those verses, let's go to the Lord in prayer. Dear Lord, thank you for your goodness to us. Thank you for Your glorious grace. We are undeserving sinners, and you are the God who created the world and sent his son to die for us. Thank you for your grace. Thank you for your plan. Thank you for your sovereignty over all. And as to this morning, we're going to be thinking about your kingdom. Lord, we pray, as the Lord's prayers praise, Thy kingdom come, thy will be done. earth as it is in heaven. Lord, we look forward to your kingdom when you rule on this earth, on the throne of David as you promised. And this morning as we look And as we uh think of these these parables that tell us a little bit more about what that kingdom will be like, uh Lord, I pray that you would encourage our hearts, challenge us not about the not just about the future but also about our lives today as we serve you our King in Jesus' name amen Matthew chapter thirteen starting in verse forty four. Again, the kingdom of heaven is like treasure hidden in a field, which a man found and hid, and for joy over it he goes and sell all that he has and buys that field Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a merchant seeking beautiful pearls, who, when he had found one pearl of great price, went and sold all that he had and bought it Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a dragon that was cast into the sea, and gathered some of every kind, which when it was full, they drew to shore, and they sat down and gathered the good into vessels, but threw the bad away. So it will be at the end of the age. The angels will come forth, separate the wicked from among the just, and cast them into the furnace of fire. There will be wailing and gnashing of teeth. Jesus said to them, Have you understood all these things? They said to him, Yes, Lord. Then he said to them, Therefore every scribe instructed concerning the kingdom of heaven Is like a householder who brings out of his treasure things new and old. Now it came to pass when Jesus had finished these parables that he departed from there. When he had come to his own country, he taught Is this not the carpenter's son? Is not his mother called Mary and his brothers James, Joseph, Simon, and Judas. And his sisters, are they not all with us? Where then did this man get all these things? So they were offended at him. But Jesus said to them, A prophet is not without honor, except in his own country and in his own house. Now he did not do The emphasis of this passage is really on the heart. It really has to do with the desires and the heart and the value of the kingdom. The Bible places a great deal of importance on the heart. For example, in Proverbs chapter 4, verse 23 It says, keep your heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. In Proverbs 23, 7 it says Uh for as he thinks in his heart, so is he. Later on, we're going to see See Jesus talk about the heart. We've seen before in Matthew him talking about the heart, and now he's going to give some illustrations that explain the very value of the kingdom. In Romans chapter 8, it says this when it comes to accepting the gospel. It says this: For the word is near you in your mouth and in your heart. That is the word of faith which we preach, that if you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, you will be saved. For with the heart one believes unto righteousness, and with a mouth confession is made unto salvation. For the spirit scripture says, Whoever believes in on him will not be put to shame. For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek, for the same Lord o over all is rich to all who call upon him, whosoever calls upon him in on the name of the Lord The heart is is necessary in order to truly to truly have a relationship with God, to truly accept the gospel. The heart is absolutely essential. In the first Great Awakening, Jonathan Edwards understood this and wrote a book called Religious Affair In that book he describes 12 different s signs that someone has truly been That all must be involved. Jonathan Edwards was fighting empty religion. And th churches at that point, at least his church is a very good thing. Church had become largely a monument rather than uh rather than a body that was animated by the Spirit of God because there were people that were truly converted. And he realized the need the the the necessary requirement to truly have saving faith, to truly accept the gospel, it requires the mind. mind the will, the will and the emotions, all three. What we're going to see in this passage is that the the teaching Christ's kingdom it's His teaching is going to work in the heart in three ways. We're going to see that it's going to reveal the supreme value of the king. And then it's going to call those who treasure the kingdom to share it. And then we're going to see that it will it will bring people to a decision about the kingdom. Teaching of the gospel of the kingdom that we find in Matthew will do, and we'll see it very clearly in this text, those three things. Now we've seen a lot of other things that it does as well, but these are three additional things, even with the parables, particularly Points one and two that we're going to see in this passage. So we'll begin then with the teachings of Jesus in this passage, revealing the supreme value of the kingdom. And it says in verse 44, Again the kingdom of heaven is like treasure hidden in a field, which a man found and hid And for joy over it, he goes and sells all that he has and buys the field. This is clearly a parable in verse forty four and then we've got a list of sort of short parables to describe some the kingdom in a very particular in in some specific ways. Now this first one is interesting. A man discovers a treasure. Now, for us, that might seem a little bit you know unusual, but but in those days it was not uncommon for treasure to be hidden. Hidden in the ground, especially if there was the possibility of enemy of the enemy, and of course they were under Ro the Roman uh the Roman Empire if they were afraid that it would be confiscated, I think probably very frequently treasure was buried in the ground. And so it wasn't an unusual thing to do that, nor was it an unusual thing to discover treasure. Now you might read this passage and you might say, this verse, and you might say, well, this doesn't seem very ethical. He's discovering treasure Arguably in the field that he's in. He discovers treasure, doesn't own the field, buries the treasure back into the field, and then goes and buys the field. Presumably not telling anybody that there is treasure in the field. Is that even ethical? Let me just say at the very outset of this, this is not a lesson on ethics. It's not a parable that's intended teach the ethics of what you do if you come across you know treasure or money or things like that. There there are other places in Scripture where Jesus uses parables that are very, very relatable to the people But they're not intended to be, you know, teach those kinds of things, ethical kinds of things. You've got uh the parable of the unjust servant in Luke 16 and the uh parable of the unjust judge in Luke 18 And I'll just say by side note, if not really in my notes actually, but I'll just say by the way, that's why it's so important to not read the text, things that aren't there, to see the primary intent. Why did God place it there? Why did the human author put it there? And to allow that to be your guide in understanding the truth. of Scripture. There are many people throughout this uh throughout our our nation's history, frankly, as well as world history and the church and church history that have taken things out of context and not ha really considered the the the the intent of the text and come up with all kinds of interpretations or a interpretation and in a following application that led them into all kinds of error. So what the text means is incredibly important. And it's very important that we understand this. You can't just pick any text out of the blue, decide that it means this for you because it feels good You can make anything anywhere mean anything you want it to mean because you want it to mean that. And the Bible is no different. So we need to look and ask the question, why, why, what is Jesus Jesus getting at here. Why is this included why did Jesus teach this? Why did Matthew include this? Why is God including this in his canvas? scripture, what is the point? What we very clearly see in the text, what's very obvious, is that it is that the kingdom of heaven is likened unto what? A treasure. The kingdom of heaven is very valuable. It is a treasure. And it's a valuable treasure. And the person in this discovers this valuable treasure. We would note also that the treasure is hidden. It's not in plain view. And let me ask you this question. During Christ's time and now as well, is the treasure hidden? Is the kingdom hidden? Or is it And the answer is it is hidden. So what we're talking here then about is not the kingdom of heaven that will happen in the future. the immediate kingdom will Christ will come. We're talking about the hidden treasure, the hidden kingdom that is happening now, and the king, the hidden treasure Well what was it hidden from? It was hidden from It was hidden from the people that were there. It was hidden from the religious leaders. And that's important to understand as we're looking at Looking at this. In fact, Matthew eleven twenty-five says it this way, and at that time Jesus answered and said, I thank you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that you have hidden these things from the wise and prudent and have revealed them to babes. So clearly, um clearly this is talking about now we're going to uh again see the coming of the kingdom later, but this is talking about what's going on right then in Jesus' day. And many people Jesus is preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and many people are not receiving it because it is hidden. Matthew chapter 7, verse 13 says this: Enter by the narrow gate. For wide is the gate, and broad is the way that leads to destruction, and there are many who go in by it. Because narrow is the gate and difficult is the way that leads to life, and there are few who find it. And that was true in Jesus' day. On the whole, they did not, the multitudes did not receive the gospel of the kingdom, and it is true today as well. We should not be surprised when the gospel is preached and people don't respond because it requires God's working in their lives. But what we also see in this passage is that there is great value. The passage is not intended to imply that you can buy the kingdom. That you could somehow purchase ever that you can buy everything, you know, you sell all of your goods, sell everything you have, and if you do all of that, you do all of those works or all of all of that self-effort, then you can purchase the That would certainly not be what it's talking about there. We know that because there are very clear passages of scripture that tell us that it's not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy. That he saved us. It's by grace through faith alone, not of works. It can't be talking about that. But what it is doing is telling us the great value of the kingdom. And really there is great value in the kingdom. Philippians chapter 3 says it this way, verse 8, yet indeed I also count all things Lost for the excellence of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and count them as rubbish that I may gain Christ. And be found in him, not having my own righteousness which is from the law, but that which is from the faith in Jesus uh faith in Christ, the righteousness Which is from God by faith, that I may know him and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship is of his suffering, being conformed to his death, if by any means I may attain to the resurrection of the dead. The kingdom of God is of great value. You know, I think by by way of application here, we need to understand that many people struggle. Both those who are Christians and those who are coming to Christianity with the with this with this misunderstanding that Christianity is just calling me to give up a bunch of stuff. If I just give this up and give that up and give this up and give this up, I just uh I just need to give up a bunch of things People who don't know Christ come to Christianity and they think, well, if I do all, if I am going to come to Christ, I'm going to have to give up all of these things. And people who are in Christianity think that the way that I am godly or the way that I gain favor from God is if I give up all of these things. Now, the truth of the matter is when you are truly a child of God and you really want to please God, there are many things that you will give up. There are things that you don't want to do because you know they don't please God. But this idea that Christianity is simply embracing the embracing something that has very little value for something that has an And getting rid of all things that have no value, that is absolutely not the case. What we rather need to see Is that the gospel affords us the riches of the glory of the grace of God, which far surpasses anything that we would ever give up? That the value in living for Christ, the value for and serving the Lord, the value in our relationship with God is so much better than all of the other things that we We would have to give up in order to be able to grow in our relationship with the Lord. So it's a matter of understanding where our true value is, and our that is a hard issue. What you truly value is what you will embrace, and what you don't value is what you will dismiss And as a Christian, what we ought to be doing is is is val our values will change over time where we value those things that are eternal and those things that are temporal, those things that are worldly, those things for And unfortunately, too often in our Christianity we do not really understand that coming to Christ is about gaining and letting go. Now it's not gaining material things. It's not a health and wealth kind of a thing. No, it is gaining those things that are most important in life, eternal life. Finally, the kingdom can't be bought, but it's worth giving up all that we have to follow Christ. And Jesus is going to explain this. rich young ruler when we come to him. That it is worth giving up all that we have to follow Christ. He is no fool who loses what he cannot keep to gain what he cannot lose. Jim Elliott. I did not come up with that. Jim Elliott did. One time I I said a quote that I thought was fairly familiar. Uh it's uh Hudson Taylor, God's work done what God's way will never allow God's supply and somebody said I'll put on Facebook that quote and then put dash Jim can in. I had I saw it. No, no, that wasn't me. I forgot to cite him anyway. So that was Jim Elliott who said that. That's really true, isn't it? He's no fool who loses what he cannot keep to gain what he cannot lose. Well, what are we losing that we can't Keep all these earthly things. Money and power and fame and notoriety and uh all those things in life that we pursue outside of what is eternal and valuable. The Bible says in Colossians chapter three, set your affections on things above and not on the things of this earth. Does that mean that we can't enjoy No. We can enjoy some of the things of this earth, but we do it with a divine perspective as we thank the Lord for those things and enjoy those things in Him. The value is very, very important. Understanding that the kingdom of God, being under the rule of God, is of great value. We see the same kind of illustration next in verse 45. Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a merchant seeking beautiful pearls. Who, when he had found one pearl of great price, went and sold all that he had and bought it This is a very similar illustration. Again, we're talking about showing the value of being under the rule of Christ, the value of the kingdom. It's of great value. In this case, there is some differences between this and the previous parable. One is that the merchant is seeking beautiful pearls. The other one came across treasure, the way it w it's worded, it seems as though he came across it sort of invoke, you know, uh In this case, this person in this illustration, this parable, is seeking pearls. He's seeking beautiful pearls. And when he finds the one, the gospel of the kingdom in great a great price He goes and he sells all that he has and he buys it. Now again, we of course see the value of this. There is nothing in this world That even compares, comes even close to the value of the kingdom of heaven. But also we see that some people are searching for something. And we know that what this person is not searching for is some sort of is actually searching after God. Because nobody naturally does that, right? I mean we know that from Romans chapter 2 and 3 that there's none righteous, no not one, there's none that seeks after God. But there is within the human spirit There is an understanding that there is something missing. In fact, Ecclesiastes says that God has put eternity We find from Romans 2 also that there is a moral law in us, and those things working with our conscience not only cause us to realize our own sinfulness But there's a sense in which we can identify when we do not have eternity that there is something missing and we're seeking after it. It's something valuable that we're looking for that we don't have. And there are many people. There are some people that are totally content that their problem is that they are too occup they're too satisfied with everything And there are other people that are unsatisfied and they're looking for something that is missing. And in this case, this person finds it. The kingdom, again, in this passage, the kingdom of God, this thing is a caught very, very costly In John 12, verse 3, Mary took a pound of costly oil. That's the only other time this is used. in that verse is that word is used in the New Testament. It's used in reference to this costly oil that Mary used. So it's very costly. It's very, very valuable. So some people stumble upon the kingdom, and others are searching for something that has a value in their lives. But in each case, they find what is valuable. And there are people that are just, they know there's something missing. You might be here today, and you know there's something in your life that is missing. There is a sense of loneliness Or there is a sense of void, there's something missing, you don't know what it is. And it is our prayer, it would be my constant prayer that you would know that the thing that is missing is God. That eternity is in your heart, and what you are missing is God. It's like the movie Rocky, and somebody else mentioned this as an illustration of a sermon this past. Eh okay. Anyway, um the first one, you remember what he says? He says, I'm gonna go the distance. I won't try to mimic him. I'm gonna go the distance so I know I'm not a bum. There's a lot of people in this world that are going a distance so they know they're not a bum. There there's something missing. There's something, you know, when you come Come to Christ, and you realize you're accepted accepted in the beloved, when you realize that you can be completely satisfied in God, there is a sense in which you can you can be you you you realize that it's just of great value. There's nothing more valuable than that. By the way I do not fully The next illustration is in verses 47 through 50. Would you pick up here then in verse forty-seven it says, Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a dragnet that was cast into the sea and gathered some of every kind. Which when it was full, they drew the shore, and they sat down and gathered the good into vessels, but threw the bad away. So it will be in the end of the age. So now again we've moved. We've shifted now to speaking of the present kingdom and now moving to the end of the age. And that the focus of this parable is on the end of the age The angel will come forth separate and the wicked from among the just, and cast them into furnace of fire. There will be wailing and gnashing of teeth. So the illustration here is one that is really similar to another illustration. Remember another parable that we heard last week, I think it was judgment and all that. It's very, very similar to this passage here. So why did God, why did Christ Why did Christ use this? I mean it's very, very similar. Well one thing is might be because it might be because he had disciples. And his disciples would very most a lot of them were fishermen. And they would have identified with this maybe a little bit better than the other than the other one. That's possible. Maybe uh uh Um you know that that's a possibility. But I think another possibility is again to reiterate, after he had just explained the value of the kingdom, he is now moving and he's again going to point out That there is something coming at the end of the age, so that there is a repeated warning. He has two parable, there are two parables that Matthew records here that double down on the value of the kingdom And now he switches gears and he again says, there's a warning here. It's like a contrast. There's going to be a time where where they where uh where there's valuable and and worthless that are gathered together at the end. And there will be a separation between those two, but it will only come to the end. And that's what that word the the word bad there has good and bad. The word bad there does mean worthless. Good word is a very strength general word for the word good, but the word bad there is the idea of worthless. It's not valuable. And then it uses this phrase again, where there will be wailing and gnashing of teeth. Keith. Now Matthew likes this phrase a lot. He uses it in Matthew 8. 12, Matthew 22, 13, Matthew 24, 541. Matthew 25, 30, Matthew 13, 28. You use it all those different times in talking about this issue of this idea of wailing and gnashing of the The gnashing of teeth has to do with a despairing remorse which shakes the whole body. Clearly, this is a description of someone who who is in a place called hell. This is not a figurative thing. This is something that is clearly, Christ says that there is a place where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. And again he wants to warn them of this. There's a contrast here. There's a contrast between the value of the kingdom and the ultimate destruction of those who are not part of it. You only have two choices. Choose the narrow one rather than the wide gate that leads to destruction. Then we move here to so we see clearly the value of the kingdom, and now Jesus explained these things. things and now he moved turns to the disciples and he asks the question verse 51. Jesus said to them, have you understood all these things? They said to him, Yes, Lord. Then he said to them, Therefore, every scribe instructed concerning the kingdom of heaven is like a householder who brings out of his treasure things new and old. What is he talking about here? Well, before, pri twice before actually, the disciples had to go to Jesus and had to ask him what these parables meant. But this time they had enough understanding of the kingdom of heaven that they were be able to really grasp these parables. And in fact, they were they were some of them are so similar to what he has already said, uh they were able to grasp them. It was you could argue that it was a t sort of a text For them. And they understood these things. And Jesus says, your understanding of these things is like a scribe. Who is instructed concerning the kingdom of heaven and is like a householder who brings out of his treasure things new and old. Well, why does he use why does he talk about a scribe? A scribe, as you probably know in those days, a scribe was someone who was an expert in the Old Testament law. They were the ones usually that would read the Old Testament law before the people. They were considered to be highly educated in those things. But Jesus now is saying to the disciples who are saying they understand the revelation about the kingdom, he is now equating them to scribes who Who know the Old Testament, who know the old things, but also know the new things. Every scribe instructed concerning now the kingdom of heaven, which is what Jesus' instruction has been all about. And so we see in this passage that that that that is what uh Jesus Now, this is not the first time he's done this. Rejoice in being seen. Seeing gl glad, for great is your reward in heaven, so for so they persecuted the prophets who were before you. And in uh in Matthew chapter ten, verse forty-one, they it does something. Similar. Also in Ephesians chapter two it says the prophets and the apostles, he's making these sort of connections here to show that what Jesus is what these apostles are going to ultimately do is they are going to bring forth the New Testament. But he also says something that I think is very interesting. He calls it a treasure It's like a householder or the head of a household or the owner of a house who is bringing forth the treasure that's in the house. What is he saying about the truth, the understanding of the mysteries of the kingdom of these disciples? He is saying that they are of great treasure. They are extremely valuable. And then he says they're bringing them out. It's There's an indication here that it's sharing them. What is Jesus saying here? He is saying that there is such great treasure that there is a desire to share it. And that's what the disciples do. In Matthew, verse Matthew 12, verse 35, it says, A good man out of the good treasure of his heart brings forth good. An evil man out of the evil treasure of his heart brings forth evil. So he it's the idea of bringing this treasure out of your heart and sharing it with others. And that is what God's desire is. Now, this new and old phrasing here, what's going on here? Jesus is very careful not to somehow say that the Old Testament is destroyed and the New Testament is coming in He says that you will be a revealer of both the New and the Old Testament. And this is consistent with what he already said in Matthew 5, verse 17. Do not think uh think that I have came to destroy the law or the prophets. I did not come to destroy, but to fulfill. For assuredly I say to you, till heaven and earth pass away, one jot or one till will not be my will by no means pass from the law till all is fulfilled. Whosoever therefore breaks one of the least of these commandments and teaches men so shall be called the least in the kingdom of heaven, but whosoever does the does and teaches them, he shall be called the great great in the kingdom of heaven. For I say to you that unless your righteousness exceeds the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, you will by no means enter the kingdom of heaven. So we see here that that the disciples are going to be used to reveal both the Old and the New Testament, the New Testament being the The further revelation of the Old Testament and the fulfilling of the Old Testament. And Christ was also, in a veiled sense, calling them to share what they are learning Now this is going to become much more explicit because in Matthew, several chapters later, he's going to say, chapter 28, remember that, verse 19. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all things that I commanded you For lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age. And there is clearly, folks, an application for us here as well because you find the disciples are doing this in the book of Acts. They are teaching the the teachings of Christ. They are writing the New Testament. Under the inspiration of the Spirit of God. And then you see other believers who are carrying that on throughout the book of Acts as well. And so the clear application is for us two things. Number one If you understand the truth of Scripture, if you understand the gospel, realize just how valuable that is. It's great treasure. And I think so often, folks, though uh when we've been saved for many, many years, we're Christians for a long time, we take this book for granted. We take the truth for granted. We take an understanding of the truth for granted. It's just become sort of it's we don't value it. Because the reality is what you value you will share with others. You get a guy who gets a new girlfriend and he can't stop talking about it. You get a guy who gets a new car and he can't stop talking about it You get a girl who gets a new boyfriend, and she usually can't stop talking about him. Unless they're really shy or something. But usually that's the case. You want to talk about what you're into, you want to talk about what you treasure. And isn't it true, folks, that the abundance of the heart, Scripture says, the mouth speaks? And if we are not sharing this, what does it say about our hearts? It says that we don't really treasure it. Doesn't mean it's not valuable. We're not seeing the value of it. And so I think there's a application for us there. Finally, his teaching now is going to bring people In verse 53, then we move here now, and it says, uh now it came to pass when Jesus Jesus had finished these parables that he departed from there. Then he came to his own country. He taught them, his own country in Nazareth, he taught them in their synagogue. That they were and they were astonished and said, Where did this man get this wisdom in these mighty works? Is this not the carpenter's son? Is it Is not his mother called Mary, and his brothers James, Joseph, Simon, and Judas, and his sisters? Are they not all with us? Where then did this man get all these things So they were offended at him. But Jesus said to them, A prophet is not without honor except in his own country. and in his own house. Now he did not do many mighty works there because of their unbelief. So what is so what we see in this passage then is you've got you've got he's going back to where he came from. He's going to where he grew up in Nazareth. And he's teaching them. And it says in the passage that they have these questions like, Isn't this don't we know this guy? Didn't we see him grow up? Didn't we see his sisters and brothers? And I'll just mention again that kid. Apparently not. Because they look at him and he seems like a normal uh you know, they they they see what Jesus is teaching. And they say, is this the same person that was just a normal kid? And that's really consistent with Isaiah 53. Remember what it says in Isaiah 53? That he shall grow up before him as a tender plant and as a root out of dry ground. He has no form or comeliness, and when we see him There is no beauty that we should desire him. He is despised and rejected of men. And we see this playing out here. It wasn't as though when Jesus grew up that he had this glow or something And then everybody saw who he really was as a child. He was a normal kid. He was a sinless kid, so that's not that normal. But other than that, he was a normal kid There was nothing of particular notoriety or beauty or looks about him that you would know. They said, Isn't this a carpenter's son? The Mark uh Mark Farrell Pastor says, Isn't this just a carpenter? Normal guy, and yes he is preaching this way. That says they were astonished by his preaching. And we get a little bit of an insight into what that was, why they were astonished, because in Luke chapter 4, verse 32, it actually says why those people were astonished, and I think very likely that's what's going on here. And they were astonished at his teaching, for his word was with authority. So here's the picture. Jesus, carpenter's son, grows up, grows up with brothers and sisters. Uh there could you know uh kind of a normal run-of-the-mill family, carpenter, husband you know, husband and wife, uh, and nothing particularly special. They all know him apparently. And then he comes back after a long journey, comes back to his own town And they hear of the miracles, it's clear the passage, they hear the miracles that he has done, and they've heard of the parables, and they've heard of the teaching and all that. And when he comes, he he preaches with authority. And they say, who is this guy? Who's this guy think he is? We saw him grow up He had sisters and brothers. It's just like, what who does this guy think he is? They're astonished at some who can speak so authoritatively, and yet he grew up with them And I you know, there's one time that goes, I don't, you know, I mean, like he did a lot of miracles, did a lot of things, did a lot of preaching. I mean, it was very why couldn't they accept him? And on the other hand, there's almost a side which says, okay, I can kind of understand that. They're not understanding what's going on. But what's interesting is it says they were offended at him. They move from being astonished by the authority with which he spoke, and they're now offended. The word means to be a stumbling block. Matthew likes this word a lot as well. In Matthew chapter 5, verse 29, it says, if your right eye causes you to sin, pluck it out. That's the word. Same saying. Same thing about the right hand in verse 30 of that passage. In Matthew chapter 11, verse 6, the word is used again, and it says, blessed is he Who is not offended because of me. These were not the only people offended by Christ. Of course, we know that the religious leaders were, and much of the multitude was. Jesus was offending people everywhere But this particular offense, and then in Matthew 1618 we see the same thing, causes one to stumble as the idea there. And he says about a uh if you do this to a little one, uh a young, uh a new believer, I would take it that take it that it's better to better to have a millstone hung around your neck and be drowned in the depths of the sea In Matthew 26, verse 33, it says, if all are made to stumble. So you see this over and over and over again in the book of Matthew. So what caused, what caused them to literally stumble over the teachings of Christ? It was their own heart. And it was their own prejudice, their own preconceptions. They couldn't get past the lens they were looking through. This lens of Jesus just being a normal run-of-the-mill kid. This lens, they just couldn't get past it, and it became a stumbling block for them. And Jesus says a prophet is not without honor except in his own country. In fact, it's interesting that in all four of the gospels this is mentioned. In Mark, in Luke, in John, and in Matthew. A prophet is not without honor in his own country. Now the fact is, uh his siblings in and Mary did and did respond later on after his resurrection positively to Christ. But at this point they didn't. And you know you know it what what how it made Jesus feel Mark tells us, Matthew doesn't mention this, but Mark, the parallel passage says this. Now he could do no mighty work there except that he laid his hands on a few sick people and healed them, and he marveled because of their uncle. belief. He marveled. He could he there there was a there was an astonishment on his end because they could not believe. Now I don't think he was surprised by it, but he certainly certainly was astonished. He says in the passage that it he could not do the mighty work that do mighty he could do no mighty work there. And that is a little bit hard to understand what it's saying there, but I the best I can understand. But I think there is an application for us here, and that is this. That prejudices And wrong lenses very frequently cause us to not be able to believe. You see it all the time, right? In our society. And I would suggest to you that in our culture today, we have we have more of a negative lens toward Christianity shining on us than we In other words, people see look through the lens of our culture, and when we talk about being a Christian, when we talk about the gospel, when we talk about those kinds of things, it's negative to them. It's not positive anymore. Now, folks, this should not surprise us because what we've had in this country For many years is the opposite. But if you go through church history and you go through the history of You know, since Christ, the vast majority of the time, the secular world is against us. They do not see the gospel in a positive positive light. What we have experienced in this country for much of the time that is actually it's actually the exception, not the rule. So let's not be surprised when we see see this lens lens. Let's help us, let's understand when we see the lens. And may we may we just under keep that into account. But may we also realize that we can have our own prejudices that keep us from really seeing the truth. of scripture ourselves. Even today you may be saying to yourself, well there's so you know, uh for example, a a ca a common lens that people see is, well, churches are full of hypocrites. So I don't want to accept Christianity. Our church is full of hypocrites? Yeah, absolutely. And that's a lens that people can put on. On the one hand, that's true, but on the other hand, we ought to do the very best we can to live in a way that pleases the Lord so that we can be light to those people. So, in all of this, let's summarize everything by number one, do you value God's kingdom above all else? That's what we clearly see in this passage. The kingdom of God is of great value. We so easily take for granted The truth of the gospel of the kingdom. And yet it is so it is valued. Do you value it? I'll tell you how you know you value it When you share it with others. When that becomes the priority in our lives, when it becomes the priority to make disciples When it comes becomes the priority to share the truth, the treasure of the Word of God with others, then we really know we value it. We could say with lip service we value it all the time But if we're not willing to share it with others, it's really saying in our heart we don't really value it. I'm not suggesting that we become a, you know sort of beat it up beat everybody over the head with it or things like that. I'm not saying that. But there is a sense in which we ought to be ready because we've got this truth that is so valuable that I can't wait to share it. with others. Be thinking about that. Be ready to do that. Do you see yourself as a grateful channel of God's treasured truth? We see ourselves as a grateful treasure of God, a grateful channel of God's treasure of truth. And finally, are there heart prejudices that are hindering you from accepting accepting Christ. Maybe even today you maybe there's somebody here that has never trusted Christ as their Lord and Savior because there's some sort of prejudice, some sort of lens that you had I can tell you of many testimonies of people when they took the lens off and they chose to look at the truth of the Word of God as it stands. When they go through the gospels and they see the life of Christ, they go through the gospels and they see the teachings of the Word of God in Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. John, they see all of that, and when they choose to look at it through a sympathetic eye, when they choose to look at it to see, to glean the truth from it, they're changed by it But you have to take the skeptic's glasses off in order to be able to see it. And if you're here today and you're saying to yourself, well, you know, I've had these hindrances, I've not seen the value of Christianity, I've actually seen saw seen it as something where I just got to give up everything and uh seen it that way. Or maybe you've had some sort of lens on that causes you to not be able to see the gospel the way that it truly is. Come and talk with me. I'd be glad to take a Bible and answer any questions you have from the Bible how you can know for sure that you will spend eternity with the Lord. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and praise you for your word. We thank you that we do have such a valuable truth in this Gospel. We thank you, Lord, that you have revealed it through your Spirit. And if there is anybody here today that doesn't know you as their Lord and Savior, I pray today that you would give them Their understanding of the truth of your word, they would see their sin and their need of a savior, and they would be saved. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to Thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon