And sometimes we spend years praying and pursuing those desires. Uh for example this week I heard the story of how someone who's got who just released a book that really didn't sell all that very many copies, about 3,000 If you search it out enough, you find that it's vanity, Ecclesiastes says. It says, In the day when I cried out, you answered me and made me bold with strength in my soul. It says, though the Lord is on high, yet he regards the lowly, but the proud he knows from afar. And the Lord said in Exodus that if anyone saw him, they wouldn't be able to live. And Psalm 136, and that is exactly what those Psalms are doing, praising God and recounting all the way from Egypt till this point what God has done for his people, all of his mighty works, and his salvation. Amen. And then check their phones. Alright, these kinds of ideas that they want. Oh he flicked it up, oh where's the replay? and at least in our heads, might be against what we have to say. Verse 22 says, We can come near to God. Those who are called according to his purpose. uh let us on or or any of these things. And drawn towards you. And if you read all of these Psalms all the way from 120, keep turning the pages all the way up to 134. They're finally at the top of the mountain and they're telling these priests, start praising God. To Mount Zion, where they are ready to worship the Lord. He's not going to be distracted. Uh my brothers just this past week were watching uh a certain soccer game. Uh I'm not gonna try to describe it because I don't know soccer, but it was pretty cool. When a righteous person comes before these people, there's always a tendency to be afraid, to be timid, to know that they are not going to prefer what you have to say. Which was not yet built, so the same word for tabernacle is probably a better word there. Nor the Son of Man that he should repent? We're not like the man who's built his house on the sand, so that when the waves come in, it all just wipes away. And it says in Acts 431, after they'd been praying for boldness, that when they had prayed, the place where they had assembled together was shaken, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and they spoke the word of God with boldness. Nehemiah 9. They're contrite. and who trembles at my word. In Psalm 16, 11 it says, You will show me the path of life. Romans 5. you know, too mystical or something, but we're not talking about something that's separated from truth. And he was willing to do that and put his life at risk. to us. And see the land which I have given to the children of Israel, and when you've seen it, you shall also be gathered to your people, as Aaron your brother was gathered. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. To worship you and to hear your word and to sing praises to you. Help us to take the time this morning, Lord. They don't take into account what Psalm 138 verse 7 says, that there is such a place as the midst of trouble. Psalm 120, we get the beginning of what are called the Psalms of Ascent. Where they were going to worship the Lord together three times a year for the three feasts. If I do not remember you, let my tongue cling to the roof of my mouth if I do not exalt Jerusalem above my chief joy. But we're in a place that's very difficult and it's going to last a long time. All of a sudden his wife died out of nowhere. what seems like the fulfillment of God's promises to us. Never morning ward evening, but some heart did break. That God provides all we need to be able to do that. Well again verse one it says I will praise you with my whole heart We can stop right there If you look at verse 1, it says, Before the gods I will sing praises to you. are being built up as a spiritual house, a holy priesthood, to offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. Hebrews 10, 19 through 22 says, Therefore, brethren, having boldness to enter the holiest by the blood of Jesus Is giving him works and trying to prove to God that we are just as good as Christ is. Deep vowels of affection and mercy and devotion to ones that he's chosen as his own. We can be enabled to praise him for it. Yet God's word is the one and only perfect, trustworthy place to learn who God really is and what he really is like. We my my my family and I went on vacation out to out to the west and my mother every twenty seconds it seemed like was looking out the window and just saying, Oh look at that one, oh look at that one And you were to ask him to write a book and to tell you as much about God as he could learn from the entire world. without actually asking him for it because he's he's given us the example in Scripture time and again that we do need to ask. And these are they which testify of me. We need, like Paul asked, for a spirit of wisdom and revelation and the knowledge of God. We don't rely on ourselves to get through any trial. and seeking him in his word. A praise that is overflowing, that is coming from seeing God as He is and not being able to hold that in But God Himself promises us that He will handle our emotions. The Lord does promise that he's going to do this. That we may be able to comfort those who are in any trouble with the comfort with which we ourselves are comforted by God. talking about. been talking about in Revelation and 1 Thessalonians how that's going to happen. Maybe you didn't want to sit down for a piano practice all the years of your youth, but your parents knew it would be good for you. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. It is called the Exchange. You're eternal. Father, draw us close to you and change us from the inside out. We ask your continued blessing upon them and Father that your word will not go void, but they will hear it, Lord, and their hearts would be changed. And Father, as Brother Zach comes this morning to preach your word, Father, I pray you would help us to set aside all the cares, all the concerns of this week. would be directed to you and in all things that you would be praised and honored and glorified. For your loving kindness and your truth. Yes, they shall sing of the ways of the Lord. Your mercy, O Lord, endures forever. Like the song says, it's uh it's supposed to work that way, but it doesn't. From that point on in his life. We can look at the time that he was running from Saul in the wilderness, alone sometimes, afraid, calling out to God, wondering what's going to happen tomorrow if he'll be safe. To worship him, to bless the Lord. It's used to describe our inner parts. That your dreams were not to be granted, that yours was to be a steep and lonely road, that some tremendous sacrifice was to be asked of you. Could you make shift to face it with the shadow of the master's courage and the master's calm? To a certainty to you two in your turn, someday these things must come. For years and years you go, you and I go our sunny way and live our happy lives, and the rumors of these terrors are blown to us very faintly, as from a world so distant that it seems to have nothing to do with us. For five verses, we have an explanation of what this praise is going to be like even in the midst of trouble. For our comfort, that we can nestle into to be assured that we will be able to praise him this way, that he has covered all the bases of our suffering that we have ahead of us. That's definitely reasonable. We pray that you would give us all a fresh filling of your spirit and assurance of your promises and faithfulness and character and greatness today. So that as we go out into our lives this week, we would be strengthened and we would trust you more and that we would glorify you more. This is his whole being consumed in giving God praise. But when that happened, okay, did my brothers just sit there on the couch and nod their heads and go And we can give him praise even in their presence. Whereas other people around the world right now are having to leave their families and face their families hunting them down and trying to make their lives miserable just because they believe in God. You may shed blood or burn us out. Verse 2a, it says, I will worship in your holy temple and praise uh toward your holy temple and praise your name. That has been done away with because Christ Himself has offered a perfect sacrifice once for all so that we can offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through faith in Him. By a new and living way which he consecrated for us through the veil, that is, his flesh. So great is his mercy toward those who fear him. His mercy endures forever, repeated over and over. As a father pities his children, so the Lord pities those who fear him, for he knows our frame and remembers that we are dust. When we're in the midst of trouble, we often are prone to doubt these very things. Well, his name basically has to do with his reputation, how he's viewed. How all of creation is actually made to give God glory. Their line has gone out through all the earth and their words to the end of the world. The waves that crash on the shore show that he's set the limit of the oceans. His infinitude. She interpreted that as God behaving bitterly toward her Because of how majestic and huge they are. The way that we can build a knowledge of God that is going to stand fast and going to be unshakable is the only way in this place of trouble. You could build your life on that. We need to be crying out and asking him for that. And right now, as we praise God and as we share who he is before the gods, some of them will turn, and we will see some of them in that day. who God has brought forth and exalted, and like he says in Revelation 2, he's going to give them to rule with him with a rod of iron. There's special attention that's needed for a child who is in this kind of trouble. The condition that unlock all of these other things in verses seven and eight that the Lord promises us. We all here have heard the adage that God only helps those who learn to help themselves. They are thinking in their minds, this is not supposed to happen to me. continually surround them, continually send more so that he can humble them because that's where the streams of grace will eventually flow through. The truth is that though we can't ex we can't predict when we're going to experience this comfort from God and when we're going to have to cry out and ask for it again because it does come and go. For as the sufferings of Christ abound in us, so our consolation also abounds through Christ. We have surrendered ourselves to him. How satisfied he was with the level of this that he was getting every day in his devotions. So, when he wanted to preach with his people he had to do it in the woods and sometimes he would have to run away in the middle of the sermon because the police showed up and then go finish it on a log somewhere else on the other side of the woods because his people needed God's word. But the Lord promises he will do that. Conquering these other kings, remembering people. They are actually proofs of God's love. For in the wilderness of Zin, during the strife of the congregation, you rebelled against my command to hollow me at the waters before their eyes. Let the Lord, the God of the spirits of all flesh, set a man over the congregation, who may go out before them and go in before them, who may lead them out and bring them in, that the congregation of the Lord may not be like sheep which have no shepherd. To the place where what came out of his mouth sounded exactly like Christ. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. And Lord, we ask forgiveness for the things that we have done this week that have failed you. You have this progression from dwelling in the land where the wicked are oppressing them all the way up a gap in the timeline and were plummeted in Psalm 137 down to the lowest of depths. And they're remembering verse four of Psalm 137 about what it was like back there in Jerusalem. And we're in the midst of trouble. But praising something is actually your natural reaction to enjoying that thing. When you're so impressed by the goodness of something that you can't keep quiet without being bothered inside. If we haven't believed that, then all we are doing is offering up to God what he calls filthy rags. Wisely pointed out that these are the questioned attributes when we come to the point where our dreams are shattered Psalm 103, verses eleven through fourteen explain what this love is like. Threatened with persecution, told not to speak in God's name anymore. Praising God with us. Why am I now the one who people look down on? And they tremble at his word. Though I walk in the midst of trouble, you will revive me. And 2 Corinthians 1, 3 to 5 said, blessed says, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies, and the God of all comfort, who comforts us in our tribulation. And he's going to save us. or email us at info at bbcofmd. And in all of that, Father, your greatness, you chose to love us and show us mercy. Before the gods, I will sing praises to you. But the proud he knows afar off. You will stretch out your hand against the wrath of my enemies, and your right hand will save me. But we also have the sequence of the Psalms leading up to this psalm. We had just gone to the mountain and we realized there's a cliff here almost, and we're falling right down into captivity. Maybe starting to experience that. These are some of his words. And then to us too it happens. That you give us hope, not only that you will take suffering away one day and wipe all our tears from our eyes as we learn in Sunday school today. But praise is actually something a lot deeper than that. People whose faces we can see. But the book is very, very bent to a certain side in its uh ideology. Not because it actually made the list, but it was put on a best-selling book list, a very famous one. And so we can want to shrink back and want to not speak. Then that will not be as much of a problem, because we will realize that God is the judge of all those gods, and that He wants to even show mercy to them. David had the confidence, even though he was not a priest himself, he had the confidence that if he prayed toward this temple He knew that God would be pleased with what he had to say, because Christ was going to watch that. Christ's sacrifice on the cross was enough to take away our sin and give us his righteousness so that anything we do can be acceptable to him. For trying to come to him without the blood of his son is punishment in hell because that's what every sin deserves And when we're in the midst of trouble, are these not the first things that we question? And she was reading in in First Thessalonians five in the morning that it was the will of God in Christ Jesus for her to give thanks. And there was no scripture in that man's mind. And when we get into that place where our minds are swirling and all of our heart strings are just pulled and we can't hardly feel like we can hold ourselves together, and all we can really do is cry out to God, He hears that. So let's look at what these things are that God promises us in the midst of trouble to be able to get through it. In all eternity we will never track down all the glories of God. This isn't fair. And in the wake of it, maybe you've had a conversation with a friend, or maybe you've spent some time in prayer. to conform us to Christ's image. It's so easy to start to think, I'm gonna screw this up. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. His dream was totally shattered. How we can always go back to what you have said when life goes away we don't expect. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. But we really would love to meet you in person. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. that things are going to turn out a certain way. Let's pray, and then we'll dig into these verses. But Father, that you will be with us in every moment of our suffering. We don't really have much persecution to expect in our country. To try to get him to leave. God's truth promised Abraham that his wife would bear a son in old age, and God made it so. She and her sister were able to give thanks to God for his loving kindness for giving them one another in that awful dank and It says in verses 1 through 4, The heavens declare the glory of God, the firmament shows his handiwork, day unto day utters speech, and night into night reveals knowledge. 2 Corinthians 3. That means he had actually got to the point emotionally before that where he was reduced to crying out to God. That he regards the lowly. Your mercy, O Lord, endures forever. Your mercy, O Lord, endures forever. We're reminded we need to think of ourselves in these trials as works of God's hands. And if you look at his covenant with David, the author of this psalm, it says that when he and his children start to go astray, I will chasten them with the rod of men. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Be refreshed and Lord to be encouraged and just a time of relaxation. We're going to be reading this morning from Psalm 138. We can think of the time later in his life when he was running from his own son as a result of his sin and God's discipline in his life telling him that his house was always going to have trouble in it. And then in Psalm 136, we have that beautiful refrain over and over for his mercy endures forever. You aren't on the fringes of a trouble. The reality is that our God is so great and so good that knowing Him will empower us to praise in this way even in the midst of trouble. But how does God do that? How is this possible? Even in the midst of trouble, David is pronouncing that he's going to praise God with his whole heart. They actually had to stand up and shout and repeat to each other even though they just saw it everything that happened again. When we see God as he is, because his Holy Spirit, as we sung and asked for him to do, shows us who he is. Then he produces those desires in us that build up to the point where we have to say something. It's one thing to be unashamed before men, it's another thing to be unashamed before God. Unless we have placed our confidence in the Lord. If you have not ever placed your confidence in Christ's sacrifice to be acceptable to God, do not wait for that. But if we will repent and believe in him, then we can have confidence that our worship can be acceptable to him through Christ. But what are the topics of this praise? We question that God could ever be loving when he takes something away. God's truth promised that the Lamb of God would bear our sins and heal us from them, and God's truth made that so. If we aren't keeping God's good purposes in mind when we face these things, we will question all of them, and we will not be satisfied. Is the one reliable source for our knowledge of Him. Naomi in the book of Ruth built her understanding of God's love on her family. are being transformed into the same image from glory to glory, just as by the Spirit of the Lord. And he answers in the very day and makes us fold with strength in our souls. But in the moment when we fall and scrape our knee as a kid, we we expect a different behavior than we normally get from them That person who looks to himself is a proud person. Is actually brokenness. That means that he's going to allow us to experience his presence. And so undeniable to you. You know that that happened. He had a life of trouble. Back in the 136th Psalm, we saw that repeated over and over when it was always talking about those positive things that God did. That is part of the covenant too. He brings the people out. Moses acted out in anger and the Lord disciplined him by telling him, you will not enter into that promised land that he had been wanting his whole life. We ask this in Jesus' name. If you look in verse 12, the Lord said to Moses, go up into this Mount Abarim Always come to pass. But in this case, I would take the view that it's talking about leaders and rulers in this earth. There's all sorts of partiality to the wicked going on these days. Look at the beginning of I'm sorry, I said verse seven, verse six. Praising is completing your joy in something by exclaiming how good it actually is. By a tribe that was very intent to get him out of that area. God's truth promised Moses that he would deliver his people out of the hand of Egypt and into the promised land, and God's truth made it so. Yet none of these created things do this perfectly. In Ephesians chapter 1, it says that we need a spirit of wisdom and revelation in the knowledge of God. This is calling forward to the millennial kingdom where all the kings of the earth will be people that we know today, Christians. If a mother watches his child just fall, scrape his knee and cry and sit there, that's not very loving. And it's a yielding to his will as wise, holy, and good. And the Lord really does give you those moments with Him that are so real. And we've seen this all through church history. And if we think it's up to us to get to that point of being that masterpiece, of being someone who is like Christ, we have the assurance at the beginning of that verse, the Lord will perfect that which concerns me. Father, we worship you and praise you because you are who you are. Where is the midst of trouble? Israel is in captivity in Babylon because of their idolatry and disobedience. But we're forgetting the fact that God is the only one who can actually use that pain for good and has promised that is the only reason why it would ever come to one of his children. Verse 4 and 5. This has to do with God's special comforting of his people when they're in the midst of trouble. And sometimes trouble is what gives us those greatest experiences of this in our lives. Would you bow your heads with me this morning as we go before the Lord? You answered me, and made me bold with strength in my soul. But the note at the beginning of this poem tells us that we can expect God to give us a different response than that. The first five verses tell us what this praise is like. We often think of praise as just giving the due honor with our lips, or just showing up to the service and singing the song. It's not just describing something accurately. And when he said that to the chief, the chief apparently went back to his tribe and said, These men must have ten lives, since they are so fearless in death. And this points us forward to now, where the whole system of a priest once a year going into God's presence. David knew that his praise was going to be acceptable to God because he trusted God to make it acceptable to him. So in every opinion that matters, David knew that all the bases were covered by God. Paul even says in Ephesians 3 that we need to be strengthened to even understand it Paul under house arrest in the book of Philippians, he was able to praise God for this. If you look at verse 2, it says, You have magnified your word above all your name. on one of those created things, then all our knowledge of God will crumble along with it when we're in the midst of trouble. And so when we think that, all right, God is that great and amazing, he's probably going to pick those people to help who seem to have their lives together, right? God in his glory is beyond anything that we can comprehend, and if we really saw him, 1 Timothy 6. You see, someone who believes that they are their source of help and that all that they have at their disposal, whether that's their car, their friends, their money, whatever That God will be able to give us the rest of these promises in verses seven and eight. But it's not just in disobedience. And eventually he got to the point where he, after 40 years in the wilderness, was ready to go do that. Now, the Lord has just reminded him of the most difficult discipline he's had to endure in his life just because of where we live. hopeless place. 5 says, Now hope does not disappoint because the love of God has been poured out in our hearts by the Holy Spirit who was given to us. And that is the reason why David is able to praise this way. They realize that they've sinned before God and nothing they could ever do could earn something good from God. Some of us know what it's like to face a serious loss or a serious failure or anything like that. And isn't the Lord so merciful to actually give him a glimpse into what he wants? But if we really are taken up, if this is what we really believe, and the Holy Spirit is really showing these things to us, we can be enabled to do this. 5 says that God is exalted above all glory and praise. And that's what this is talking about here. There's a beautiful picture of this if you look back in Numbers chapter twenty-seven. This word walk means a long time. And so that means that real praise actually starts with seeing God as He is When this is what our praise is like, we will not be ashamed of who it is that hears it. And this begs the question, have you come to him through his son? Because his love is so great and always stands, even when we are in a hard time. In Romans 8, 28 and 29, we hear this over and over again, but it is so important. These things about God never change in the midst of trouble. This text that says he has magnified his word above all his name, it means that God's word God also empowers us to praise in answer to prayer. Isaiah 66, 2 says, For all these things my hand has made, and all those things exist, says the Lord, but on this one I will look, on him who is poor and of a contrite spirit. But then Moses' response to what God says shows that God has been at work in his heart. And not only do we have the story of David to draw on to imagine what this midst of trouble was like, And in fact, it says that God it in other places in Scripture it says that God opposes that person. And it's not until we get to that point that we will be it's not until we get to that point. So we've seen that this praise that God empowers is wholehearted. Because God has set his covenant love on us, he separates our sin from us, he doesn't treat us that way. But how do we know that God has made that possible even in the midst of trouble? He said that he learned more about heaven in those minutes than he had in reading all the treatises about it he had in his whole life. Well, Hebrews 12 says that the Lord disciplines those he loves, and he scourges every son whom he receives. This didn't happen because Robert Moffat was some great guy. In the life of one of his children. But then at the end of that 136th Psalm, there's almost like Sometimes in our lives we have these dreams. This song begins, I will praise you with my whole heart. Well, I think looking at what praise actually is will help us realize how this is possible. God is able to give us that lifting up that we need when our heads are bowed down by trouble. And the second reason to praise God, the second attribute that we question is God's truth, his trustworthiness, his unchanging nature to always keep his promises. And those words should remind us of the exact words of our Lord when he saw the multitudes, who were like sheep without a shepherd, and had compassion on them, and began to teach them. And we think of Pastor Jim and Elizabeth being away. No, because my brothers actually care about soccer. You've always been and always will be. Robert Moffat, a missionary to Africa in the eighteen hundreds, found his family's house surrounded. He's going to lift us out of all of our troubles, whether in this life or when he appears. His mind is not going to be in left field worrying about what will happen. Now, we've heard that this praise is wholehearted. 18 says, But we all with unveiled face beholding as in a mirror the glory of the Lord. If you were to take a man in a hot air balloon and send him around the world in eighty days We can know that our parents love us. We'll briefly look at the rest of these. Oh my goodness, oh I didn't notice that happened. God, you you promised this thing, and this isn't what happened. Our Heavenly Father, we thank you for how perfect your word is. But it won't happen unless they hear the words of his mouth as well as we need to. This is what he said. Hath he said, and will he not do it? That would be firm. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible And even for the fleas that were in their hair, that later they would find out were God's protection for them in a in a reversal they didn't expect. Realizing this, they bow their wills to let the Lord reign and let him have his way. You know that it was only God who could take that verse that you maybe even read a hundred times and just bring it home to you and lift your spirit with it. And that is a proof of his love. Moses did not lose faith in God, however. Judging unjustly showing partiality. And we're not used to that. Amen. And he had years to go before he would lead those people to that place but not be able to enter in himself. We pray that you'd help us to think on these things and to offer real praise to you in the midst of our troubles. Because he is forming his knowledge of God from the Word of God and not from what's going on around him. In Psalm 134, there is this call for the servants of the Lord who worship him in his house He often had to run away from the police because there was this act that was passed so that pastors could not be within five miles of their church. Focus our hearts and our minds upon your word. And even the human relationships in our life show what his love is like in some way. And now, this is going to be the new normal. What is this praise like? We have two points today. We can pray to him and be confident that he will hear because he has made the way to him. Do not forsake the work of your hands. Moses was told by God that he would lead the people into the promised land. They have to spend another 40 years in the wilderness. Psalm 82. If we haven't been if we haven't sensed this in our lives, it's not all right our job to fix this on our own. It's mentioned that all the kings of the earth all the kings of the earth will praise God when they hear the words of his mouth. And that is the best thing for us. And when it does, nobody has the right to snivel or whimper as if something unique and unexplicable had befallen him. But now it's talking about God's mercy endures forever, bringing these hard things But he tells this story of how he was walking in the woods meditating on heaven, and the Lord gave him such undeniable experience of God's presence, like we've been talking about. Suppose that you, as to Christ, it became evident that life was not going to give you what you expected from it. I mean anyone can sing Jesus loves me with their mouth while harboring anger against God inside, but that's not what's being talked about here. As far as the east is from the west, so far has he removed our transgressions from us. For those whom he foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son, so that he would be the firstborn among many brethren. Okay. Do not forsake the works of your hands. It's also just that word discipline has the idea of training includes that as well. Do not forsake the works of your hands. And he will do that for all of us. For you have magnified your word above all your names. Psalm 134, verse 1 says, Behold, bless the Lord, all you servants of the Lord who by night stand in the house of the Lord. In Exodus 33, 14, it says, My presence will go with you, and I will give you rest. He gives us the rest for our souls that we need in him. Are going to characterize us forever. In verses 6 through 8. We know you will never touch our wives and children. A couple examples, David Brainerd, you read his diary, he's repeating over and over uh in his journal. I'm gonna destroy it. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. That Father, our hearts and our minds would be directed to you. If you are resolved to rid yourselves of us, you must resort to stronger measures, for our hearts are with you. If you look just to the left at Psalm 136, that word mercy in the New King James is that word loving-kindness. But when we see that it does tell something about God. The Holy Spirit is the one who takes the things of Christ and shows them to our hearts so that we can sense their true weight In your presence is fullness of joy. I will worship you toward your holy temple and praise your name. And though I walk in the midst of trouble, you revive me And it's used to describe the heat, middle of a battle in some places in Scripture. Now you're right in the center of it. It says that he will stretch out his hand against the wrath of our enemies, and we've For great is the glory of the Lord. And all of a sudden, it all falls out from under us. But if we are really amazed by who God is, if we are really seeing him as he is. All of God's word is telling us what God is really like. They're proofs that He has not forsaken us. 1 says, God stands in the congregation of the mighty, he judges among the gods. All of those songs and stories and movies and fairy tales that we heard Or hath he spoken, and will he not make it good? Does it? But I don't know about you, but I'm still looking for that star that I wish on and everything that my heart desires just kind of comes to me. When we fall into this place it's easy for us to start to think that the emotions we feel right away, the grief that's understandable, the disappointment. This person is poor. I'm not going to delve deep into that, but we know that justice is going to come. Just as much as when your child starts to disobey, you show your love to them by giving them something that they don't really want. This life in trouble God used to bring Moses The midst of trouble is a place in our lives that lasts a long time and that is nothing like what we dreamed. Well, David, the writer of this psalm and the seven to follow, knew a lot of trouble in his life And all of it's just coming out because it's part of their enjoyment. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. The highest angels cry out, holy, holy, holy, in Isaiah chapter 6, even though they are perfectly righteous. This is God using his truth by his spirit. And sometimes we can get to the very brink of that. That's what I would have done. Every one of these things eventually gives out. It's total abandon of all of our arguments against God, of why this is not fair. And we ought not to be ashamed of talking about those things. And all we have to hold on to is our memories of that First one that God empowers us to praise, and that's going to be in verses one through five as we mentioned. org. What you get might stumble upon some truth. And the people who are in charge of advancing that, those are what the Bible is talking about referring to as gods. It is to your soul just like being hugged is to your skin. We thank you, Lord, for the joy that uh they can get away together as a family and just And he had to preach the next Sunday in his church. That tends to vote a certain way. And when a proud person gets into the midst of trouble, what is their reaction? And Lord, we lift up to you this morning those who are unable to be here with us for many reasons. Hearts just as sensitive as yours and mine. And we need to be doing that. There's no way that God could bring all the events in my life to a point where I am more like him because I know how sinful I am. Good morning. I first learned this from John Piper's book, Desiring God, his famous book, Desiring God, and he first learned this from C. We think that because we're experiencing pain, God must not really love us as he says he does. You will stretch out your hand against the wrath of my enemies, and your right hand will save me. It was just a little flick of the foot and it was right in over the goalie's head. We'll look in verse 2. And in verse three, we have another example of how we cannot get this strength in our souls that comes from knowing God unless we are asking And it says that his mercy endures forever. May the Lord richly bless you. You are the creator and sustainer of our very souls. Uh and as life goes on and more and more things happen, we come to realize that that really isn't how things work in It happened because the Holy Spirit was showing him how great God was. Even though the mountains that we pass Our Father in heaven, we are so thankful This is something that we really need to know as a church when we go out into the neighborhood. And 1 Timothy 6. If you look back at Psalm 120, we'll just briefly turn the pages through and try to track how this works here. And then from verse 6 to 8, we have an explanation of all of the provisions God has given. But my brothers care about this. He prayed toward that tabernacle, where the Holy of Holies was, where God appeared. Unless we have believed that All of that totally blocks what God wants to do for us. And to define it is impossible in such a short time. That's the reason why he's able to have a firm view of God's loving kindness and his truth. And the more noise that we create with all that pride thinking about how that person betrayed or how that person What God is looking for in order to give somebody this help to deal with the midst of trouble. And what are the provisions God has given us so that we can be sure we will be able to praise Him this way? It's unashamed before men. It's made to contribute to his name. He's not powerful. He will be the one to ensure that we are comforted. I pray that your spirit will give Zach clarity of speech and thought, and Lord, that our hearts and our minds And that is foolish. That is this word loving kindness, his covenant love. For as the heavens are high above the earth, Everything in creation points to God in some way. Our world is fallen and it's cursed and everything under the sun This word in the midst means you're right in the heart. And during that game, there was a goal that was very impressive Maybe just a frown or avoidance or rejection. At your right hand are pleasures forevermore. Yes, unbelievably they come. That word gods is used various ways in the Psalms, sometimes talking about angels, sometimes talking about idols. We dare not take up the Word of God and just expect God to work on our timing and give us a spiritual boost. God is, as the song goes, molding a masterpiece in our lives. And that was God fulfilling his faithful promise. And that all of the things that you bring into our lives, you give us the grace to endure. And then we get Psalm 135. So how does God empower us to praise? And this is something that we all know and we do naturally. We can be so honestly cowardly And then, all the way down 1 Peter 2 4-5 says, Coming to him as to a living stone, rejected by men, but chosen by God, and precious, you also as living stones. But the highest mountain in the earth cannot do what the Holy Spirit does with the Word of God in giving us the knowledge of God. We can know that they care about us. We can't handle how amazing God is. I was supposed to succeed. We pray your hand of blessing upon them and your protection around them. In Jesus' name. These were songs of joy, songs that recounted their triumphs in the Lord and the difficulties that they faced These are the psalms that it's believed that Israel would sing when all of them were traveling up to Zion He's going to actually be able to focus It is responding in your heart to the greatness and glory and beauty of something. If you look at And when that chief of that tribe walked up to his door, This word loving-kindness has to do with God's covenant love. Betsy Temboon, when she was in the concentration camp. And when her husband was gone, and it was just her going back to the land of her fathers. They gathered for a prayer meeting They have they realize they have nothing to offer God. And Father, we ask that as we come together this morning It says that he will worship toward your holy temple and praise your name for your loving kindness and truth. And God has made his word When the news first comes, it's overwhelming to think of all those days that we'll have to go through whatever it is that the Lord has brought upon us. And we read earlier in Psalm 19. Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning with grateful and thankful hearts. But Then shall they who sent us know, and God, who sees and hears what we do, shall know that we have been persecuted indeed. Psalm 138. But the problem is we start to think that they've changed because of where we're looking. Let's go ahead and pray. It will never work. A proud person is not ever going to be able to get over it because We all claim to believe that he does this. And sometimes that's what our trials are like as well And Father, we come with grateful and thankful hearts this morning. God's truth predicted that Joseph's brothers would bow down before him, and God's truth made it so. We need to be in God's Word every day so that when these troubles come and when the questions and the doubts arise we have a firm foundation. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. They know life is better than this. For there is no supposing in the matter. They understand what just happened and how incredibly difficult that was. This praise is before even rulers in this world, and it's acceptable to God. Numbers 23:19 says, God is not a man that he should lie. And God knows that. And in this verse You are God Almighty, all-powerful, all-wise, all-knowing. Though the Lord is on high, yet he regards the lowly We have desires that the Lord honors, that the Lord calls good desires in his word. This happened to a minister who was alive not too long ago named Arthur John Gossip. 16 says that he dwells in unapproachable light. Hello, my name is Jim Bennam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. We pray for your Spirit to do a mighty work in each of our hearts. Seeing what looks like God answering prayer after prayer after prayer, leading us to the fulfillment of what we've been hoping for. And this is so encouraging when it says cried out because Well, this text says that that is totally wrong. We hope to see you soon The stars in the sky that he leads across and knows all by name show his knowledge The very glory of God shines through this book. Jesus said in John 5. And we thank you that all of your purposes This is what he says his praise is going to be like in the midst of trouble. Why? And God's truth said a virgin would conceive and bear a son, and God's truth brought Jesus forth from Mary. First we have in verse 7, I'm going to be quick through these, that the Lord will revive us. All we're doing So this is the kind of praise that we can offer to God. God offsets the difficulty of what we're going through. We'll end here. He does fulfill the desire of those who fear him, even if it's not in the exact way that we thought it was going to be. His covenant love endures forever. And when it does, if we began to build our understanding of God But if you had a schoolboy write down at his desk, a copywork, John 3. In the book of Acts, when the people of God were And in the day when I cried out All the kings of the earth shall praise you, O Lord, when they hear the words of your mouth. At the dawn of our lives, we have all of these expectations. Let us draw near with a true heart. Charles Spurgeon It says we know that God works all things together for good to those who love God. It's very likely that somebody we talk to We can't have this kind of confidence like David had to pray right toward that holy place. What does this phrase mean? We can sometimes be afraid that that is Verse 15, then Moses spoke to the Lord saying, That's what praising is In verse six we have And the Puritan John Flavel Amen. We know life can be better than this, but this is the Lord's appointment for us for a season. Oh did you see that? And that's what our goal really needs to be when we come and try to worship together. Because it lines up with what they want. That word mercy, that is the same word, covenant love. How shall we sing the Lord's song in a foreign land? And instead of backing down, he did it. That's not just his mouth affirming something and his mind somewhere else. And that's what praise is supposed to be The Lord will perfect that which concerns me. And even when we feel like we are being dealt with because of our sins, that is not the case. But when yours breaks, what what then? He has made the way through his son. So what are some of those promises? God is so incredibly glorious that we can't understand him. And God was not done working in his life. And because of that And he opens that up to us in verses 7 and 8. My dreams were supposed to come true. And you sat down and read that book. As we mentioned before, God is doing everything in our lives. Aren't we hasting the day of the Lord's return? The only way to God is through his Son. 39, if you search the scriptures, for in them you think you have eternal life Okay, bringing them out of Egypt. He went right by him. And during that time Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. I will praise you with my whole heart. 16 says that no man has seen him or can see him. And then in verse 8, it says, The Lord will perfect that which concerns me. What does this praise actually look like? Yes, they shall sing of the ways of the Lord, for great is the glory of the Lord. We do it all the time. I have no idea how he did it And we are going to rule and reign with Christ for a thousand years. It's his And He does that to make us more and more dependent on Him. We need God's help to do it. That is the opposite of the truth. It can be Oh he thinks And when that happens, God gives us that power to be bold. All they have to depend on is his mercy What is God's name? There's no speech nor language where their voice is not heard. How long will you judge unjustly and show partiality to the wicked? And so we see every day people advancing Repeated, reminding us, all of this comes from God's loving heart. Well, look in verse seven This is what everyone was looking forward to. It's so easy to want to walk right by somebody who you could talk with. It says When these things come to us. If I forget you, O Jerusalem, let my right hand forget its skill. He knew he would be heard by God. The Lord will perfect that which concerns me. Pray that you will bring them back safely to us. We have not because we ask not You see There must be something in immortality. We pray all of these things in Jesus' name. And that's going to come through trusting him in prayer. Second point. And so when that happened, in order to enjoy it We bow to his will. The only just thing that God can give you After all, we wouldn't do that to someone that we loved. It is a part of His covenant to send these things to us. S. Lewis's book, Reflections on the Psalms. 16, and you read that. Be it wonderful time. We Amen.