Heavenly Father, we are so grateful this morning for who you are, the one true living God, the Creator and Sustain. Of all life. You are Almighty, all powerful, all-wise, and all-knowing. You are perfect in every way. And Father, your ways and your thoughts are so And we are grateful this morning that you in your greatness would love us and be willing to send your only begotten Son to give us Come and take the sin of the world upon himself in our place and die there on that cross and be buried in the tomb. And on the third day he was resurrected up out of that grave. And Is now seated at your right hand, interceding on our behalf this morning. And as we replace our faith in him and what he has done done at the cross. We have the privilege to be able to come before your throne this morning and bring our praises and our cares and concerns. And Father, I want to lift up to you a f a few folks this morning who are not good Well and unable to be here. And I would just pray, Father, for your hand of mercy to be upon them, that you might comfort them and be their comfort and encourage them and help them them through this time that they are struggling with. And we pray for healing for them, Lord. And we do thank you for those who are here this morning who are going through trials in life. And we're thankful, Father, that They take the time to come and want to be here among your people, wanting to worship you and hear your word proclaimed. And Father, we thank you so much for your your word. And I pray as we come to this time to sit under your teaching, that Father, you would open our hearts and our minds. Help us to set aside those things that are distracting to us. And help us to concentrate fully upon you and what you have to teach us this morning. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. We're going to be in Matthew chapter 22 today, and we are looking at verses 42 through 23, verse 12. While the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them, saying, What do you think about the Christ? Whose son is he? And they said to him, the son of David. And he said to them, How then does David in the spirit call him Lord? Saying, The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand. If David then calls him Lord, how is he his son? And no one was able to answer him a word. Nor from that day on did anyone dare question him anymore. Then Jesus spoke to the multitudes and to his disciples, saying, The scribes and the Pharisees, sit in Moses' seat Therefore, whatever they tell you to observe, that observe and do. But do not do according to their works, for they say and do not do. For they bind heavy burdens, hard to bear, and lay them on men's shoulders. But they themselves will not move them with one of their shoulders. Fingers, but all their works they do to be seen by men. They make their phylactates broad and enlarge the borders of their garments They love the best feast, the best places at the feast, the best seats in the synagogues, greeting in the marketplaces, and to be called men, rabbi Rabbi. But you do not be called. But you do not be called Rabbi. The one is your teacher the Christ, and you are all brethren. Do not call any one on earth your father, for one is your father, he who is in heaven. And do not be called teachers, for one is your teacher. the Christ, but he who is the greatest among you shall be your servant, and whoever exalts himself will be humbled. And he who humbles himself will be exalted. The personal desire for attention and recognition among human beings is strong. People want attention. They you can see it from the youngest to uh social media uh to all kind you you see You can see it on all kinds of levels and recognition is the same. I mean look at politics, for example. We're coming up on a on a uh election cycle and there seems to be and I'm not gonna I you know I'm not gonna get into politics, party politics or anything like that. That's certainly not my role, but I'll just simply say that it seems to be that everybody is trying to get as much oxygen as they possibly can. They are focusing as much as they can on directing the attention to themselves. And if you if you f if you just think about is there About human nature and the desire for attention and the need for attention and then the the pragmatism of of politics of needing to draw people to your attention That would be a very good example of the human instincts and nature to to want recognition, to want attention to look at past records and pack accomplishments and highlight those. That is the way of the world in nearly every situation, every venue you find yourselves in if you in the workplace. Uh you're trying to tout your accomplishments. You're trying to highlight your accomplishments. On your resume, you're going to highlight your accomplishments In order to hopefully advance in politics, you're going to highlight your accomplishments in order to hopefully advance. And there is just this need in our human hearts for recognition. And some of that's not bad. Some of that is normal and and appropriate, but it certainly becomes almost some would say it's a disorder When we fail to have the ability to recognize the acknowledgement and acknowledge the accomplishments of others. Columbia University uh University doctoral thesis says this, the desire for recognition, that is to say the desire to have the approval esteemed consideration or respect of those around us, whether as individuals or members of social groups, has in fact been described as a vital human need. I might be taking a little bit too far, but certainly you can see universally that there is a desire in the human heart for attention and recognition. But what if our rec our desire for recognition and our desire for attention is so great that we fail to see the rec we fail to recognize the accomplishments of others? others. And let's take it a step further. What if our desire for recognition and attention fails, we causes us to fail to see the You could put it in the that light. In Philippians chapter 3, verse 18 it says this for many walk of whom I have told you, and now you even we And they are the enemies of the cross of Christ, whose end is destruction, whose God is their belly, and whose glory is in their shame. Who set their mind on earthly things. The glor their glory, their identity is actually their shame because they have set their mind. on earthly things. In this passage in in Matthew 22, Jesus is going to give give the Pharisees and describes a final opportunity to recognize who he really is. He's going to use scripture to do it. And yet they are not going to recognize it as such. The truth is, we must recognize the Lordship of Christ and identify those who aren't recognizing the Lordship of Christ. of Christ. So we're going to see three things in this passage. One, we're going to see recognizing the lordship of Christ results from Scripture. We're going to see it in Scripture. And then recognizing the Lordship of Christ precludes self-centeredness. You cannot truly recognize the lordship of Christ and be self-centered at the same time. And then recognizing the Lordship of Christ calls for humble service. It calls for humble service. Let's then pick up in recognizing the lordship of Christ results from Scripture. In Matthew 22, verse 41, it says, While the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them, saying, What do you think about the Christ? Saying, who do you what do you think about the Messiah? Whose son is he? Jesus is referencing the Old Testament prophecies of the Messiah, and he's saying, who is the son of the Messiah? Well, for them referencing the Old Testament, they would have sort of a that's sort of an easy answer in their mind. Well, the answer is David, and throughout the Old Testament, you find that the son of David is going to be sub Sitting on the throne forever, and there are lots of mentions of the Messiah being uh from the lineage of David. So Jesus then asked the question, verse 20 43 And he said to them, How then does David in the Spirit call him Lord? And the Lord said to it to my Lord this is reference Psalm 110, the Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand till I make your enemies your footstool. As David then calls him Lord, how is he his son? So the question that Jesus is asking is, how can scripturally, certainly scripturally, he was not denying that the that Christ, that the Messiah, would be the son of David, but scripturally also David himself said that the future Messiah would be his Lord. And we find that to be the case in Psalm 110. Ver it says this the Lord said to my Lord, sit at my right hand till I make your enemies your footstool. The Lord shall send the rod of your strength out of Zion, rule in the midst of your enemies. Your people shall be volunteers in the day of your power and duties of In the beauties of holiness, from the womb of the morning you have the dew of your youth. The Lord has sworn sworn and will not re relent. You are a priest forever, according to the order of Melchizedek. The Lord is your right hand and shall execute kings in the day of his wrath, and he shall judge among the nations, and shall fill the places with dead bodies, and shall execute the heads of many countries. He shall Psalm 110 is actually the most quoted passage in the Old Testament that's quoted in the New Testament. And it's clearly referring about Jesus. And David is the writer of this psalm, and he says at the very beginning, the Lord said to my Lord, How can the Son of David be the Lord? Now that for us is an easy answer. But in the minds of the Pharisees and the scribes that were listening to this, that was not an easy answer. Jesus includes the reality that when David said this, he said this under the influence Of the Spirit of God, under the inspiration of the Spirit of God, in fact. Second Peter chapter 1, verse 21 says the prophecy never came by the will of man, but holy men of God spoke as they were moved by the Holy Spirit. Spirit. And as David was moved by the Spirit of God, he writes, he pens this down and he says about the Lord, the Messiah, that he was going to be his Lord. So they don't know what to do with this. I don't know whether or not they put the two together and weren't weren't willing to say it, or whether they were entirely confounded by this But either way, they had nothing else to say. Now, the answer for us is very simple. Even in the Old Testament, we find, for example, there's many Examples, but in Jeremiah twenty three, verses five through six it says, For the days are coming, says the Lord, that I will raise to David a branch of righteousness, a king shall reign and prosper, and execute the judgment and righteousness in the earth In his days, Judah will be saved, and Isaiah will dwell safely. Now, this is the name by which he will be called the Lord our righteous. It's other places in the Old Testament as well. You've got two things The Son of David is also the Lord, the righteous Lord, the God of the universe. And in the very beginning sections of the book of of the New Testament, the beginning books of the New Testament, clearly we find that he is, that Jesus is the prophecy, the fulfillment of the prophecy of the Mark eleven ten blessed is the king of our father David that comes in the name of the Lord, Hosanna, in The highest. He is both. He is both the son of David and He is also Lord. And this is clearly declared throughout the New Testament over and over again. I could mention many passages, but for example, the Apostle Paul, who was a later Pharisee, says, Concerning the Son of David, uh Son Jesus Christ our Lord, who was born of the sit seed of David according to the flesh, Romans 1. three And later on in the book of Revelation, chapter three, verse seven, and the angel of the Church of Philadelphia write, These things says he who is holy and who is true, he who is And other places in the book of Revelation we have the same kind of thing. Jesus is the fulfillment of this. And that is really the most to us it's obvious. We look at the Old Testament You look at the New Testament, it is so clear and so obvious. But these scribes and these Pharisees, who knew, particularly the scribes, who knew the Old Testament well, could not put this together. Could they not or would they not? That is a question. Were they not able to, or were they not willing to? Or in some sense, maybe it was a little bit of both. But either way, they did not. They did not recognize who Jesus really was. Jesus had confounded them in the past. In John chapter 17, verses 15 through 18 it says this, and Jews marveled, saying, How does this man know letters having never studied? Jesus answered them and said, My doctrine is not mine, but he who sent me. If anyone wills to do his will, he shall know concerning the doctrine, whether it is from God or whether I speak on my own authority. He who speaks for himself seeks his own glory, but he who seeks the glory of the one who sent him is true and no one and no unrighteousness is in him. Jesus is saying, and speaking of my father's author authority who sent me, they were they were amazed by his wisdom and authority, and Jesus is now very much He is his authority is on full display as he declares the truth of who he is to the entire multitude. at large, include as he asks a question to the scribes and the Pharisees. And Jesus is actually, remember before, we've seen the Pharisees and the scribes come to him question after question after question. And he confounds them sometimes with another requestion, a question to follow their question. And they go away Not able to fulfill their uh their uh desire to trap him. But now Jesus turns the table, as we have seen, and asks this question And it points to the very central truth of the Christian faith. Who is Jesus? That's the central truth of the Christian faith. What Jesus did and who he is. And if you get that wrong, you are not a Christian. If you deny the deity of Christ, you are not a Christian. If you deny the humanity of Christ, you are not a Christian. The central truth of the Christian faith is who Jesus is. We find this, for example, in 1 John 4. Beloved, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits whether they are of God. Because many false prophets have gone into the world, but this you know, the Spirit of God. Every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is of God. And every spirit that does not confess that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is not of God. And this is the spirit of the Antichrist, which you have heard was coming and is now already in the world. So Jesus displays who he is, who the Messiah is, the Son of David, and God, the Lord. Using the truths of the Word of God together. He puts things together from the Word of God to derive doctrine. And that's exactly how you and I ought to do it as well. That's how the doctrines of the Christian faith come together. We look at the whole council of God, we look at all the truths of God on a particular matter. And you put it together and you come up with a particular doctrine. Jesus is both God and man. How do we know that? Because the Bible says both And so we believe both because the Bible says both. Jesus is God, and he's the Son of David, and he's the fulfillment of the king, of the kingly line. And he is all of those things. Why? Because the Bible says all of it to be true. And we believe what the Bible says. In the mind of these folks, very likely they did not see this as very logical. How could you say of your child, child, child, child, child, uh your your son, your lineage, how could you say that that is your God, that is your Lord? It's not logical. It doesn't make sense And yet, that's exactly what the Word of God says. And there is an application, I think, for us today, and that is that God's ways are higher than our ways, His thoughts are higher than our thoughts. And that means, as we mentioned I think last week, that when we come to the Word of God, we certainly want to use reasoning. We want to see all of what God says. But when it seems It seems as though there is a logical contradiction, or we don't understand something logically. We have to believe what the Bible says as truth And the fact is, we are not going to understand everything. Because God is God and we are not. And we need to understand this. Also, why? Why did these folks I mean Jesus over and over again taught who he was, he displayed who he was. He exemplified who he was, he showed miracles of who he was, he prophesied who he was, he referred to the Old Testament for who he was, and yet this is, by the way, sort of the final time he says this. They go away and they're not asking any more questions. And there's not much said anymore between the two of them, although he's going to give a final a final uh indictment to toward them later. So why would they not receive it And I'm just going to suggest to you that it's quite possible that they didn't want to. The real problem there was in the lives of these folks. It's not so much that they didn't have the cognitive ability to understand, but at the end of the day, you believe what you want to believe. That is universally the case. And these folks, bottom line, they were so full of themselves and glorifying themselves and focusing on themselves. And getting the attention and the recognition that they so desperately wanted, they could not see that there was the Messiah, the their Lord and God standing right in front of them And so, as the passage says, their response is they're done. They can't, they're they're confounded, they can't say anything else, and they leave the scene. They go away, and now they sort of say, okay, we're not asking any more questions. But the multitude and the disciples, they stay behind. And what Jesus is now going to do is Jesus is going to warn his disciples as well as the multitude about the folks that just left. These scribes and the Pharisees, they have gone after Jesus, they have questioned Jesus, they have tried to dis defame Jesus. They have tried to trap Jesus to no avail, and now they leave, and Jesus is going to say, that is not who you need to follow. The way he does it is quite interesting, as we're going to see in the text. But we pick up here and we see that recognizing the Lordship of Christ precludes. The problem of these Pharisees and the scribes is that they were centered on themselves. themselves. Matthew 23:1 says, Then Jesus spoke to the multitudes and to the disciples, saying, The scribes and the Pharisees sit in Moses' seat. Therefore, whatever they tell you to observe, that observe and do. But do not do according to their works. For they say and do not do. For they bind heavy burdens, hard to bear, and lay them on men's shoulders. But they themselves will not move them with one of their fingers. But all their works they do to be seen by men. They make their phylacteries broad and enlarge the borders of their garments. They love best places at feasts. Best seats in the synagogues, greeting in the marketplace, and being called by men Rabbi, Rabbi. So we see the setting here is these disciples and their multi- and the multitudes. A year later, I mean a year earlier rather, Jesus denounces the Pharisees in chapter 15. Verse 7. But now it's public. He's going to warn not just the disciples. He's done that in the past, but he's going to warn the multitudes around him. Remember, all of those who have gathered for the Passover From all over the place, and now he is warning all of these multitudes of these Pharisees and teachers. Now he says here in the text, verse 2, that the scribes and the Pharisees sit in Moses' seat. What does that mean? They sit in Moses' seat. Well, that certainly was the belief of the scribes. That was the expressed and written teaching of the scribes of the day. They believed that they were They were successors to Moses. And the Pharisees may have, they had some sort of idea of that as well. The passage is not necessarily affirming that that was the case, but certainly, and it's hard to say whether or not they sit in the seat of Moses, they were claiming the seat of Moses. Or whether they rightfully had in some sense the seat of Moses. But either way, they were sitting in the seat of Moses. They were taking a They were taking the authority of that sort of mosaic authority This would imply that they were the legal successors of Moses. And they love to sit in the s uh sit in the the seat of Moses. Um archaeologically it it's interesting that that uh before this they uh sort of Indicated uh the seat of Moses was sort of just a figurative thing, but uh there is some archaeological evidence that there was a literal chair that may have actually been called the seat of Moses that was in the The synagogue. And that's a fairly recent recent discovery. But either way, Jesus is now going to say, verse 3: whatever they tell you, observe. That observe and do. Now, what does he mean by this? Is he saying to the Pharisees, is he saying, Do what the Pharisees tell you. Do what the scribes tell you to do. That seems almost contradictory to Matthew chapter 15 verses 1 through 9, which we've been over before, but I'll read it to you and remind you. Then the scribes and the Pharisees were uh who were from Jerusalem came to Jerusalem. And he answered them, Why do your you also transgression uh transgress the commandment of God? Because if you're a tradition and there's this debate over over what the disciples are doing and how they are not following all of the rabbinical teachings and and how Jesus is actually saying you're violating the heart of the commandment uh some of the commandments, To honor your father or mother, if you remember all of that. But now Jesus is saying, observe what they tell you, sort of. of what's going on here. Well there's two possibilities. One possibility is that this is actually sarcasm or irony. That's possible. It's possible that he is being ironic and saying, yeah, make sure you do everything they tell you to do. And that could be what is going on here. Many commentators feel that that's what's happening here. But Others say something different, which we'll get into in a moment. One thing we can say is that he is not comprehensibly comprehensively calling them to follow all of the scribes and Pharisees' teaching because obviously they were weren't doing that so far. But on the other hand, Christ knows that there are various factions and debates and are and and and people that want to that believe Israel should be doing certain things and Jewish people should be doing certain things. One of them are the zealots And you'll remember perhaps the zealots, their their belief is that they need to overthrow by force or rebel against the Roman Empire. There is this sort of spirit of rebellion And Jesus is not about that. Jesus is not saying to overtly rebel against the scribes and the Pharisees. So I think what he is most likely saying is that insofar as the scribes and the Pharisees who read the law of God teach the law of God, then follow the law of God. That is, uh remember that in the first century it's not like they all had a copy of the Bible. They did not. They went to the synagogues and they heard it read, the Torah was read by the scribes. And so insofar as they're reading and And explaining the truth of the Word of God, then follow it. I think that's probably what he's saying here. But he says, on the other hand, they don't follow what they do. In other words, don't do what they do. Do what they say, at least insofar as what the Bible says. But don't do what they do. Do not do according to their works, for they say and do not do. So, uh why? Because it says, for they bind heavy burdens, hard to bear, and lay them on men's shoulders, but they themselves will not move them with one of their fingers. There there's this he they're referencing these rabbinical writings. The intention of the rabbinical writings was to add rules and regulations to fence the Torah, to fence the law of Moses so that nobody gets close to violating the law of Moses. And it probably was in the very beginning intentions uh the you know had the to a per purpose to uh keep them from from violating Moses, but as a result It now became a heavy burden for them. And that's why Jesus said in Matthew chapter 11, verse Twenty-eight, come to me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn of me, for I'm meek and lowly in heart. You'll find rest for your souls, for my yoke is easy All of these extra rules, all of these extra regulations that were not from scripture that were not from the law had become a heavy burden to them, and some of them were faltering. Some of them were being crushed under the burden of these rules and regulations. And these he's saying, these Pharisees and scribes were not there to help them up. We're not there to bind their wounds. We're not there to shepherd them. There's a sense in which they were false shepherds. Jesus is warning them about these people. And then he goes on. And he explains the very motive of these folks. Now, I want to say at the very outset here that this is Jesus. Acting as rightful judge over the scribes and the Pharisees. What he is about to do is not something that you and I have the ability to do, and that is to judge motives. It's very clear in Scripture that we are prohibited from doing that. Jesus is, rightfully so, as the judge, knows their motives, and he says in verse 5, but all their works they do to be seen by men. They make their phylacteries broad and enlarge the borders of their garments. So he says that their focus, their occupation What they do, they want recognition. They want to be recognized. They want to be seen of And so they do what they do for that reason. Mark chapter 12, verse 38 through 39 says this, and he said to them I'm teaching beware of the scribes who desire to go around in long robes, love greetings in marketplaces, and best seats in the synagogues, and best places and feasts. twenty verse forty six. So he then gives some examples of this. How do they go around and and try to get people to recognize them? Well, there's two basic ways. The wearing of religious garments And the positioning for attention. First, the wearing of religious garments. They had these phylacteries. The phylactery was a small leather or parchment box That contained pieces of vellum that inscribed texts of Scripture. The irony is, there's real irony here as to what are the texts that were often in these phylacteries. Deuteronomy chapter 6, verse 4 through 9. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your strength. And these words which I command you this day shall be in your heart, you shall teach them diligently to your children, and shall talk of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, when you lie down, when you rise up. You shall bind them as a sign on your head, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes, and you shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates. And they literally did that They w wrapped them, they put them on their arms, they put them on their forehead, and there's a particular word in in the original language that here in this context that indicates that it had become like a pagan charm in fact. Sort of a good luck charm, like somebody puts a Bible on their dashboard, never reads it, puts a Bible on their dashboard hoping that they won't get in an accident. And that's foolishness. But the real motive behind all of these boxes that they're putting on their arms and their forehead and those kinds of things, what they're doing is they are wanting to be seen of men. want people to see, oh, how holy that person is, oh, how righteous he is, oh how wonderful he is. And yet what's in those boxes are love the Lord your God with all of your heart. The irony of that. And enlarge the borders of your garments. Mentioned in scripture in Numbers fifteen, thirty-seven through forty one, and Deuteronomy twenty-two through twelve, to put tassels on the car on their garments as a as a reminder to follow Christ in obedience. It was sort of indicated to be a reminder of obedience. But these Pharisees and scribes didn't put these tassels on their robes. to uh for a reminder of ob of of a personal reminder of obedience, this had become a reminder to everybody else of their obedience. And they made these tassels nice and long and big and and very obvious for everybody to see, oh, how how they love the Lord with the boxes on their arms. arms and head and how they how they must obey everything they wanted to be seen of men. And they wanted the best places at the feasts. Back in those days, uh the tables were often U-shaped. And they would recline at these tables, and the best seat in the house was at the at the at the the U of the table, at the so the head, so to speak, of the table And they wanted those best seats. I don't know if they were the closest to the food. That would be the cho that would be the seat I would want. I w I wouldn't care about what the head is. But I don't think that was their interest. They wanted to feel special and the focus to be all on them because at the head of the table you could see everyone and everybody could see you They wanted to be seen of men. And and uh they loved they loved to be greeted in the marketplace. They love to be called rabbi. Rabbi. This was a title uh that was a mark of respect. It was uh it was by the time that these folks were Well these Pharisees and scribes had it. It was a ti uh a title of immense high status, and they love to be called this. They love to be called Rabbi. They were viewed as higher than mere mortal men. They were viewed as higher and better than everybody else. And they love this. Now, the truth is the culture of the day is in a sense In a sense, no different than our culture of the day where people aspire to greatness. saying, who then is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven? And in Matthew 20, you remember the story, verses 25 through 28? uh uh where you actually have um a mom coming and saying who can sit in the king who who could sit who could be the greatest And so we have these, this being something that the disciples want, they want greatness. There is a overall self-promotion in the culture that we're going to see addressed in a few moments. We need to understand, first of all, before we get there, that Jesus is really rebuking. He's really warning them of this kind of thinking. You know, when you have the leaders of a culture that are self-centered and wanting the glory, then everybody else assumes that it's right to want the glory, that it's acceptable to want to be the center of attention It's frankly something that we've got to be very careful about. Our leaders in our country, they all want the glory, or at least many of them. And certainly in our world, in careers, in vocations, there is a desire for glory and recognition And Jesus is showing a very different way. In fact, we're going to see that in a minute, a totally different way. So here's the way that we're going to see, but in order to understand this first, we need to understand a the typical culture of discipleship even in the first century. You see, the disciples of Jesus were not the only disciples. In the first century, this was common of rabbis to have disciples. And those disciples would learn from the rabbis, and they would follow them. The rabbi would take care of them, would meet their needs. They would be with them 20 and they would learn to follow the example of the rabbi in hopes to one day be a rabbi themselves. This was a mode of discipleship, or you could say apprenticeship, or mentoring. And what Jesus is going to do now is he is going to want to make a distinction. Yes, they are Jesus' disciples, but there is a big difference in this concept of discipleship that is going to continue beyond even when Jesus goes and ascends to his Father. And he wants them to understand this, and what they see as this apprenticeship, discipleship of the first century. And so we pick up here in verse 8 where it says this. Verse 23, verse 8, but you do not be called rabbi, for one is your teacher, the Christ, and you are all brethren. Do not call anyone on your earth your father. For one is your father, he who is in heaven, and do not be called teachers, for one is your teacher, the Christ. But he who is greatest among you shall be your servant, and whoever exalts him will be humbled, and he who humbles him will be exalted. So he begins by saying, Do not be called rabbis. So there's actually three titles here. And he warns them of the problem of titles that had occurred in the first century. Don't aspire to become great by having these special titles of rabbi. and father, and we're going to see also leader or master. Don't aspire to have these titles. Don't aspire to this kind of thing. He says, uh don't be called rabbi. And he gives a reason. He says, for one is your teacher Christ, and you are all brethren. He's saying, do not elevate yourselves above others. You are all brethren, your brothers, and can I say sisters? Eventually we're going to see the first century in Christ, you are brethren and sister in, so to speak. There is an equality. There is not there is a uh that Jesus is to is describing. And if you think about the fact that he would go on in the first century and you'd see uh him ascend Christ would ascend eventually, and there would be other people that would be discipling folks Have Paul discipling Timothy. That's for sort of a classic example. Paul is not discipling Timothy to be like himself. Paul is discipling Timothy. to be like Christ. So in a very real sense, it's not Paul's disciple, it's Christ's disciple that Paul is discipling I've heard some people and I don't think this is necessarily you know wrong, I just think it's mm you've got to be careful with it. When somebody says, well I have my disciple is here, uh my disciple is this, I've heard even missionaries say, well, my disciple. And I I I sort of for just a moment sometimes I hear that term, I sort of go, I think you could say that a little better The person you're discipling that that is a disciple of Christ. Now, I d I don't, you know, I'm not that's I'm getting nitpicky about that, and if somebody says that, of course, I generally Assume that they mean that they are discipling someone who is a disciple of Christ. But either way, we do need we do need to understand that the people that we disciple and help disciple, we want them to be like Christ. And we're not discipling to become some higher position. We want them to be Christ like, which we're going to see in a few moments is servant. He also says this don't call do not call anyone on earth your father. Now what is he talking about? Do not call anyone on earth your father. There was a Man that I knew um years back and he was he had uh uh he was his wife was pregnant, I think perhaps with his first child or second child or whatever. And he was also getting ordained. And his neighbor came up to him and said, Boy, I hear you're going to be a father soon. And he said, Oh no, the Bible says call no one father. And the neighbor said, That's strange. I've always called my dad father. That's a little different. So it's not talking about that. It's not talking about your actual father. Don't call your dad father. It's talking about uh a a title that had been developed over the years that really was talking about the head of the rabbinic court. In that time this term father had been had been named as the head of the rabbinic court. Of course, we have the Old Testament, and on several occasions the Old Testament names God as Father. In Deuteronomy 32, verse six, do you thus deal with the Lord, O foolish and unwise people? Is he not your father who brought who bought you? He has not made you and established you Jeremiah 33 verse 4, will you not from this time cry to me, Father, you are the guide of my youth? God is our Father. And in this day, this first century day, the term father became head of the rabbinic court. That was the father. And what Jesus is ultimately saying is: don't aspire to be a rabbi high above the people, and don't aspire to be even higher than the rabbi, the head rabbi. Don't aspire to those things. You are my disciple. There's a different path I want you to take. And then he has this final word, the word that's the New King James translates with teacher. It's a different word than the first word, the other word teacher that's in the passage. Um different Greek Greek word. It's uh uh synonym, but it's a different word entirely. And it very likely a good translation, the numeric standard for example It's actually the only time the Greek word is used in the entire New Testament, and actually the only time it's used, it's not even used in the the Septuagint, the Old Testament, uh the Greek translation of the Old Testament. But this word it means leader, and he's generally saying Do not aspire to find a sense of self-importance in leading. Don't doesn't mean it doesn't mean that you can't be a leader. It doesn't mean that you shouldn't lead. It doesn't mean that shouldn't teach it doesn't mean that you shouldn't be a paternal father. It doesn't mean those things. What it's saying is do not desire to be to center on self and have the glory and the recognition. By these various ways of ascending in ambition. Don't do that. Paul said it this way, he said 1 Corinthians 11, verse 1, imitate me as I also imitate Christ. Follow me as I follow Christ. Christ. So there is leadership. There is influence, and we should desire, we can certainly desire uh leadership in In order to serve the Lord, but ultimately it is not at all for recognition. And in contrast to that, Jesus is then going to say, but he, verse 11, who is greatest among you shall be your servant. The disciples wanted to be great. They aspired to greatness. That was the culture. And so Jesus says: you want to aspire to greatness in my kingdom. then you have to be a servant. It's turning the culture of greatness on its head. The people that God considers to be the greatest are the people that are the servant, the humblest. Whoever exalts himself will be humbled, the Bible says. But he who humbles himself will be exalted. And you have a future tense there. There may be a there there's a sense in which you can exalt yourself in this life and you continue to be exalted. It's impossi it's possible that you can continue to be exalted and continue to be exalted and you exalt yourself and it works for you and you can Keep being exalted your entire life, but there will be a day if you exalt yourself where you will not be exalted. You will be put down. It will happen. If not in this day, it will be in eternity. And on the other hand, sometimes people are brought low. Back the book of Proverbs says By humility and fear, the Lord are riches and honor, fear of the Lord are riches and honor and life. God tells us in the book of Proverbs to not seek the highest seat or the best seat. Because you might actually be quite embarrassed when you are when you are sent to the the lowest seat. So even in this life, sometimes when we try to exalt ourselves, we are humbled. And there's even a sense as Christians When God chooses to humble us because we have been exalting ourselves, that it's actually his grace in doing so so that we can Truly be humble before the Lord, live as humble servants of the Lord, and one day hear, Well done, thou good and faithful what? Servant. To be great in the kingdom of heaven, we must be servants. And that is God's goal for us. It's a different goal of discipleship than what was found in the culture. And throughout the New Testament, we find over and over again The emphasis on humility and humble service. James chapter 4, verse 6, but he gives more grace, therefore he says, God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble. First Peter 5, verse 5 through 6 says, Likewise, you younger people, submit yourselves to the elders, yet all of you be submissive to one another and be clothed with humility, for God resists the proud But gives grace to the humble. Therefore, humble yourselves in the mighty hand of God that he may exalt you in due time. God desires for people to serve Him. Faithfully. So the fact is, people crave attention. Children crave attention. At the very youngest of age, the very youngest time, you have little boys that say to their moms, watch me ride this bike. And there's a sense in which some of that's okay. It's natural and normal. We want the approval of our parents. There's some of that that's okay, but when it becomes when associated with it is exaltation When attention is mixed with exaltation and we want to be exalted, then it certainly has become wrong. And certainly, so how does someone how does someone who desires to be the center of attention and there's a sense in which we are born that way, all of us are born wanting to be at the center of our own universes. All of us are born wanting to be the center of attention. You can see that everywhere. You can see that in your own heart. Well, how does someone go from desiring to be the center of attention to not being that way? Well he has to be convinced that there's somebody else that needs the attention more than he does, or that should have, not needs, but should have the attention more than he does. There's somebody else that recognized the attention r recognizes the attention that needs the re or should have the recognition more than he does. And that's Christ. Christ is to have all of the glory, all the attention, all the honor. The Father Himself says this. In First Corinthians chapter 15. And so our desire if we are if we are to be considered great in the kingdom of heaven, then our desire should be to humbly and faithfully serve God the Lord and frankly to serve others because they go together. So in putting all this together, let's conclude this number one Jesus fulfills the Old Testament prophecy of a coming Jewish Messiah who is also Lord and God. God. He is the Jewish Messiah and He is Lord and God. Number two, you cannot center on self and follow Christ at the same time. You can't do it. You can't do both at the same time. You cannot center on self and follow Christ at the same time. If we sin our own self, we will not be following Christ. That's what the problem with these Pharisees and scribes were. They were centering on self. They probably thought they were serving God. In fact, they were self-deceived. No doubt they thought they were serving God. But you cannot truly serve God and serve self at the same time. And number three, in Christ's estimation, greatness is determined by humble service. Greatness is determined by humble service service. Now the fact is folks all of us can get that get we get that old flesh in us where it's very very easy To desire the attention, to desire the glory To desire the recognition. When we aren't recognized for something that we think we've accomplished, when we don't have the attention that we think we are due, it is very easy for us To get upset. And the Bible tells us that as a servant, as a bond slave of Christ, we have no We don't have right to recognition. We don't have right to to uh to to glory and those kinds of things. And the reason that that is so important to understand in the kingdom, and the reason why Christ emphasizes this so much is because God has called us to reflect Jesus. How do we give God the glory? How do we how do we Give him the recognition? How do we give him what he truly deserves? It is by reflecting Jesus And how do we reflect Jesus? What did Jesus do when he came to this earth? The Bible says clearly, Philippians chapter 2, he came as a servant and he humbled himself. As a servant. The fact is, the only way, the only way we can truly glorify God as disciples of Christ Is when we will humble ourselves in servitude to God and to others. And when we do so, we are truly giving an accurate reflection of Christ. And when we do that, we are truly glorifying God. And I just want to say this. I was reflecting on you all as I was finishing this up and thinking through applications and all of this. I just want to say that how thankful I am for many of you who serve faithfully in our church. We are a church that is not large. On the smaller side of things. And we are we have a lot of ministries for the size church that we are. And and I just want to say, I just want to express when I really think of of this passage, I want to encourage you not to glorify you, not to give you You know, undue praise or give you an attention. I'm not trying to do that. But I do want to encourage you this way. Thank you for those of you who faithfully serve. And you don't do it for gratification, you don't do it for glorification, you don't do it for you. For attention. You just faithfully serve week in and week out, day in and day out. You faithfully serve over the years now. And when you do that, when you have that servant spirit, that servant Heart, you are reflecting Christ. And I want to thank you for that. I want to encourage you that way. Keep doing that. Keep being faithful that way. And if you're struggling with that, if you're not really doing that, understand that you're really not glorifying the Lord either. So we need to realize that in Christ's estimation Greatness is determined by humble service. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you this morning and we thank you for the example that Christ gave us of what Lord, we confess before you that it's so easy for our flesh. To give us desires that want the attention. We want the credit. We want the recognition. And yet, Father, what you've called us to is humble service. Lord, would you teach us and remind us, I do thank you for those in this church who faithfully serve and reflect Christ in their service. And I pray, Lord, that you would help all of us as followers of Christ to reflect Reflect who Christ really is as a humble servant of you. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Gannam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we We live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe. Safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps you If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the exchange file Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.