Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, again we come before you with grateful and thankful hearts, Father. And we are so thankful, and it is such an amazing love that you have shown us, that you would send your only begotten Son to die on a cross on our behalf. And Lord, that he rose up out of that grave and is now seated at your right hand, interceding for us this very moment. And Father, as we come to this time to open up your word, I pray that you would help us this morning to set aside all of those cares and concerns, those anxieties, all of those things. That we could just set them aside for the next hour. Open our ears and our eyes to your word. And I pray, Lord, that it would take root in us And Father, I pray that in this we would meditate upon it, and I pray that as we leave here today, we will be changed more and more into your image because of your word. and what you have done through your Holy Spirit. And we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. We are reading from the book of Ephesians this morning, and we're going to be in verse um 15 through 21, if you want to follow along. Ephesians 5, verses 15 through 21. See then that you walk circumspectfully, not as fools, but as wise, redeeming the time, because the days are evil. Therefore, do not be unwise, but understand what the will of the Lord is, and do not be drunk with wine, in which is disp dissipation, but be filled with the Spirit. Speaking to one another in psalms, hymns, spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord, giving thanks always For all things to God the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, submitting to one another in the fear of God. This passage I think is one of the most pivotal passage passages in the, maybe the most pivotal passage in the book of Ephesians. We are I'm doing a just one topical message. It's an expository message actually, but one sort of one message out of the book of Ephesians. We'll probably return to Matthew soon. But this one just really was one that I I think occasionally we really need to need to grasp and it's uh just very very important principles in this passage that I hope will be of benefit and help helpful for all of us. Let me ask you this question. So is it possible, um is it possible to have someone, a Christian, who really loves the Lord, really genuinely loves the Lord? Genuine, you know, generally lives an upright life, but lives most of their lives in frustration. And regret because of self-induced hardship. Now I want to qualify that. Not all hardship is self-induced. Maybe most hardship is not self-induced. Maybe most of it is induced by living in a fallen world. and things that are of no fault of our own. But certainly isn't is not true that some of the things that we do, some of the situations we find ourselves in, are a result from uh wrong or or unwise decisions that we've made. And furthermore, isn't it also true that sometimes The calamities that happen that are of no fault of ours. Sometimes we make them worse by wrong reactions to those to those calamities And so I would, because of all of that, I would argue that it is possible to love the Lord and to genuine, generally live an upright life And yet to live frustrated and to some degree in regret. Why? Because what is missing from a life like that is wisdom. This passage is dealing with that. It's an interesting passage, and the placement of the passage is particularly interesting Uh you think of Ephesians, Ephesians chapter one and two, really Paul is dealing with the believer's identity He really wants to establish our identity is in Christ, our value is in Christ, who we are is because of who Christ is, not of our own works, not of our own self-effort, it is all because of Christ. Our self-worth, everything is because of Christ. And he really gets to the cross in chapters one and two. Chapter three, he really turns, uh third three and four turns to helping us understand the essence of a church. and unity in the body of Christ. But chapter five we get into, and it really has to do with the life of the Christian, particularly, as it relates to previous chapters, the church. And future chapters relationships, which we're going to talk about in a moment. Chapters one, uh, chapter uh verses one through seven of chapter five He's he begins by talking about the importance of walking in love. Now it m it begins it it makes sense to start there, doesn't it? Because that's exactly what Jesus said fulfills all of the law is to love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, and strength, and to love your neighbor as yourself. I mean love is the the the motive that is absolutely necessary for the believer. And then it moves to walking in light, verses 8 through 14 of chapter 5. And light is has really more to do with moral righteousness, moral uh moral rightness. So we're supposed to walk in love And also walk in moral rightness, but then not only that, we're supposed to walk, God calls us to walk in wisdom. So sometimes people in their thinking, Christians in their thinking, they think in terms of, okay, everything is either right or wrong. That's right, that's wrong. The Bible says do that. The Bible says don't do that. Do this and don't do this. Command, prohibition, do this, don't do that. And if I just do what the Bible says And don't do what the Bible says and don't do what the Bible doesn't say to do, or says not to do, rather, then I'll be good But that leaves out, do you realize that leaves out a large percentage? One person suggested like 90% of the decisions we make. I mean if you decide, okay, I'm gonna do right I'm not going to lie, I'm not going to cheat, I'm not going to steal, I'm not going to, you know, do all those things and think of I'm going to not do those things and I'm going to Make by decisions based upon moral things There are a whole plethora of decisions that you can fall within the lines of morality and say, okay, they're still, I'm not violating any morality problems But are they wise? How much of the Bible speaks of the importance of wisdom You have entire chapters, entire books of the Bible. That are wisdom literature. You have Proverbs, you have Ecclesiastes, and there are other passages within various books that James is wisdom literature primarily. You have entire books of the Bible that are telling us that we must live wisely. And there's a couple of reasons for this, but one of the reasons is this. Did you know that you really, if you are going to stay upright morally, it's going to be cut because of the decisions you make in wisdom In other words, foolish decisions lead you to right up on the precipice of immorality Where wise decisions lead you into a place where you can maintain moral rightness in life as well. So they're not totally divorced. Now All of that in mind here, let's think about the placement of this. He is going to tell us that we need to walk wisely After chapter five, uh ver uh uh you know particularly chapter five, verses fifteen through twenty, what does Paul embark on, he embarks on where you know embarks on where people know uh have you know don't like to embark on, he embarks on the subject of marriage. And he deals with wives and husbands, and then he deals with children, and he deals with employers. He's dealing with relationships. And do you know that many of the decisions we make within relationships, certainly there are issues in morality. But folks, beyond that, there are so many decisions that we make that really have much more to do with wisdom. You can be morally right and be foolish at the same time. It is possible. Now, how does that all work together? And that's what we're going to see in this passage, that God desires for us to walk in wisdom. Now, what does it look like? For the New Testament Christian to walk in wisdom. That's the question that's going to be answered here. And we're going to see three things. We're going to see walking in God's will, number one, verses 15 through 17. And then walking in the Spirit, and then walking in worship. Walking in God's will, walking in the Spirit, and walking in worship. Now just step back and think about those three things. The will of God, the Spirit of God, and the worship of God. That really, does it not, does that not really comprise the Christian life? If you want to live a life of meaning and purpose for the sake of the kingdom of God, you're going to walk in the will of God, in the Spirit of God, and in worship. Now, let's begin then and look at walking in God's will. And we see this in chapter 5, verses 15 through 17. In chapter 15, it says chapter 5, verse 15, it says, See then that you walk circumspectly or carefully, not as fools, but as wise, redeeming the time, because the days are evil. Therefore, do not be unwise, but understand what the will of the Lord is. He says, Walk wisely, not as fools, but as wise. Do not be unwise He says, but understand what the will of the Lord is. And so there are three things within this that we need to understand how to walk wisely. And let me just preface it this way. Before you ever get into being filled with the Spirit of God, there are some practical attitudes or perspectives that you must have first. Now he gets practical first. And the first one is walking carefully. Walking carefully. So we need to learn to walk carefully. He says, not as fools, but as wise, redeeming the time. What does it mean when it tells us, then, that we need to walk carefully? The truth of the matter is talking about is talking about thoughtfully, talking about with thought, with care, not flippantly Not spontaneously, not flying by the seat of your pants, not only dealing with what's what right in front of you But having a long view and a short view, thinking about things, contemplating things, thinking over things. There are some personalities that are very spontaneous And you know what? Those are fun personalities. I was in I was in college and I I am not by nature a spontaneous person. Okay, I think you probably all know that. Um I'm I'm much more methodical. I can be spontaneous, but I have to plan it. But uh so so you know I I'm not a very spontaneous person. I but I had a friend in college, most of you know him, Micah Colbert. He he was. I'd be studying in the library on the you know fourth floor of the library, that was where all the Bible books were, and I was studying I'm and he would find me and he'd say, Let's go get a shake And I looked back and I'm like, man, we got a test tomorrow. Uh Michael, why he said, ah it'll be alright, we'll study together. And of course we did not. But anyway we did we did go into the shape. Anyway. And you kind of need people that like that? Those of us who are sort of analytical, thoughtful, methodical kind of need that in our lives a little bit The the the fun thing about spontaneity is it's fun, but the the the spontaneity has got to have some some thoughtfulness to it, and Micah does, at least now he does. I don't know if he did back then, but he does now. He's matured a little bit. Um so so we have to be c so there are some personalities that, you know, frankly They love the Lord and they want to please the Lord. But there's just this sort of not planning, not thoughtful, not really considering what the what the consequences and the Ramifications of what I'm doing. And Paul says, look, you can't do that in life. That's foolish. Don't walk that way. Walk wisely. Be careful. Plan. Think. Be thoughtful. Be careful. Number two, he says, walk prudently. He tells us, redeeming the time Because the days are evil. We are to walk prudently. We're to walk carefully, but we're also to walk prudently. God desires for us to redeem the time. Now the interesting thing about the the idea of redeeming the time is that apparently it's been stolen from us. Right? I mean redeeming means to be redeemed means to be bought back That means that it's been taken from us. Well, how has it been taken? It tells us in the text, because the what? The days are evil, the times are evil The world is evil. There is an evil world system back in Ephesians chapter 2 that we learned about. And that evil world system steals or has stolen our time. Isn't it true that in the world in which we live, if we're not careful, evil can steal our time I mean, we're not talking necessarily just about, okay, if you do this, you're sinning, but if you're doing this, it might be a real waste of time. Wasting time, not redeeming the time. And it and what it's saying here, the implication is is as you live life, if you live life and you just kind of flow along the current of life without being deliberate and thoughtful, you are going to be flowing along the current of life and you're going to waste time You're going to waste precious time instead of saying, okay, how can I redeem the time? I mean just think of it this way In the worst economy imaginable, you know one there's one industry that will not uh that will not usually suffer, and that's the entertainment industry For some reason, people will still pay for entertainment. Now if you're in COVID, you won't pay for a movie theater because you can't go. But did did you notice stock at uh in Netflix during COVID? It went through the roof. And and historically, even in the first century when there was uh you know even in historically Even when things are really bad economically, there was still a a somehow they figured out a way to pay for entertainment That that kind of and I'm not saying entertainment is wrong, and I'm not saying refreshment is not important, and all those things, but but we need to be thoughtful about those things and redeem the time in a way that that God is going to be pleased, which actually brings me to the very next point. Walking in God's will means walking understandingly. Understanding what the will of the Lord is. So we're supposed to walk carefully and prudently, but we're also supposed to unwalk understandingly. Now, this this word, what the will of the Lord is, that will word will is a very interesting word, and it's going to be one that comes into play later on in the text So keep this in mind. It is important for us to understand it. What is this word? It's the Greek word thello. And it's a word that means purpose or will or decide or desire or want to. It has to do with our desires, what we want to do, what we purpose to do. Sometimes the word will does have reference to actually the word in reference to God's will. In reference to the actual Word of God. The Word of God is the revealed will of God, and that is true. But I think that when Paul uses it here, it's in a different He's using it in a slightly different way. And I would say that because he uses the word again in Ephesians 6. If you want to flip over a page, you'll see it. Ephesians 6 verse 6 says this. Not with I service as men pleasers, but as bondservants of Christ doing the what? The will of God. Now, in that verse, he contrasts the will of God with pleasing men. So we could say it this way: it's pleasing men on one hand, or what? Pleasing God on the other. The will of God has to be has to do with pleasing God. And Paul exhorts us to understand how it is that we can please God. Before he ever gets to being filled with a Spirit, which we're going to get to Before he ever gets to worshiping, at the very core of what he wants us to do is to have a mindset that we are going to understand. We want to understand what it looks like to please God. What does God desire? What does God want? Now, how are you to find that out? How is the Christian able to find out what the will of God, what the desire of God is? And that then brings us to verse 18. And would you notice in verse 18, the very first word of verse 18 is what? What's the very first word? It's and. That means it's not supposed to be separated from the previous context. It says, and do not be drunk with wine in which is dissipation. but be filled with the Spirit. Now we have this command to be filled with the Spirit. So God wants us to walk in the Spirit. Walk in the Spirit. Now, he says, what does it mean to walk in the Spirit? What does it mean here in the passage, to be filled with the Spirit? And I want to begin by actually suggesting a few things that it's not, what it doesn't include. Because there is, folks, probably more than any other doctrine in the New Testament There is much confusion about the work and the person of the Holy Spirit among Christianity, and that has been historically the case. Some Christians They mistake the Spirit of God for the their feelings for the Spirit of God, very frankly. They have a certain kind of feeling and they think it's the Holy Spirit telling them to do something And there are other Christians that give no regard to the leading of the Holy Spirit either. And both extremes are not biblical. So what does it mean to be filled or walk in the Spirit? And by the way, those two terms mean the same thing. Galatians 5 says it this way: walk in the Spirit. You will not fulfill the flesh of the flesh, which we're going to get to in a minute. And Ephesians 5 says Be filled with the Spirit. But I want to give you three other very important words that you should distinguish from being filled with the Spirit. And the one is baptism of the Holy Spirit Being filled with Spirit is not the same thing as being baptized with the Holy Spirit. 1 Corinthians 12 13 says, For by one Spirit we are all baptized into one body Whether Jews are Greeks, whether slaves are free, and have all been made to drink in one Spirit. Baptism in the Holy Spirit is when the Spirit of God at salvation, when we trust Christ places us within the body of Christ. It is a positional truth. It happens one time at the point of salvation. We are spiritually baptized by the Spirit of God and we are placed into the body of Christ. That is baptism of the Holy Spirit. That is different than filling of the Holy Spirit. There are some that denominations that really get that wrong. It is not the same thing as being filled with the Spirit of God. That's important to understand. Number two, it's not sealing of the Holy Spirit. In fact, in the book of Ephesians, it talked about the sealing of the Holy Spirit. Ephesians chapter 1, verses 13 through 14 tell us in whom, or rather, in him also trusted after you heard the word of truth. the gospel of our salvation in whom also being having believed we were sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise, who is the guarantee of our inheritance under the redemption of the purchased possession to the praise of the glory. And in very simple terms, the sealing of the Holy Spirit is the guarantee of the Holy Spirit. It is the down payment of the Holy Spirit. Like if you have a mortgage and you you you you buy a house and you sign a contract, you know what in what's included in that contract? It's earnest money, right? And when you pay that earnest money, that is a monetary guarantee that you're going to go and are in the contract later and you're going to buy that house Without the earnest money, the contract usually doesn't hold any water. You've got to have the earnest money in order to seal that contract. And that's exactly what the Holy Spirit does for us. When we come to Christ, the Holy Spirit is the earnest, the Bible says, of our redemption. There is one day where we will we are going to be completely redeemed when we see Christ and we will see him as he is and we will ha or we will be like him And we look forward to that day. Well, the down payment on that is the sealing of the Holy Spirit that also happens at salvation. So filling of the Holy Spirit and walking of the Spirit is not the same thing as baptism of the Holy Spirit, and it's not the same thing as feeling of the Holy Spirit, and it's also not the same thing As indwelling the whole of the Holy Spirit All these are different terms in dealing with the Holy Spirit. You have the indwelling of the Holy Spirit, and we find that in Romans 8, verse 9. Romans 8, 9 says this. But you are not in the flesh, but in the spirit. If indeed it the Spirit of God dwells in you And by the way, that habits at salvation, because it says this. Now if anyone does not have the Spirit of God, he is not his. The Spirit of God indwells us at the point of salvation. And if you are not indwelt by the Spirit of God, you are not a Christian. If you are a Christian, you are indwelt by the Spirit of God. All three of these things, the baptism of the Holy Spirit, the sealing of the Holy Spirit, and the indwelling of the Holy Spirit, all three of those things are positional truths that occur at the point of salvation. They don't come and go, they don't change. Those are fixed truths that occur when someone comes to Christ. However, and there are actually others like regeneration which we won't get into in others, but but however, the filling of the Holy Spirit, the walking in the Spirit Those though that is something that is very, very different. And I'll just say it this way and we'll flesh it out. The filling Holy Spirit is something for a Christian that can come and go. That's why God can command a Christian to be filled with the Holy Spirit, because it's possible for a Christian to not be filled with the Holy Spirit. A Christian can't be in it can't be not indwelt by the Spirit. Okay? Okay, he's is indwelled by the Spirit, but it's possible for a Christian to no longer be filled with the Holy Spirit and then to be filled with the Holy Spirit again and to go back and forth. How do we know this and how does this occur and what exactly is this Would you take your Bibles and turn? Turn to Galatians chapter 5. And we'll look at verses 16 through 18. You're going to begin to see this in a few moments. Galatians chapter 5. And while you're turning there, I'll just make mention of this. What the indwelling of the Holy Spirit does do for us practically is that it tells us That the Spirit of God is always residing in there, and there's a sense in which he is always transmitting a signal. You think of radio waves, right? And transmission of a radio wave and a receiving. You have a transmitter and a receiver. Well, you know, if you think of FM transmis you know FM transmissions, okay, um, the or AM or whatever. Usually, you know usually they're always 24-7. They're transmitting a signal. What do you have to do? I know this is old technology, but you have to turn your radio on and go to the right frequency, and then you'll be able to receive that signal But you've got to hit the right frequency. And there's a sense in which, with the filling of the Holy Spirit, the Holy Spirit's always there, He's always indwelling, and He's always sending out a signal. The problem is us, isn't it? The problem is whether or not we're receiving the signal correctly. And that's helpful for us to understand. It's always there, it's always sending out. In other words, the Holy Spirit's work is constant It's not the Holy Spirit comes today and leaves tomorrow. The Holy Spirit is work is constant, and we have the opportunity to be filled with the Spirit all of the time. Now, look at Galatians chapter 5, verse 16. I say then, walk in the Spirit, and you will not fulfill the lusts of the flesh. For the flesh lusts against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh, and these are contrary to one another, so that you cannot do the things that you wish. But if you are led by the Spirit, there's another term, led, walk, filled. They're all the same thing. If you're led by the Spirit, you're not under the walk. Now the word wish there, or maybe it's translated will in your version. That's the same word that we talked about before that I said, remember that word where it says, understand what the will of the Lord is. It's the same word. Okay? And that particular word, uh I say I say it's the same word, it's a it's a similar word, it's a cognate of the same word. Okay, and that particular word here is what it's saying is this There are two sources of desire within us. You have the flesh. That's the evil desires. You always have those, by the way, after you're saved, until you see Christ and you're fully redeemed, you will have the flesh, and from that flesh you will have evil desires. And you also have spirit desires, Holy Spirit desires. You have desires from the Spirit of God. Okay. Or the Bible put more more precisely, you have a new nature inside of you. You have a new principle in you when you come to Christ. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature And that principle within you is animated by the Spirit of God, and that principle within you is a source of desires. So for the Christian, you either follow after the desires of the flesh or you follow after the Spirit of God. Or, let's put it, or the desires from the Spirit of God. Or, you could say it even more simply, you either follow self or you follow God. There's only two choices on the shelf self, on the shelf, rather, pleasing God or pleasing self. Now the question then becomes, how do I know? How do I know that I have desires, that the desires that I have are from My new nature rather than my old nature, rather than my flesh. How do I know where desires come from? And folks, this is a critical question Here's why it's so critical. Because there are some Christians that are just, they are mystics. And what I mean by that is that they are so convinced that the Holy Spirit is impressing on them all the time when really it's just their feelings. It's just their emotions. And they constantly tell you, the Holy Spirit's telling you to do this, the Holy Spirit's leading me to do this, the Holy Spirit's leading me to do But but the problem is that they are confusing the work of the Holy Spirit with what they want. And there's a real danger. The heart is deceitful and desperately wicked. And there's a real danger as a Christian that we can sort of Want a certain thing and convince ourselves that it's the wise thing and the right thing and sort of say I have peace about it and then we add we sort of attach the Holy Spirit onto it and we go down that road. But it's not wise It's not a wise decision to make. How do you determine the desires that truly are from the Spirit of God and the desires that come from the flesh. Number one, we've already talked about this, you've got to have a wise approach to life. Carefully, prudently And thoughtfully, understandingly. Now, uh there's more to it though than that. Notice in the context in Galatians chapter chapter 5. It it gives us a list so we have the fruits of of the lust, the desires of the flesh, and there's all kinds of different desires of the flesh listed there. And we don't have the time to go through all of those, but if you look at those, you begin to see what kinds of desires are coming from the flesh. And then you have the fruits of the what The Spirit, love, joy, peace, long-suffering, all those kind of things. Now, catch this because I think many people misunderstand the fruit of the Spirit, what it is. The fruit of the Spirit Is how we identify the desires from the Spirit of God. In other words, that is a desire that is consistent with love. Or gentleness, or self-control, or all of those different things. Are the desires that I have, are they consistent with gentleness and love and self-control and all of those kinds of things. That's the question that you need to understand that we need to we need to figure out in order to determine What desires that we have that are truly desires from that new nature that's animated by the Spirit of God Now, Bruce Ware says this. It's very interesting what he says, and this is why this is so critical. Bruce Ware says this, we human beings perform our choices and actions out of what we desire in our hearts. I'll mention that again because I think it's important. We human beings perform our choices and actions, our decisions. and our behavior out of what we desire in our hearts. That is what we want most, what our natures incline us most strongly to This is the pool out of which the stream of our choices and actions flows. There is a necessary connection between character and conduct. Between heart and hands, between desires and decisions. Our will gives expression to the nature and character of our hearts. In other words, put very, very simply, you will do what you most want to do. You will always do what you most want to do if the option is available. Of the options available, you will always do what you most want to do. And the Bible tells us here in this passage there are two sources of desire. The Spirit of God, the new nature and the Holy Spirit of God that influences that, and the flesh, which the world influences that. You have these two ne two natures within you that produce desires. And here's what we do as Christians. If we follow after those things that are after the flesh, The Bible says that what we end up doing is quenching the Spirit. Do not, the Bible says, do not quench the Spirit. In other words, if we follow our if we do what we want all the time, with no discernment as to whether what we want is wise or not, and whether what we want is according to the the new nature inside of us or the old nature, if we don't give any consideration to any of that and we just do what we want to do, very, look, very likely we're going to go toward the flesh. And if we cultivate a desire for the flesh, what is going to end up happening? We're not going to be following after the The Spirit of God. We're not going to be under the influence of the Spirit of God. And that really brings me to the definition of being filled with the Spirit of God, which is right in Ephesians 5. 18. What is that? Do not be under the influence of wine. Don't be drunk with wine. And that's set up there, not prime it is a command, don't be drunk with wine. You're not it is a command don't be drunk, okay But it also is telling us, on the other hand, but be under the influence of the Spirit of God What does it mean to be filled with the Spirit of God? It means to be under the Spirit of God's influence. Well what does that mean? It means to be to be into uh to to know the desires that are coming from my my my new nature that are animated by the spirit of God And and to follow after those. And you're still left with, okay, okay, I get all that, but how do I know? Part of how you know is what we learned in Galatians 5, but there is more to that. And it actually brings me to the next point. And the next point is we are is work is the importance of worship. We're walking in worship. And we find in verse 19 through 20 it says this, speaking to one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. Singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord, giving thanks always for all things to God the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Now what we see in this passage is that the result of being under the influence of the Holy Spirit of God There are three results. Now I've taught this before. Some of you probably think this is familiar because and hopefully you do. It's something I mentioned on occasion. There are three results Worship is the first result. Secondly, thanksgiving and submissiveness Those are the three results of being under the influence of the Spirit of God. Now let's just very quickly go through those. It says, seeing to yourselves In Psalms and Hymns and Spiritual Songs. It's interesting that it says, speak, I'm sorry, speaking to one another, speaking to one another in Psalms and Hymns and Spiritual Songs. It's interesting that in this passage it Paul immediately returned he so far in this chapter, he's really been talking primarily to the the believer, his relationship to God But he says immediately, speaking to one another. He now says, okay, a result of being under the influence of the Spirit of God is speaking to one another. In psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, speaking to one another. Do you know, folks, that when someone is genuinely under the under the influence of the Spirit of God, he wants to worship with God's people. It is absolutely a compulsion. It is a great desire. It is a natural out, it's a natural result. It is a natural fruit. of being under the influence of the Spirit of God. It is impossible, in my opinion, and really I think there's scriptural support for this. It's impossible for somebody to say, yes, I am under the influence of the Spirit of God, but I want nothing to do with worshiping with God's people. That does not go together. What does go together according to Scripture here is that when you are genuinely under the influence of the Spirit of God, when you are following after the desires of the Spirit of God, there is this natural desire to To worship with the people of God. There is a natural desire to be with God's people, to sing with God's people to name the name of Christ with God's people, to sing of the per work of God, the work of Christ, the person of Christ, all of that is a natural result. These are all results of being under the fill the filling of the Spirit of God. Number two, thanksgiving. Thankfulness, gratefulness. Can you think in your Christian life of times where you've just genuinely been you've been overwhelmed with gratefulness? You've just been you maybe maybe there's nothing that's particularly happened to you, but you're just driving in the car and you're thinking about God's goodness or you're reflecting on You know, something and and you just are overwhelmed with gr gratefulness. I'll tell you where thankfulness really, really happens, and this is going to lead into what we're next going to move to. But I I tell you when gratefulness really really happens when you are studying the Word of God And you are harvesting truth from the Word of God, and you're seeing things you haven't seen before, there is sometimes an overwhelming sense of gratefulness that occurs there. Which is, is that not worship? It is, it is worship. So worship, thanksgiving You want to meet a Christian who's under the influence of God, you're going on under the influence of the Spirit of God, that is going to be a grateful Christian A thankful Christian. If they are not under the influence of the Spirit of God, they will not be thankful. If they are, they will be thankful. Genuinely, from the inside out, not put on, not forced, but genuinely inwardly thankful And number three, submissive. This is not something that happens naturally, does it? You, I guarantee you, you will never have from your flesh a desire to submit to authority A genuine, oh man, I really want to submit. I really want to just submit myself to God or the authorities that God's place in my life, or I really just desire that you won't have that from the flesh And if you are genuinely submitting yourself, you're genuinely wanting to submit yourself to the ways of God, to the will of God, to the purposes of God to the authorities that God's placed in your life. When you genuinely want that, it is a result of being filled with the Spirit. Now I want to show you something and just mention something at this point. Be filled with the Spirit is a command, but it is and it is that, well, you grimarians tell me, is it is it active or passive? Is it active voice or passive voice? Some of you know you guys are grammar, some of you guys are English. Is it active voice or passive voice? It's passive. If you said active, you need to look at it again Okay. Be filled with the Spirit is passive voice. Okay? Who's the doer of the action? Okay? It's the Holy Spirit is the doer of the action. Who is being commanded? I'm being commanded. It's like saying be it's like saying uh active command is go to the dentist Or or or uh uh yeah, go go to the dentist. That would be an ICA command. Uh but if you said be seen by the dentist That's a command, but it's a passive command. Alright? The dentist is the doer of the action, ever. Okay, so in this passage, it's a passive voice verb. That is, the doer of the action is the Holy Spirit. But it actually is commanding us to do something, and yet there's nothing there for us to do, right? So there has to be there has to be more to this And there is. There is. Would you take your Bibles and turn to Colossians chapter 3? And if you're turning to Colossians chapter 3, and we're going to pick up in verse 16. In Colossians chapter 3, you're going to have an active command with the exact same three results of the passive command in Ephesians You're now going to have an active command. And the active command is going to be very obvious who is supposed to be doing what here Notice what it says, picking up in verse 16. The command is this: let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. Alright? In all what? There's great, there's there's an important phrase. In all what, folks? In all wisdom. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom, teaching and notice the results. Teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord. Verse 17, and whatever you do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, giving thanks. Result number two To God the Father through Lord Jesus Christ. Number 3, 18, wives, submit yourselves to your husband. You have three results here. You have the three results. of the same side, of a different, the same coin, different side. What is the act of command here? It's this. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. Do you know what God calls us to do? God calls us to have this book dwelling in us richly. In other words, folks, you cannot, you cannot be filled with the Spirit of God and led with the Spirit of God. You cannot walk in the Spirit of God apart from the Word of God. You cannot say, well, I just pray a lot and I have certain premonitions from the from God of the Holy Spirit and I think certain things and I feel certain things and I have peace about certain things. And that's the Holy Spirit of God. No, no. God doesn't work, the Spirit of God does not work that way. The Spirit of God works with the Word of God. In other words, I'll say it this way, the more you know the Word of God The more you are able to identify the desires that are truly according to the will of God. And that is by definition what wisdom is. Wisdom is the skill to apply truth in a variety of situations. And and what God, our role in all of this is this command, let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. In Ephesians chapter 6, next chapter over here. He's going to say this. Paul's going to say this. Take the sword of the Spirit. The sword of the Spirit. You could say it this way: take the Spirit's sword. The implication is this. What is it that the Spirit uses? What does the Holy Spirit use to do his work In our lives, it's the what? It's the sword. Well, what is the sword? The sword, Hebrews 4. 16. is the du the two-edged sword of the Word of God. The Spirit uses the Word of God And what happens to us in our lives as Christians as we imbibe the Word of God, we then We then the desires of the the it changes our desires. It heightens the desires that are there of the Spirit of God It increases the desires that come from us that are truly of the Spirit of God. And it gives us a discernment to know what's truly the will of God and what truly isn't the will of God. We have to know the Word of God. And folks, that's why in the Old Testament you constantly over and over and over again have This overarching ex expectation and exhortation to meditate on the Word of God. You think of Psalm 1. Blessed is the man that walks not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the seat of the scornful. But his delight is in what? The law of the Lord, his delight, he enjoys the word of God, his delight is in the law of the Lord. And in this law, what does he do? He meditates on it day and night, and that man will be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, who brings forth fruit in the season, his leaf also will not wither. And whatsoever he does will prosper. What is the key? How do you be the man that leaf doesn't wither and whatever he does will prosper, at least in God's economy, not necessarily ours? You've got to delight in the Word of God and meditate on the Word of God. It's not enough to just have a cursory reading, it's not enough to know a few cute verses No, you've got to chew on this word as your necessary food. And the key of that, folks, the key of that is to have it go over and over and over and over in your mind. To rehearse it in your mind. Some people memorize regularly in order to do this, and it's probably the best way. Just have a regular memory of time where you're memorizing Scripture. And that time will help you as you then meditate on it throughout the day. But folks, at least, at least have a time where you're in the Word in the morning or in the sometime during the day that you can then recall those thoughts and those verses and begin to meditate on them and think about them. Meditating on the Word of God, then, folks, is the key to being filled by the Spirit And under the influence of the Spirit, and following after the desires of the Spirit, and living wisely in this life, so that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. in our lives as Christians. That leads me then finally to these three concluding applications. And their questions. Number one. Does your life and does my life, I'm putting myself in this just as much as you for sure, do our lives, does your life consist of a walk that is careful Prudent and understanding what pleases God. There is a genuine intention to understand what truly pleases God. It's careful It's prudent, and he understands, and we understand what pleases, genuinely pleases the Lord. Number two, are you following after the desires given by the Spirit of God Or are you falling after the selfish desires? And by the way, are you making the mistake of taking your selfish desires and thinking the Spirit of God is leading you in those desires? Number three, are you saturating your mind with the Word of God so that you are trained to recognize the Spirit of God? Folks, we are living in a world that steals the very notion of m memorization from us. When we're standing in a line or sitting in traffic, which I know you do if you live in Maryland, we often are preoccupy our mind with all kinds of things instead of taking a few moments to meditate on God's Word Uh you know, we have we have phones at our fingertips and internet at our fingertips. We're kind there has to be time, and I'm preaching myself as much as anybody else There has to be times throughout our days where we are setting aside time to mull over Truth from God's Word. Maybe it's going to be you take a walk and you memorize. Maybe you maybe you s you find a quiet place. Maybe you run, maybe you're in traffic, maybe you're in a lot. Whatever it is, there's got to be times. Purposeful, careful times. Where we are meditating on the truths of the Word of God. Why? So that we can fulfill the command to be filled with the Spirit. And we can live lives not just that love the Lord, not just that live morally upright lives. We're staying in the lines of morality. But wise lives, lives of wisdom before God and living in His will. And I don't think there's anybody here incl certainly myself, that say, okay, well I've got this all I've arrived in this area. I don't think any of us have arrived. But every one of us, if you genuinely know Christ is your Savior, every one of us should be saying to ourselves, okay, there are this is something I really need to work on. This is really something that I really need to give serious consideration to. How I can be more feeding on the Word of God. And I want to really encourage you to do just that. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you this morning and we thank you for who you are. We thank you for your truth and your word. We thank you for the privilege of meditation on your word. We thank you that we know We can genuinely know the will, your will, and what truly pleases you when we are drinking deeply from your word. Lord would you help us to know would you would you give us the wisdom to arrange our days in a way that we are doing that Lord, as we look to new fall schedules and new school year and all of those kinds of things, Lord, would you help us to arrange our days in such a way that we are making time to meditate to or we're redeeming the time and we're making time to meditate on your word so that we can live lives that that are that are pleasing to you. And we pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Gannam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. To have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.