You can take your Bibles and turn to Psalm 95 this morning, Psalm ninety-five. Oh come, let us sing to the Lord. Let us shout joyfully to the rock of our salvation. Let us come before His presence with thanksgiving. Let us shout joyfully to him with Psalms. For the Lord is the great God and the great King above all gods. In his hand are the deep places of the earth. The heights of the hills are his also, the sea is his, for he made it, and his hands form the dry land O come, let us worship and bow down. Let us kneel before the Lord our Maker, for he is our God, and we are the sheep of his pasture. And uh We are the sheep of his pasture and the sheep of his hand. Today, if you will hear his voice, do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion, as in the day of trials in the wilderness. When your fathers tested me, they tried me, though they saw my work. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and praise you for who you are. We thank you for the fact that you are our rock. uh in the midst of a world that is full of wickedness and evil and just fallen in every way. We thank you, Lord, that we can trust in you and depend upon you and rely on your grace. We pray, Lord, that you'd help us to do that even today. Lord, as we look at your word this morning, we anticipate the fact that you have redeemed us through your grace and through your gospel, and yet it is so easy for us because our flesh is so weak to fall into sort of an anti-law kind of a lifestyle. And there are many that would want to to continu uh to live that lifestyle and continue in that lifestyle. I pray that you preserve us from that and that you would help us today as we look into that. Lord, we thank you that we can learn to live by your grace. And it is your grace that teaches us to deny ungodliness and worldly lust so that we can live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world. Teach us, Lord, how to do that on a practical level. And we thank you for your grace, that unmerited favor that's afforded to us by Jesus Christ alone. How he died, he came and lived a perfect life, died to pay the punishment for our sin, and rose from the grave three days later and and lives to make intercession for us now. We are so grateful for Christ. He is our only hope in life and death. And we pray today as we worship that Christ would have the preeminence in our service and that we would worship you in spirit and truth. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Bow your heads with me before we go to the Lord. Father, we are grateful this morning. You are a gracious and merciful and loving and kind God. We are so thankful, Father, that you have shown us such love, that you've sent your only begotten Son to take the sin of the world upon himself and die there on that cross, paying the penalty in full. Satisfying your just demand. And Father, for those who put their faith and trust in you, you impute your righteousness upon us. And you are now seated at the right hand of God the Father, even today, interceding on our behalf. Father, we are so grateful. And so thankful this morning for your great love. And Father, we ask that uh this morning that you would please be with us. I ask that Father you would help us to remove all the distraction and the noise from this week. And help us to take this time, Father, to worship you in spirit and in truth, and to hear your word. Open our ears and our hearts and our minds. And Father, may we be changed when we leave here, more and more into your image than when we came in. I lift up those, Father, who are not feeling well this morning. We ask your good hand to be upon them to heal them, Lord, and bring them back to good health. And we pray, Father, for those who couldn't make that or traveling, we pray you'll keep them safe from all harm or accidents and bring them back to us safely. And I do lift up Pastor Jim this morning as he brings the message here to us. I pray that your spirit will speak through him, Lord, and use your words. And I pray, Father, also that you be with him this afternoon as he goes to uh present your word uh at this celebration of life uh gathering and I pray God that it would bring encouragement and joy to the people and also conviction Lord And I pray this morning that you would be with us and bless your word to our hearts and help us to be attentive in Jesus' name. Amen. We will be reading the scripture this morning from 2 Peter verses 10 through 16. 2 Peter verse 10. through sixteen. And it begins, and especially those who walk according to the flesh in the lust of uncleanness and despise authority. They are presumptuous, self-willed. They are not afraid to speak evil of dignitaries. Whereas angels who are greater in power and might do not bring a reveling a accusation, a revaling accusation against them before the Lord. But these, like natural brute beasts made to be caught and destroyed, speak evil of the things they do not understand, and will utterly perish in their own corruption. and will receive the wages of unrighteousness as those who count it pleasure to carouse in the daytime. They are spots and blemishes, carousing in their own deceptions while they feast with you Having eyes full of adultery, and that they cannot cease from sin, enticing unstable souls. They have a heart trained in covetous practices And are accursed children. They have forsaken the right way and gone astray, following the way of Balaam, the son of Beor, who love the wages of unrighteousness But he was rebuked for his iniquity. A dumb donkey, speaking with a man's voice, restrained the madness of the prophets. So you can tell from from this passage that is uh it you know it's not like the most uplifting passage in the world. Um you read through this and you see It's a very important passage. Of course, all of God's word is. But you come to a passage like this and you sort of go, wow, that there's a lot in that passage that is going on. What he's really dealing with in this passage is the problem of something called basically the idea of anti-law. Tertullian from the third centuries made the observation about Christ when he was on the cross that on his one side He had one who was anti-law and the other who was legalistic, one who was self-righteous on the one hand And on the other hand, one who who was in who who you know was was had a license to sin and and yet he came to Christ actually ultimately. He came realized that uh that he he could do nothing of himself to save himself. It's an interesting c interesting thing, and ever since, ever since that point on the the the the struggle for the Christian is to on the one hand not be legalistic legalistic not being self-righteous, not not moving into a self-righteous you know where I I I look at my behavior and and try to measure my behavior and gain favor with God that way. And on the other hand, not to slip over into anti-law or what Luther called antinomianism. I'm not going to use a lot of you know complicated words here, but that one is important. to understand that throughout church history and throughout Christ throughout our the whole time since Christ There has been this sort of these two these two extremes of legalism and anti-law, anti-rule, no rules, kind of an attitude And both of them are they fall short of the gospel. And you know, some places in Scripture it deals with the problem of legalism, and we mentioned that before. Here it's dealing with the problem of anti-law, anti-nominism, anti-rules. And I have found, just in working with people in my own life There are some people that really lean toward legalism. They lean toward self-righteousness. And there are other others who sometimes as a reaction that lean to this sort of no rules, no law, anti-law. And and uh then there are some that, and I tend to be this way, sort of waffle back and forth, you know, uh sort of ping-pong from one to the other. And the answer is the gospel. I want you to know this, that we're going to go through this passage, and it's going to be a little bit difficult to go through. At the end of it, I want you to realize that we're going to find the balance. We're going to find the antidote, if you will, to the anti-law problem. And so understand that that's going to happen. This is this is almost a gross passage. When you read through what is going on here, how how wicked and how how uh spiritually dead these these people are. Um it is it is one of those passages that, you know, it's not like you want to read this over and over and over again. I mean you we you maybe we need to, but It's not one where you say, okay, if I want to open up my Bible and find encouragement, this would not be the passage you would usually go to to find that. And yet it is an extremely important passage. When I was uh a couple of years ago I went to Bob Jones uh BJU and uh for a visit, the College Up Close uh class and uh I got my doctorate there. When I was getting my doctorate there, uh I rarely went anywhere except for the seminary building and the library, those are the two plate and the and the and the uh where you ate the Cafeteria. I don't know why I couldn't remember. The dining hall, yeah, the dining hall. So those are the three places I pretty much went and you know, the bookstore, a couple other places, admin building, but I didn't really go anywhere else. So so I decided that on that occasion I would go other places and I I I went to the science department and they had a cadaver there. And I was able to go up and I was able to to observe this cadaver. The first time I and maybe the last time I've ever I'll ever uh observe a a cadaver And uh it was extremely interesting. Um some of you will not be able to eat lunch after this message, but anyway, um it was extremely interesting and um And you know, the reason that they I I I met a couple of weeks ago actually a a forensic doctor, um, somebody who basically opens up dead people and does autopsies to determine what was going on and all that And as as uh as you know di disgusting as that is, as You know, it's not for everyone for sure. If you're squeamish, don't do that. Um don't go into that kind of a uh a field. Um it's necessary. And I would liken what Peter is going to do here almost to an autopsy. Now these people, these teachers, are not dead. They're still alive. But in in Peter's mind, he keeps going through this and he keeps saying they're just as good as dead. Like they're just as good as judgment and they're they're condemned. He's like they're they're just as good as as you know they're what they're doing, they're headed for destruction. In Peter's mind, they're like they're just they're done. Um and and he he puts it that way. So when we go through this, understand that I preach through the Word of God and I don't skip passages. Some of you are newer here and and you say I didn't select this passage. But I also know this, that as we go through the Word of God, these passages are absolutely necessary. They're not as encouraging, and you're not going to get a warm, fuzzy feeling from this passage, but they are necessary. There are warnings in this passage, and they ultimately can be extremely helpful for us in not moving into an area of anti-law, anti-rules. that really will hinder us from living out the gospel. So as we go into this, we're going to see that what Peter's going to do is he's going to expose these false teachers, these anti-law people. And he's going to expose them in three ways. He's first going to expose their rebellious behavior, and then we're going to see that he exposes their evil desires, and then we'll move even deeper. into selfish motive motives. Just like if you were going to do an autopsy, you'd start maybe you'd start f I don't know, but you you'd start from the outside, look at observe the externals. And then work deeper and deeper your way in. And that's what he's going to do here. Peter's going to do here. So we're going to start here with rebellious behavior exposed. He's going to expose the rebellious behavior. This is something that's observable. This is something that they all would be able to see, the people that were listening, reading this path, reading this. uh this letter that Peter wrote, they would all be able to see this. Would you notice it says in verse 10, and especially those who walk according to the flesh, he says at the very outset, they're walking according to the flesh. They're not according to the Spirit of God They're walking according to that old sin nature, that sin nature. He says, in the lust of uncleanness, And despise authority. Now we're going to get to uncleanness later on, but there are two, there are basically two indictments here. He says, on the one hand, they are unclean, and that's talking about sensual, sexual kind of sin. We're going to get that later But he also says here that they despise authority. So what does it look like to be someone who is who has a literally an approach to life that is anti-law? Well, of course, they're going to be rebellious and despise authority. And in in pretty much every way you can possibly think of, and And Peter is going to identify a particular way that this is true. He says that they are presumptuous and self-willed. And they are afraid, uh they are not afraid to speak evil of dignitaries. The word presumptuous means bold, it's the idea of brazen, uh, someone who has no shame, which we're going to learn a little bit more about what that means. Bold, audacious. This is the kind of personalities that these people have, and this is the kind of approach they're taking. Self-wheel-willed means stubborn. They are stubborn against authority. They despise authority And they are afraid, they're not afraid to speak evil of dignitaries, the New King James says. What is it talking about when it says they're not afraid to speak evil of dignitaries? Now that's an interesting it's an interesting thing. Well one thing to note is that the word authority is only used four times in Scripture in the New Testament, and one of the times, for example, in Colossians chapter 1, verse 16, it says, For him By all things were created that are in heaven and that are in earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, all things were created through him and for him So that word dominions there gives us an idea. It's the same word as authority there. They despise authority. So generally speaking, they're despising the authorities that are around them. An anti-law person, an anti-rule person despises authority. They don't want authority in their lives They don't want rules. They don't want to be told what to do. They don't want to, if it doesn't make sense to them, they're not willing to do it. They want to be their own boss. They want to be their own rulers. Now let me just pause and ask this question. Is that a problem in our society? Is that a problem in our culture? In fact, wouldn't you even say that our culture teaches that Our Western culture particularly, our United States culture, our Western culture teaches that you, you know, if you're going to find fulfillment and satisfaction in life, you're going to need to be your own boss That's not biblical. And and these people, that's the attitude they had. It was a rebellion against rules and a rebellion against authority. And it had gotten really bad. Now he's going to lift up the lair, if you will, and he's going to delve into how bad it got in their rebellion when he mentions these What it what what the New King James translates as dignitaries. It's the word usually translated glories or glory. Dogza is the word What is he talking about that they they speak evil? The word speak evil, by the way, is the word, we get our word blasphemy from this word. Or slander. They are slandering these spiritual beings, these dignitaries, these dogza, these glories. these author these spiritual authorities, these spiritual dominions. I'm putting this together for you to help you understand where we're going with this. What is he talking about? Well, where we've moved into the from the physical realm into the spiritual realm here, and they are not, they are treating um dignitaries or spiritual beings inappropriately. Now, you know, in our world we don't think much of spiritual things that often when it comes to those things that are supernatural. That's another Western kind of thinking. You go over into the eastern area of the world and they're all they're thinking in terms of spiritual all the time It would be very normal for them to think of the spiritual world and and those kinds of things. We we really in our day-to-day life don't think that often about them. Well in the first century they did And Peter, and Paul actually says in Ephesians chapter 6 verse 12, for we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against principalities. against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this age, against spiritual hosts of wickedness in high places. So actually we ought to be thinking a little bit more about the spiritual realm. than we do in our Western culture. Now, who who what is he talking about here? Well he's talking very likely, certainly he's talking about angels here, actually And very likely he's talking about fallen angels. Would you notice in 2 Peter 2, verses 4 through 5? We covered that two weeks ago, and it says this: for if God did not spare the angels who sinned but cast them down to hell, delivered them into the chains of darkness to be reserved for for judgment, and did not spare the ancient world. So you see there, it's it's right in the context of angels there And particularly fallen angels. So what likely he's talking about here are fallen angels. Now, will you take your Bibles to shed a little more light on this and turn to the book of Jude? Jude 8. There's no chapters in Jude. It's one it's one section, no chapters. Jude 8 here. are the same people that Jude is referring to in his very short epistle. And this is going to help us to understand. We're going to compare these two epistles to really grasp what what's happening here, what he's going over. So in Jude 8 it says this, likewise also these dreamers defile the flesh. There you go again, reject authority. And speak evil of dignitaries. Okay. What is he talking about? Well, now we have an illustration. Now we have a more clear illustration of what Jude 8 is saying here. Look at Jude 9. Yet Michael the archangel, in contending with the devil, when he disputed about the body of Moses, dared not bring against him a reviling accusation, but said, The Lord, rebuke you. But these speak evil of whatever they do not know, and whatever they know naturally, like brute beasts, in these things they corrupt themselves. Okay, what's going on here? Well, that is a reference. Michael And the Archangel, that is a reference to, Michael the Archangel is a reference to Daniel chapter 10. We won't take the time to turn there, but in Daniel chapter 10, verses 13 through 21. Basically, Michael the Orange Angel, he contends with the devil himself. And when he does it Jude tells us that Michael, who's an archangel, has a certain level of respect even for the devil. Now, here's what it's not saying. It's not saying honor in the way that we should have admiration. It's not talking about admiration here at all. We should not admire the devil. Okay But there's a sort of a respect for a power that is greater than a human being. And Michael the archangel understood that the devil is powerful. And so in his interactions with the devil, it says that he didn't bring a reviling accusation against the devil. I mean, if you would think anybody would be able to, it would be an archangel. And yet Michael doesn't. Michael, what he does in that passage is he he presents it to the Lord, says, Lord, you be the judge. You judge in this situation. Now, what is all this going, what is going on here? These false teachers who were anti-raw law and anti-rule Basically, they were saying that they had authority even over the devil and s and fallen angels. They had authority over them. Now, let's ask that question. Has that happened in our society? Are there people, are there false teachers that have suggested that they have some sort of spiritual gift and they have authority over demons? They can cast them out. They can do exorcisms. Has that happened? It's happened a lot. Frankly, it's happened in surprising places. I remember growing up Bill Gothard saying that. But he could cast out demons. And Peter says here, no. You don't have innate authority over these. Now God does. Christ certainly does. He has all authority over them. But what these these people were doing was they were saying that they had authority and they don't And they were they were pronouncing things that they had no business pronouncing. They were, and we don't know the, there's not enough detail here to know exactly what they were doing. But however they were doing it, they were not treating this issue in the right way, and they were actually being prideful and brazen toward this. And that's what you have here. Let me see if I can make a connection here for you, an illustration. I remember a song growing up, and I actually wasn't allowed to sing it. My mother wouldn't let me sing it, which I thought was good. If the devil, it's part of this another song a song that I don't remember the rest of the words. I only remember these, which is interesting because I wouldn't want to sing it. But anyway, if the devil doesn't like it, he can sit on a tack. Okay. Do you remember that song? Alright? No? Okay. Well some of you might remember that song. Okay. Um My mom said you cannot sing that. And now I don't know if she really understood 2 Peter chapter 2, but she was actually right in saying that. We are not to be flippant about these kinds of things. The devil is a real person. The devil has authority and has power. And it is not our responsibility and it's not our role to somehow despise uh the or make light of the authority of Satan, no, it's something to take very seriously and to realize that only God can deal with him. And so, um very difficult passage here, but that's what's going on here. And he and it what what what uh Peter is trying to do here, and Jude for that matter is trying to explain How brazen these people are, and how they are setting themselves up as the judge, even over Satan, even over devils and demons Does that sound familiar? They they they didn't want rules, but they're ruling. They don't want law, but now they're becoming the law unto themselves. Instead of saying, okay, God, you judge what only you can judge, you deal with what only you can deal with. They, in their anti-law approach, became the law and rebelled against all natural and normal and even biblical authority. And spiritual authorities in a particular sense of the word. They were rebellious and brazen and full of themselves and prideful, which we had already learned last week. And in James we learn a very different way of thinking where we ought to let God be the judge. When it comes to brothers and sisters in Christ, of course we should do this. But in that passage, James tells people, he says, But if you judge the law, you are not a doer of the law, but a judge If you judge the law, then you're not a doer of the law, but you're a judge of the law. And that's exactly what happened, what happened to these people. As they became anti-law, they became their own law. So we see, first of all, behavior number one, they despise authority. Behavior number two, they speak ignorantly and corruptly. They they really just weren't they were they're speaking very ignorantly and corruptly. In fact, Peter is, you could sense, when you read through this, you could sense how Peter is really Um he's he's rather disgusted by these people, and rightly so. Uh he is he is he is upset at them for how they are they are wreaking havoc in the church, how they are stains, which we're going to learn later on. He's really upset at how they are really causing problems in the church. And he calls them brute beasts. These are ignorant animals, he says. Actually, as they think that they have a they have a heightened awareness of discernment and they have They have all of these great things about them, and they are wise and have wisdom and insight and all those things that nobody else has, and they were sort of, I mean, even better than the apostles and things like that. And Peter just nails them. He says, no, these are actually ignorant beasts. These are brute beasts. They are made to be caught and destroyed. That's a pretty pretty serious indictment on these people, isn't it? They are evil, they speak evil of things that they do not understand. They are judges of things that they do not understand. And they will utterly perish, he says, by their own corruption. It is by their own corruption. they will perish. Just like a beast who's ignorant. His only job is to ultimately die to become food And that's really what these people what these people at this point are are like. This is he is really nailing them, isn't he? And their behavior, finally, he says about them as he describes them, they are shameless about sin. Notice what it says in the passage in verse 13. It says they are sp uh actually uh and will receive the wages of unrighteousness as those who count it pleasure to carouse in the daytime. Those who carry pleasure to carouse in the daytime. These people were so shameless, you know, uh they they they didn't just sin in the darkness. They didn't just um they just didn't they didn't weren't involved in sin in the shadows. There are, you know, that's the case oftentimes even in our world Uh it's becoming less and less the case, which tells you something. But anyway, where people in they they want to keep their sin a secret. There's a level of guilt and a level of shame that they have. They don't really want it out in the open. But what happens as the society and a culture gets even worse, there's less shamelessness. There's more shamelessness, there's less shame. Is that happening in our culture? I mean everything is public. Everything is just out there for you to see. And and people are becoming more and more shameless about their sin. There's no it's like there's no guilt anymore We are seeing a culture that is becoming more and more antinomian anti-rule, anti-law. It's it's all over the place in our culture. And if you uh and and the extent to which when someone lives that way Eventually what happens is they will just do what they want to do even in the broad daylight. It's shamelessness. And that's what these people are going through. Romans chapter 13, verses 12 through 13 says, In the night is far spent, the day is at hand, therefore let us cast off the works of darkness And let us put on the armor of light, let us walk properly as in the day, not in revelry and drunkenness, but in non lewdness and lust, not in strife and envy. In that passage, he's basically saying that giving a light versus darkness contrast as to how we're to live. We're to live like it's light all the time. What happens after dark? All the sin begins to happen. People go out and get drunk and do all kinds of wickedness. They sort of can't wait to, you know, I've even heard of You know, it can't wait till it gets dark out, and we can do all our sinful kinds of things. Well, this is so bad that they don't even care if it's dark. They're just sinning all the time everywhere. It's a total shamelessness. That is anti-rule at its extreme. Ephesians chapter 4, verse 19 says it this way, who being past feeling Have given themselves over to lewdness to work all unclean uncleanness with greediness. They don't even feel bad anymore about their sin. 1 Peter chapter 4 verses 1 through 5 says, Now the Spirit expressly says that in the latter times some will depart from the faith giving heed to deceiving spirits and doctrines of demons, speaking lies and hypocrisy, having their own conscience seared with a hot iron. So it's possible, folks, when you have this anti-rule, anti-law approach to life, that your conscience becomes seared. Things that used to bother you don't bother you anymore. Things that used to be a problem for you aren't a problem anymore. It's a very dangerous thing to be away to to to happen. That's what's going on here in this passage, and it really is a warning for us as Christians. There are a lot of things that we can apply here, but we've applied them as we've gone through. But we must understand that this kind of approach, ultimately, the behavior of rebellion against authority, these kinds of things are things that happen as the conscience hardens on the inside. And that shamelessness occurs in our lives. And this can happen to some extent, even to the Christian who is anti-law and his approach to life. And apparently, what Peter is concerned about is that these false teachers, who are clearly not Christians, may claim to be Christians. In fact, they do claim to be Christians, but they're not. What he's concerned about is that these people, these true Christians that he's speaking to, are going to be rendered useless in their walk with the Lord. and useless in their service to the kingdom of God, this side of heaven, because they are going to be tempted by this lawlessness, because it sounds so right, even though it's so wrong. And so what Peter's doing is he's really exposing the whole thing. He's exposing the whole thing wide open. Because as you read this, don't you feel a little uncomfortable? Well, I have something to say. It gets worse. Let's continue. So now we move from this rebellious behavior to evil desires exposed. What's now that was all on the outside. What's on the inside of this? What's going on in the inside? Look at 2 Peter 3 verse 13. It says this They are spots and blemishes carousing in their own deceptions while they feast with you. Having eyes full of adultery and cannot cease from sin, enticing unstable souls, they have a heart trained in covetous practices and are accursed children. What is Peter saying here? Well, he says, first of all, your spots and blemishes, you are stains and defiling. Well, defiling who? It says carousing with their deceptions as they feast with you. What's going on here is they are they are in the assemblies, they're in they're among Christians in churches, and back then they had these things called love feasts, and they were they were really good things They became problematic. But at first they were fine. They would eat meals together and they would uh uh they would have fellowship together. And they would they would have communion together, they'd break bread together, they'd have communion together. And this is how they functioned as a family of God, and it was a wonderful thing. There were several problems with the love feasts that occurred over time. One of them was, according to 1 Corinthians 11, they became jealous over food, it became the poor people had their food and the poor uh I'm sorry, the rich people had their food, the poor people had their food. They were separated in in different places within the building and all kinds of crazy things went on uh uh that that you know, that made it more of a divisive thing than a unifying thing. And that may be what's going on here as well, but uh but in addition to what else is going on, but basically what it's saying is these people are staining and defiling your otherwise good fellowship. They're coming in, they're eating with you, they're fellowshipping with you, they're acting like one of you, but they have very, very sinful sensual intentions among the people, among the congregation. It says that the word deceptions there is defrauding. Their desire is to defraud people, and it says they have their eyes that are full of adultery. Now what does that mean? Well in Matthew chapter 5, verse 28, it talks about if a man looks on a woman with lust in his heart is adultery unto her. Now, we don't really know exactly what's going on here. Very likely, it's not as though there's things out in the open going on during these love feasts. Otherwise, Peter would not be trying to expose their intentions. But obviously what he's wanting to do is point out that they are really actually in an unsafe situation. They are corrupting otherwise a good assembly. They are really causing problems in the church. Because their intention is something that is very, very sinful and very, very wrong. It's the opposite of what Job did in Job 31. 1, where it says he will look on uh he made a covenant with his eyes that he would not look on a young woman. What were these people doing? Well, we don't know all of what was happening here or what was in their minds exactly, but we know that they had wrong, sinful, sensual intentions. And we're going to see that this has a this is a going to be a threat to the church. And it says that even now It is enticing unstable souls. They can't cease from sinning. They're sinning all the time. It doesn't matter where they are, day, night, in the assembly, outside of the assembly. They're sinning all the time. And he says it's enticing unstable souls. In other words, the stable souls, the ones that are not have not fallen into this anti-law, anti-rule kind of philosophy, they're seeing it for what it is, and they're not being enticed by it But the others are being enticed by this. Now the word enticed is also mentioned in James chapter 1, verse 14. In that passage it says, but each one is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lust and enticed. And the word means to hook. It's like it's it's actually a fishing term, or was used at least as a fishing term. When you set a hook on a fish You've got them. You're baiting them, that's the baiting, you know, you're baiting them with a bait, and then when you actually set the hook, you hook the fish. And that's this term. They're hooking people by this. They're grabbing a hold of pee, they're hooking people. And they're unstable, the people that they're He's warning them about this about this anti-law, anti-rule approach to life and these false teachers that are hooking people that are unstable. And he just says this about them. Their heart is trained to covetous practices. Their heart has been trained a different way. And there's this contrast between the untrained, unstable soul who hasn't been trained in any way. And they're trained, their heart is so trained in covetousness and wanting their own desires, wanting what they want, that that trained covetousness is coming along the untrained person and it's hooking them. This is really dangerous stuff, isn't it? Does this happen in our sus in our world? Does this happen in Christianity? Does this happen in Christian schools? Does this happen in churches? Unfortunately, it does I'll just say by way of application, we should not think that just because we're in a church that we're absolutely, completely safe. This is a problem, I'm just going to say very bluntly, this is a problem in many Christian schools where children grow up thinking that they are in a safe environment in a quote-unquote Christian environment and everybody says they're Christians. But the reality is they're not. And within Christian schools, very frequently you've got a group like this who are anti-law, anti-rule, and they hook. people that are unstable. They entice them and hook them. This is something that we ought to be aware of. It does happen. I'm aware of how it happens, frankly, more than most people are aware. And we ought to if your kids in a Christian school, that's Lord where the Lord led you, that's wonderful. But understand there's a danger there. And there's a danger in every area, not just Christian schools, right? There's a danger if you're homeschooling, there's a danger if you're public school, there's a danger if you're in the in churches, there that we have to be vigilant and aware. And our heart and the real issue, what what's really implied here, is that our hearts have to be trained toward righteousness. The issue is the heart. The unstable heart is untrained and being hooked. The answer to our kids to to helping our kids not be hooked by this is not to isolate them from every single problem in their lives. The answer is to train their heart. Can we do that? Apparently we can, according to the book of Proverbs. It says, train up a child in the way he should go, and when his oldest not depart from it. That is to train his palate, to train his desires is what that's talking about. And certainly that includes not making you know not having them be familiar with sinful things and that includes protections and those kinds of things But to cultivate a desire for righteousness and for purity and for love and for those kinds of things so that they are not hooked. That is something that we as Christians, as parents, we ought to be doing, and frankly, it's not just them. We have to be training our own hearts, don't we? Our hearts as Christians, we can be trained toward righteousness or we can be trained toward this unruliness, this anti-rule, and before we're We realize that we've been hooked. Let's be extremely careful about this. He is so, Peter is so upset about this, he says there are cursed children. These people are cursed. And he is saying that, I won't go into what that means all exactly, but basically that is a very, very derogatory term. He said these people are headed for hell. Now I want to say that this is there's the the implication is not that they have to go to hell, that that they can't be saved. They can't turn from their ways, of course, until they come to Christ. I mean until they're they're dead, they can. But his point is that the way that they are going, they are going to be accursed. Then we move on to the next portion of this and we now those are all the evil desires. Now we move to the motive. What is the root of all of this? What is the root of these false teachers who are anti-law and and and how are they really subverting? What's going on here? And this is very, very insightful and very helpful for us Would you then look at verses of verse 15 of this passage? It says this, they have forsaken the right way. and gone astray, following the way of Balaam, the son of Baor, who loves the wages of unrighteousness, but he was rebuked for his iniquity, a dumb donkey speaking with a man's voice, restrained the madness of the prophet. These are wells without water, clouds carried by a tempest, for whom is reserved the blackness of darkness forever. Okay, what's going on here? It's this. He first of all he says you're you're going the wrong these people are going the wrong way. They are not staying on the true righteous way, the right path That word way used this way is mentioned in the Old Testament as well as the New Testament. Think of John Matthew 7, where Christ says the broad way leads to destruction and the narrow way leads to life. That's what this is talking about. Paul talks about false prophets in the book of Acts going the wrong way. That's the kind of thing he's saying here in this passage. It says here that they love the wages of unrighteousness. In Jude, our parallel book to this, verse 11, it says, Woe to them, for they have gone the way of Cain, have run greedily. in the air of Balaam for prophet and perished in the in the rebellion of Korah. Okay, what what is going on here? He's going to make a clear connection, particularly Peter is, and also Jude, to this man, this false prophet Balaam. What's and and he's making this connection for to help them to understand exactly where where these people are deceiving and hooking these Christians. Who is Balaam? Well Balaam is is a is a prophet in the Old Testament. Do you remember the story? It's in Numbers chapters 22 through 25. We won't take the time to turn there now. I'll just briefly mention the story to you. A man by the name of Balek of Moab, a king of Moab, saw Israel as a threat And so the king of Balach, the king of Moab, goes to Balaam and says, Would you please prophesy a curse against Israel on my behalf so I can beat Israel? I'm paraphrasing here, obviously. So Balaam says, and Balaam offers him lots of money. In fact, he says, you can have anything you want. Anything you want, you let me know, and you got it if you'll do this for me. So Balaam goes to prophesy, and what happens? You know the story? He prophesies a blessing on Israel He does this actually four times. Do you realize that? There are four different prophecies. Balak is so intent on him pronouncing a curse, and every single time Balaam can't pronounce a curse, he keeps pronouncing blessings on Israel. In the middle of this, at one at one point, he is going to try to pronounce a prophecy and uh and and And uh the angel of the Lord, which is actually a preincarnate Christ, very likely, stands in front of him and he can't even see it. He's so blind, and a donkey has to say to him, hey, uh there's something in the way here. I'm definitely summarizing. Now all of this th it shows how can I say it this way, how dumb, stupid. Balaam is being. He is acting himself worse than a brute beast. This is the connections that Peter is trying to make with these people. What happens to Balaam? Now here's what's really sad. Five, four times he prophesies. One of the prophecies, interestingly enough, one of the prophecies is found in Numbers. Numbers, and it says that a star shall come out of Jacob, a scepter shall rise out of Israel, and and batter the brow of Moab and destroy all the tumult Basically, it's a prophecy of Jesus coming, the coming of Christ. That's a little ironic, isn't it? Because what did these people, what did we learn a couple weeks ago about these people, they didn't believe in what? The coming of Christ. This is saying that the coming of Christ, Balaam actually prophesied, correctly, rightly prophesied the coming of Christ, and he'll set up his kingdom as a scepter. Now, where did Balaam go wrong? What happened? How did Balaam really cause problems? And we actually find that the answer is in the book of Revelation. In Revelation chapter 2, verse 14, it tells us the problem. It says this, verse 14, I have a few things against you, because you have there those who hold to the doctrine of Balaam. who taught Balak to put a stumbling block before the children of Israel, to eat things sacrificed to idols, and to commit sexual immorality. And that's exactly what you find in Numbers 25. By the time you get to Numbers 25, you've got these Moabite women that are seducing the men of Israel. And they get in that way, and as soon as you get sin like that coming in and and and and they did it in the name of Baal, as a worship of Baal. And that was how these the Israelites were subverted. And he's making this connection. He's saying, Balaam, you have present-day Balaam's in your mist, Peter is saying You are to be warned. Now, then, what is why was Balaam, what is the root motive? Why was Balaam the way he was? And the answer is greed. That's the problem. It's the problem of greed. It says in 2 Peter chapter 2 It says, who loved the wages of unrighteousness. That's the problem. The greed, the desire for money, the desire for power, the desire for more, the covetousness, that's the root problem of why he did what he did. And he says that this is the problem of greed is the problem of these people, these anti-law people, that are enticing and hooking these other Christians. It's the problem of greed. Now, do we have that problem in our culture? We certainly do. We want more and more and more. We're never content with what we have. We have the problem of covetousness that leads us to compromise in areas of morality. And if you think that you can have covetousness in your life, if you think that you can have greed in your life of wanting more and more and more of something, and it not cross over into immorality Then you are deceived, and I am too. Now, I want to summarize this way. Four summary statements that are are extremely important, and the last one's the most important. Number one. The behavior of the of antinomianism, of anti-law, anti-rule is shameless, corrupt rebellious. and rebellious. That's the behavior. The desires, number two, of antinomanism is self-gratifying and self-indulgent. That's the desires. The motive of antinomianism is greed for power and money And then the antidote to all of this. That's what we want to get to for for a few moments. And I have to take an extra few minutes here. It's so important. Okay. We have gone through all of this Junk, sin, horrible wickedness and covetousness and greed. And Peter is really concerned that Christians can be hooked by this. How does a Christian. . But there's another problem over here. Remember we said at the beginning, there's another problem. You know what we do? We go from this and we go to legalism. And we get hooked by legal and we and we're over here and now suddenly we're keeping all the rules and following all the standards and following all the laws and w now we think we're in favor with God and we're right. We got another problem over here And how do we go from antinomianism to the gospel? And the answer, I can't even flesh out all the answer right now, but I'm going to give you this much. It is by letting grace teach us. We first have to understand what grace is. Titus 2, 11 through 14 says this. For the grace of God that brings salvation has appeared to all men, teaching us, the grace of God teaches us, that denying ungodliness and worldly lusts, we should live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world. Looking to that blessed hope and the glorious appearing of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ, looking to the coming of Christ, who gave himself for us that he might redeem us from every lawless deed And purify himself, his own special people, zealous for good works. What does this? It's the grace of God. Now, what is grace? Grace is unmerited kindness. Grace is unmerited kindness. And if you've received unmerited kindness, God wants you to live that way. Live in unmerited kindness. Now, what does that mean practically? That means when I'm tempted to follow the law to gain God's favor, I remember that I have God's unmerited kindness. You see that? If I believe I have God's unmerited kindness, then trying to follow the law to gain God's favor is totally unnecessary because his favor is what? Unmerited. So I am going to let God's grace teach me that being in the law to gain God's favor doesn't make any sense because his favor is unmerited. On the other hand, I believe that in God's kindness, that God's kindness has been given to me Now here's what that means on a very practical level. That every blessing that you're supposed to have, God's going to give to you. And every blessing you're not supposed to, and everything you're not supposed to have that isn't a blessing, if you try to pursue that, then you're going outside of the grace of God. And when we go outside of the kindness of God, we are saying, I don't believe that God is really kind to me in everything. I am outside of the kindness of God. See, it is the grace of God that teaches us. And also this: when I realize the kindness of God in my life. I mean, just think about it, Christian. Think about God's genuine kindness in your life, his forgiveness in your life, his blessings in your life When you really stop and think about the kindness of God in your life and you reflect on that, do you know why God has given you his kindness? Why has God given you his kindness? Because he loves you. And why can you love God? Because he first loved you. And why should you follow his ways? Because you love him. The grace of God teaches us. The grace of God teaches us that God loves us. And the love of God gives us the ability to be able to love Him so that now I am living soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world. Why? Because I want to please God. Because I love Him. The motive is entirely different. That's why Jesus said That that the law can be fulfilled in two laws. What? Love God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength, and love your neighbor as yourself. And these two will all of the commandments. be fulfilled. And that's the answer. You know the problem with legalism and anti-law? Both of these focus on self. Self is the problem. Humility is not thinking less of yourself. It's not thinking too much of yourself. Humility is not thinking of yourself. It's thinking of yourself less. My focus is on Christ. My focus is on God's love. My focus is on God's kindness to me. My focus is on He's so kind to me that I don't deserve any of it. If the grace, if we live in the grace of God, it will teach us to deny ungodliness and worldly lust so that we should live righteously and godly in this present world. Now let me ask you this final question. Have you experienced the grace of God? Have you genuinely experienced it? That is exactly what you need. If you don't know Christ as your Lord and Savior, then you need to accept the grace that God gives you and only gives you because of what Jesus did in dying on the cross for you. He can declare you righteous Because he's taken on our sin on himself so that he could then give us his kindness, his grace, and render us forgiven. That's the first experience of grace that we receive is the is passing from death to life spiritually. is going from being under the rule of sin to being under the rule of Christ and being his child. It is, that is the first experience of God's true benevolent grace. And if you have not experienced that, if you don't know for sure whether or not you you are right with God, Let me encourage you, come and talk to me afterwards. I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you are right with God, that you have the grace of God on your life. by what the Bible says. I really would encourage that. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and praise you for who you are. We thank you for your word. We thank you, Lord, for the warnings in this passage. that that teach us um and warn us against this anti-rule rebellion against authority. Lord, I pray not that we would move and move the pendulum back over into legalism, but I pray, Lord, that you would help us to learn how your grace teaches us. May your grace teach us to live lives that are pleasing in your sight. And may we live according to your rules. Because we love you. And actually, as we love you, we will experience more of your kindness on a practical level I thank you, Lord, for your unmerited grace that's only afforded to us because of Jesus Christ. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.