That's actually the point of the law. And the Pharaoh might want you. Are we giving our testimonies in some way that's glorifying ourselves? So God said, I will make a provision for you, but he was married to Sarah, and they're well stricken in years, according to the King James in the Old Testament. And even in salvation, we can't get the credit. And the key to that is belief. Isn't that part of it? Or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. And heirs with him of the same promise, for he waited for a city which was which has foundations, whose builder and maker is God. Okay, you sort of see the jawline there, right? or with a couple of clicks on our computer. and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. And that is the best way to understand the game, just by going through it one time, because now you're now you have an example of how to play it. Think of uh I d how many of you all love YouTube for for fixing things or building things or I'm kind of like wanting to detox from some of that stuff. you know, of what you're dealing with. How someone truly is declared righteous by faith. See, there's a lot of people who think that doing good deeds or being a good person will make you right with God, and this verse says, no, it does not do that No, it doesn't void out. The law in one point, you're guilty of all. You can't stand up to it. And then he offers us his righteousness so that we can then be right with God. and is declared righteous by God and is now right with God. Okay? He's like Sarah, you are one good looking woman. Does this sound like a uh uh a guy who fulfills all the law in perfection? Thus says the Lord God of Israel, your fathers, including Terah, the father of Abraham, the father of Nahor, dwelt on the other side of the river in old times, and they served other gods, plural. Or they're really big on keeping the law, and that's going to get you in standing right standing with God. He doesn't keep the law. Okay. So now he's going to flesh this out a little bit more. To help us to understand how Abraham came to God. That wasn't God's plan. To Abraham. You actually see that where it says it says that in thee, that is in Abraham, all of the families of the earth will be blessed. That there would be a provision made by God only. It's an accounting mark term. Maybe you have assets on one side and liabilities on another. The person who gives the gift gets the credit for the gift they have given you, right? There's a man in a four country, and over many, many years, a poor man, he he saves up to buy an ox. See, Proverbs chapter 17, verse 14 says this: He who justifies the wicked and he who condemns the just, both of them alike are an abomination to the Lord. He was wounded for what? They don't see the character of God. You've been forgiven. whom the Lord does not impute sin. It's like um when I worked to work used to work at Chick-fil-A occasionally I work on the uh the drive-thru. I probably would be the guy that says, okay, great, honestly. Now does that mean well I can go do whatever I want, I gotta get you know I got a license to sin? He acknowledges his transgressions, and then he says, verse 7, purge me with hyssop. And do not take your Holy Spirit from me. Then I will teach transgressors your way, and sinners shall be converted to you. And you start thinking you have something to do with it. in what Jesus did on the cross, in the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ, in the broken body of Christ, and the shed blood on the cross, that is the payment Amen. We are thankful for the salvation that you have provided for us, according to your will and purpose, Lord. He has something to boast about, but not before God. upon your word and may your Holy Spirit do a mighty work in our hearts to change us more and more into your image in Jesus' name. But now he is going to clarify by using an example in this passage, and the example is Abraham. I wrote down a few things that examples do for us. The first five rules and then you're not really able to understand how this all works. Just start playing. Whatever whatever it is, but but example is extremely helpful for us to understand how to do something. There is. And you know, used to be back in the day when they didn't before they had YouTube, you get out a Haynes manual uh to fix a car. Okay, five. But man, what a difference when you watch YouTube for those kinds of things. But what we are going to do is we're going to see justification by faith and not by works And I want to say to you that this is, I pray and hope that for some of you, this is an extremely clarifying message. and uh the you know the the the date of your car, everything, and it will tell you exactly you'll you'll you'll watch a video of a guy changing changing the brakes of the car. Uh this does not mean that if you have no mechanical ability you should just start changing everything on your car just by watching YouTube fill it with you. Kind of get our bearings here. Declared righteous by faith apart from doing good deeds, apart from the deeds of the law. Is he not the God of the Gentiles? who will justify the circumcised by faith and the uncircumcised through faith. And one creation of people, one people, and there is a one plan to get there, okay, to get to him. Okay, how does that play out in a person's life? He's going to choose a very important person, particularly for those who are Jewish people. We're going to see the concepts in verses in chapters 1 through 3 played out in Abraham's life, particularly in the last part of chapter 3. Played out in Abraham's life so that we see a man who comes to faith Why is it? The same way that Abraham became right with God, you can become right with God as well. What then shall we say? Now, what is he saying here? They would see the Jewish faith as starting with Abraham. So they would respect him and honor him. I mean, just think about it. Now, he was actually a ha she was actually his half-sister. We have an example of someone who was declared righteous by God, but it wasn't because of his perfect life. That believe that you are saved in the Old Testament. I had somebody that argued with this, and they tend to be very argumentative, these people that believe this. never did anything wrong. And I think that's significant. But if you're coming to God, you can't take pride in a job well done. Johnny or Susie when they make a profession of faith, wow, great, good job. What does the scripture say? So he gives, he points to the Old Testament, and the Old Testament actually says Abraham believed God. When Abraham believed him. We know that from Hebrews chapter 11, that was a part of how he placed faith in Jesus. The whole passage is very interesting, John chapter 8, verses 44 through 59. called to go into a place which he would receive as an inheritance. And that's the point. And that's what it's saying happens when we will trust in Jesus by faith. The wages are not counted as grace, but as debt. Okay, so we all understand this, right? It doesn't work for coming to Christ. and and this is obviously an economically troubled country and um and so as a result um they wouldn't accept his currency. We're healed. mentioned it to me in passing, they cited uh another another preacher. So thank you, you know who you are um if you're here. You're able to see what you cannot otherwise see. All of us are born not able to see who God really is and not able to see this salvation that God offers us. Okay, it's in the center there. This is the kind of the key. Okay, quite a few of you. Okay. That's what faith is. not by your own self-effort. Blessed are those whose lawless deeds are forgiven and whose sins are covered. So now Paul turns to David, talks about David. But we know a very s a very bad story about David, don't we? Uh and then they say, Would can I pay for the car behind me? The chances are you didn't really truly come truly come to faith. And you by faith, if it isn't clear to you, please come and talk with me. This should be clear. That this message even today has clarified for you. He didn't come to God because of his background. declared right by God through faith. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. according to the Bible. Now to him who works, the wages are not counted as grace, but as debt. And Lord, that we can worship you in spirit and in truth. And Father, may you take all those distractions from the weak and help us, Lord, to set them aside that we can concentrate fully. Pretty much almost anybody say if they're trying to explain something well or read in a book is for example. The Apostle Paul in this passage is going to, he's talked a lot about justification by faith, about salvation. What works a whole lot better than that is if you set an example. Or take vacation Bible school. designing things. Examples are extremely important. I hope that some of you, this just makes it clear how, and pray, I pray this way, that that this just makes it clear Now he's going to give us an example for. Okay, you can't, and you'll see why in a minute, why that's the case. The principle of faith, not the principle of works, that someone is made right or comes to right standing with God. that are able to come to God through the one plan to come to the one God. In order to be right with God, does that mean I don't have to pay attention to the law at all? On the contrary, we establish the law. And he wants them, he wants to make an airtight and yet clear case that people are saved by faith alone and not by the deeds or following the works of the law. And that's this man Abraham. Justification by self-effort, by works, by deeds, doing good deeds results in self-glory. Why is that the case? Has found according to the flesh. And finally, justification that comes from God and not from myself then you'll receive blessing from God by being justified. Justification by self-effort results in self-glory. I want to give you a couple more reasons why there why Abraham is the example here. But they were saying Abraham did that. So Abraham, he he has uh he sets up an example then, if we actually look at the life of Abraham. That's going to be very helpful for us. Those who are, and if you don't know that term, don't worry about it, it doesn't matter. Alright, I got nothing else to say. There was lots of commerce in the city. It almost doesn't logically make sense. in doing that. It means to attribute proper credit. Aren't you glad he used this example? So he's just said, he's just stated that coming to God cannot include any boasting whatsoever. And if you put all those together, you really get a good understanding of what we're talking about here. Is that wrong, by the way? Totally different than that, and it was for Abraham. I fast twice a week, I give tithes of all that I possess, yada yada yada. And then the servant comes and he just says, Lord, be merciful unto me, a sinner. To tell a child who says that they have come to Jesus, good job, I've just said the wrong thing. And he looks up into heaven and he says, God, I thank you that I am not like other men, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this tax collector. They had nothing to do with their self-effort, or it wasn't the right, it wasn't true faith in Christ. No, no, it has nothing to do with credit of the person whatsoever. And it was accounted, it was imputed or accounted to him for righteousness. And he saw it and was glad. told Abraham of the provision that he would make in having a son, he realized that there would be a descendant from him that would make provision for the whole world. So Abraham believed a lot more than we really, that they understood for sure, and that sometimes we understood. It was a condehem for righteousness. Not our righteousness, but Jesus' righteousness. Then just think about it for a minute. And he goes, this is a different country probably, and he goes to buy this ox. And now they will not accept the currency because they they basically replaced it. You just wanted to give it to me. You deserve it. The president writes back to the man and he says, I'm sorry, I can I cannot that you cannot use this current currency. Which we already discussed in the past. So that you could be forgiven of your sin. You can't justify, just justify the wicked. I can't accept your works. Faith. The creation of the world, his invisible attributes, you can't see them, are clearly seen. Did you catch that? faith are sons of Abraham. Okay, so literally it's saying this, that the creation reveals the invisible character of God. So it's kind of like this. Do you guys see the number 20 there? Faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things, the evidence, the visual evidence of things not seen. And so even in faith, we glorify God. Forgiven. And as a result, he has received forgiveness. That person receives forgiveness. And Paul now points out that David realized the blessedness, the happiness of being saved, the happiness of being righteous, being declared righteous by God by faith. That's amazing. But there is a joy. He is forgiven, the Bible says. But understand that it's all by grace, and there is so much to be happy about. Let me help you manage your guilt or manage your anxiety or manage your loneliness. From our anxiety or our fear that God wants us to have. Wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow. Hide your face from my sins, blot out my iniquities, create in me a clean heart, O God, renew a steadfast spirit within me. And he says to this psalm, I won't take the time to read the entire thing, but he acknowledges his sin, he says, against you and you only by sin. your righteousness. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. for our redemption that pays it in full, so it's covered. We'll pray and then we'll we'll uh we'll begin to we'll sing sing and then celebrate together. They support a claim and they make things easier for us to remember. You ever played a board game? Now, I think it'd be helpful to go back to the previous verses to get a working understanding of what In other words, okay, so common sense, somebody might say, okay, well, if I don't need to do the deeds of the law If you depend upon faith or you're trusting God by faith, then it's grace that saves you, and we'll see how that works. according to the flesh. But how do you deal with the fact that Abraham is before the law? Huge. There in your understanding of how you come to God, there can't be any room for pride or self-glory or self-credit or anything like that. Will not. For what? Then he brought him outside and said, Look not now toward heaven, and count the stars if you are able to number them. B and Abraham believed God and was accounted to him for righteousness. Okay, women in their 90s don't have kids. Why won't they accept his currency? Because I've worked for this all all my life. Look at it again. wonderfully grateful. Just as David also describes the blessedness of the man to whom God imputes righteousness apart from works In that whole psalm, which we actually read for our call to worship, David is actually referencing the fact that he is utterly sinful, but he has been open to God about his sin. Okay. And other times they'll be like, okay, great. And then he says, who doesn't impute sin? And there's freedom from guilt in life, and there's freedom from fear in death. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. We will be reading from Romans chapter 4, verses 1 through 8. What then shall we say that Abraham our father has found according to the flesh? Just as David also described the blessedness of the man to whom God imputes righteousness apart from works. All he does is stand there and literally just reads, do you do this and then you do this and then you do this and then you don't do this and then you make sure you do this, and that's all he do, and then okay, now play the game. played out in a particular example. God declares us righteous by faith alone. What has he found? Now we know somebody who did fulfill the law after the law came out, right? When it comes to how how we come to be right with God. And God calls Abraham, get out of that city and go to like the land where there's nobody. So here's a man who doesn't have a great background. Because if he did, he would be able to brag, he would be able to boast, he would be able to have self-glory about that. Are we presenting a gospel that gives any credit whatsoever to the one who's applying the gospel? If we are, it's a false gospel. Behold the proud, his soul is not upright in him, but the just shall live by his faith. to be uh to to pay the punishment for their sin. And after many years of saving, he goes, he he collects all of the money, you know, maybe gets it from his mattress or whatever he uh he put it in, collects all of the cash. And the president reads the letter, and he is in between a rock and the hard place. Even I cannot override this law. And I will give you from my currency, from my personal funds, what you need to go buy your ox. I will send my own son to die for you on the cross so that I can place my currency, my righteousness on you. Because though they knew God, they did not glorify him as God, nor were thankful, but became feudal in their thoughts, and their foolish hearts were darkened. Because what may be known of God is manifest in them, for God has shown it to them. Not really moving, but it it looks like it moves. Now what do we know about King David? There's freedom from worry and freedom from loneliness. You don't know fear like someone who doesn't know Christ. Then you're struggling with assurance because of you're relying, you've gone back to relying on your flesh instead of relying on the finished work of Christ. In what Christ did on the cross. Are you living them out? that we are here together and are able to spend knowing and learning the gospel, being reminded of the truths that perhaps we know but need to be clarified from time to time. We don't know what the ratio is. Then, secondly, justification by faith results in grace. uh and uh was telling me that this is the way it was and I opened I I referred to this passage. There's a lot of important reasons. So this is a perfect example for now for now them to you for God for Paul to use to explain this. Um maybe Joseph, he was a little fool of himself in the beginning w bragging about his dreams, but after after he was sold in slavery, like nothing ever happened. It can't include any kind of self-glory, any kind of bragging. No way. And there they of course they have take brought great pride in Abraham. Luke 5, chapter 5, verse 32 says it this way, I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners. to repentance. The wages are not counted as a gift, but as a debt. See, we come to God with our good deeds, with our works, with all the things that we have done, and God says, I cannot accept your currency. is he can, as he did, sacrifice his own son so that you could have his righteousness applied to you. Alright, that's that actually proves my point. It says, just as David also describes the blessedness of the man to whom God imputes righteousness apart from works. First time I had this time I'm like, hmm, that's interesting. You don't know anything. I wrote down four things just off the top. Anybody know where that song comes that comes from? As a body of believers, to rejoice that we have been declared just I pray, Lord, that you would help them to get clarification today, that you would help them to see what is unseen. But to him who does not work, but believes on him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is accounted for righteousness. Blessed are those whose lawless deeds are forgiven and whose sins are covered. Examples are extremely helpful for us when trying to clarify or help us to understand something. The fact that Jesus declares us righteous because of what he did on the cross, he lived a perfect life that we couldn't live, and died, took our sin on himself. So it's it's if you think if you if you depend on works, the the problem is then you glorify yourself. Justification that comes from God brings blessing. He fulfilled the law. His dad's name was Tara, and he was definitely uh a a pagan polytheistic guy. So he says this, for if Abraham was justified by works, he has something to boast about. So this word, I want to point, what does this word mean, this this word uh boasting? It means also, according to Galatians chapter 6, verse 4, it means rejoice. And as as human beings, we like that, don't we? Even when we talk about coming to Jesus, or when we talk about ourselves coming to Christ, when we give our own testimonies, So Paul then wants to explain this farther and to make a very strong argument for this. Now, what's interesting here is that it was more than just having a son that he believed in. You don't say that, right? And uh in the story, it's a boy who writes the president of this particular country and explains the problem. Very, very important concept. In chapter 1, verse 18, it says this For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who suppress the truth and unrighteousness. So even faith glorifies God. Every one of us have sinned. Christians should be the happiest people ever. We are blessed and happy because of Jesus and what he has done for us. So who are you glorying in? Is justification by faith clear to you? That is what we're going to celebrate now together. And you have declared that already through baptism. Help them to show them from your word and your spirit what is true about how they can be declared right by you. Lord, as we come together and partake together of communion, I pray, Lord, that we would be able to truly affirm and celebrate what Christ has done on the cross for us. But had no he literally says, well, you're more ver well ver and I'm not looking myself up here. Jesus is talking with the Pharisees. But notice what it says, his invisible attributes are clearly seen. But this is there there's a number 20 in that that initially you wouldn't see, but suddenly as you look at it, and maybe as I said it, you actually see the 20. Now, that doesn't mean, again, we may spend our entire lives growing and learning how to experience the freedom What are the things that won't lead someone to truly being declared righteous by faith and forgiven uh by God? You think of the Ten Commandments, and all those Ten Commandments, and every single one of them, at one time or another, uh we you know if we've violated any of them, but the Bible says we've violated all of them. In rabbinical writings, for example, in one rabbinical writing, for example, it says they saw Abraham, it says, um, we find Abraham, our father, had performed the whole law before it was given. 90s and they're not having children. Does this depict so okay but how how many of y'all say I see it is uh it depicts a young woman? You don't see it? Alright. And maybe, just maybe you're struggling with assurance. What that doesn't have anything to do with it. The cross. That that Abraham tried to go his own way. Great illustration of this. This is what they do. Are you rejoicing in it? That God is your Father. No, actually more than I expected. Does that sound like someone who who was perfect in the law? God says, I will provide a way. It must be the gift of the righteousness of Jesus placed on us so that God gets the credit. Now, uh I I want to illustrate we've seen over and over again this concept of faith. And pulling out the official Wana rule book and the kids are all ready to play a game, and the game director pulls out the official Iran rule book and just reads the rules. Daniel, I I don't know of anything that he ever did anything wrong. I've worked this way, so therefore I receive the credit, and therefore I'm happy, and I'm glorying, and I'm rejoicing in that. And then he says it another way, whose sins are covered. Did you catch that? It asks the question, for what does the scriptures say? No, it's not part of it at all. And so if you question the love of God or the goodness of God, go back to what's already been taken care of. I I'm telling ya, it's the best thing. Why is it that God declares us righteous by faith alone? By faith alone. In Romans chapter 1, we see something very interesting. By what law or of what works? You're gonna go from Ur, a m a budding metropolis, to a place like to nowhere, and I am going to make of you a great nation. And he didn't know where he was going. Okay the law isn't actually created yet. Now, practically, how does this work out? All of us have what is the law good there? But for the most part, you're reading through the instructions with a couple of diagrams and pictures. And I explain why where it says that Abraham was justified by faith, and therefore we're justified by faith. This was a city, or it was a city, that was a hundred miles northwest of the Persian Gulf. We are our sins are removed from us. Play the get the very basics you need to get to do. You know why? It's not their job. Uh maybe half of you. Now it's an old woman. So it says verse 27, where is boasting then it is excluded. We saw this is similar to last week, okay, but we're going to see it played out in a particular person. He asked the question, uh, what then shall we say that Abraham, our father, has found God wanted to have the glory. But if you're struggling with with um m whether I've been good enough or I match up enough or I That you are dec and can be declared righteous by God because of what Jesus did on the cross and dying in your place Maybe 50-50 could be. Here's what the text says. It means to credit to someone's account. Did you catch what happened there? Put it back there. Most of most people would see the would see the young I I when I first saw it, I saw the young woman too. That Abraham, our father, so he's talking to Jewish people, Paul being a Jew Jew himself. That last line that goes into what it looks like is her neck, if you look at that as a mouth as a mouth It's covered. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And I'm afraid they're going to kill me to get to you. Okay. They don't see it, even though God says it's there. What has Abraham found according to the flesh? I'll tell you something else that's helpful. See, if someone comes to faith, it's because God has revealed to them the truth of the gospel. Verse 31. You work you did your time. Our transgressions. If you see that, then you are blessed of God. Okay. Number one, because justification by self-effort results in self-glory. Did Abraham do that? I did not do anything. What has he the word means what has he acclaimed? Maybe it's a complex board game. That's good. The law shows you that you don't stand, that you're you're you're sh you fall short of God's character Just showed you exactly where Scripture is. You're going to go from a city with 300 and by the way, 300,000 people is a massive city back then. So we've got imperfect people that God is going to use to show us how to come to himself. I can't accept your good deeds. Isaiah 53 says it this way, surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows, yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted. Heavenly Father, we come this morning with such grateful and thankful hearts. You fall short of it. They're talking back and forth. So there was a man. If you'll look closely or sometimes maybe look less close or change your eyes a certain way, uh I had to kind of like go like this a little bit. And that moves us then to the next point in verses 6 through 8. We are lawless before God. Anyway, so drive through. The theological word is expiation. Have you come to Jesus by faith in what Christ has done on the cross alone? Salvation must have a builder and maker who is God. So it says he was accounted to him for righteousness. Who gets the uh do you get the credit for the gift you're given? No. I want us to help I want to help us to understand a little bit more about what this faith is. Go move on. Whether you place your faith in it or not is one thing. We're all getting uh gearing up for vacation bible school. Yes, the Gentiles also. It's invisible attributes are it's a little bit of a a double talk, right? It's kind of like an optical illusion. Maybe I shouldn't have used this one. Are you glorying and rejoicing in Jesus, who he is, and what he has done for your salvation alone? He didn't come to God because he was a good person. He completed the law. This is in the this is the Bible. Or Joseph. No, it's not wrong, but it doesn't work in salvation. Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him for righteousness. I mean that's what this is. Restore to me the joy of my salvation, and uphold me by your generous spirit Another reason is actually Abraham's background. Okay. Blessed are those whose lawless deeds are forgiven and whose sins are covered. Are you crediting Christ alone for salvation? Okay. Genesis chapter 15, verse 4. Because they discontinued the currency. He is truly blessed. Actually, the problem is you're a bad person, and so am I. And number three, are you living out the blessings of salvation in your life? But we really would love to meet you in person. And so what happened? I will take all of your money and I will exchange it for my own personal funds. Galatians chapter 3, verse 6 says it this way. Three questions. There's no guilt in life. And so Paul, we're not going to learn a lot of new information from the text that Harry just read. Okay, so how do you deal with the fact that Abraham actually occurs before the law? He asks the question. You don't think you don't say, boy, you were you were you just thank you for just happening to think about the fact that I should get a paycheck because you you know What do you say? Okay. You get you pull out the Haynes manual for your particular m make and model of your car, and you read through the directions. It's to take and to place over to the other side. How does this happen? Now if you at first glance at that, you may not see it. Anyway if I'm really honest. In Christ alone. The people were highly educated. This is a perfect illustration for us to understand. Now, notice what it says, verse four. He loves you, He cares about you, He saved you. And so what we're going to see in this passage, in fact, the entire chapter is on this man Abraham. That's another story. We find that in 2 Corinthians 5, verse 12. It's not some merit. This whole idea of self-glory, he's going to flesh out more in the next passage in chapter 4, verse 3 through 5. He wanted to get the credit for this. If you have zero desire to please God and never have, then you didn't really come to faith. Are you living out the blessings of salvation? I look, I I'm I'm kind of like I just deleted Facebook from my phone, so I'm kind of on an anti like I I still have Facebook by the way, it's on my computer. But man, when I come up when it comes to fixing something, I pull up that YouTube and type it in what I need to learn and I learn all kinds of things. The thing that's really interesting about Abraham is he comes from a completely pagan, polytheistic family. And he's going to use David? He became right before God. But then God says this, I will give you my currency. You can't just overlook the wicked, and neither can God. In his younger years, David, y young King David was or young David was a was a a solid guy and But he doesn't keep he he's not he doesn't he's not the most upstanding guy actually all the time either. And he was bruised for our iniquities, our sins. You ever experienced that before? You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet. Maybe more Jews than Gentiles. Do you remember the story of Abraham when he goes into Egypt? It's only those who are the s are are of faith are the sons of Abraham. The very person who has sin, he doesn't impute sin. And I'm like, sure. Do we then make void the law through faith? So if you've sinned one time, the Bible says you're guilty It was all of what Jesus did. Okay? Now, what was he saying there? But there's actually you could look at it two different ways. All right, all right. It's covered. Let me just encourage you to partake with us, and we get to celebrate this together. They said, the rabbis said, well the way that you deal with that is that you believe that Abraham He did all the right deeds of the law before the law ever came out. You know why? They're discussing things back and forth. I I I I want uh would you please accept my currency? That's not a video. Alright, look at the next one. Alright, anyway, um ha ha is this does this depict an a young woman or an old woman? Folks, this is why it's and if you see it, if you see the truth of the gospel, if you see what Christ has done for you, if you see that it's by righteousness of Christ. This goes way back in the Old Testament. So I want you to lie for me. Okay. Let me get real practical here. Why? You worked your job, and so it's due you because you worked for it, right? See that? So I was like, uh uh not would you pay I want to pay, sorry. One was because it was a song, and you'll hear it. In other words, what does this look like when a person actually comes to a place where they are made right with God? So look at look at the passage. No, but by the law of faith. The Jewish people are literally big on background. You guys see it? Your assurance of salvation is based upon what Christ has done. Now, I just want you to think, some of you know the Old Testament well enough to know. Galatians 3 says the same thing. And he says, he is blessed. And somebody sits down and begins they begin to explain all of the rules to you, one rule after another rule after another rule after another rule after another rule after another rule, How do we know this? They would revere him. What happens if that paycheck doesn't come? I can't accept your righteousness. Our deeds are are we are simple before God. Make me here joy and gladness, that the bones you have broken may rejoice. May the Lord richly bless you. Who is that? He rejoiced to see his day. And he went out, not knowing where he was going. That's why we can't work for it. Therefore, it's there to show us that we are lawless. Okay? Someone who doesn't know Christ is either in delusion and in denial, or they're in fear and hopelessness. That's what communion is all about. Abraham is the father of all Jewish people But there are people that actually believe that the way that you are saved in the Old Testament is different than the way that you are saved in the New Testament. And behold, the word of the Lord came to him, saying, This one shall not be your heir, but one who will come from your own body shall be your heir. This is not original with me. Did you know that about you? Is it clear? Abraham did not come to God because of his works And Father, that we can sit under the teaching of your word. The law shows you that. That's pretty clear. I will provide a son for you. You guys see this optical illusion here? No one comes to faith apart from the Lord drawing him, apart from God revealing it to him. David's going to say, restore unto me the joy of my salvation in Psalm 51. No, he's going to get to that in Romans six, so don't think that that's true It is a process of growth in our lives. You're invited. For if Abraham was justified by works, he had something to boast about, but not before God. But uh that happened back then, but it shouldn't happen now. We're talking about glorying or rejoicing in something because of credit. Now he's going to cite the Bible, which is, by the way, very important. But anyway, and so here's the illustration. In other words, just the law, the demands of the law, God's holiness And Paul is going to say, this is exactly how you become right with God as well. Because those guys, there's no rec no record of them doing anything wrong. Isaac, Abraham at that point, he believed God. So verse 7, Romans chapter 4, blessed are those whose lawless deeds are what? Either one. They get the credit. And this happens, folks, not by works, but by Examples clarify complex concepts. They haven't had any children so far. God would provide a way for all people to come to Himself. There is nothing I can do to allow you to use the currency because your currency won't work. He was the uh he he he sinned with Bathsheba greatly, and then he murdered his uh essentially murdered uh her husband He doesn't impute sin to you One of the blessedness. He didn't come to God because he figured out the right strategy. I'm glad that they didn't that he didn't use he didn't use those examples. And we I mean we grow up that way, right? Sometimes the guy will go, um, it's funny. Maybe understand the object of the game, maybe a couple of basics, and then you go, you know, around, one time around or whatever it is Take vacation Bible school games or I wana games. It's not some credit. Well, I did this and I thought this and I did this and I did that. But for sake of time, I'll just point this verse out. For what does the scripture say? Why? See, prior to that point uh Abraham was kind of doing I mean he did go to a land that that by faith he went to a land that um uh that he didn't know where he was going. The answer is it happens by faith. Look at it. And the guy comes up and what do I say? Number one, are you glorying in Christ alone for salvation? If you try to justify yourself, you will not be blessed. So look at the passage it says Romans chapter 4, verse 1 Old Testament saints were saved differently than New Testament saints. I wrote down a few things that I think will help us. And and they're going to drive somebody somebody says, Hey, would you pay for the car behind me? What's the best way to learn a board game? Verse 29, or is he the God of the Jews only? Since there is no one God, since there is one God It was a very populous city, about 300,000 people. And Abraham didn't do either. He further explains this. You go to job, you work all week, Friday comes, you get a paycheck, and you say to that person, thank you so much for giving me this wonderful gift. Maybe the game director runs around the circle himself, or maybe he sends somebody else to run around the circle himself. And he's going to actually use David there in that passage and in that part of the passage to show us that. Now, uh what does this mean? All all the guy all the men are going to want you You see it? It is called the Exchange. There's no fear in death. If you, if that is true of you, if you know that you have trusted Christ by faith alone, Look at Romans chapter 3, verse 27. In other words, you've got one God, one plan, and one people called the human race. And the question then becomes, how? Why is this the case? You're a beautiful woman. And now he says, and by the way, Abraham could not have come to God by works, which was totally against what the rabbis thought He had been saving for decades, maybe 20 years, 30 years, to buy this ox Being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power and Godhead, so that they are without excuse. Now that happiness doesn't mean that I'm partying all the time. Just as Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him for righteousness, therefore know that only those who are of faith Why? And that's why Paul now is going to write Romans chapter 4. And I think that we need to under and and Paul wants us to understand that. God accounted or placed his righteousness on Abraham And Jesus actually says this about Abraham. Because if you're given a gift, a true gift, you didn't work for it all, you're given a gift. It looks like the thing moves. Let me ask you a question. Okay, what's the point? The Bible says it's actually veiled in unrighteousness because they can't see it because of their own unrighteousness. Jesus did that. So attributing proper credit, rejoicing. So what does Sarah do? Now to him who works And so this is not from me and the member I won't mention who who it was, but I it was such a great illustration I started thinking about and thinking about and thinking about and I gotta use this In fact, if you take your Bible and turn there for just a minute, flip back there to chapter 1, verse 18. But either way, he's writing to a lot of Jews. Why is Abraham the example? And I had somebody that argued with me about 20 years ago about this. I got I don't know which I've never been in a situation that somebody had done that be me before. Deliver me from the guilt of bloodshed, O God, the God of my salvation, and my tongue shall sing aloud Start thinking, well, you know, I'm not good enough or I don't I'm not doing the right things or I'm not Romans chapter 4, verses 1 through 8. How is someone forgiven? And it says in the passage, Our Father has found. What has he received? And I'm going to make of you a great nation. He wanted to rejoice So God says, no, that's wrong. I I or talk with somebody else that you're comfortable with. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. I want you to tell everybody that you're my uh that uh that that uh you're uh my my sister Now the word debt, it could be translated what is due. And that's the whole point. Father, we thank you for Lord for this time. For example, ha, for example, do you get it? I think of the in the old in the New Testament. For example. It's going to happen. I can't do it. That's the problem. But understanding justification by faith, I pray and hope that it's Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. And yet they were suggesting that he was, even though the Bible is very clear that he was not. His answer was, well, you're more well versed in scripture than than uh than I am, but I'm right. I know some people that see these optical illusions and they just can't see it. We are all affirming together that we believe Because you have an example being set before you. Does it not matter? I I'm I'm glad he used examples like Abraham and David. And in that passage, they begin to discuss Abraham. I didn't come up with this. And he says, blessed it to him You might be struggling with assurance because although you came to Christ in faith, it's like your own flesh gets in there And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone We hope to see you soon It's used that way I just said the wrong thing. You can't say good job. God accounts to us Um Caitlin does this now more than she well actually I think you like it, right? You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Our sins are forgiven. So he's going to use the peep a person that they lift up higher than anyone, any other human person. He was saying that when God Look at it again. If you know Christ is your Savior, he doesn't impute sin to you God, would you do this? So in this whole matter of getting right with God, boasting is excluded. There's not multiple gods, there's not multiple plans, there's not multiple religions. You are one beautiful woman. What did he do? That's why our righteousness won't work. Now, so you'll run into people like that. What is he doing? It doesn't look possible like they're gonna have an heir from themselves They they discontinued that currency, instituted a new currency. Look at it again down that lot that I hope and pray. And then trusting in Jesus' righteousness So we need to be or a Christian, an adult comes to Christ and we're like, boy, you you you did greater. There's no cr there can be no credit, there can be no glory But it's interesting here in this text. Okay. Abraham came from the Earl of the Chaldeans. He cannot do that. At first I saw it and I said, okay, I know I know the o I know it. Certainly not. See, there's actually some people even today So understand the Bible is very unified. You've got to have the right lineage, the right background, and all of that, and that's going to get you to in right standing with God Three things it means. If you're working on your house, take pride in a job well done. If you go back to Genesis chapter 12 The most important thing in your existence is covered. Jesus did do all of the deeds of the law. I mean he it literally puts the two together. Now here's what he means. This is actually an accounting term. Okay? I didn't say there's no loneliness and there's no worry. Or or are you saying, yeah, I mean I've been a good person, and doesn't that Look at all the stars. It's to account it a certain way. For since the creation of the world, notice what it says here. How blessed we are. But God says, no, there is a way for you to be free from those things. It is by the law of faith Habakkuk, Old Testament, chapter 2, verse 4 says this. How can it be invisible and clearly seen at the same time? Ready? If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, See, he's writing to both, you'll remember, both a mixed group of Jewish people and Gentile people in this city of Rome. Number one, justification by self-effort results in self-glory. But anyway, but um but so this this twisted truth to because he was afraid One will be right with God, the other I didn't open to it, but I said, Romans 4, there is no way you can get that from Romans 4. Well she says, well, take my handmaiden, and on my behalf, you can have a child through my handmaiden. He says, Your father Abraham rejoiced to see my day And I don't know if this story is true or not. The chastisement of our peace was upon him. He says, look at another person that you really respect in the Old Testament, King David. Well this idea of found, first of all he says our father, so he in that case he's talking then, trying to talk to Jewish people. Ready? By faith he dwelt in the land of promise as a foreign country, dwelling in tents of Isaac and Jacob Hey, where's my paycheck? Alright. Because justification is from God, when it is truly from God, it bling brings blessing. And yet we have been, if you know Christ as your Savior, See, psychology, it will attempt to manage those things. And how are they not? First of all, we need to understand how high the Jewish people would have lifted Abraham up. Do you remember Hebrews chapter 11 says it this way. You think of a ledger which we don't use very more uh very much anymore and you have In Psalm 51, verses 1 through 14, we have this wonderful psalm from David. And do you remember what he told Sarah? Number one, we need to be very careful here. Do you get the credit? And should be thoroughly Every one of us. First, number one, four things that were blessed with. How many of them know what a Haynes manual is? I've heard this before. It is against my character. Anybody who recognized their sin confesses it But understand, look, you don't know hopelessness until you don't uh uh like someone who doesn't know Christ We are born in sin. And we have collectively, together, the opportunity now The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God. But now if you want to change brakes in a car, you can type in your exact make and model and and You do need to have some basic knowledge of things. Does it void out the law? I mean it doesn't even And to do this, I'm going to use an illustration that I I'm not it's not original for you with me. Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him for righteousness. And so with that in mind, we're going to see three things in this passage. This is in Genesis chapter 15, verses 4 through 6, and it is the definitive text. The jawline becomes her nose. I want to can you tell me what it what it costs? We are blessed. For if Abraham was justified by works A very common phrase that you will hear And the answer is by faith. Okay? So he decides to do this. How many of you all say I don't see the young woman, I see an old woman? Blessed is the man to whom the Lord shall not impute sin. We've been going over these messages in Romans. And so that sin is not imputed to us. Justification by faith, instead of self-effort, results in grace. We want to we take glory in a job well done. And he said to him, So shall your descendants be. Try to count them. In other words, Abraham looked ahead and believed Is that some how many of you all have seen this one before? So I want you to notice three things. And I want to read through this and just this is all from last Sunday, but I want to read through this and just The problem is that there are a lot of people that look at the world and they don't see God. Now, if you don't want to please God at all, you have no desire. He's boasting. He had faith in God. Okay, this obviously wasn't yesterday. What is faith? See it's what's the point? Sometimes they'll go, okay, we'll pay for the next guy. Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean. Father, we are so thankful for your goodness and your kindness and your mercy. And then finally it says, verse 31, do we then make void the law through faith? But what God can do Paul uses Abraham and David. No. We actually know that from a discussion that Jesus had with the Pharisees in John chapter 8. It looks like it just keeps moving it moves up a little bit. May you grow us and teach us and make us to understand the truths of your word. So it's covered is what it's saying. In fact, Joshua 24, 2 says I've cringed, honestly. And he asks the president, would you please accept my currency? And we're thankful this morning that we can come together freely here. Blessed is the man to whom the Lord shall not impute sin. They may have a little picture. And I'm a I'm f I'm afraid. He comes from a pagan heathen background. If I say to God desires for us to glorify him. Because there's no guilt in life and there's no fear in death You can't. No, you don't get the credit for the gift you're given. Can you imagine somebody pulling out, did you know there's an official Wana rule book Their confidence is in the law that was given to Moses Remember when Jesus told this parable of the high f of the uh Pharisee that prayed to God? It's He says, if you work a job, to him who works, It's covered. If you have been declared righteous by God, by faith alone, you are blessed. Um Laws are laws That's a perfect illustration a great illustration of what's going on here. They could see what others can't see. And then he quotes Psalm 32, 1 through 2. Are you living out the freedom from anxiety that you have? God is the builder and the maker of salvation. That's So I will take the money. He came to God by faith alone. They make abstract ideas concrete. And in 1 Corinthians 5, verse 6, it means glory. Notice what it says. Um So I think this will be a very, very helpful thing for us. Are we giving our testimonies in a way that realize that we realize that I did nothing? You're going to have a descendant from you, and they're going to and you're going to be able to count you're going to have that many descendants. Anything wrong with that? And that's a problem. First they usually ask what it costs. It it needs to be clear. For example. But when he goes to buy the ox, they won't accept his currency. Does it make it of no effect? But if God justifies you, which is what we want, Did Abraham do that? You ever heard that idea? He didn't anything It really doesn't matter actually. Right? It is against my law. It means paid in full. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes. Logizemai is the is the is the Greek word. Verse 28. He fulfilled everything that came to the law. He's bragging. Doesn't mean we don't go through sad things and hard things and suffering. Think of I've heard somebody, oh good job. Do you see it? They're like, I don't get it. You like it? He believed God. So this is a a man who doesn't know how to read or write, so he gets somebody to write for him. Do not cast away from your presence And with his stripes, with his stripes, we are what? Number one, there's no guilt in life, and there's no fear in death. Now don't trust every video you look at. What is this here? You need to be clear about that scripturally in your own mind. But you might be still going, I mean just read this for the first time, you might be going, huh. And then he says this, but not before God. It's a baseball. I hope it's clear. And um he uh didn't agree with me. We need to be careful when we present the gospel. Right? Every time you look at it, look away, look up again, it looks like it's moving. There's no boasting involved It can't. Drive-thru? I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. Okay. I have to can I I I gotta be honest with you. And he bel No, there's nothing wrong with that, but it doesn't work for salvation Amen. Some people say for example in order to explain something. Therefore we conclude that a man is justified or declared righteous. Why is a per the word blessed means happy I'm afraid if we go into Egypt that all the men are gonna want you He's telling about how great he is. He saves up to buy an ox. Look a little cross-eyed, there's actually the number 20 there Where is that paycheck? I'll take it. You have one God. It's actually in hyperdispensationalism. By the way, I just have to say this. By faith Abraham obeyed when he was Number two. And we pray these things in Christ's name. So first of all, It can't, it won't work, because frankly the reason is because it's not perfect. I said there are freedom. It's taken care of. There's no optical illusion. Now So there's a lot of faith there just in And when He did that It's covered. The illustration is great. How many of y'all see a baseball there? And he says, no That's literally what he told me. I pray, Lord, that if there is anybody here that is still unclear. If you are, it's because you it's by faith. You've got to know have enough mechanical and understanding And And you try to remember That wasn't God's way. We take pride, quote unquote, in a job well done. What? Why? All I'm seeing is a bunch of stuff. It's one of the two. In fact, a member of our church There is nothing else more important. I'm like But That's the this is the passage to understand that. Talk about Isaac. There is freedom from those things. Alright, go to the next one. I'm glad he didn't use Daniel as an example. The Bible says you offend That's faith. So So Because it's due you. And we'll see why that's important. That's the first thing you see And all of us are born that way. What does that look like? Anything like that. But I I just It's got to be That's what justified means. We do.