Psalm twenty six It says this, Vindicate me, O Lord, for I have walked in my integrity. I have also trusted in the Lord. I shall not slip. Examine me, O Lord, and prove me. Try my mind and my heart, for your loving kindness is better is before my eyes, and I have walked in your truth I have not sat with idolatrous mortals, nor will I go in the hi in with hypocrites. I have hated the assembly of evildoers and will not sit with the wicked. I will wash my hands in any So I will go about your altar, O Lord, that I may proclaim with the voice of thanksgiving and tell of all your wondrous works. Lord, I have loved the habitation of your house and the place where your glory dwells. Do not gather my soul with sinners, nor my life with bloodthirsty men. In those hands is a sinister scheme. And whose right hand is full of bribes. But as for me, I will walk in my integrity, redeem me and be re merciful to me. My foot stands in an even place. And the congregation I will breathe. Bless the Lord. Let's pray together. Father, we praise you for who you are this morning. As I reflected this past week on the book of Exodus, and as we'll be anticipating looking at that again today, what is so incredible Is that you go to great lengths to be with your people, to experience us, and for us to be able to experience you To be in the presence, in your presence. It is incredible all of the effort, not only in the book of Exodus, but throughout uh scripture and throughout history how you have pursued your people and you have desired to to be present with your people to the coming of Christ and and uh condescending put a w uh limiting his own glory to be able to come to earth and then your spirit indwelling us now in this age and Father it is incredible that you desire so much to be with your people and for us to be able to be in your presence. And today, Father, I pray, Lord, that we would, as a congregation, ex experience your presence presence. We confess before you that often, I mean, our hearts, we're born not even wanting to be in your presence. You want to be in ours and yet we're born not wanting to be in your presence. If it weren't for your grace and your saving work in our lives, we would never desire to be in your presence. We're born in enmity against you. And yet, because of your grace and because of your love and because of your pursuing us, you uh we want to be in your presence, but often we when we sin. Of course, when we always when we sin, we are shunning your very presence. We confess that before you, O Father. May we today Live and worship together in your presence this morning. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Let's play together. Father, we uh we come before you with great thanksgiving. We thank you even as we have just uh Heard about your faithfulness. And we thank you that your faithfulness to us is so consistent. And so perpetual. And it shows us, Lord, honestly, how unfaithful we can be and how inconsistent we are. We thank you, Lord, that uh that you save us and And you remove our sins from our account, and you want to be with us. We thank you, Lord, that Um that although we are so undeserving of this, you show yourself so strong in our lives Truly, Lord, as we look at our lives and we see what has taken place over the weeks and months, and even this last year, we see your faithfulness and your presence. In our lives. And for that we are very grateful. We see also the fact that Um your faithfulness really does provide for us a an understanding of how we ought to be faithful as well. Lord, we fall short. But Lord, I ask that you would help us as your people to be faithful to you every day. And that faithfulness would uh branch out, that it would go even towards um our our family members, those who we work with, those that we live next to, our neighbors Lord help us as we we honestly have been very much uh in somewhat of a survival mode. I pray, Lord, as we seem to be getting out of this pandemic And light seems to be at the end of the tunnel. I ask, Lord, that you'd help our awareness to go beyond just what we uh are trying to accomplish. But get into what you are trying to accomplish around us and through us. Lord, we do think of the coming Easter service, and we're thankful that Um according to your will and your plan we will be able to have one together this year. And how special and precious that is. I pray, Lord, that um that you would be working even now to Bring those who don't know you or are far from you to that service, Lord, that they would hear the gospel and be impacted by it. And would seek your face and turn to you. We pray, Lord, for Our country and and all that is taking place around us. Most much of it, Lord, is disturbing. But in reality, we ought not be surprised. when sinners act like sinners. And we ought not to forget that but for the grace of God we would be in terrible pain. places as well. We thank you, Lord, for that. We do pray and and and look for how you're working in our lives and and Lord, we thank you for the fact that that Vick and Birkin be with us today. Thank you for your faithfulness to them and the journey that you have brought them on. And we we're just so grateful for that, Lord. I also think Lord of of Jan over here and I I know she's dealing with And I do pray, Lord, that you would intervene and work in that so that uh whatever is causing this could be identified and that it could be treated and And fixed. Lord, we pray for that for her. We pray now as we go to your word, and uh I pray that you would challenge our hearts and help us to be impacted by the truth. that we're going to hear today, that we would take it home with us. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Reading from Exodus twenty-four. Be reading today's text. It's going to be verses one through eighteen. Now he said to Moses, Come up to the Lord, you and Aaron, Nadab and Abaihu. And seventy of the elders of Israel, and worship from afar. And Moses alone shall come near the Lord, but they shall not come near, nor shall the people go up with him. So Moses came and told the people all the words of the Lord and all the judgments. And all the people answered with one voice and said, All the words which the Lord has said, we will do. And Moses wrote all the words of the Lord, and he rose early in the morning and built an altar at the foot of the mountain, and twelve pillars according to the twelve tribes of Israel. Then he sent young men of the children of Israel who offered burnt offerings and sacrificed peace offerings of oxen to the Lord. And Moses took half the blood and put it in basins, and half the blood he sprinkled on the altar. And he took the book of the covenant and read in the hearing of the people. And they said, All that the Lord has said, we will do, and be obedient. And Moses took the blood and sprinkled it on the people, and said, This is the blood of the covenant which the Lord has made with you, according to all these words. Then Moses went up, also Aaron, Nadab, and Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel, and they saw the God of Israel. And there was under his feet, as it were, a paved work of sapphire stone, and it was like the the very heav heavens in its clarity. But on the nobles of the children of Israel he did not lay his hand, so they saw God, and they ate, ate, and drank. Then the Lord said to Moses, Come up to me on the mountain and be there, and I will give you tablets of stone and the law and commandments which I have written that you may teach them. So Moses arose with his assistant Joshua, and Moses went up to the Mount of God. And he said to the elders, Wait here for us until we come back to you. Indeed, Aaron and her are with you. If any man has a difficulty, let him go to them. Then Moses went up into the mountain, and a cloud covered the mountain. Now the glory of the Lord rested on Mount Sinai, and the cloud covered it six days, and on the seventh day he called to Moses out of the midst of the cloud. The sight of the glory of the Lord was like a consuming fire on the top of the mountain in the eyes of the children of Israel. Israel. So Moses went into the midst of the cloud and went up into the mountain. And Moses was on the mountain forty days and forty nights. So When people say I miss you, what do they mean? Uh over the past year or so, we have had uh we have had a lot of people that have been missing other people. In some cases, family members haven't seen each other for over a year. I've heard of stories of grandparents able to hug their kids uh more recently after being able to get the vaccine. I know I was able to spend some time with my grandfather and my grandparents, both of them, my family's been able to spend some spend some time with my kids with their great grandparents and uh just being able to spend time with them again. I s drove I spent three hours with my grandparents. father the other day just driving and uh I thoroughly enjoyed it. Um it's it's sort of like I was driving with him and we're talking and all that kind of thing and I thought wow I don't I think I forgot how much I actually missed this. Well, what do we mean when we say we miss someone? It what we're saying is we miss not just seeing them, we miss experiencing them. We miss being with them, we miss knowing them, we miss learning about them, we miss experiencing them Now what's really amazing to me, I have been really struck by this. What's really amazing to me is that in in Exodus 24, which we're going to look at today, This is a passage where God is clearly wanting to be with his people. To be with them, for them to experience His presence. He wants it and there is he goes to great lengths to make this happen. There's going to be seventy elders. He's going to say you can come a certain to a certain distance and then Moses and Joshua are going to be able to come a little bit more closer to to Christ or clo closer rather to to God and and to be in the presence of God. And actually it's interesting that in the next chapter over, we actually find that As Moses is going to be up in the mount, God's express reason for having him go up there is not only for him to experience the presence of God But also for that uh for to to cause it all of the people to be able to experience the presence of God by giving instruction For the tabernacle. For example, if you look one chapter over, Exodus 25, 9, you'll see this. It says, according to all that I show you That is the pattern of the tabernacle and the pattern of all its furnishings, just so you shall make it. And then look at verse 40 of the same chapter. It says, and see to it that you make them according to the pattern which was shown you on the mountain. God call was calling Moses up So that the elders, the seventy elders there would experience the presence of God. But then Moses goes up a little bit farther so he can experience the presence of God even closer so that he can receive instruction so that all of the people can live in the presence of Almighty God. The purpose of the tabernacle, as we have said many times before, is to allow the people of God to live in the presence of God. It's incredible that God wants to be with us so much. Do we deserve that? We don't even want it, as I prayed earlier. We are not born wanting to be in God's presence. The only reason we would ever want to be in God's presence is because God's grace is on us, and He has desired for us to be in His presence. And He has given us that desire. It's incredible. Let me ask you a question. Do you genuinely desire to be in the presence of God? He wants to be with us. He wants to be with us so much that he sent his own son, Jesus. To lay aside his glory, to die for us, to live among us, to die for us, to ascend into heaven, then the Spirit of God came and is able to indwell Christians He has gone to incredible, incredible effort so that his people can be with him, that we can live in the presence of God. Do we even want it? Well, the true Christian does. The true Christian yearns to be in the presence of God. The true Christian who loves God and knows his love and knows his grace wants to be in the presence of God. God has given him that desire. God desires for his people to worship him. In the last chapter, we understand that God God's presence was to lead and guide the nation of Israel. But the the focused changes in this chapter and 24 were now God God is going to help us to understand what it looks like. What does it look like to worship in the presence of God? And we see, first of all, number one, that worship in God's presence requires a covenant commitment. In verses 1 through 8, we see this invitation picking up in verse 1 where it says, Come up to the Lord, you Aaron and Naab and Abihu. Seventy of the elders of Israel and worship af worship afar. And Moses alone shall come near the Lord, but they shall not come near, nor shall the people go up with him. This invitation says that there are different levels to being in the presence of God. It's not just a, can I say it this way, a binary thing. What is binary? Binary means you're in or you're out. Up or down, in or out, one or zero, actually. So to be in the presence of God, to know God, is not yes I know him or no I don't Well, it could be no, I don't. But to know him is to be on a progressive path to knowing him more. That's the Apostle Paul himself said this: that I may know him in the power of his resurrection, the fellowship of his sufferings, being conformed to his death, if by any means I may attain the resurrection of the death. The Apostle Paul, when he writes this new hymn. But he wants to know him more. And what we're seeing in Exodus is that Moses goes up in the mountain, experiences the presence of God. This time he's going to experience even closer the presence of God We're going to see it again in chapter 34, where Moses again goes into the presence of God and is even closer and experiences more of the glory of God. Do you and I see our relationship with God that way? Do we see the presence of God that way? Do we see the knowledge of God that way? That we can know Him more and more and more, and it is our privilege to do so. Well, in order for us to really know him more, we have to be in a covenant relationship with God We see the example of this in the nation of Israel, and we pick up here, and it says in verse 3 that that there's this agreement that comes where Moses says what the people need to do and And the people of Israel say, yes, we'll do that. There's an agreement to this covenant. That's what a covenant is, really. It's an agreement. Yes, we agree to do what God wants us to do. They're really thrilled to do what God wants us to do. There's no inclination of doubt. There's no idea that maybe we'll do it sometimes and maybe not. They're all in in this passage. Sort of interesting they don't stay all in, do they? If you know the rest of Exodus, see they don't they don't stay all in, but they do here There's an enthusiastic agreement, but Moses then wants to confirm this covenant, and he's going to sort of nail it down And he does it in three ways. The first thing he does is he places it all in writing. By the way, that's really good good a good idea if you have an agreement with somebody. You know, write it out. Even if you're even if it's if it is if it's a long-standing agreement, even with a family member, still write it out. You know why If nothing else, we have bad memories. So write everything down, get it all clear, make sure there's clarity about it. So he he he write he places places it in writing. He writes it out. But he doesn't stop there. He also builds an altar, which they're going to sacrifice on together. And then he builds twelve pillars. These were going to be like monuments. So that they were clear that this was a momentous occasion when they were when they were confirming the covenant of God with with each other and with God, primarily. And then it says that Moses did something, and I want us to picture this. Moses did something, they sacrificed And then he took the blood, and he sp half of it went in the basins, half of it was sprinkled on the altar, and in these basins, half of the blood of the sacrifices from these basins were sprinkled on all the people. Now we read past that in our Bible reading, but I mean just think about it. You've got this car what if I took a basin of blood and went, shh And blood went all over. That would be really, I mean, think it would be really gross. What are you doing? That's what he did. He sprinkled blood over all the people. But do you think he would remember that? Man, I should have brought some Kool-Aid or something here and just shh like you'd never forget it if I did that. This is something that was memorable, but it actually signifies something else. What does this remind us of? The sprinkling of the blood should remind us of the fact that Christ sprinkled his blood. In 1 Peter 1, verse 2, it says, Elect according to the foreknowledge of God and sanctification of the Spirit for obedience and the sprinkling of blood of Jesus Christ. This was to demonstrate something else. And just as in the old covenant, the the the Mosaic covenant, Moses sprinkled the blood on the people Christ in the new covenant spiritually sprinkles us with his blood. In fact, we find this in Hebrews 10, verse 22, where it says Well, let's draw near with a true heart, a full assurance of faith. God invites you and I to draw near Draw near in full heart assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water. The blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all sin, and so that God, through the shedding of Christ's blood, He invites us all to draw near Him. We get to be near God. In Hebrews chapter nine, verse twenty-six, it says this he then should have had suffered often since the foundation of the world, but now once at end of the ages, he appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. There was continual sacrifices, and this is the one uh one of many sacrifices to come. But Jesus has come and he sacrificed his life, and we have the sacrifice of the blood of Christ on our hearts if we have accepted him as our Lord and Savior. Why has God done all this? Not so that we can have just, you know, I get I get my my my my ticket to heaven. No, he wants to be with us now, and he wants us to be with him. Once there is a clear covenant commitment among the people, and this is memorable, and it was clear, and there were pillars built, and the blood was sprinkled, it was very, very obvious, and the agreement was set clearly in stone Literally and figuratively, God then invites the elders of the people, the leaders of the people, to go up into the mountain and and and he would be with them. Verse 9, it says, and Moses went up also Aaron, Nadab, and Abihu, and 70 of the elders of Israel, and they saw the God of Israel. This is an amazing sight. It says they saw the God of Israel. And there was, look at what it says. Look at the description. There was under his feet, as it were, a paved work of sapphire stone. It was like the very heavens in its clarity. But of the nobles of the children of Israel, he did not lay his hand, so they saw God and they ate and drank. What's it talking about here? Well you take your Bibles from and then turn over to Ezekiel chapter 10. And you're going to see this again. When it says, what talks about the sapphire stone and it talks about the paved work and all of this, what is it saying when it says, when it's talking about all this? What is God talking about? They obviously didn't see with clarity who God is. The Bible says in other places that if they were to see the full glory of God, they would die. But they were able to see a veiled image of God. What were they seeing? Well, Ezekiel 10 is going to help us with this. And we pick up in verse 1 and we see it says, and I looked And there in the firmament that was above the head of the cherubim, there appeared something like a sapphire stone, what was it, having appearance of the what? the likeness of a throne. Do you know what they saw that day? They saw the throne of God. Are there other times in the Old Testament where you see that? One of the ones that's most memorable to me is Isaiah 6. Remember Isaiah 6? In that case, Isaiah had a vision and he goes and he sees the throne and the seraphim are all around and they're saying, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. There seems to be certain times in Scripture where God allows his people to see him or to experience him. And this is one of those times. It's interesting that it then says that they ate and they drank. Why would they I mean think of it, think of it, they're they're in they're in God is showing them his throne It's veiled, it's clouded, they can see the floor, the sapphire, they can see the beauty of it, they can't see all of who he is They see enough to know that this is God, they're in the presence of God, and they eat a meal. It doesn't really say how they like where they got the food from. Maybe they took it with brought it up from the sacrifices that were crew that were made and they brought food up with them and they ate on the mountain. Is it possible that God just provided for them up there? Sure. But whatever the case, they ate a meal in the presence of God. I mean, why would they choose to do that? Well, I think very likely God directed them to do that. This is not unusual uh the idea of eating a meal together as in covenant community is something that you find uh often in scripture. In fact, the last time that Moses went up to the mountain In Exodus eighteen we see the same thing. Verse twelve, Jethro was with them when he came back down the mountain. It says Moses' father-in-law took a burnt offering and offered other sacrifices to offer to God And Aaron came with the elders of Israel to eat bread with Moses, father-in-law, before God. It was before God In Genesis chapter twenty six, verses twenty six and through thirty one it says this is during the time where Abimelech uh was was uh with Abraham and it says uh pick up verse twenty six then Abimelech came to him from Gerar and Ahuzaath, one of his friends, and Fe call the commander of his army, and the e and Isaac said with to them, Why have you come to me since you hate me and have sent me away from you? But they said, We have certainly seen that the Lord is with you. So we said, Let that there now be an oath between us between you and us. And it says in verse 30, so they made them a feast and they ate and drank together. They would they had a covenant, an oath together, and here God's people were having an oath together and they uh a covenant with them with Him and they were in his presence and they were fellowshipping, they were communing together. Why? Because worship in God's presence results in communion. It results in this. Do you know that one day you and I are going to do the same thing or even something very, very similar and very likely even better? It's called the marriage supper of the Lamb. Have you heard of that? It's in Revelation chapter 19. In fact, take your Bibles and turn there. Will you turn there with me? Revelation 19, verse 6. The marriage suffer of the Lamb. Verse 6 says this, picking up Revelation 19. And I heard as it were the voice of the gr of a great multitude, as the sound of many waters, and as the sound of a mighty thundering, saying, Hallelujah! For the Lord God, omnipotent reigns Let us be glad and rejoice and give him glory, for the marriage of the Lamb has come, and his wife has made herself ready And to her it is it was granted to be arrayed in fine linen, clean and bright, for the fine linen is the righteous acts of the saints. But he said to me, Write, blessed O, blessed are those who are called to the marriage supper of the Lamb. And he said to me, These are the true sayings of God, and fell at his feet and worship him. And he said to me, See that you do not do that. I am your fellow servant, and your brethren who have the testimony of Jesus. Worship God, for the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy. They worship him. They're in fellowship together, eating at the marriage supper the Lamb. If you know Christ as your Savior, we're all we're going to be there. In the very presence of God, as a congregation of believers from every kindred, tribe, and nation, and we are going to be fellowshipping as a culmination of a new covenant together. Man, Christian, if you don't want to be if you don't really care about being in the presence of God, you're out of luck. I say that, you know. You know, that's not like a theological thing, being out of luck. Because that's what we're doing for all of eternity. Now it's interesting. Do we have any meals that God's told us to do in the new covenant? I mean what we what we've looked at is the old covenant meal Okay? And we've looked all in the future of the final new covenant meal, the marriage supper of the Lamb, which will be comprised of all Christians. But there's something in the middle. When Jesus came, do you remember the Last Supper? When Jesus came to earth and before he died, he left the disciples another another Meal, feast, if you will. In Luke 22, 15 through 18, it says, Then he said to them, with fervent desire, I have desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer For I say to you, I will no longer eat of it until it is fulfilled in the in the kingdom kingdom of God. Then he took the cup and gave thanks. Take this and di and divide it among yourselves. For I say to you, I will not drink of the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God comes. Christ is actually waiting until he could be with us physically to partake of the fruit of the vine when the kingdom comes And in 1 Corinthians chapter 11, it says, after the same manner also he took the cup. This cup is the new what The new covenant, the new agreement, the agreement that you and I as Christians enter into. We're not part of the old covenant anymore. We're part of a new covenant. But in that new covenant of my blood, it says, This do as oft as you drink it in remembrance of me. When we together partake of the Lord's Supper, this is something that we should glory in. In the very presence of God. Well, the passage doesn't end there. We finally see Moses ascending even further into the glory of God. I mean, it's already pretty amazing, isn't it? But we see the next step in verses twelve through fifteen. It says, Then the Lord said to Moses, Come up to me on the mountain and be there, and I will give you tablets of stone and the law of the commandments which I have written. And you that you may teach them. So Moses rose with his assistant Joshua, and Moses went up to the mountain of God And he said to the elders, Wait here for us until we come back to you. Indeed Aaron and her are with you. If any man has a difficulty, let him go that go to them. Then Moses went up into the mountain, and the cloud covered the mountain. Moses and Joshua, they go up into the mountain. They delegate uh authority and responsibility while they're up into the mountain to Aaron and her, and they go up. And we see uh he says in verse 12 he's going to give them tablets of stone, the law and the commandments, so that they could tea he could teach the people. And they said the c it says that verse 15, the cloud covered the mountain. And then it says this verse 16. Now the glory of the Lord rested on Mount Sinai. The glory of the Lord, the identity of God, it rested there. And the cloud covered it six days, and on the seventh day he called to Moses out of the midst of the cloud. So he's in the midst of this cloud. Moses is up there. The people can see the glory of God, and the cloud is resting there. Verse 17, the sight of the glory of the Lord was like a what? A consuming fire. On the top of the mountain in the eyes of the children of Israel. They suddenly saw in this scene on the seventh day, they see the sight of the consuming fire of the glory of the Lord in this mountain. And Moses is up there. This is the only time we see this in Scripture? No, let's go back to Ezekiel for a minute. Would you go back to Ezekiel chapter 1? So you're having me turn all over the place today. Yes, you lost an hour of sleep. I've got to keep you awake. Ezekiel 1. Ezekiel 1, verse 22. This is this is a incredible passage. It says this, verse twenty-two, and the likeness Of the firm you're having a little trouble finding it Ezekiel. It's in the Bible. It's there, trust me. You guys got it? Okay. Yeah. All right. Verse 22. The likeness of the firmament above the heads of the living creatures was like the color of an awesome crystal stretched out over their heads. Look at verse 26. And above the firmament over their heads was the likeness of a throne. We saw that before. Okay, so the throne I think is probably still there. And the appearance, like a sapphire stone, we've seen that before, on the likeness of the throne was a likeness with the appearance of a man high above it. There was some sort of an appearance there But it wasn't clear. It's not like they could see the glory of God. Also, the appearance of his waist and upward I saw, as it were, the color of amber with the appearance of what? A fire all around within it. Just take your your imagination from an and picture Moses is up there And I think very likely this is what he's seeing. The people saw the fire coming from the mountain, but Moses is up there. I think this is very likely what he's seeing. Look at it again. Verse 27. Also from the appearance of his waist and upward I saw, they saw, by the way, they saw from his waist downward, the the elders did. Moses and Joshua get to see a little bit more The color of amber with the appearance of fire all around within it, and from the appearance of his waist and downward I saw, as it were, the appearance of fire with brightness all around like the appearance of a rainbow and a cloud on a rainy day, so was the appearance of the brightness all around it. This was the appearance of the likeness of the glory of the Lord. Moses was getting closer to the presence and the glory of God than very likely anybody had gotten before. And by the way, there's more to go. He's going to get even closer in the chapters to come. Do we have any other place in Scripture where you have the glory of the Lord shown like this? We actually do. We find it in Matthew 17, actually, it's in every, it's in uh Mark and Luke. It's not in John, but it's in Matthew, Mark, and Luke. It's referred to in John, actually. And that is the transfiguration. See, there was another mount. So Moses is on this mount, but you know what? It's not the last time Moses, even after after Moses dies, he's going to be on a mount again. It's called the Mount of Trigger Transfiguration. Who was on the Mount of Trigger Transfiguration? It was Jesus and Elijah and who else? Moses was there. And this was this was now they were going to see the glory of God again. Look at Matthew 17 if you want or you can listen. Verse 1 it says, Now after six days Jesus took Peter and J James and John, his brother, led them up on the high mountain by themselves, and was transfigured before them. His face shone like the sun, and his clothes became a white as white as the light. And behold Moses and Elijah appeared to them st talking with them, then Peter answered and said to them to Jesus, Lord, it is good for us to be here. If you wish, let us make Here are three tabernacles, one for you, one for Moses, and one for Elijah. Now I just want us to think about this. Just think of the progression here Exodus says you've got uh a sapphire throne, you've got a fire, you've got um you've got the semblance of the throne. You you you see some throne throne room kind of kind of thing there. You get to Ezekiel and it's clear. Now there's a form of a man. And now you get here to the transfiguration, and who is this man? Jesus. And Jesus is in all of his glory. And in fact, in John it says, we beheld his what? His glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. While, verse 5, while he was speaking, behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them, and suddenly a voice came out of the cloud, saying, By the way, you seen the cloud before? We've seen that before, right? Saying, This is my what? Beloved son, in whom I am well pleased. Hear him. And when the disciples heard it, they fell on their faces and were greatly afraid. But Jesus came and touched them and said, Arise and do not be afraid. When they had lifted up their eyes, they saw no one but Jesus only. Peter, who is there, describes this experience in chapter one of his second epistle. In chapter 1, verses 17 through 21 of 2 Peter, it says this, for he received from God the Father honor, talking about Jesus. honor and glory when such a voice came to him from the excellent glory. This is my beloved Son in whom I am well pleased They see the defined, clear glory of God, these disciples do. And we heard this voice which came from heaven. when we were with him on the holy mountain. They're identifying that this is the pinnacle of the glory of God. But I want you to understand then what is next here. And this is very important and now applies directly to us. How do we experience the presence of God in our lives? Verse 19 tells us. And so we have the prophetic word confirmed. The prophetic word. Confirmed. Which you do well to heed as a light that shines in a dark place, and the day dawns, and the morning star rises in your hearts. Knowing this first, that no prophecy of Scripture is of any private interpretation, for prophecy never came by the will of man, but holy men of God spoke as they were moved by the Holy Spirit. You want to be in the presence of God, get into the Word of God and let the Word of God dwell in you The description of this is incredible. He literally is saying: look, you have a more sure word than we even received from the transfiguration of Christ in the very word of God. And he says it is like light, or it is light That shines in a dark place. It's like the day dawns and the morning star rises in your hearts. Is that happening in your life, Christian? Is that happening in my life? Where the Word of God is dawning in my heart, it's arising like light in the darkness. Am I experiencing the presence of God from the Word of God? That is how we apply this. How do we apply all this? Well, we've seen the connection. We ought to want the presence of God. Three truths I think that will really help us to understand what's going on here. Number one, under our conclusion here, experiencing the presence of God should cause us to want more. Do you see that here? Moses wants it's not the it's not, okay, you're in the presence of God or you're not You're right with God or you're not. I mean you that that is there. There's a there's an issue there. I mean you're you you're either on justified, declared righteous, or you're not But once you're declared righteous, there is a whole life to live where you're growing in the Lord and you're knowing Him and you're in the presence of God and you're growing closer to him and you're living out what God wants you to live. He is with you and you are with him. The Spirit of God is dwelling in you. Are you and I experiencing the presence of God in our lives? Are we worshiping in the presence of God in our lives as Christians? Do we want more? You know, covetousness is bad. Covetousness is wanting more of what God hasn't given you. And our hearts are so covetous, we want what we can't have, and we want more and more and more, and it's never enough. But this is the one thing that God wants us to have more and more and more, and for us to say it's never enough. Until we see Christ. I love talking with older godly saints I had experience of talking to one this past week. And he's not afraid about talk afraid to talk about when he's going to go see God Christ. Didn't didn't bother him to talk about it. He knew exactly where he's going. He's looking forward to the day. It's my grandfather I'm talking about. He's probably watching today. And I'm not wanting to go anytime soon, I'll just let you know. Let him know that if he's watching. But there's something there's something beautiful about the fact that we can Want to know God more throughout our lives and grow in the presence of God and want Him more and more and more and then one day faith will be sight and we will see Him face to face. face, and we'll be like him, for we will see him as he is, and that's the hope of every believer. Number two, experiencing the presence of God requires a covenant commitment. It requires a covenant commitment. Do you know that that's what you're doing when you come and when you trust Christ as your Savior? Now it's not a it's there's no effort on your part. The work, the sacrifice, you don't even have to sacrifice anything. The sacrifice has already been made by Christ in completion, in totality. He shed his blood for you. But you are entering into an agreement. You are placing your trust and your dependency on what Christ did for you. And there is within you given to you a desire to please God with your life. Experiencing the presence of God requires a covenant commitment. I just got to tell you this. We we we have an epidemic problem with easy believism in this country. It's just too easy to quote unquote get saved. You know, back in the first century, somebody came to Christ and their family ostracized them. Somebody came to Christ and they were they were uh they they they were outcasts in society. In this country, somebody comes to Christ and nothing really happens, everything's fine. That's changing Maybe for the better. Because then we'll really know who a true Christian is and who's not. When somebody in the foreign uh in a foreign country gets baptized and their parent and they and they have to s and they have to make a decision to trust Christ and be baptized and their family disowns them as a result. That's sacrifice. That's that's a covenant commitment. It means something. It's valuable. The biggest problem With our Christianity today, folks, is that because it costs us nothing, we think it's free, and it wasn't. Christ paid for it with his own life. Number three, experiencing the presence of God comes by experiencing the Word of God. Experiencing the presence of God comes by experiencing the Word of God. Can I ask you a question today? Do you know Christ? Do you desire to be in his presence? Do you desire to know him? Do you love him? Has he given a desire to please you? For you to please him rather? If you don't know him, you have not entered into this kind of faith agreement, trusting in what Christ has done and paying the punishment for your sins. sin and rising from the grave three days later, then let me encourage you, come and talk to me. God wants, He's not willing. Any should perish, all should come to repentance. He wants to be in your presence and he has provided every way necessary for that to happen. And one day you can go to l go go home to be with him in his presence. Make that decision today. Christian, have you forgotten all of what God has done in my life and in our in in our lives to make it possible for us to live in the very presence of God now. May we appreciate that. And may we delve into the Word of God and go deep into the Word of God until it wells in up as light in the darkness, the way the first Peter passage, 2 Peter 1, describes. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and praise you for who you are. We are overwhelmed. By just the desire that you want to be in our presence. You want to dwell with your people and you want us to dwell with you. I don't really get it. Perhaps that's why Paul says that it is a love that passes knowledge. And Lord, I pray that you teach us to hunger and desire and to love your presence and to want it more and more. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Bethel Baptist Church is a family made up of people from very different backgrounds and from every age group. But we all have one thing in common. We have found a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. When a person discovers how to have a genuine relationship with God, they are given a sense of purpose and meaning in life. When that same person belongs to a loving community where God's word is taught, they will grow in their relationship with the Lord, and their life grows in purpose and meaning. Our focus is on making and building disciples for God's glory. We accomplish this through corporate worship on Sunday mornings. Through adult Bible studies where we learn God's Word and how to effectively apply it to our lives, and through our discipleship home groups that meet in various locations throughout the region. Additionally, there are one-on-one and couple-to-couple counseling and discipleship opportunities. We genuinely desire to help you grow spiritually any way you possibly can. Our children's ministries are extremely important to us. We have a lot of young families with children, and we believe in the importance of teaching truth to the next generation. Teachers and nursery workers will be available to introduce themselves and assist you in signing your children in and out of their classrooms. Bethel Baptist Church is a growing loving family community. We hope that we've been able to show you a small glimpse of what Bethel is like. But we'd love to meet you personally. Join us for a worship service, a small group for Bible study. Let us be a blessing to you and your family.