Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. There we go. Very good. Put your bow your heads together as we praise the Lord. Heavenly Father, it is so great to be in your house this morning, together with believers, Lord. Thank you for making this possible through your Son Jesus Christ and what he has done at the cross on our behalf. And Father, we are grateful and thankful this morning that you have given us your Word, your great and precious promises. And I pray, Lord, as we come to this time where we sit under your teaching, I ask, Father, that you would help us to Set aside all the cares and concerns of this day and this week. And help us to take this time that we would be attentive to your Word and I pray for your spirit to be working in through us. And as we hear your word, Lord, take away those thoughts that are wrong and help us To gain a right view of you and your word and what you are teaching us this morning. And I pray that all that we do and say would bring praise and honor. Honoring the glory to your name. I pray for those who are unable to be here this morning, Lord, and might be listening through the streaming. Father, and I just ask that you work in I thank you for those who were able to make it out this morning. I thank you for the visitors here, Lord. And we are just so grateful for your goodness and your kindness. May you guide us and direct us for your glory. Ask in Jesus' name. Amen. We will be looking at uh Matthew chapter nine verses one through seventeen this morning. Matthew chapter nine verses one through seventeen So he got into the boat, crossed over, and came to his own city. Then, behold, they brought to him a paralytic lying on a bed. When Jesus saw their faith, he said to the paralytic, Son, be of good cheer. Your sins are forgiven you. And at once some of the scribes said to themselves, This man blasphemes. But Jesus, knowing their thoughts, said, Why do you think evil in your hearts? For which is easier to say, your sins are forgiven you, or to say, Arise and walk, but that you may know that the Son of Man has power on earth to forgive sins. Then he said to the paralytic, Arise, take up your bed and go to your house. And he arose and departed. to his house. Now when the multitude saw it, they marveled and glorified God who had given such power to men. And as Jesus passed on from there, he saw a man named Matthew sitting at the tax office. And he said to him, Follow me. So he arose and followed him. Now it happened as Jesus sat at the table in the house that behold many tax collectors and sinners came and sat down with him and his disciples. And when the Pharisees saw it, they said to his disciples, Why does your teacher eat with tax collectors and sinners? And when Jesus heard that, he said to them, Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick. But go and learn what this means. I desire mercy and not sacrifice For I did not come to call the righteous, but the sinners to repentance. Then the disciple of John came to him saying, Why do we and the Pharisees often fast often? But your disciples do not fast. And Jesus said to them, Can the friends of the bridegroom mourn as long as the bridegroom is with them? But the days will come when the bridegroom will be taken away from them, and they will fast No one puts a piece of unshrunk cloth on an old garment, for the patch pulls away from the garment, and the tear is made worse. Nor do they put new wine into old wineskins, or else the wineskins break and the wine is filled, and the wineskins are ruined. But they put new wine into the wineskins and both are preserved. You ever try to teach somebody an entirely new concept? And they had absolutely no frame of reference for it. If you try to teach algebra to someone who doesn't know basic math skills, you're going to be in trouble. If you try to teach chemistry to someone who's never heard of the periodic table of elements, you'd be in trouble. But like even even more so, like imagine that you you go to the Pacific Islands, maybe a remote Pacific Island, and they don't have uh they don't have houses. And you decide you want to build a house on this remote Pacific Island and you ask some of the natives there to help you build a house And they've never seen a house. Can you imagine how difficult it would be to have them help you build something that they've never seen before? That is actually what Jesus is essentially up against because what he desires to do is ultimately build his kingdom. And he's working with disciples and other people while he was here on earth to build a kingdom that they had no concept of what it looked like. Like. They'd never seen it before. They didn't know what it was like before. And so Jesus, how is Jesus going to do this? How is he going to show someone something they've never seen before? And to some degree, they have no frame of reference. Well, if you are on the Pacific Island with this native, you may say, maybe let's say they have huts, and you say, well, it's kind of like a hut. Well, it's like a hut, but in this way it's not, and that way it's not, and this way it is, but that way it's not. And essentially, that's what Jesus has to do. Because Jesus says in his uh Jesus Jesus is going to explain, for example, that there are certain things that are similar to the Jewish faith and the Jewish practices, but there are other things that are totally, completely different. And really it is true, folks, that Jesus is inaugurating an entirely new kingdom completely. And the life of Jesus as he gathers followers is going to by not just by what he says, which we have learned from the Sermon on the Mount, but by now his actions, by what he does, is going to teach us the very nature of this kingdom. This Christ's kingdom that he is building. And just to put us into the whole picture, understand that Christ is still building his kingdom. Christ right now is essentially recruiting kingdom citizens. And if you know Christ as your Lord and Savior, then you are a kingdom citizen. You are one who is a follower of Christ. And looking forward to the day when Christ will come and set up his kingdom, he will come for his own. That's the hope of the belief But Jesus, when he's on this earth, is showing them through the miracles that he's done, through some of the illustrations that he gives, exactly what the nature of his kingdom kingdom is. And we find that there is going to be, he's really going to show that there are three, there are changes. Coming from his kingdom. See, what the disciples expected, even after they chose to follow him, what they expected of Jesus was different than what Jesus was planning. Jesus said, follow me. And the disciples followed him. But at one point, do you remember? Like they're all arguing over who's going to be greatest in the kingdom. kingdom of heaven. They really didn't fully understand the kingdom of heaven as long as Jesus was on earth. Jesus was in the process of showing them this and also the process of showing others this as well. And what we're going to see is actually three different changes. Changes to the kingdom that he is going to make that that bring an interesting response from different kinds of people. The three keen changes we're going to see in this passage, first of all, is that Christ is going to authoritatively forgive sin. That's what he is doing in the kingdom. And then Christ reaches the rejected. That's what who he is targeting. Who does he target? He reaches the rejected, starting in verse 9. And then Christ moves from traditional to personal. We're going to see that as well. All three things. Authoritatively forgives the sick. forgives sin, we're then going to see that he reaches the rejected, and then he move Christ moves from the traditional to the We'll begin here then by Christ authoritatively forgiving sin. We pick up in Matthew 9, verses 1 through 8. And it says he got on a boat, crossed over, and came to his own city. Then behold, they brought to him a paralytic man lying on a bed. Jesus saw that their faith, he sees their faith. And he said to the paralytic, Son, be of good cheer. Your sins are forgiven you. Now there's a response. From the scribes that said within themselves, this man blasphemes. That's their response to Jesus. And Jesus, knowing their thoughts, said, Why do you think evil in your hearts? For which is easier to say, your sins are forgiven you, or to say, arise and walk. So Jesus is dealing with this response from these scribes. So Jesus is in this boat. Now, one thing to note about this passage is that Matthew is an abbreviated passage. If you were to go over to Luke. you would find that this is the same story where do you remember the the people that were helping this paralyzed man They climbed up on top of the roof and they un uh they they they took out some of the tile tiles and lowered Jesus down. It's the same story, lowered the paralytic man rather down It's the same story. But Matthew has a tendency to sort of cut out some of the details so we really can get a hold of the message that Matthew wants us to understand. From this text from his book. And so they and so we will begin to understand what's going on here. Jesus sees, it says he sees their face. And then he says to this man, your sins are forgiven you. Now, that was not the most obvious thing to fix, was it? This man can't walk. He can't move. He's a paralytic. He can't. I mean that would be the obvious thing. But of course, Jesus is actually going to take this man and he's going to heal him, but he's first going to use this as an illustration to help everybody to understand Really, what Jesus is doing. What is Jesus here to do? And it says he is there to forgive sin. He says, your sins are forgiven you. Now, it's hard to say from a text whether or not this man sent this man was sick because of his sin. That occasionally you see in scripture, but not all that often. Usually sickness is not because of a personal sin. Usually sickness is what? Because of original sin. Because we live in a fallen world. Because Adam and Eve has sinned and sin uh uh the bible says that that uh that uh death has passed upon all men because all have sinned so you have sickness and disease and death and all those things Because of original sin, because of the sin that's in the world, not necessarily because of personal sin. But either way, the paralytic man certainly was a sinner. Why? Because we're all sinners. And Jesus knew that he was one who had sinned and one who needed his sin to be forgiven. Now, the reason that the scribes were so upset about this is because they understood that the Old Testament taught That it was only God who could truly forgive sin. And that is true. So what does that mean that Jesus is claiming? Jesus is claiming to be the one and only true God. There's no way around it, folks. The the scribes understood what he was saying. It's interesting that there are some that would say that Jesus was a good teacher, Jesus was a good person. Uh Jesus was a uh you know a a good man who taught good principles, but Jesus was way more than that He claimed to be the very God, the God-man, the Son of God, the one and only true God. That's why on occasion the Jews are ready to stone him because he is claiming to be God. And they say the scribes realize what he's doing here by by proclaiming that this man's sin is forgiven, they realize that and they say this man blasphemes. They understood what Jesus was actually So anybody that says that Jesus was claiming anything less than being the one and only true God is mistaken. The Bible says Jesus said this. I am the way. I'm the only way. I'm the way, the truth, and the life. And no one comes to the Father except through me. The Bible says, Neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. They understood what Jesus was saying. was claiming, and so they reply they in their hearts. Now listen, this is interesting. So they didn't say it to Jesus, Jesus, you're a blasphemer. They s they they set it in their hearts. They said it in their minds. You know why? Because they're cowards I mean that's why you're going to see this later on. Later on, the Pharisees are going to go to the disciples of Jesus rather than going to Jesus personally. And so in i they they don't say this out loud. Of course there are crowds of people around and they are too afraid of man to say what they think is actually happening and what's What's going on? But Jesus, it says, knows their thoughts. He reads their thoughts, and he says, why are you thinking evil? here. Now that's interesting in and of itself, isn't it? Wouldn't that be somewhat compelling? Like you're thinking to yourself, imagine the scribes are thinking, this man's blaspheming. And Jesus, but it's only it's only in their head, and Jesus turns to them and says, why are you thinking that way? I mean that would be somewhat compelling, right? That Jesus is who he says he was But of course, Jesus is going to say to them, look, you're struggling with this whole concept of forgiveness of sin. Well, I which is eas which is harder, which is more difficult to forgive sin or to heal this man. Now actually, in reality, which is which is harder? Actually, in reality, if you had to sort of quantify it, forgiving sin would be harder. harder. But what Jesus is going to do here is he's gonna he's going to show the obvious the he's going to show at tangible his authority. And he's going to connect the healing of this man of paralysis with the forgiveness of sin so that they can see what he really came to do. See, Jesus came to do way more than just heal people. He came to do way more than just feed people. Jesus came to save people from their sin. That's what he came to do. And he shows by his miracles that he He's doing exactly what he came to do, and that is to forgive their sin. And so that's exactly what he does. He healed this man and it proves to them. That truly he could forgive sin. And the response from the people is what? It says they marveled. They marveled. Now it's interesting the word marveled, the Greek word is phobeo. Phobia, you get that we get a word phobia from it. It actually is sometimes translated fear. Now I don't think that, I don't think that necessarily the people were fearful of Jesus in the way of sort of terrified of Jesus after he did that. But there was a sense of awe here. There was a sense of marvel. They were in awe of what Jesus did. And they attributed what Jesus did to God empowering them to do it. They said what God had given them the man to be able to do here, to enable man to do. Now, they may not have really made the connection yet that Jesus is God and that's why he could do what he could do But they were, they certainly, the Bible says, they and were in awe of what Jesus did, and what does it say? They glorified God. Isn't it interesting? That when Jesus did what he did, you have two very different responses. You have one who says, Jesus, you're a blasphemer. And the other response is they're in awe of what Jesus did. Two very different responses. I wrote some things down here just from this portion of the passage that we really need to learn from this passage. The one that I've already mentioned already is that Jesus was claiming to be God. And he is the God man. He is the incarnate Son of God. And that is something that must be believed. in order to truly accept him, in order for him to truly be your Lord and Savior. You cannot deny the Lordship of God of Christ. You cannot deny that he is God and still truly. But notice he says very clearly that he can forgive sin. It's very clear that Jesus can do this. And help us to understand that Jesus, there is a difference between forgiveness of sin and overlooking sin. There is a very big difference between the two. See, a lot of people, when they think of someone forgiving sin or Jesus forgiving sin, they often think that what Jesus is doing is overlooking sin. In fact, I was listening to a preacher this past week, and he mentioned in one of his illustrations that he heard somebody once say that it's Jesus' job to forgive sin. That's his job. That's what he does. But folks, that's actually missing the point. Jesus does not overlook sin. He doesn't just ignore it, and that's how he forgives it. If you think that that's how Jesus forgives sin just by overlooking it, well you really actually have a very shallow view of what Jesus came to do. The Bible actually says in Romans 6. 23, for the wages of sin is death. That's spiritual death. That's separation from God. But the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. He also, it also says this about Jesus. 1 John 2 2 1 My little children, these things I write to you, so that you may not sin. And if anyone sins, it says this: we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ. The righteous. It says in that text that Jesus is the advocate. He is, if you will, the attorney. The judge is God the Father in that picture. Of course, actually he gives all judgment to Jesus later on. But anyway, the judge is God, and Jesus, who is also God, He on our behalf is an advocate for us. And when we sin Jesus, the Father, cannot overlook sin. The Bible is very clear about this. He cannot, God can't overlook sin He can't just wipe it away and overlook it because it would violate his justice. But instead, what happened? Jesus paid the punishment for our sin. Jesus was our substitute. Why can Jesus forgive sin? Jesus can forgive sin because he already paid for it. It's done It's paid for. The wages of sin is what? It's death. What did Jesus do? He died, was separated from his father for us, paid the price for us. And how does Jesus defend us? He defends us something like this. He defends us by saying, hey, that person doesn't need to pay for their sin because I've already paid for it. That's justice. It would actually, Jesus says to the person who accepts that gift of salvation, Jesus says, it would be unjust to have him paid for that pay for that sin because I've already paid for it, he'd have to be paying for it twice. Jesus appeals to the justice of God. He doesn't just overlook sin. And understanding this is absolutely important. And by the way, there are some people that don't like the idea of God being a just God, would you really want it any other way? I mean you think of all the injustice of the world. Is there unjustice in the world? Is there abuse in the world? Are there oppressed people in the world? Are there prop problems in the world? Absolutely, and there always has been. Isn't it wonderful to know that God's gonna set all that straight someday We can't. We're too fallible. We're too human. We're too sinful. To try to have sinful people setting all straight, it doesn't work. Have we not learned that from history? But one day, Jesus, God will set all things right. We ought not be upset about a God who's just. We ought to be thankful for a God who's just. Because God will set all things right. We all have in our hearts a sense of justice. We all know that certain things certain things just aren't right in the world. It's not abuse is not right and oppression is not right. These things are not right. But we serve a just God. But he doesn't overlook sin. He forgives sin by sending his own son, Jesus, to pay the price for our sins. So we see clearly from this passage, illustrated before all these people, exactly what Jesus came to do. But who did Jesus talk to? Target. There's one thing else I before we go on to the next part I want us to mention I want to mention. I was thinking about this candidly as I was running this morning. I was I ran a few miles this morning and sometimes I'm meditating on things and thinking about things. I was thinking about this. Why do you suppose why do you suppose this Matthew took this story to illustrate this true truth of a paralytic man, of a paralyzed man. Doesn't that illustrate for the best illustrations you can think of of a sinful person? We're all sinful, right? Every one of us. The Bible says all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. All of us have sinned. What does a paralyzed man illustrate? It illustrates our utter helplessness. That we deserve nothing. That we can do nothing. We can do nothing to save ourselves. We can do nothing to be good enough. To be righteous enough. We are utterly paralyzed by our sin. And Jesus now moves, Matthew moves now to the next portion of this, and he wants us to really understand now something else about this kingdom, that Jesus is going to reach The rejected. Jesus is going to reach the rejected. Notice what happens here. In the next verse, Jesus, we have one verse on this. Matthew, the writer of this book, the human writer, of course, God has inspired it, but is the human writer. The human author, Matthew, says this, verse 9, and Jesus passed on from there, and he saw a man named Matthew sitting at the tax office, and he said to them, Follow me, and he rose and followed him. And that was all that's all he says. I mean you have you know uh it's I to me I almost find it a little humorous. He has l many verses on other things, but when it comes to Jesus' own calling of Matthew, it's real simple. I was sitting, I'm a tax collector, I'm sitting there doing my job essentially, and Jesus calls me and I follow him, and then he moves on. But let's not move on too fast, because understanding this about Matthew is going to really help us to understand the mission of Jesus. who he's targeting. What do we need to know about tax collectors? Well tax collectors, you know, back then of course, most of you are aware that they were under the Roman rule, Roman Empire rule. And the Romans were pretty smart in a lot of ways. One of the ways that they were pretty smart is that if they realized that if you really want to extract the most taxes of the uh uh imaginable then you will actually get an inside man to do your job. In other words, they chose somebody from that particular ethnic group and the m Romans would mix different ethnic groups, but of course this is the Jewish ethnic group and He uh the Matthew was a Jewish person and so were the other tax collectors. They were Jewish people, and they would take they would select a Jewish uh person that knew the people and would understand how how their economy works and you know otherwise too many things would go under the table. But if you actually know how everything works, you're gonna know people and know how to get the most money possible. And so they would choose, select uh these people and probably give them, you know, offer great wealth to them, help them, you know, uh They would maybe bribe them or whatever, get them to fill these positions for them. Now, how do you think the people felt about that? Here's an inside man telling the inner workings of these ethnic groups to help them to be able to get as much tax money as possible. It's almost sounds like the federal government. I'm sorry. Uh I'm joking. That's a joke. Anyway. But uh but really uh that would make this man Matthew, a very rejected man, a ridiculed man. They were considered, these tax collectors were considered traitors. These tax collectors were considered turncoats, people that were that were working against their own people. And Matthew just mentions that he is a tax collector, and he is rejected of his own people, and Jesus calls him as one of his twelve disciples. That's the compassion of Jesus. That's the kind of people that Jesus goes for. But then he pivots pretty quickly from there. And we know from other parallel passages that we won't get into today that Matthew Matthew's probably in celebration of Jesus and all he's done, he has a big dinner party. And he invites a lot of his friends. Well, what are his other friends? I guarantee you, it ain't other Jewish people. At least not ones that are in good standing. Who does he pick? Well, he picks other tax collectors. And he picks other, it says, sinners there. These are other people that by the Jewish standards would not have been the most uh you know, r reputable people. Maybe the criminals, maybe the prostitutes, those kinds of people. That's that's the people that Matthew Matthew collects for a dinner party with Jesus And Jesus and his disciples, they come and they're gonna sit down and they're gonna eat with these folks. They're gonna rub shoulders with these folks. In fact, really, it's true, Jesus wants to rub reach these folks. He loves them. Well the Pharisees come and the Pharisees are not happy about this because the tradition of the day was said you don't r you don't associate with these kinds of of people, or you but yourself become unrighteous like they are. Sort of guilt by association. That was really the mindset of the Jewish people and certainly the mindset of the Pharisees. And the Pharisees, they see what's going on, but of course, because they're cowards, they don't go to Jesus. They don't say directly to Jesus the these th uh their concerns, what do they do? Well, they go to uh they go to his disciples. And they say to his disciples, uh, why is this Why does Jesus eat with these publicans, these tax collectors, and these sinners? Why does Jesus do this? Obviously because they're cowards. That's why they do it. That's why they went to the disciples. So Jesus overhears this. And Jesus is going to deal with them. So he responds with a couple of illustrations. But let me just pause and mention this. A couple of things that we need to just be aware of here. Jesus has just taught a very important principle back in Matthew chapter 7. He has said, do not judge lest you be judged. What are the Pharisees doing here? Now note, Jesus is not sinning The Bible says that Jesus came to fulfill the law, not to destroy the law. Jesus always followed the true Mosaic Old Testament law when he was on earth. But on the other hand, these guys were judging Jesus. I mean, truly judging by externals. You remember the passage in Matthew 7, verses 1 through 3? Six says, judge not let that you be not judged, for with the what judgment you judge, you will be judged. And with the measure you use, it will be measured back to you. And why do you look at the speck in your brother's eye and do not consider the plank in your own eye? Or how can you say to your brother, let me remove the speck from your eye and look Look, a plank is in your own eye. Hypocrite. First remove the plank from your own eye, and then you will see clearly remove the speck from your brother's eye. Do not give what is holy to dogs, nor cast your pearls before swine, lest they trample them under their feet, and turn and tear you in pieces. He taught this to his disciples. He taught this as a teaching. And now we're seeing it illustrated where these Pharisees are doing exactly what Jesus taught that they shouldn't do. And they go to Jesus and they say these, and here is what Jesus says. He uses this illustration. What a wonderful illustration. He says, those who are well have no need of a position. But those who are sick. And so, what is he saying with that illustration? Now, here's what he's really not saying. He's not saying that the Pharisees have it all together. Not really. He's already said that his righteousness, that the right the true righteousness must exceed the righteousness of the scribes and the Pharisees, which were only external and not internal at all. He says they were whited sepulchres with dead men's bones, he says about them. So he's not saying that they are truly righteous, but here's the thing. Here's the thing that's true, they don't realize they're unrighteous. They are, by definition, self-righteous. And by self-righteous, they, he is saying the doctor doesn't go to the person who already thinks they're well. He goes to the person that realizes they're sick. What is he saying here? He's saying, I'm going to the people that if you ask him they're a sinner, they'd say, Yes, I'm a sinner Everyone's a sinner. But there's some people that realize they're sinners, and there are other people that think that they are righteous in themselves. Who did Jesus go to? He didn't go to the self-righteous person who couldn't realize he was a sinner. He went to the people that already realized they were sinners. And that's exactly what he was saying. It's like, and it is true, that a qualification to come to Jesus is to realize you are a sinner in need of Jesus. In fact, you are a helpless sinner in need of Jesus. And that's what we have here. Jesus says this. And then he says this. This is Great. He says, go learn what it means. I'll tell you why I love this. The Pharisees really prided themselves on knowledge. They really prided themselves on really kind of knowing everything about everything. And Jesus says to them, you need to go learn something. I just I mean I I don't know why I find that I sort of find that kind of funny. Uh but he is he is trying to cause them to realize, hey, you don't know all that you don't know as much as you think you know. And then he says this, I desire mercy and not sacrifice. I desire mercy and not sacrifice. It comes from Hosea 6. He quotes it here. It's mentioned on several other occasions. But what does it mean? It means It means this. The word mercy there comes the the Greek tri uh uh uh equivalent or the Hebrew equivalent of this word is the is the Old Testament word. It means Covenant love. Okay? The word covenant love. Do you remember in the book of Ruth, we there was a this word used a lot. Covenant kindness, covenant love, the covenant that was made between Aruth and Boaz. Do you remember all that? That's this word. This word is covenant love versus sacrifice. God desires covenant love more rather instead of sacrifice. Now, what sacrifice Sacrifice is when you try to do good things or sacrifice yourself for God. And he says, no, I want covenant love, not sacrifice. Now, let me ask you the question. Why is it that Jesus wants covenant love, but he doesn't want your sacrifice? Why? Because this. People that sacrifice a lot, here's what happens to them. They're full of themselves. People that sacrifice a lot, they think of themselves well. Does that make sense? They are self-righteous. I mean these Pharisees, they would fast. They would fast all day. They'd say they'd fast all day, they'd eat it at night, but they'd fast all day. And they were in their own mind sacrificing. All of what they did was was a matter of sacrificing, sacrificing, sacrificing. But if you sacrifice without a relationship, If you sacrifice outside of a relationship, the only thing you have to show for it is self-righteousness. And what do you have here? These Pharisees are self-righteous. Jesus hits at the very heart of the matter by saying to them, look, your faith, your religious system is based on sacrifice. You don't get it. It's not ba m my kingdom is not based on that. My kingdom on is based on something else. It's based on covenant love. It's based on committed relationship. Jesus says, go learn what it means that I desire a relationship with you, a covenant love with you, not just a sacrifice. Because what happens See, if if a sinner realizes he's sinful, realizes he's helpless, like the paralytic man, he realizes he can do nothing to save himself. If a sinner realizes that And he comes to Jesus and he accepts what Jesus did for him on the cross to pay the punishment for his sin. If he does that. then what happens? He enters into a covenant relationship with Jesus, a loving relationship with Jesus, a secure relationship with With Jesus. Does that mean now he'll never do anything for him? For Jesus? No. But he doesn't do it out of sacrifice. He does it out of gratefulness and out of love for him. Go learn what it means. I desire covenant love, not sacrifice. And we see that here in this passage clearly laid out. Very serious change, isn't it? Very serious change from what they consider to be right. And by the way, let me just say this as well. This is so important. This is the distinctive difference between empty religion and true Christian faith Empty religion says I need to do this and this and this and this and if I could sacrifice all these things then I'll be close enough to receive the grace of God. Or I'll be good enough. These are means of grace that I can get to to get what I need to be able to be in right standing with God. That is empty religion. And Jesus is very clear about this. That will not save anybody. It's not what he desires. No, a true true Christian faith is a relationship where you say, nothing, Lord, I got nothing. I am going to totally trust in what Jesus did for me, what you did for me on the cross, what Jesus did for me on the cross. I'm going to rely on that entirely. Would you make me your own child and you trust Jesus to be your own Savior and you enter into a relationship with Jesus? It's not about a religion, it's about a relationship with Him. So then we move, thirdly, to another major change. Jesus is going to move from the traditional to the personal. He's going to move from the traditional to the personal in verses 14 through 17. Verse 14 it says this, and the disciples of John came to him saying, Why do we and the Pharisees fast often? For your disciples do not fast. And Jesus said to them, Can the friends of the bridegroom mourn as long as the bridegroom is with them? But the days will come where the bridegroom will be taken away from them, then they will fast. So this so he so this is sort of interesting. We sort of change scenes here, but really is in the all with the same overall thought of what Matthew is trying to get across about Christ's ministry, about Jesus' ministry. And this time it's not the scribes, it's not the Pharisees, it's the disciples of John. That's John the Baptist. The disciples of John, they are with the Pharisees. They're with them, but they're not part of them, but they're with them. And they are involved in fasting. And but I just find it interesting. Notice the difference. Who do these disciples of John go to? Directly to Jesus. The scribes say it in their heads. The Pharisees, this is all kind of for free, but it's notable. The Pharisees, they say it to the disciples. But these people, I think they're more sincere. I think the disciples of John are more sincere. I think they genuinely want to understand. And I think that they're coming to Jesus Himself, the teacher of all of this, and they're saying, Jesus I'm not sure I understand what's going on here. The Pharisees, the leaders of the religious leader today, they're fasting, but your disciples don't fast. Why is that? Now, a little bit of background. There's only one in the Old Testament it's only required there's only one time in a calendar year that required that the Jewish people were required to fast, and that's the Day of Atonement. That's the only time. But there were other times that in the rabbinical writings that by this time came where they were either encouraged or they were commanded, uh usually I think encouraged, strongly encouraged, like you're out of You know, you're not part of the inner circle if you don't, that kind of pressure to fast during certain times. So they come to Jesus, and this illustration is really something. Jesus has a way of saying things in such a way that it really gets your attention. And so they say to John's disciples, they say to John's, uh he says rather to John's disciples, John the Baptist disciples, He uses this bridegroom illustration. He says, I'm a bride. He's talking about himself as the bridegroom. Now that is interesting It's interesting for this reason. Because John the Baptist himself, do you remember over in John chapter 3, he actually referred to himself as a friend of the bridegroom? I'll read it for you. Matthew 3, uh 26 through 29 says, And they came to John and said to them, Rabbi, he who is who was with you beyond the Jordan, to whom you have testified, behold he is baptizing, and all are coming to him. John and so they're like talking about Jesus, and now everybody's come to him. John answered and said, I can't a man can receive nothing unless it has been given to him from heaven. You yourselves bear witness that I said, I am not the Christ But I have been sent before him. He who is the bride is the bridegroom he who has the bride is the bridegroom, but the friend of the bridegroom who stands and hears him rejoices greatly because of the bride because of the bridegroom's vo voice. Therefore this joy of mine is fulfilled. So John actually says, hey I'm I'm like the best man. I'm not the bridegroom. I'm not the groom. Don't look at me, look at the groom. I'm the best man, and I am thrilled that so many people are going to the groom. He uses that other illustration. So now Jesus takes that same illustration. And he says, hey, the bridegroom is here. Why would the disciples fast while the bridegroom is with them, is with him? In other words, it's like they had long wedding parties. We had weddings for a day, right, at the most, you know, you know, a few hours, whatever. They had weddings for whole weeks, okay? And nobody fasted during a wedding. You feasted during a wedding. You had wine during a wedding. This is what you did during a wedding. You didn't fast during a wedding. It didn't make any sense. Jesus, the bridegroom, is with them And he says, Why would you fast? And he's he indicated that there would be a day when Jesus leaves, you know, he ascends to his father, that they would fast. And in fact, we won't take the time to look at these passages, but in the book of Acts, he does. He certainly does fast in those pat in those times Now, what is he really, what is Jesus really getting at in saying all this? I'll tell you what he's getting at. He is saying this He didn't say we don't need to fast anymore. He didn't say that. He said that the disciples will fast one day when I'm gone. But while I'm here, they won't fast. What is he really getting at there? Let me just contrast it. Why did the Pharisees fast I'll tell you why the Pharisees fasted. They fasted as a ritual to get very close to God. Why does Jesus say someone would fast? Jesus says someone would fast not to get close to God. but because as a as a result, as a a response to being in a relationship. He is saying, look, my disciples have a relationship with me. I'm here now. They won't fast. I'm gone. Then they will fast. In other words, he is saying that the practices that we practice in our relationship with God should not be to get to God, but because we have a relationship with God. And this is a very, very important distinction. Ritual, he is moving from ritual to relationship. He is saying the things that you do should not be in order to get to God. It's Christ that gets you to God. Christ is God, and he says, I'm the way. Ritual doesn't do that. What he says is, but he didn't say no fasting is necessary at all. He's not saying certain practices are not unnecessary. What he's saying is they should be as a result of a relationship. Now let's put it put it out sort of practically. Do we, in the Christian faith today, do we have certain things that we practice? And the answer is yes. Yes. In fact, the Bible, you know, it's a whole lot less than the Old Testament Israel system, but w there are things that the New Testament very clearly tells us to practice. For example, assembling on the Lord's Day, the Bible says to do that The Bible says that preaching should occur. The Bible says that praying corporately should occur. And the Bible says that we're going to practice, we're going to learn, we're going to do later, the practice that we're supposed to have the Lord's Supper together. I mean that's those are the main things in Scripture that it says a church is supposed to do. Assemble together, pray together, have the Lord's step together, hear preaching from God's Word together. That's the main things that you see in Scripture in the New Testament. But folks, we need to be really careful about this. That they don't become ritual. That they don't become something that we do, and when we do it, we feel more holy or something like that. That. Or when we do it, we somehow feel that we're closer to God. No, that's not what the purpose of them are. We assemble because we have a relationship with God. Not in order to get a relationship with God. We pray together not because not because we we need a relationship with God, but we already have a relationship with God You know, and I I really think that the world does not understand this. I think that most and I think that many Christians don't really like we forget this so we don't understand that. Christians sometimes think, well, I've got to go to church every Sunday. Well, the Bible commands us to assemble together. It does do that. But why? It does it because that is how we express our relationship with the Lord. It is it is because and and it boils down to this, we should do these things because Now how does that happen? It happens when you have a relationship with God. It happens When you are truly a child of God, when you are truly saved by God, when you are truly in a relationship with God. In other words, it's been said this way, and it's really true. When you are really in a relationship with God, you want to be with God's people, for example. You just do. You have a yearning to be with God's people. You don't have to be with God's people, but you want to be with God's people. That's just something that you want. It's something that occurs as a natural outpouring of your relationship with God. You want to be with other people that have a relationship with God. It's just something that you want to do together. You want to hear the preaching of God's word because you want to. You want to partake of the Lord's Supper because you want to. You do these things because you have a relationship with God. And that's what Jesus is saying here. He's saying we need to move from ritual to relationship. And then he gives two illustrations. These illustrations are really interesting. And by these illustrations, he's intended to give lessons. He says the first illustration, well, we mentioned this first illustration anyway, about about the whole the bridegroom thing. That's the first illustration. Illustration. And then he gives that's his that's the first lesson. The second lesson there is this. The second lesson has this lesson and then there's two illustrations underneath of it. The lesson is this. Move on here. The lesson is this. A new kingdom is always going to have new practices. A new kingdom is always going to need new practices. Okay? Now, he illustrates it this way. He says, verse 16, no one puts a piece of unshrunk cloth on an old garment. For the patch pulls away from the garment and the tear is is made worse. What's he talking about? He's talking about sewing. How many all sew, I'm curious. Okay, like Three of you. Alright, uh that's good. Um you should probably stand, everybody look around next time you need something. No, anyway, I'm okay. Alright. So not many s not many people so and I don't either, and that's why, you know, uh not why I married Elizabeth, but it's you know I'm glad she I'm glad she sews, let's put it that way. Anyway, so um I'm gonna get in trouble later for that, but anyway. Uh so um so uh so if you if you have a piece of cloth, an old piece of cloth and it has a tear in it, like You know, pants or whatever tunics in that day and age. Okay. What he's saying is if you don't put an unshroved, you don't put a n piece of cloth that hasn't been shrunk yet onto that to patch something because what will happen? When it shrinks, it will make the tear worse. It will actually create a problem. He uses this another illustration the same way. Back then they had wine s they had wine skins. Okay, they didn't they didn't have bottles, they didn't have glass bottles that they put wine in, they had skins that they would put put wine in. And these these skins that they would put wine in, uh it says you don't put new wine into old wine skins. Why? Because they will burst the it will the the new wine will you know will expand and it will burst the old wine skin. Now, why what is his whole point? His whole point is this. He's trying to get across the fact that he has a new kingdom and it's going to have new things It's going to have new things and you can't take the new practices, scab them onto the on onto this or the old practice. You can't take the old practices right. The old practices Scaven onto the new things that we're doing and think it's going to work. No, you've got to have new practices. And it is true if you look at the New Testament, you don't see the Old Testament practices have they're not there anymore. We don't do them anymore. reason. Christ didn't come to destroy them, but he did fulfill all of them. He fulfilled every one of them. And instead, he gave us these simple practices that I've already mentioned in Acts 2. 42. It explains these things. Acts 2. 42 says this, and they continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine, that's the preaching of the word, and fellowship, that is the uh cooperation with each other. And uh the breaking of bread, that's the Lord's t table, and and corporate prayer together, which is what we try to do. Sunday morning we try to worship together, Sunday night we try to pray together, uh, we try to have the Lord's Supper, we try to do all of these things. And they're all why? Because not to have a relationship with God, but because we already have a relationship with God in Christ. God Christ calls us to a loving relationship, not to empty religion. Now with all of that in mind as we're looking at all of this, I want us to really kind of narrow all this down and I want to ask three questions to close all this up. Number one Number one, do you accept the reality that Jesus is the only one who can forgive your sins because he is paid for them. It really starts there in the very first part where Jesus said, I forgive your sin. And the Pharisees rejected the notion that Jesus could do that because they did not accept him as being God. Do you accept the reality that Jesus is the only one? He's the only one who can forgive your sins. Why? Because he paid for them. You accept that. That's where the relationship with Christ starts. It doesn't start any other way. There is none other way under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved, Scripture says says, will you accept what Jesus has done for you? Number two, Jesus reaches only those who know their need. Will you repent of pride and self-righteousness and come to him in humble repentance? He reaches only those who know their need. He didn't come to the Pharisees. He didn't come to the scribes. He came to the people that were clearly sinners and they knew it. And they came in helplessness to reach out to Jesus to save them from their sin. He There's a reason for this. The Bible says this in Ephesians, for by grace are you saved through faith, and that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. It's a gift. You can't earn it. It's accepting the payment that only Jesus could make for you. You can't make it for yourself. So Jesus reaches out to those who know their need. And number three, have your practices become more about ritual than relationship? Are you just going through the motions? If I ask you if you read your Bible every day, some of you might say no, but if you said yes, may it would it be only because you know you should? I'm not saying you shouldn't do that. But at some point, folks, it's got to go from ritual to relationship. At some point, it's got to be because I love him, so therefore I'm gonna I want to get to know him. him more. And when I the more I know him, the more I love him. The more I love him, the more I know him. It's a relationship. Coming to church, assembling together. Why do we do it? We should do it because of our relationship relationship with the Lord, not because we're afraid something bad is going to happen to us if we don't or something like that. And we really, even as we enter the Lord's Supper, this is not to be a ritual. It's not to be Be just something that we do. There is a whole meaning behind this, which we'll get into in a few moments. But are we guilty sometimes of just going through the motions? Jesus says, what I desire is a covenant-loving relationship, not separate. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you this morning and we praise you for who you are. We thank you that you have shown so clearly through your word and through the life of Christ exactly what Christ came to do. And I pray, Lord, that if there is anybody here that doesn't know you as their Lord and Savior, who hasn't accepted you as their the one and only Savior of their I pray today would be a day that they would understand their sin, their need of a savior, and that they would be saved. I pray also, Lord, as we enter into this time of communion together, this Lord's Supper that you have called us to do regularly I pray, Lord, that we would truly do this in remembrance of what Christ has done for us on the cross. And we pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide That helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. Or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon. Hello, my name is Jim Gannam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God. according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, Or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. Or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.