Heavenly Father, we come at this time this morning. We are so thankful And Father, we are filled with gladness for what you have done at the cross, your amazing grace through the blood of Jesus Christ. And Father, we ask now as we come to your word, that you would be with uh Brother Enrique, Father, and uh pray that you'll give him clarity of thought and speech. And guide him through the passage that you have laid on his heart and given to him. And Lord, open our ears and our eyes and our minds to you and to your word. That Father we would be changed by your word through the power of your Holy Spirit, that we would be changed more into your image when we leave this place than when we came in. And we thank you in Jesus' name Amen. We are going to be in 1 Thessalonians this morning, chapter 1, and we're going to be looking at verses 1 through 10. 1 Thessalonians, chapter 1, verses 1 through 10. To the Church of the Thessalonians in God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ, grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. We give thanks to God always for you all, making mention of you in our prayers, remembering without ceasing your work of faith. your labor of love, and your patience of hope in the Lord Jesus Christ in the sight of our God and Father. Knowing, beloved brethren, your election by God, for our gospel did not come to you in word only. But also in power and in the Holy Spirit, in much assurance, as you know what kind of men we were among you, for you and for your sake. And you became followers of us and of the Lord, having received the word in much affliction with the joy of the Holy Spirit. So that you became examples to all in Macedonia and Achaia who believe. For from you the word of the Lord has sounded forth. Not only in Macedonia and Achaia, but also in every place. Your faith toward God has gone out so that we do not need to say anything. For they themselves declare concerning us what manner of entry we had to you, and how you turned to God from idols to serve the living and true God. And to wait for his son from heaven, whom he has raised from the dead, even Jesus who delivers us from the wrath of God. Wonderful get a chance to Uh look at God's word together once again. First Thessalonians chapter I'm definitely on. Uh 1 Thessalonians chapter 1 is definitely uh as far as like introductory chapters, it is it's kind of one of my favorites. Um there's there's a lot of fascinating uh depth and interesting aspects to this greeting that Paul gives to the Thessalonians. As we think about what we just read from this chapter, I have a question for you. Have you ever entered into a debate of some sort with somebody? about whatever topic. It could be anything. Have you ever d had a debate with someone? It doesn't have to be formal. You just ended up, you know, found out you were on opposing sides of a topic and you sort of hashed it out a little bit And typically, when one enters into a debate, you are looking to persuade the other person of your position or opinion. I see this a lot at work. Recently, well recently, like the entire time I've been at this company, um There has been a particular debate that comes up over and over again, and sometimes, admittedly, I hop into the discussion as well, and it is the question of who is the greatest of all time? Michael Jordan or LeBron James? Obviously the answer is Michael Jordan. But the besides that It is astounding the passion and the arguments and the videos that are brought up and just the incredible nature of these debates. Uh usually it'll start between just two people. And the magnetism that takes place, other people will hear about, you know, they'll hear from afar off. Oh, they're talking about And they'll jump in and before you know it, very little work is getting done. And and and they uh we have like literally five, six, maybe seven people all yelling at each other. about this. You know what the best part about these debates and these types of debates? I don't know if it's the best part necessarily, but The amount of persuasion that actually takes place. And you've probably seen this as well. When have you entered a debate with somebody, tried to persuade them of their position? And you actually change their mind. How often does that really happen? I'm hearing nevers, yeah. Uh it's it's kinda like that. I have never, ever heard anybody from the Michael Jordan position be swayed over to the LeBron James position. Or vice versa, like it's never happened, and it probably never will. People are set, their minds are set on this. And it it it shows us a fundamental reality. And that reality is that it is almost impossible for us, a person, to change another person. It rarely happens. Occasionally it'll take place, but rarely does it happen. But there is something that has incredible power and ability to change a person. And that is the gospel. The gospel which is the the the The sacrifice of Jesus on the cross, his death, his burial, his resurrection, bringing people to a saving knowledge of Christ. So that their sins are forgiven and that they are made right with God and they have an eternal home in heaven waiting for them. That's the gospel. The reality is that truth that comes from Scripture has incredible power to change. And that's actually what we're seeing in this first chapter. It is almost a recalling or a retelling of what happened for the Thessalonian believers. The gospel has, when it is at work in the life of a person, there are profound changes that take place. And we see some of those changes. It's not everything in this text, but some of those changes we find in this passage. What does it look like when the gospel is at work? Well, we see the supernatural work of the gospel and how it changes people, how it transforms people's allegiances, and how it causes repentance in people. So, first off, we see that the gospel has the power to change us. It has the power to change people. Uh the text here starts with the typical greeting, uh Paul, Sylvanas, and Timothy Timothy to the Church of Thessalonica the Thessalonians in God, the Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and Lord Jesus Christ. And then in verse 2, he says, we give thanks to God always for you all, making mention of you in our prayers. Remembering without ceasing your work of faith, labor of love, and patience of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ, in the sight of our God and Father. And we'll stop there for the moment. Here we see he's giving thanks to God when he remembers the Thessalonians, and this is very common of the author, the Apostle Paul, he He makes mention of them in his prayers, and he remembers them, and he's thankful for them because of the work of the gospel that has been done in their lives. And what he remembers specifically in verse three is what we see there. He says The work of faith, your work of faith, your labor of love, and your patience of hope. Now, these of statements They um they can be taken a variety of ways, or they could be at least. You really have to see the context and see what is exactly being said here with these Three phrases. What does it mean, a work of faith or a labor of love? And commentators are pretty pretty in agreement with all of this that what we're seeing here is a source mentality. What is the source of their work? What is the source of the labor? What is the source of their patience or endurance? So, what we see then with the first one is that he remembers their work of faith, or he is remembering their work of faith. This work, then, is not sourced in a duty-driven or a willpower type of work. No, it is sourced In faith. It is sourced in dependence, is what's being talked about here. Or you might say the work that is outflowing from them is produced by. Faith. In other words, what what Paul is mentioning here is that the faith that they have, it is being accompanied by works. This work, as we've seen in other parts of Scripture, this isn't a work that's being done to merit salvation or to earn salvation. No, it's accompanied by the faith that they have, which has granted them salvation, the faith that they have placed in Christ. It reminds me of James chapter 2, where it is talked about the relationship between faith and works. And that faith is not alone. True, genuine saving faith is accompanied by works. James says in that passage, he says, you go ahead and try and show your faith without works I will show you my faith by my works. Or you might say fruit. Faith is always, saving faith is always in faith, uh faith alone in Christ, but the faith that saves is never alone. It is always accompanied by fruit or by works. And so Paul is remembering these believers, and he's seeing the change, this particular change. in them that the gospel has has uh created in them is now that their their deeds, their f their their work is sourced in their faith. Their faith in Christ specifically. Next here it says their labor of love. Labor of love You might say, again, that this labor is sourced in love, or the labor is produced by or prompted by love. Love can be demonstrated in a variety of ways. It can be demonstrated in words, but specifically here it's talking about labor. It's talking about service. This labor actually does imply more than just um a a a generic type of work that's being This actually involves in many cases, in other portions of Scripture, how the work is actually a little bit more toilsome and perhaps troublesome. It's not easy. It is a type of love or type of labor that costs. And that's why that type of labor cannot always be generated by fleshly Purposes or fleshly desires. No, that's the type of love or type of work that comes from a motivation of love. And so he sees this change in them as well, this labor of love. That the gospel has generated. And then the next one it says here is patience of hope. Patience of hope. Now that's again not a phrase that we would typically be saying, and we don't necessarily talk like that. In the original language, it flows very easily. And so what's taking place here again is it's an patience, or you could use the word endurance, that is based on hope. Or, as is typically given for a definition of hope, is a confident expectation of what's taking place. And this hope, we have the direction of this hope. This direction of the hope is not placed in Um some you know uh chance it's not placed in a uh some type of uh um roulette wheel that maybe things will work out. No, look what does it what does it say? It's a hope in our Lord Jesus in the sight of our God and Father. The hope rests on Jesus, His work, His promises. How are the Thessalonians able to endure? It's because of the hope, the confident expectation that they have in Jesus, what he's accomplished, and what he is going to do for us in the future. So this endurance, then you could say, is inspired by the hope that we have in Christ and in the future. When we endure something, something difficult, um it's not we we do that when we think that it's worth the endurance. It's worth the struggle. It's worth the trouble. If something's not worth the trouble, we'll probably quit. We'll probably stop. It's typical. Well, what Christ has accomplished on our behalf and the future that He promises for us It's worth the struggle, it's worth the endurance, it's worth the patience, it's worth waiting for. Then it says here in verse 4, knowing, beloved brethren, your election by God. So we see then that the gospel, salvation, is something that God initiates in a person's life. And so Paul is looking at the Thessalonians and he is saying, we know confidently that God has chosen you. And then he talks about the fact that the gospel in verse 5 is not it's not just mere words. It's not just it's not just a debate. It's not just persuasive speech back and forth to try and come to a resolution. No. What does it say here? It says For our gospel did not come to you in word only, but also in power and in the Holy Spirit and in much assurance. The lives of the Thessalonian believers completely changed. We're seeing all of this, and it's we see that it's the gospel's power that's made it happen. Through the work of the Holy Spirit. What we see here then is that their testimony wasn't one of a man-made difference, but it was a remarkable conversion. We'll see in a little bit What they were saved from. In verse 9, it talks about how the Thessalonians turned from idols to serve the living God. There was a dramatic change in these people's lives. Their new lives in the gospel, okay, did not resemble the lives prior to the gospel entering their life That's the kind of change we're talking about. It is a pre-conversion life and a post-conversion life, and the two don't look the same. They don't resemble each other. Paul is pointing out the difference, the difference that the gospel makes when it's at work in the lives of people and in the lives of believers. And this is the same for us today. The gospel works in the same fashion. It alters a person. And their lives are made new. Believers are saved, and old things have passed away. We are a new creation in Christ, the word says This is so much more than reading the latest self-help book and trying to better ourselves and Putting an effort to change ourselves, this is a work that is done to us, not something that we do. For ourselves. And perhaps you're here today and you're not totally sure if you have experienced that type of dramatic change in your life. Maybe you're here and you know about God and you know about Jesus, and perhaps you even say you believe God and believe in Jesus. But there hasn't been a remarkable change in your life. There hasn't been a point in your life where you have said, I will now begin to depend on Jesus alone for my salvation and my justification to be made right with God, and I will depend on nothing else. It is Christ's sacrifice that is completely sufficient to save you. If you find yourself in a place like that this morning, I'd encourage you. Well, at least to start, to keep listening. There is more in this passage to consider. And perhaps after the message is over, you'd like to take the time to talk with myself or Harry or someone else that you're familiar with. to discuss this topic of salvation and the destiny of your soul. So we see here that the gospel has the ability to change. But now we also see that it has the power to transform our allegiances. It has the power to transform our allegiances. In verses 6 through 8. We see these words. It says, And you became followers of us and of the Lord, having received the word in much affliction with joy of the Holy Spirit. So that you became examples all in Macedonia, to all in Macedonia and Achaia who believe. For from you The word of the Lord has sounded forth, not only in Macedonia and Achaia, but also in every place. Your faith toward God has gone out, so that we do not need to say anything. This gospel transforms our allegiances, or you could say it transforms who we're devoted to. We see, first of all, in this passage that this allegiance or this devotion takes place in spite of hardship or affliction. You know, sometimes it's easy to be devoted to something that's easy. That, you know, it doesn't cost you anything, it's not hard. There are a lot of things like that. You know, maybe you have a particular gas station that you like to go because it has, you know, some of the best prices on gasoline. It's easy to be devoted and maybe you like the drinks that's in the convenience. you know the the store and it's just something that you're easily devoted to. And maybe you do go out of your way to go there sometimes, but even that's not that hard. You could go to this one, but you just go to that one. It's simple. This isn't the type of allegiance we're talking about. It's this is a difficult allegiance because it costs something, and it did cost these believers a lot In verse 6, it says, They have received the word in much affliction. They became followers of the Lord. They became his disciples. They received the word, but it was through much affliction. This word followers also can be translated imitators. They followed, it says here, you became followers of us and of the Lord. So they saw the apostles' example. They saw uh they saw Paul's example and they there was something um beautiful about it. They it was it was uh it was very appealing. And when they they saw him and they saw the message, they received the gospel, it was something that they immediately became followers of. They received it, and they said they received it with joy. They followed the apostles as they were following the Lord. Before Christ saved them. The Thessalonians' allegiances or devotions, they lied elsewhere. But the acceptance of the message of the gospel, it it caused them to transfer transfer their devotion, transfer their allegiance. to Christ fully. Recently um I have been uh been involved in social media a little bit more Some of you know why. I won't go into why at this point, it's not necessary. But I've you know I I've seen this word follow. You follow people, right? You follow people on Instagram or whatever. And that kind of thing. And it's very easy to follow somebody, right? It's probably just a little tap on your phone or a Uh click of the mouse, and boom, you are a follower. Good job. Did a great job there. And then I noticed too, on at least on some things, if now that you've clicked follow That same button now has changed and it says unfollow. Or you know in some cases it's you You could subscribe and now the same button says unsubscribe. So just as easily as you clicked follow, you could just click or tap and now you're unfollowed. following them. Done. Amazing how easily our allegiances can go back and forth in this world of social media. Once again, this is not the type of following that we're talking about. It's not that at all. This is a following That requires us subordinating or submitting ourselves to another. When we follow someone on social media, what we're really doing is just a, it's like keeping connected We're not just keeping connected when we when we start to follow Christ. It's not just a simple, I'm gonna keep up to date with Jesus. No. It's it's I'm following him in a submissive, humble, subordinate role. He is the master. I am the servant. I am the disciple. I learn from him and I submit and commit myself to him. This is the type of allegiance we're talking about. We arrange ourselves under Christ. We commit ourselves to his teaching and example Now, the truth is, for the Thessalonians, we see that this was an allegiance that didn't remain hidden. It didn't stay put, it didn't stay covered. We see here that their example actually, well, it was broadcast. Look what it says again. It says in verse 7, so that you became examples all in Macedonia and in Achaia. This is a huge region of land. For from you the word of the Lord has sounded forth. Not only in the Macedonia, Achaia, but also in every place. Your faith toward God has gone out. So that we do not need to say anything. And what's implied and what some some folks mentioned while I was studying was that it was probably very common for Paul to give up as he was traveling to give updates. And to tell people, hey, this is what God is doing in the believers over here. And this is what God is doing in the believers over here. And when it came to the Thessalonian believers, he'd get to a place and he wouldn't have to say anything. Because they already knew. Word had already got there. It had beat it had beat uh him to there, to the to that location. So this allegiance then, it's an allegiance that doesn't remain unknown. Two whole root Roman provinces that covered roughly the area of modern Greece today is what we're talking about, that this news of their conversion had spread to. This term everywhere where it says, um, you might think, wow, that's really broad. Is does he really mean everywhere? Likely it's it's it is it's everywhere, you might say, where where believers are. So it's not a a total round the world thing. Um I don't think people in China at that time necessarily knew about the Thessalonians. But the idea is where the gospel had gone were uh and where believers were, word of the believers and Thessalonians had made it there And this is the way it is to be for us today as well. Now People's knowledge of our allegiance, people's knowledge of our devotion to Christ might not have the far-reaching effects that the Thessalonian believers did. But it is a good time to evaluate if our commitment to Christ is as far-reaching as it should be. God does not demand of each of us to get, you know, find pay the money, get on television, and tell the whole world or as many people as are watching that you're a Christian. That's not necessarily the call. But what about the people that God does bring into your life? He hasn't brought them into your life on accident. He hasn't brought them to you just so that you can have a buddy or a friend. No. If if God has brought believers into your life, Then there's a purpose for that. If God has brought unbelievers into your life, there's a purpose for that too. They ought to know who you are, and you ought to be telling them who you are. And why you are who you are. Why are you in Christ? Why are you devoted to Christ? These are things that should be said. It is fascinating sometimes Where someone is a Christian and uh I find out about it like two years after knowing them. Something like that. And I think I've heard you know from testimonies from some of you similar things where They're it's kind of cliche, but you know they are rather like a closet Christian. They they don't broadcast, they don't talk about those things. And I don't believe that is the call on the believer from God. We are to be lights. We are to be salt and light. We are to have influence. We are to To bring the truth to other people. And one of the best ways to do that is to be an example. To be an example. These Thessalonians, they were an example. to that whole region. What if we could be an example in all the spheres that we are in? Whatever region that might be. It might just be Glen Burney, it might just be Pasadena, it might just be Odenton, whatever it is, Linthicum, where you are and who you interact with. Is there fear there? Yeah, there could be. Is there uncertainty about how people will view view you? Yeah, those are real things. It really comes down to this. Do you trust God? I'm afraid, you know, how people will perceive me. That's that's valid. But that cost isn't that high. I'm afraid of, you know, my job. I mean, if I do a certain thing or say certain things, there's It feels like there's danger there. Well, do you trust God with your job? Who gave you your job anyway? He did, right? If he chooses to move you to a different job, is is that bad? There are afflictions, there are troubles. There maybe is a cost for broadcasting our allegiances, but it is to be done. The gospel cannot go forth from our lips if we do not Say it, if we do not preach it, if we do not proclaim it. Look, the gospel changes our allegiances, and we must understand that it is not just for ourselves. But for everyone around us. Could we ignorantly and sometimes forgetfully, you know, not talk to people or not mention to people That we belong to Christ. Yeah, that can happen. And I I don't think we need to worry about that. But what we really ought to worry about is when we willfully limit the scope of our belief. When we willfully we determine to not tell others. So, we have seen that the gospel changes people. We have seen that the gospel transforms people's allegiances. Well we haven't yet seen exactly is how all this transpires. How does all this happen? How does the change in a person begin? Well, we'll see here from verses 9 through 10 that it begins with repentance. The gospel causes repentance in us. Let's look at the passage here again. For they themselves declare concerning us what manner of entry we had to you, and how you turned to God from idols to serve the living and true God. and to wait for his son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, even Jesus who delivers us from the wrath to come. So first of all, it says here, they themselves, so the people, he's still talking about the people that they encounter in different cities. In different places that they've traveled, they themselves declare concerning what manner of entry we had to you. Now that's um that's just a different way of saying how the Thessalonian believers, or the people at the time, received them. They received them in a in a welcoming way. There was not uh there was not, at least for certain group of people, there was not a lot of hostility. There was a reception there. And so that's what he's talking about there Which then, of course, led to the hearing of the gospel and them being converted. So they essentially received the apostles with open arms. Now what's interesting here is it says that how you turned to God from idols. Now that word turned, it's actually not the typical word that's used for repentance. In fact, it's mostly used in a very simple way, and it's used in a a literal way, a fig uh uh um Not a figure, uh a literal way, uh a physical way. Um often it's used in the gospels of when Jesus is looking one way and he turned to his disciples. That phrase, that word turned is there. It's It's him directing his attention to someone else. However, there is this one instance in Matthew 18, verse 3, where it says this: at the time the disciples came to Jesus. Saying, they asked one of their brilliant questions. You look got to love the disciples sometimes. This their brilliant question of the day was, Who then is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven? Mike, probably thinking maybe it's one of maybe it's Maybe it's one of us, you know, that sort of thing. Poor guys. They were gonna get it eventually, right? Can't be too hard on them. Um and and Jesus gives them probably the most shocking answer. It's even kind of shocking to us, right? When you think about it, it Jesus' response was this. It says, Then Jesus called a little child to him and set him in the midst of them. And said, Assuredly I say to you, unless you are converted and become as little children, you will by no means enter the kingdom of heaven. Therefore whoever humbles himself as this little child is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven. Whoever receives one little child like this in my name receives me. Now it's really hidden in there, but this word It's not humbles, it's not becomes, it's not any of that. It's actually the word converted. The word converted is our word there Unless you turn, or unless you are converted, unless you turn and become as little children. The idea here is to turn, to change, to convert. I think here in this passage we clearly see this is more than just a physical turning. For an adult to become like a child, They have to change their whole outlook on themselves. They have to change their dependences. Change what they really want. Christ, in this passage, in Matthew 18, is calling for repentance. without using the typical word. And I believe we're seeing that exact same usage here in 1 Thessalonians. For the Thessalonians we see That they turned from idols, or they turned from idolatry. Their wreck, sorry, their lives were being wrecked by a dependence on impotent Worthless things that had no ability to do anything. Idolatry, their idols, their false gods, that's what they were depending on, and that's what they had to repent from. But did you know that really repentance in general it looks the same across the board? However What people exactly repent from can be different, at least to some degree. What do we mean by that? Well There is a passage in Hebrews where it says, uh in Hebrews 6:1, it says, Therefore, leaving the discussion of the elementary principles of Christ, let us go on to perfection, not laying again the foundation of repentance from dead works and of faith toward God. So here the turning is from not from idolatry, but from dead works, it says. And it's turning towards God in faith. In Philippians 3, I also believe that we have a picture of what repentance looks like. In Philippians 3, yeah. Remember Paul and his discussion of his former life before Christ there? Remember what he talks about? Sometimes it's called Paul's resume before Christ. Remember how that chapter starts? He gives a warning about the Judaizers and those who mutilate the flesh and have confidence in the flesh. He says he talks about their confidence in the flesh because it believes that the law, they believe the law will save them. And then Paul contrasts this with his own life because he says, look, if placing confidence in the flesh or placing confidence in the law could save, then I myself would be the best candidate. Because I have the best resume when it comes to this. And he he lists it, remember? He says, he talks about how he is a Hebrew of Hebrews. He can name his tribe, the tribe of Benjamin. Not everybody could do that. He was according to the law, he was a Pharisee, and keeping the law, he was zealous. He says in there that he was blameless when it comes to conforming to the law. And his zeal went as far as persecuting the church, whom he thought at the time were the enemies of God. He says those were all the things that I was depending on to be right with God. And then he contrasts that later on Where he says, those things which were gained to me, those things which he put in the prophet column, those things which he depended on for salvation, he says, are now in a new column. They're in a lost column. They don't amount to anything. Why? Because now he has seen the surpassing value of knowing Jesus Christ his Lord. In which he gains a righteousness that he could not make on himself. He could not earn, he could not get himself. It was a righteousness that comes from God through faith in Christ. Paul's repentance story is rather remarkable. All these things that he had to change his mind on. Think about that He had to admit he was wrong on all those points. He thought being a Jew gave him an advantage. He had to change his mind about that. He thought obeying the law to the fullest would gain him favor with God. He had to change his mind about that. He had to admit he was wrong. He had to go as far as to say his persecution of the church was wrong. And I can't imagine the regret Tit would give him, to realize that whom he thought he was serving, he was actually working against He had to change his perspective on all of those things. And this is where, when we think of the Thessalonians, this is where the miracle really takes place. This is where the miracle happens to anyone who accepts the gifts of salvation. What you had learned to value in your life. You must devalue it. What you learn to depend on to be right with God, that dependence must transfer then to Christ. And that is no small thing. This is where we see the power of God in the gospel changing people. Remember our discussion in the intro where we have a really tough time changing people. People's minds. Well, the gospel changes my people's minds, hearts, and wills. It's an overhaul. That's what repentance is. It's a complete overhaul of one's mind, will, and emotions And so we might begin to see actually why Christ says, narrow is the gate. And small is the gate and narrow is the way that leads to eternal life. Because people have to thoroughly admit how wrong they are. Let's take a couple of examples. I think this is really beneficial for us. Let's take an atheist as an example What would it take for an atheist to come to Christ? What do they have to repent from? I see some of you shaking their heads like, whoa, it's a lot. Yeah, it is a lot. Let's just take some basics, for example. They have to admit they were wrong about the existence of God. They have to admit they were wrong about the origin of the universe. They have to admit they were wrong about the source of the Bible. They have to admit what the Bible says about their position before God. They have to admit that their dependence on science, their dependence on self is totally misplaced. They have to admit that they actually need to depend on Christ's sacrifice. And the list could go on, I think. That's a lot to repent from. What about a person who has a religious background, but perhaps that background that they're in, let's say, just doesn't preach the gospel, doesn't teach the gospel? Doesn't teach salvation by faith alone. What what does that type of person have to repent from? Well, at the very least, they have to get a right view of God and understand how God rightly views them. They have to understand lightly that works do not save people. They have to rightly understand that their sin doesn't just distance themselves from God. but actually makes them irreconcilably enemies of God. They may, depending on their background, they may have to believe that Jesus truly is God in the flesh. The second person of the Trinity. And they must understand that Jesus sacrificed everything that was required to be made right before God. And this is just some of the things that they will like to do. Because truly I mean ultimately we are saying to repent means to say that I'm wrong. God is right. To repent means to believe what God says is true and what you have been believing are lies. Do we see What kind of humility it requires to genuinely become God's child. And we really see pride is the greatest deterrent to accepting salvation that he offers. In the life of an individual, when we think on the individual level, it's very complex. People in their lives before Christ saves them, They have mounted up a bunch of misconceptions and wrong views and things that they depend on. And it goes from the broad level, like we were discussing, to even minute levels. There is so much, so much repentance that has to take place. People are very complex, and so each person's repentance story can vary greatly So the types of sinful dependences that we have that we need to turn away from, they can vary. But the direction that we towards uh turn towards is always the same. True repentance always has the same direction. And look what it says here in the text again. It says that that uh they turned To God from idols to serve the living and true God. Turn to God to serve him. is what we see. The direction of repentance, it always means turning towards God It says here very poignantly, it says, serving the living and true God. You know, whatever people are depending on, whatever people are repenting from. It is safe to say that it was something that isn't living and isn't true. Whatever people depend on, apart from Christ, it is dead and false, is what it is. In the case of in the case of the Thessalonians, it was dead idols. It was false gods. The case of those that uh that we mentioned saw in Hebrews, it was dead works. It was works that promise that you know they believed would promise them salvation, but instead would only bring them spiritual death. It's possible that this phrasing here is actually a mantra for some of the believers back then, and perhaps even language of early preaching of that day. So we see, yes, that they abandoned idols. They had turned and repented to serve the living and true God. And it says here too in verse 10 that they are waiting for his son from heaven. They repented towards God, and there is that there's that idea of patience and endurance, what it once again that we saw earlier in the chapter When the Thessalonians worshiped idols, they had no hope. No real hope. Maybe they had some fabricated hope, but that was it. When they trusted the living God, they had a living hope. When someone genuinely repents It will likely come down to the realization that their current course that they are on is in fact a hopeless one. Sometimes the reason that people do not repent is because they sometimes see a shred of hope in their current course. They still see well yeah you might be right but I see this over here and so this is why I'm just gonna stick with where I'm at And so that brings us then to our conclusion. How do we wrap all this up? What do we want to take home from this passage? First of all, we have to ask this again. The gospel changes people. Have you experienced that change? Have you experienced that change? If there has not been a time where you have repented, that is, there hasn't been a time where your dependence transferred from something dead and something false towards God. His gospel, his son. If you haven't done that, then you likely do not belong to God today. Can I ask you? Can I plead with you? Don't let any more time go Before talking to someone about this. The truth about repentance, the truth about Christ, it's found in his book, in his word, in his Bible. Please approach one of us afterwards. After the service, we can take the Bible and show you God's plan He made to save you from your sins, how you can walk in newness of life and have it to heaven as your destination when this life Is over. So the gospel changes people. Have you experienced that change? Secondly, understanding true repentance causes us to know better how to talk and how to pray for. The unsaved. It really does. When you get into the life of somebody and you you know you s you develop a relationship and you You know, you find out they're they don't believe, and you begin to find out the reasons why. Well, those reasons why, guess what? Those are what they need to repent from. It's as simple as that. You think, man, how do I witness to somebody? How do I well find out their reasons? That's what they need to repent. And there might be more than what they're saying, so there is there is that. That can be a little complex perhaps. But ultimately, those people that we work with, those people in our family, our friends that don't know Christ, the Bible here gives us great insight into the human condition. People are dependent on so much for their perceived satisfaction and what they believe will make them right before God, or even if they actually think they need to be right with God. Understanding all this, it helps us in sharing the gospel. It helps us in living the gospel out before them for those who have not repented. It is up to us to lovingly point out those things. That they need to repent from. And lastly, but not least, today we can praise God. If you're a believer here today, we can praise God that He did this amazing work. in you. I mean just take a moment and think about what you had to repent from. Take a moment and think about the work that God did in you. And you say, well, I'm I was saved when I was like zero years old. Okay. Maybe that's true. But you still had to repent. I don't remember what I had to repent. Well, okay. What do you have to repent from now? No, it's not saving you now, but it's likely the stuff that would have kept you out of a right relationship with God in the first place. place. Maybe you got saved later in life and you think, wow, yeah, I there was there was a lot of work that God had to do in me. And yes, you yielded to the Spirit, you did all that, but it was the gospel that that enabled you to do it. It was the truth of his word that worked that repentance in you. What a marvelous thing. What a miraculous thing. How hard is it to try and persuade someone of your position? In a debate. It's near impossible. The gospel does the impossible. The gospel does the impossible Think of all the things that you repented, the all the dead and false things you repented from and you that you were depending on. Today we can glory in our God, glory in our Savior who brought us out of this hopeless state and transformed us, all because of the power of the gospel. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you so much. We thank you for the power of the gospel. And we thank you that. The reality that none of us on our own would repent from our sins and turn to you. But it is the effectual power of the truth of the gospel that works this in us. We see it as such an amazing example in the work that you did in the life of the Thessalonians. They accepted it and repented. They turned from their idolatry and turned towards you. I do pray if anyone here has not repented, has not turned towards you. That today would be a day that they accept the gift of salvation. And for all of us, help us, Lord, give us insight as we interact with people. Help us as we Love people that don't know you. Help us to lovingly point out the things that they need to repent from in order to accept the gift of Salvation. For those of us who know people, even people that we prayed for earlier in our prayer time, we ask, Lord, that you would do this work of repentance. In them. Help them to see the folly of what they depend on. Help them to see the falseness and the deadness of what they rely on. And may they truly see the reality that Christ is their answer, Christ brings hope, Christ brings true salvation We pray all this in Jesus' name, Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, Or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.