Let us pray together. Dear Father, we come before you and really our hearts are full with so much of the truth that we have just sung. We thank you and praise you for the love that you have shown to us. Truly, Lord, there is no love quite like The pure love that you displayed by sending your son as a gift, dying for the sins of the world, the ultimate sacrifice And Lord, as we just saw sang, we we recognize that the call on every one of us is to imitate the love of Christ. And to show it and display it and to give it to brothers and sisters in the body of Christ. Nor we definitely fall short so often But Lord, I pray that you would grow us in this arena and teach us and show us and make us aware of where we fall short, that we can more accurately represent Your love that you've shown in our lives to those around us. We thank you, Lord, for The opportunity to be together with your people around your truth once again. Yes, we do this once a week, every Sunday, but there is an element to where this does not get old. Truly, Lord, it is wonderful to be together each and every week and and even more often. Lord, we thank you for Your design in the church, that it is your idea, not ours. It's not a man-made idea. idea. It's the church is being it was built by Christ and is continuing to be built. And we thank you, Lord, for being able to be a part of Of Christ's building project. May we continue to have a mind and a vision forward to make your name great among those around us. To further your kingdom as you give opportunity and to faithfully proclaim the gospel to those who don't know you And continue to disciple one another in every time that we get together. May we have authentic fellowship. May we have authentic discipleship relationships As we meet together. We pray all these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Reading from today's text will be Matthew chapter 4. And we'll be reading from verses 12 through 25. Read along with me, if you will, please. Matthew 4, 12 through 25. Now, when Jesus heard that John had been put in prison, he departed to Galilee And leaving Nazareth he came and dwelt in in Capernaum, which is by the sea, in the regions of Zebulun and Nephthali. That it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by Isaiah the prophet, saying, The land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, by the way of the sea beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles The people who sat in darkness have seen a great light, and upon those who sat in the region of the shadow of death, light has dawned From that time Jesus began to preach and to say, Repent, for the kingdom is at hand. And Jesus, walking by the Sea of Galilee, saw two brothers. Simon called Peter and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen. Then he said to them, Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. They immediately left their nets and followed him. Going on from there he saw two other brothers, James, the son of Zebedee, and John his brother In the boat was Zebedee their father, mending their nets. He called them, and immediately they left the boat and and their father and followed him. And Jesus went about all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing all kinds of sicknesses and all kinds of disease among the people. Then his fame went throughout all Syria, and they brought to him all sick people who were afflicted with various diseases and torments, and those who were demon possessed, epileptics and paralytics, and he healed them. Great multitudes followed him from Galilee and from Decopolis, Jerusalem, Judea, and beyond the Jordan. Very frequently in life we have we expect things to be a certain way and they are not the way we expect. In fact, I would dare say that more often in life than not, things are not the way we expect. Uh you uh uh I I just think of a few areas. You you start a new job and you expect it to be a certain way and it's not. You start a new marriage and you expect it to be a certain way and it's not. You start a new s you know a new school, you expect it to be a certain way, and it's not. And there there are one one one uh event after another in our lives that I think nearly all of us, if not all of us, can go look back and say, yeah, I expected it that way and it wasn't that way. Well, the the the Israel expected a king. And Israel expected a kingdom. And they believed that what they really needed was a king to come and with political and military power to conquer the Roman Empire. so that Israel could once again have its own sovereignty, its own nation, its own kingdom. Well, Christ came and he is preaching the gospel of the kingdom. He is inaugurated to be the king in his baptism, and yet his kingdom is the way that he's going to bring about the kingdom is so entirely different. Then what Israel expected, even with all of the Old Testament prophecies, even with all of the foretellings of what was going to happen. Israel expected a certain thing to happen, and Jesus comes, and he's going to fulfill things in a much different way. And yet, he's still going to fulfill them. Isn't it interesting that basically what Israel did in many in many ways is they looked at the Old Testament prophecies and they made them what they wanted them to be. They said a ruler, a Messiah is going to come, and they just expected and assumed that he was going to come with political might and military power. And we come, we find that Jesus is not coming that way. Now I want to be clear that one day he will come that way. Particularly uh in a sense. I mean not exactly. He's gonna come and rule and reign and everything. It's all gonna be uh given to him and he's gonna mediate his kingdom on earth when he comes. That's going to happen in the future even now But when Jesus came the first time, he did come to fulfill all the prop or not all the prophecies he was supposed to fulfill in his first advent. He came to fulfill those prophecies but it really looked different than they expected. So far, what we have seen in Matthew's Gospel is is a very different messiah than what they've expected. Even from the genealogies where you have These various women in the genealogies and rather sinful situations in the genealogies and Gentiles in the genealogies, all of which Israel would have said, those aren't supposed to be there. This is not the kingdom we're expecting. And you have you move to people like the magi that are involved in the s and and uh and all of these things, the how God worked in various ways and circumstances through Herod and all these different ways to bring about this king. This is something that they were not expecting And how when John the Baptist came on the scene, he comes and he goes out of the wilderness and preaches the gospel, I dare say, in a way that they were not expecting. And in fact, as he goes out and preached the gospel to people that didn't that that that many of them did follow uh follow uh the the the heed of of uh John the Baptist, the religious leaders came, the righteous of the day, the Pharisees of the day, the scribes of the day, the religious leaders of the day came, and he's and and we find that they are not going to be included in this kingdom. This is not what they were expecting. And then Satan comes last week. We learn learned that Satan we saw that Satan came and tempted Jesus as he went out into the wilderness. And Jesus was the victor over this temptation in a great way to show that he would really actually ultimately be the victor. uh through the the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. This all just was not what Israel was expecting. And what we're going to find today between the temptations of Christ And the Sermon on the Mount in chapter 5 is a section of Scripture that is going to summarize how the kingdom is beginning to come. How is it beginning to come? Do you remember in Matthew chapter 6, a couple of chapters after this, he's going to, Jesus is going to, in his example prayer to the disciples, he's going to say, thy kingdom what? And actually that is still something that you and I can pray today, because all of the kingdom has not yet come. And yet Jesus, in what he was doing, his way of bringing about the kingdom was not through external force, but through internal change. Not through political power, but through making disciples. Not through forcing people to do what they didn't want to do. But by giving people a new heart so that they would do what they wanted to do, that is, follow Christ. And we're going to see, just by way of summary, how this all occurs. And by seeing how Jesus begins to develop in the early stages of his ministry, begins to develop the kingdom. we'll begin to see how we fit into this overall plan of disciples of Christ as kingdom citizens. So we're how did Christ's kingdom begin? We're going to see three ways. Number one, by shining light in the darkness. We're going to see that in verses 12 through 17. Then we're going to see by discipling obedient followers through relationships. And finally, by providing gospel opportunities. Shining light in darkness. disciple making disciples through obe uh obedient disciples through relationships and by by providing gospel opportunities. So first look Let's look at by shining light into darkness. And we pick up in verse verse 12 of chapter 4, and it says this. When Jesus heard that John had been put into prison, he departed to Galilee, and leaving Nazareth he came and dwelt in Capernaum, which is by the sea In the regions of Zebulun and Naphtali, that's actually important, it's a fulfillment of prophecy, that it might be, well, that's what it says here, verse 14, that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by Isaiah the prophet. So verses 12 through 13, we actually have a lot that happens in a few short sentences. What is occurring here? Well Jesus is going to go from Judea. So he was baptized in Judea. Remember, he went into the wilderness. The wilderness is northwest of Judea. And but south, still south of Samaria. Samaria, what's north of Samaria is Galilee. So you have Galilee in the north, Samaria in the middle, Judea in the south. Just kind of get us acclimated a little bit. And Jesus uh had a m had so uh some ministry in Judea. He went went out into the wilderness and was tempted by the devil in w in that area uh just north of Judea in the wilderness, northwest of Judea in the wilderness. And we see here that he moves from Judea into Galilee. And he goes first to Nazareth. Well, what's Nazareth known for? What are we known for? Well, that's where Jesus grew up. He goes back to his hometown in Nazareth, and then he ends up in Capernaum. Well, there's a lot going on here. The text tells us that he's going to Galilee because John the Baptist was now in prison. And of course we know from other texts that that was the case. Mark chapter 1, verses 13 through 15 link these two events as well. Jesus moves from Judea. up to Galilee because John the Baptist is in prison. In fact, we see a little bit more what's going on there. Mark 1, 13 through 15 says, and he was there in the wilderness forty days tempted by Satan Now after John was put in prison, Jesus came to Galilee preaching the gospel of the kingdom and saying, The time is fulfilled. The kingdom of God is at hand. Repent. Believe in the gospel. Now there's a very, very important verse in John chapter 4, and we're going to be looking at some of the different gospels to really get a picture of what's going on. And I'll just mention this. We have four different gospels, and you really don't get a gr a good picture of what's going on in the narratives unless you look at least at three of them or several of them to really get a good picture. And you say to yourself, well why did God do that? You ever wonder why God did that? You ever thought about it as you read through you read through a simple phrase like this? He went from Judea to Nazareth to to uh Capernaum. Well a lot happened in that why he went from one to the other. Why is it that it's not all mentioned in the same text You know why I think? This is why I think. I think that God wants us to work. We value what we work for. And you actually have got to study. You've got to go from one, you've got to look at one passage, you've got to look at another passage, you've got to compare things, you've got to contrast things. You've got to work at it in order to get this out. But the wonderful thing about it is when you work at it and you begin to see what's really going on here, it's like you find the gems and it's really valuable to you because you've worked at it. And that I think why he does this. So now John chapter 4, it's going to say this. Don't turn there yet. We will turn to John later. But John chapter 4, verses 1 through 3, you could write it down. It says this. Therefore, when the Lord knew that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus made that Jesus made and baptized more disciples than John. Though Jesus himself did not baptize but uh but his disciples, he left Judea and departed again to Galilee. So we get a little bit more of a picture of what's going on here. So Jesus was in Judea. We assume then that there's this previous minute. He had a uh a year of uh maybe a year of as much as up to a year of ministry in Judea. Maybe not quite so much, but uh uh and and some people call that sort of the year of obscurity. We don't know a lot about what what was happening in that year. But Jesus had ministry there and also some ministry in Galilee during that time, but he's he's in Judea Around the same time as John the Baptist, John the Baptist gets put in prison, and Jesus realizes that Herod knows that Jesus and his disciples, and particularly his disciples, are baptizing more converts than John the Baptist is. And when John, when Jesus realizes it, he moves north to Galilee. Why? Well, because he knows that j that Herod is going to take him gonna you know Herod's on his heels, basically, and he wants to take him to to take him into prison very likely. And Jesus For he he he already is aware of this. We don't know if he's using divine means to know that or if Jesus is smart enough just to figure that out from his own human intellect. But either way, he knows this And as a result of that, he flees the threat and goes to Galilee. Why? Because his ministry is not done. And he knows his ministry is not done. There is a point to all this, you'll see in it in just a few moments. But so he goes up to Galilee and he goes to Nazareth In Luke chapter 4, verses 16 through 30, it actually tells us what's in Nazareth. And you may want to turn there, or it might be easier for you to listen to either one, but Luke chapter 4, verses 16 through 30, it says this. So he came to Nazareth, where he had been brought up, and as his custom was, he went to the synagogue on the Sabbath day and stood up to read. And he was handed the book of the prophet Isaiah, and when he had opened the book, he found the place where it had been written, The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he has anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor. He has sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captive and recovery of sight to the blind, to set at liberty those who are oppressed, to proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord Then he closed the book and gave it back to the attendant and sat down. Jesus actually chose this reading to prophesy of himself from the book of Isaiah. And the eyes of all who were in the synagogue were fixed on him. And he began to say to them, Today the scripture is fulfilled in your hearing. He says, Today it's fulfilled. So all bore witness to him and marveled at the gracious words which proceeded out of his mouth. And they said to him, Is this not Joseph's son? Like from Nazareth, and Joseph's son, the carpenter? He said, I added that part. He said to them, you will surely say this proverb to me, physician, heal yourself. Whatever he we have heard done in Capernaum, do also here in your country. Then he said, Assurely I say to you, no prophet is accepted his own country. But I tell you truly, many widows are in in Israel in the days of Elijah, who when heavens was uh shut up three years and six months, he goes he explains a little bit more He basically says, you are rejecting rejecting me because a prophet doesn't have any honor in his own country. So and then we pick up in verse look up just pick up in verse twenty-eight. So all those in the synagogue that heard these things were filled with wrath. They got angry at him. And rose up and thrust him out of the city, and they led him to the brow of the hill on which their city was built, that they might throw him down over the cliff. Then passing through the midst of them, he went his way. Now, I just want to, so now he he leaves Nazareth. Nazareth is in Galilee, that's in the northern area of Israel. And it's southwest of the Sea of Galilee. It's on the coastline of the Sea of Galilee. And he goes to the northwestern area to Capernaum. Now, let me just mention a couple of things here. We see Jesus moving around here based on circumstances. He goes to one place, he he anticipates persecution, he goes up, and he's not avoiding persecution, by the way, because I mean because he's afraid, he's avoiding persecution because he has more ministry to do. I think that's important to to recognize. Then we go up to we're he goes up to the to Judea. He gets rejected like they're going to kill him in his own count like in his own town. And now he moves up to Capernaum. Let me just mention this, just by way of going through this. Jesus is being led by the Lord through these various circumstances in a very similar way to you and I get led through circumstances. We go from one place to another to another. And we we don't know all of what's going on, but we know that we've got to go one place to another based upon circumstances that we have in life. And oftentimes we don't have the entire picture. Also, notice this that Jesus' ministry was not a bed of roses. It wasn't as though, you know, sometimes we we watch uh different films about Jesus or we read different stories about Jesus and we have this mentality that he just had this great ministry and he went all over doing miracles and healing everybody and having this great m all these kind of things going on. And he did have, we're gonna see that in the text, he did do a lot of that. But there was rejection, there was opposition to his ministry, there were problems, he had to flee certain situations, and I think that's important to understand about the ministry of Jesus as well. So he goes up to Capernaum, and there's a few things we need we need to understand about it. Capernaum. Capernaum is a place. It's also a fishing town. A lot of these coastal areas around the Sea of Galilee are. It's a fishing town. And in Luke chapter 4, verses 30 through 33 it says, Then passing from the in the midst of them he went his way, and he went to down to Capernaum. By and it says down to Capernaum, by the way, if you read that, you go down it, it's north. Why is he going down? It's down in elevation. Okay, so n so Jerusalem is one of the highest points in Israel, and everything, even though you're going north, it's down in elevation And so uh he went to the city of Galilee and was to teach on the Sabbath, and they were astonished at his teaching for the word uh for his word was with authority. Now the synagogues were there was uh a Oh and he he heals the people, that kind of a thing going on there. So in Capernaum now, Capernaum is a place where you've got these fishermen, and we're going to see the next in the next part of the story what's going on when it comes to that. You've got uh you've got Capernaum, you've got Peter. This is this is the place where Peter's house and family are. They didn't they weren't originally he didn't grow up in Capernaum, but he had moved to Capernaum at that point, and of course we know that that Simon Peter was a fisherman. We know that from Matthew chapter 8 verse 14, where it says his family, they actually went to Peter's house at that point. All of that to say the other thing to note about Capernaum is it is right in the middle of a trade route. So there was going to be a lot of people going in and out. God the Father was leading his son to this place for a lot of different reasons. But the main reason we find is found in verse 14. It says that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by Isaiah the prophet. That is why God had this sort of, you know, horizontally there were all these things that were going on, all these things that were happening, and rejection and threats, and he had to move from one place to another to another, but from God's perspective, he was moving Jesus to Capernaum. Ultimately, why? Because he had to fulfill prophecy in Capernaum. And notice what the prophecy is. The prophecy is found in Isaiah chapter 9 and Alze, which was part of our scripture reading. And Isaiah 42, 6 through 7 as well. It says this. I'll mention Isaiah 42, 6 through 7. It says, And I, the Lord, have caused you in righteousness. And will hold your hand, I will keep you and give you as a covenant to the people, as a light to the Gentiles, to open blind eyes, to bring out prisoners from the prison. who those who sit in darkness from the prison house. So Matthew 4 tells us that Jesus went to Capernaum because it was the darkest of dark places. And the light needed to shine there, and it would shine there the brightest. And in so doing, it will fulfill the prophecy of the light shining in the darkness. Now, here's the question Why then is Galilee and particularly Capernaum in that area, why is it considered to be a dark place? Well, it isn't because of geography. This was a beautiful place. It was a very uh uh gorgeous place. It had flowing rivers and rolling hillsides uh hillsides, it was it was well um watered and had luscious agriculture. There were actually mansions that Herod had built in the southern southwestern area of the Sea of Galilee. It was a beautiful area. So it wasn't that at all. It had nothing to do with the geography. It had everything to do with the people that were there. The people that were there were uh it was a lot of Gentiles, Jews as well, but a lot, you know, it was mixed with Gentiles, and there was a lot of idolatry in that area, even at that time. And the one thing that wasn't there in a lot of was the reading of the Word of God. In Jerusalem, even though you had self-righteous Pharisees and scribes that were running that place You did have the law that was written that was read in the synagogues. And we'll say it this way, the light there. You had revelation from God in Jerusalem where Jesus was prior. But Jesus, who is the Word and who Himself is the revelation goes to Capernaum in the darkest of places where there wasn't that kind of light, where there wasn't that kind of revelation to reach those kinds of people. And it tells us something about the ministry of Jesus, the target audience of Jesus, the focus of Jesus. It was not what Israel would expect. Now, what can we learn from all of this? Well, let's mention this as well. What is the darkness referring to? Well in the Old Testament, the darkness is referring to things like evil. For instance, in Proverbs 2, verses 13 through 14 it says, From those to leave the paths of uprightness to walk in the ways of darkness. who rejoice in doing evil and delight in the perversity of wickedness. In Exodus chapter 10, verse 21, It says, the Lord said to Moses, stretch out your hand toward heaven that there may be darkness over the land. So it's in reference to judgment in Exodus. In Psalm 139, verse 12, it says, Indeed the darkness shall not hide from you, but the night shines in the day, the darkness and the light are both alike. So darkness is clearly seen by God. We don't see it like God sees it. We if we we see a beautiful area with all kinds of mountains and trees and gorges and uh And and uh you know we we look at the geography and everything, we we think it's great. People say, I I always want to go to the to the area, you know, the the I I want to go to farmland, I want to grow up in a rural area, those kinds of things. Well they've got sin too I guarantee it. No, darkness comes from darkness comes from sin. Darkness comes from comes from evil. And darkness comes from not having the light of the Word of God. So Jesus' purpose is clear in Matthew 9. 13, where it says this. He says, but go and learn what it means. I desire mercy, not sacrifice, for I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. The one thing that was very likely not in this area much was self-righteousness. So Jesus goes to an area away from the self-righteous people in Jerusalem. and into this area where there was evil and darkness, but not self-righteousness. And he says this, it says in the passage, Matthew 4, 17, From that time Jesus began to preach and to say Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. What he means by this is that the the the kingdom of heaven is at hand is he says, this is the beginning. I'm going to begin my kingdom. I'm going to lay the found foundation, lay the groundwork for my kingdom. It is at hand. It's not saying it's here. It's saying is it is at hand. In other words, he is setting the tone for a new kingdom era. And he says, here is how you enter into my kingdom. We've talked about this before. It is the exact same message as John the Baptist, which, and he said what? Repent. For the kingdom of heaven is at hand. You come to the kingdom of God by way of repentance. Repentance from sin and placing ourselves under the rule of Christ. Now that is not what they expected. You know what Israel thought as a whole? You know who they thought needed to repent? The Romans needed to repent. The poor people, maybe they needed to repent. They were not being blessed by God. Everybody needs to repent except for me, but Jesus says, in order to enter the kingdom of heaven, you must repent. Repent, uh, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. That was what he said. We've we've gone at len we've gone previous message we talked at length about What preaching is and what repentance means, it means to change, to turn from one place, from going one direction to go to the other direction. And we've already seen the same phrase in Matthew 3. 2, and we're now seeing it again in verse 17. Now, what are some things that we can learn from all of this? First of all, we need to understand that God uses a variety of circumstances to lead us. There is a human horizontal reason for why we do things. But have you ever gone through life and you've walked and you tracked your path and you've had to go this way and that way and this way and you really didn't understand why God was doing what he's doing or why you had to do what you were doing, and you look back and you go, okay, now I get it. Now if you have not experienced that yet, just live longer and you will eventually. And the truth of that is there are some things in your life you look back and you go, I have I still have no idea why why that why I did that. You'll experience both. But the wonderful thing about it is that as God leads us along and he leads his children through rejection and difficulties and problems, and open doors and closed doors and all those different things. God has a plan for us. And I've used this illustration before, but I really think it's a good one. It's like those ant farms. Remember the old ant far farms? They still have those. I have girls. They don't like ant farms. I actually Julie would like ant farms. But but uh the uh my other girls would like would don't like wouldn't like ant farms. Um uh uh how how many of all have had those ant farms? Okay, all right, you know what I'm talking about? You've got the ant farm and you their ant there there's it's basically sand in this container, clear container, and you can see they make all these tunnels. You ever thought of it from the ants perspective? You got a wall here, you know, wall of sand here, wall of sand here, and you're just digging through and just digging digging digging digging digging through. It's like we we' We've got usually in our circumstances we've got like these walls and we're just digging around we don't really know what we're doing And we're doing the best we can to go through the open doors and say, no, I don't want to go that way, and there's a threat that way, and there's an open door that way, there's an opportunity that way. And we're doing the best we can. But God sees the big picture and he has a whole plan. He has a whole design for everything. Our responsibility is to follow him one step at a time, one day at a time. We what what else can we learn from this? Well God calls people to the kingdom through repentance. And then finally, Christ shines. Look, this is so encouraging. Christ's light shines brightest at areas of spiritual darkness. Do you think you and I in Maryland, in central Maryland, are living in spiritual darkness? Do you think that we are do you think we are in the United States are living in spiritual darkness? Well, not down south. Well, maybe so. Maybe it's spiritually dark down there too. It's just a different kind of darkness. But I can, you know, I think that we are getting, it's, it's, it's, there are, I, frankly, there are some Christians that I've talked to that are absolutely defeatist about this world. They're fatalists. They're basically like let's just huddle in a cocoon somewhere and wait till Jesus comes for us. Folks, that do you realize that that the the light of Christ is to shine the brightest when it's dark? Christ's light isn't finished. We're not finished. We're not done just because we have opposition or we have problems or we have things that seem to be not going our way. Or because there's a lot of sin and it's in your face every day and you're trying to protect your kids from it all the time and you can't see, I mean like even if you're trying to protect them, it's like don't see that, don't watch that, don't look at that. I mean Does anybody else feel that way? And then you're and then you're you you're like trying to help them understand why in the world you're protecting them from everything. I'm really I really have a reason. Like it's really bad out there and I'm trying to protect you and it seems like I'm being overly strict and overly, you know, but no, that's really dark out there Yeah, there's darkness. But folks, that does not mean that we are to be fatalistic. That does not mean that we are to say, well, you know what, forget churches and forget the light forget No. We are to we're gonna we are to be what Math what God's gonna what Christ is gonna tell m tell the disciples later in Matthew 5 You are the what? You're the light of the world, and don't let that don't cover it up by a bushel. So we can learn a lot from what Christ does here. He moves forward, he presses forward, he lets his light shine in the darkest of places. Now, let's then see what happens. So we see the mission of Jesus clearly from this passage, and now we move To how does how does this kingdom ha uh uh how does this kingdom come about? By discipling obedient followers of Christ through relationships. Now, verses eighteen through twenty-two, you've got two sets of brothers. The first set is is Simon, Peter, and Andrew, and the second set uh we'll get to in a few moments, James and John. But uh you've got you've got two sets of brothers. And they are all they're all in Capernaum, they're all fishermen. Now, I I gotta be honest with you, I have heard this message preached a lot, this passage preached a lot, or different passages where God Christ calls. And they up and leave their nets and they follow him. And people say, and and and the message is, you need to get up and if God calls you, you just need to get up and leave your net and follow Christ. As though they had never met Jesus before. And Jesus just kind of comes to them. They're sitting there, they don't know who this guy is, and he just comes and says, follow me, and they come. And that's the way it feels sometimes when I've heard messages preached. Y'all ever heard that kind of thing before? And you kind of feel like there's a No. Actually, if you look at the text of the different texts, uh no, he had Jesus had a pre- previous relationship with these people So it says in the text, Matthew 4, and Jesus walking by the Sea of Galilee saw two brothers, Simon called Peter, and Andrew his brother ca casting a net into the sea for that uh for they were fishermen. Then he said to them, Follow me and I will make you fishers of men. Then immediately left they left their net and followed him Going on from there, he saw two other brothers, James the son of Zebedee and John his brother, in the boat of with Zebedee their father, mending their nets. He called them, and immediately they left their boat and their father and followed him Now, would you take your Bibles for a moment? I want you to see this, John chapter 1. Take your Bibles and turn to John chapter 1, and I want you to see the background. So what is clear in John chapter 1 is that At least some of these men, if not all of these men, had a previous relationship with Jesus. They had already known him. So look at John chapter 1 and pick up in verse 35. Again, the next day, John stood with two of his disciples. That's John the Baptist, and who are his disciples? And looking at Jesus as he walked, he said, Behold the Lamb of God. The two disciples heard him speak. They followed Jesus. And then Jesus turned and seeing them followed and said to them, What do you seek? They said to him, Rabbi, which is to say, when when translated teacher Where are you staying? And he said to them, Come and see. They came and saw where he was staying and remained with him that day. Now it was about the tenth hour. One of the two Who heard John speak and followed him was Andrew, Simon Peter's brother. So Andrew was actually a previous disciple of John the Baptist. So we had a lot of discipleship, pre-discipleship, if you will, sort of going on because Andrew was already following John the Baptist. He had already repented There was already salvation. Matthew is not a salvation passage. The passage we're on. They didn't get saved here. They had already had previous encounters with Jesus. Verse 41. He first found his own brother Simon and said to him, We have found the Messiah, which is translated the Christ. And he brought him to Jesus. Now when Jesus looked at him, he said, You are Simon, the son of Jonah, you shall be called Cephas, which is translated a stone. The following day, Jesus wanted to go to Galilee, and he found Philip and said to him, Follow me. So you have, now he's saying to Philip, follow him. And it says uh now Philip was from Beth Seda, the city of Andrew and Peter. That was where they originally, Andrew and Peter, who were brothers, rich originally were from Beth Beth Seda before they went to Capernaum So in the meantime, apparently they were down to say that they moved the Capernaum, uh, so that kind of gives you an idea of of uh of what's going on there. So Jesus uh originally meant uh Andrew and Peter prior way prior to this this time in Matthew 4. There's a lot more that we could say here about this, but let me just move uh to um Where it says this in verse 21, and he said to them, Most assured I'm sorry, fifty-one, he said, Most assuredly I say to you, hereafter you shall see heaven open, the angels of uh of God ascending and descending upon the Son of Man. So they he called several disciples in that passage and he had gotten to know P uh dir these men during that time. Now would you then move. So you've got they've already got this relationship. And would you then look at John chapter 2? You know John chapter 2, this is the story of the of the water turning to wine, the wedding at Cana. Remember that story? Well, they're there during that time. They've actually seen Jesus turning the water into wine. Verse 11 says this of that passage. Well, look at 1 and 2. On the third day there was a wedding of Canaan in Galilee, the mother of Jesus was there. Now both Jesus and his disciples were inviting invited to the wedding And in John 2, verse 11, it says, This beginning of the signs of Jesus in Canaan of Galilee, and manifested his glory, and his disciples believed in him. So there is this, my point is this, there is all of this relationship already going on. There is all of this teaching and seeing the miracles of Jesus. already going on before we get to Matthew 4 when Jesus comes to them and says, follow me, and I'll make you fishers of men. In other words, folks, discipleship did not happen in a vacuum. It happened through relationship. Why were these men willing to just follow the call immediately? It wasn't like some sort of sp you know some sort of thing happened to them where they just now I the Spirit of God obviously worked in their life. That I think that's pretty obvious. But it wasn't just all of a sudden that one event. No, there was previous relationships. There was previous observation of Jesus. There was very likely previous teaching from Jesus. And the point is simply this, that they came to a place of immediate obedience. Why? Because they were with Jesus prior. At this point they weren't. They had gone back and they had been been a fisherman, a good, honorable thing to do. They continue to do that. And you have the same thing that happened with James and John in verses 21 through 21-2. The difference in 21 through 22 is that they're mending their nets in 21 and 22 of Matthew, Matthew chapter 4. You can turn back there, by the way. They're mending their nets in 21 and 22 of Matthew 4, and their father is with them. And in both cases, they leave and they go with Jesus. Now there is a point to be made here. They obeyed immediately and followed Jesus. It wasn't ignorantly. It wasn't in a vacuum, but they definitely did follow Jesus immediately in obedience. And they were willing to leave their vocation. They were willing to to uh I I don't think they left their family. I think Peter was still uh still with his family, his immediate family, but they were willing to leave uh the comforts of their of their job that they had that had passed down from them from their father in c in in in the case of j uh James and John They're willing to leave all of that in order to follow the Lord. Now, it's interesting that uh a very good possibility Is that there is another story, we won't take the time to look at it, but in Luke you might want to write it down, Luke five, verses one through eleven There's another story, and you'll remember the story when I mentioned it to you. Jesus goes out in a boat with these guys, and they had been fishing all night, didn't catch anything. He goes out in the boat with them And he says, cast in uh you know, cast cast your your net in the sea, and they do a little bit of arguing and then do it and of course It overloads the boat and they come back. Remember that story? That's in Luke chapter 5, verse 1 through 11. And at the end of that, verse 11, it says, So when they had brought their boats to land, they forsook all and followed him. So even when he was there, Matthew kind of made it's a very basic sem summary. Matthew kind of makes it look like Jesus literally walked up out of nowhere and just said, follow me, and they followed him. No, there probably was this demonstration of the of Jesus' power even before that and they realized, look, I'm uh we need to follow Jesus So what's the point? Again, the point is simply this. I've already mentioned it. Discipleship occurs in relationships. There's three things that we can we can learn from all this. Number one Christ's kingdom is to be built through making, building, and growing disciples. This is going to become very obvious in the next point, but understand. The kingdom of Christ is through making, building disciples. Matthew 28, by the way, also in the book of Matthew, is going to say that. Go therefore and do what? Make disciples. And then verse and then also unconditionally followed Jesus. They were willing to leave their relationships or they I would put it this way, they didn't leave their relationships. I think they submitted their relationships under the Lordship of Jesus. They submitted all of their relationships under the Lordship of Jesus. And then they and then s and then they were were they were they did leave their vocation. This becomes obvious, by the way, that they were not doing a lot of fishing after this. Because they are going everywhere. Now they did return to fishing. Remember in John twenty-one, after when Christ uh du died and before his before they realized his resurrection, John uh Peter, it's I think it's Peter says, I'm I'm going fishing. So they returned to it, but but for a few years, they may have done some fishing, but it wasn't a lot. They were obviously very busy under the discipleship of Jesus. Now, uh what what then took place? Look at what happened after this. You have this ministry expansion that that that takes place. But I want us to be careful how we see this. Because you have Jesus doing all kinds of things here. But I want to suggest to you that what is actually going on here is that the kingdom the kingdom actually is going to is beginning by making disciples But thirdly, by providing gospel opportunities for all. Now notice what the text says. Verse 23. And Jesus went about all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing all kinds of sickness and all kinds of disease among the people. Then his fame went throughout all Syria, and they brought to him all sick people who were afflicted with various diseases and torments. And those who were demon-possessed, epileptics, and paralytics, and he healed them. Great mul notice what it says there. Great multitudes did what? Great multitudes followed him from Galilee and Decapolis Jerusalem, Judea, and Jordan. You have that really what it is is the entire area. He is traveling all over the place. He's doing he's healing. He's teaching. He's preaching, and he makes a distinction there between teaching and preaching. He's teaching, he's preaching, and he's performing miracles. What kind of miracles are is he performing? Things that are really, really obvious miracles. He goes and teaches in the synagogues. He explains the law in the synagogues. He preaches. The preaching in this case tends to be toward those who would not otherwise come into the synagogues and hear the teaching of the law. And then you have this healing of all kinds of sickness and diseases. And there are a bunch of different diseases that are mentioned here, different categories. Epilectics, those who are Who had seizures, paralytics, those who were paralyzed in various ways from different causes. And all of this also fulfills Scripture In Isaiah 11, we won't take the time to turn there, but in Isaiah 11, 1 through 5, it says that this kind of healing and restoration is going to happen. Well, why? Here's why What Jesus is doing is giving us a little bit of an appetizer of what the kingdom will be like one day. He is reversing the effects of the fall. All of these all the the epileptic kinds of things that are going on here, the the uh uh the the paral paraly all these different things are really all a result of what? Of the fall of sin And what is Jesus doing? Jesus is showing his power in such a way to demonstrate that Jesus has the ability to reverse the effects of the fall. Now, has he done that yet overall? He certainly has not, right? I mean all you gotta do is walk out the door and look around. Okay, he is not He has not reversed the effects of the fall. But there's going to be one day where Jesus will do that. And there's a sense in which we have the appetizer of that here in this passage. But there is something, folks, really, really important that I want you to see here. Would you notice n I you you are I pointed this out to you. It says that these four disciples follow Jesus, right? And the same word is used where it says the multitudes Follow Jesus. But I want you to notice in chapter 5 something. Look at chapter 5 for just a minute. Look at verse 1. It says, And seeing the multitudes, he went up on a mountain. And when he was seated, when he was seated, his disciples came to him. Then he opened his mouth and taught them, saying, Did you catch that? He saw the multitudes, but he saw them, they were following him, and yet he escaped from them, went up on a mountain to teach his disciples. The truths, the rich, deep truths of the Sermon on the Mount. Why did Jesus do that? I'm going to suggest to you that it's this reason. Because there are two ways of following Christ. in this passage. There's only one real way of following Christ to understand, but there are two ways to look at this idea of following Christ. The one way, folks, is because of all the miracles that Jesus did. All the things that they these multitudes benefited from Jesus. Jesus. All of what they gained because of Jesus. They were willing to follow Jesus why? Because what they could get out of him. And we find that actually in John we we find that that is clearly the case In John chapter 2, it says in verses 23 through 25, now when he was in Jerusalem at the Passover during the feast, many believed Even uses the word believe here. Believe his name when they saw the signs which he did. Verse 24 of that passage says But Jesus did not commit himself to them. Actually, he didn't believe their belief is actually how it's worked. He didn't he didn't commit himself to their commitment Because he knew all men and had no need that anyone would testify of man, for he knew that was what was in man. And then later on in John chapter 6, verses 26 through 27, it's he he rebukes them. They're following him all over the place because he's doing mirac miracles. He fed the five thousand, all that. That's that story And they follow him everywhere. And he says to them, Most assuredly I say to you, you seek me not because you saw the signs, but because you ate of the loaves and were filled. Do not labor for the food which perishes, but for the food which endures everlasting life, which the Son of God will give you, because God the Father has set his seal on him. Jesus makes a distinction between true followers of Christ who follow him because of who he is. And followers of Christ who follow him because of what he does for them. Which are you? Which am I? Am I a follower of Christ because of what Jesus does for me? Or am I a follower of Christ because of who Jesus is? Folks, that is actually pretty, sometimes if you do some serious soul searching, that's actually pretty hard to figure out. Do you know why it's so hard to figure out in my mind anyway? Because God's blessed us so much. When I really think about my life and all of God that God has blessed me with, all He has given me And I look at it and I go, well Lord, you've given me a lot. You've blessed me with a lot. Is that why I'm following you? It's a little hard to know sometimes when God's blessed us so much, hasn't it? We have to actually think about it. Would I follow you if I didn't have so much? And there are some times where God would God will show us that. There are some times where we go through suffering and hard times and difficult times. And those times are actually a little bit easier to know whether or not we're really following him because of what he does for us or because of who he really is. Folks, and at the same time, when God blesses us, we should be grateful and thankful for what he gives to us. We ought to see it as blessings from the Lord. So I think that we need to always understand that there was a real difference between the multitudes and the disciples. And there is no question today, folks, that there is a difference between the multitudes that say they're Christians and the true disciples of Christ. I think that it's going to be really interesting when we get to heaven to see who isn't there. I think we'll be surprised by some people that who that are there. But I think we're going to be surprised by some people that we fully expected to be there, but they're not there. Why? Because they didn't really follow Christ. In the way that Christ intended and expected. God calls us to follow Him Because of who he is. We love him. Why? Because he first loved us. And so, as we're going to move into Matthew 5 next week. We're going to begin to see what a true disciple of Christ looks like. What is a true follower, disciple of Christ We will be able to begin to learn that next week in Matthew chapter 5. But today, in concluding these things, let's realize a few things. Number one The Lord leads us through circumstances with an ultimate plan in mind. Just realize that. You're going through hard times, you're going through circumstances. You're like the ant in the, you know, in the in the ant farm. There is a design. There is a plan. You may not know it this side of heaven But there is. And that's why God tells us, trust in the Lord with all of your heart, and don't lean on your own understanding. In all your ways, acknowledge him, and he will direct your paths. Number two Obedience results from relationship. Answering God's call stems from encountering Jesus himself. Which means, folks, if you're struggling with, you know, you know, there's I'll just say this, there are some preachers, and they'll get up week after week after week, and they'll say, obey, obey, obey, obey. Folks, if you're struggling obeying, then you need to know Jesus more. Because to know Jesus, to really know Jesus is to love Jesus. And to love Jesus is to obey Jesus. In fact God said in his commandment, his first and greatest commandment, which is obedience, love the Lord thy God with all thy heart. If you're struggling with obedience, if you're struggling with following Christ every day, then the answer is to draw closer to Christ, to know him, to be to be in his presence, to know his word, to to sh see who he really uh is, to be affected by his person. Number two, number three, finally, why would we follow Jesus? Why do we follow Jesus? That's a question we ought to ask ourselves, and I leave this question with us, because of what he does for us or because who he is to us? Because of what he does for us or because of who he is to us. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and thank you for this passage, and we thank you that Christ came in in in in the inf infin infinite wisdom of of deity He became one of us, took on human flesh, lived a life before us, victorious over all temptation. Tempted in such great severity so that we uh would know how to live. And know and know how to follow. And and un and he came so that The kingdom would be built not from the outside in, but from the inside out. I pray, Lord, that you'd help us as disciples of Christ. to continue uh to know uh how we might follow you and to one ask the question Are we following you because of who we uh because of uh what you do for us or because of who you are? We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Bethel Baptist Church is a family made up of people from very different backgrounds and from every age group. But we all have one thing in common. We have found a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. We also understand that looking for a church to attend can be unsettling. Before you even drive into our parking lot, we'd like to give you an idea of what to expect on your first visit to Bethel Baptist Church. After arriving at Bethel, feel free to park at one of our guest parking spaces, close to the front doors. It is our privilege to have you visit us, and we want you to feel at home while you're here. We are ready to assist you in understanding your needs and locating facilities such as the nursery, coffee area, and the specific ministries and classes available for you and your family. When a person discovers how to have a genuine relationship with God, they are given a sense of purpose and meaning in life When that same person belongs to a loving community where God's word is taught, they will grow in their relationship with the Lord, and their life grows in purpose and meaning. Since I uh started coming to Bethel, I noticed that my walk with the Lord became more serious. more faithful. The church has impacted my walk with the Lord in terms that my faith became real. I I'd had some some spiritual struggles in my own life that have sort of turned around night and day, just just having come here. The the church family here is just so uh great in terms of their unity and their activeness and involvement in the church. When I first came to Bethel I was a babe in Christ. I was Spiritually immature through hearing God's word, preached, studying God's word, and continuing You know, reading in the Bible is helping me to grow spiritually. Bethel is a place for someone If they want to grow spiritually, if they're ready to take the the next steps in their spiritual walk with God in their Christian life Ah, this this is a place for them. We sincerely desire to help people grow in the relationship with the Lord, with their families, and with one another. Our focus is on making and building disciples for God's glory. We accomplish this through corporate worship on Sunday mornings, through adult Bible studies where we learn God's Word and how to effectively apply it to our lives, and through our discipleship home groups that meet in various locations throughout the region. Additionally, there are one-on-one and couple-to-couple counseling and discipleship opportunities. We genuinely desire to help you grow spiritually any way you possibly can. Our children's ministries are extremely important to us. We have a lot of young families with children, and we believe in the importance of teaching truth to the next generation. Teachers and nursery workers will be available to introduce themselves and assist you in signing your children in and out of their classrooms. My family is involved in the church. My children are growing in the church. And the ministry and the love of the people of the church is helping my children and my family to stay faithful to the Lord. As a young mom I have two small kids and so I am very much looking forward to seeing them grow up in this church where I know there are gonna be people who care about them and love them and want what is best for them. It's a body of believers that is striving together to serve the Lord. Genuinely, we have a real unity in the faith because we believe in that objective truth in the scriptures. And um it just draws us together as a family. So being new members here, I'm most looking forward to uh continuing to deepen my walk with Christ and and grow in my relationship with Him and even getting involved in the ministry I'm looking forward to uh being able to help out and and And to help build up others in the faith the way that they've helped build me up. Bethel Baptist Church is a growing, loving family community. We hope that we've been able to show you a small glimpse of what Bethel is like. But we'd love to meet you personally. Join us for a worship service, a small group for Bible study. Let us be a blessing to you and your family.