Let us bow our hearts together before the Lord as the children are dismissed to children's church. Heavenly Father, we come this morning with grateful and thankful hearts. You have been gracious and kind to us. You have been merciful and loving. And Father, we are grateful that you are sovereign over all of creation. And Father, we are thankful this morning that you have given us the opportunity to be able to come before your throne through the precious blood of your Son, Jesus. on the cross. We're thankful, Lord, that you have given us your word, your great and precious promises. And we thank you, Father. We thank you for the forgiveness of sins And Lord, as we begin this morning to come under your word and we ask, Lord, that you would help us to move aside all of the distractions of this week. Help us, Lord, to concentrate fully upon your word this morning and what is being presented to us. May your spirit have free reign in our hearts and our minds to draw us closer to you and Lord to Bring us more and more into your image. And Father, I am reminded of those who are unable to be here this morning. Some, Lord, because of age and not be able to get out. Some Lord are struggling and having illnesses. And Father, we have those who are mourning. And Father, we want to lift each one up to you and ask for your precious blessing to be upon each one. this morning. May you encourage, may you strengthen, may you bless them and comfort them, Lord. And we ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. We're going to be uh reading this morning from Second Peter chapter three, verses fifteen through eighteen. And consider that the long-suffering of our Lord is salvation, as also our beloved brother Paul, according to the wisdom given to him, has written to you. As also in all of his epistles, speaking in them of the things in which are some things hard to understand. Which untaught and unstable people twisted to their own destruction, as they do also the rest of Scripture. You therefore, brother Since you know this beforehand, beware lest you also fall from your own steadfastness, being led away with the error of the wicked. But grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. To him be the glory, both now and forevermore. Amen. Well this will be our final message and You as it has been to me, I um I I'm just always amazed by the balance of scripture and how, you know, it if you read throughout scripture, it you and you get the whole mind of God on a particular matter and and how it really dealt with in the area of license and And uh that kind of a thing. And Peter now after dealing with false teachers and false doctrine and uh Now he's going to give some final admonitions, some final direction for safety. God has placed us in a place of security. And but there is a there's a role for us to play in our own safety in that security. It's kind of like a an air you know an airbag, you know, one of the one of the things that sells vehicles, certain vehicles. Especially minivans. Um I'm now a not so proud owner of a minivan. I never thought I would be a a minivan owner. Um and uh I always was I avoided it as long as I possibly could and I finally succumbed to uh peer pressure. And um and so I have to say it's actually a really great vehicle but it but it you know it it it still a minivan. So one of the things that sells these minivan minivans is is the safety ratings. They're very, very high safety ratings and you know they know what they're doing with that. They know the they know the constituency of the minivan is not um, you know, people like me. Um so anyway, they're ch they they they have these minivans and they put all kinds of airbags like everywhere and they're w supposed to be really, really safe vehicles to drive and Very appealing to certain people that like safety. And um but the truth of the matter is many van uh airbags won't work well if you don't use your seatbelt. It's pretty well known. You can have the safest vehicle and safety rating of anywhere. And if you're not wearing your seatbelt, you're still going to be in serious trouble on a head-on collision. There's a role for us to play in our own safety. And it's the same way with the Lord and the fact that He has, if we know Christ our Savior, put us in a place of security. And yet, we have a role to play in our own safety. God wants us to live out this life in safety from the threat, the spiritual threats in the world. And there are three ways that he wants us to be safe. How can we maintain spiritual safety? Well, three things. One, be careful of distorting scripture. We're going to learn about that. And then we're going to learn that we have to be on guard against spiritual threats. We're to be on guard. And then finally, we're to be growing by God's grace. How do we put on our safety belt, if you will? Our spiritual safety belt. Three things. Be careful of distorting scripture. Be on guard against spiritual threats. And finally be growing by God's grace. We're first then going to look at the being careful of distorting scripture. We find that in verses 15 through 16. He he picks up here, Peter does, by saying that we need to consider that the long suffering of our Lord is salvation. Now that's in reference. to the fact that that Christ is tarrying in his coming for us. And now he has tarried for over 2,000 years. He has promised to come and yet he has tarried And we need to consider his tarrying as further opportunity for repentance and salvation. In other words, why is Christ not returned? Because he has more people to save. Why has he not returned? Because there are more up there is now more opportunity for people to repent. I've even talked with Christians who have said, you know, the one thing that I I struggle with of Christ coming back now is that I have an unsaved family member who wouldn't be going. And you know no, you know, I actually think that's a fairly biblical tension That's sort of a you know, yes we look forward to the coming of Christ, we anticipate it, we want it to occur, we pray for it even But there's a sense in which we really we could be thankful that Christ tarries because it gives further opportunity for people to come to Him. Understand that the long suffering, the patience of Christ and His coming, gives opportunity for salvation. Now, apparently When it comes to this idea, there were people that were twisting the Apostle Paul's words, were twisting what he had said in other epistles. And Peter is going to immediately, almost abruptly, turn to that and say, now, what the Apostle Paul has already what Paul has already said about this He is consistent with what I've already been saying. It's not we are not separate in what we're thinking about this. We are consistent. There very likely was rumors going around that Peter and Paul were at odds with each other and possibly they were being pitted against one another. And the reason for this is actually uh could be you know uh a good plausible reason for this is Over in the book of Galatians, where Paul actually has to call out Peter, who at that point is in error. In fact, if you want to, you can take your Bibles and turn over there for a moment. Galatians chapter 2, verses 11 through 15 is where we'll read from. And Paul is going to make reference to the fact that Peter, his fellow brother and fellow apostle The one who preached at Pentecost. The one who was really the leader of the Church of Jerusalem, though not the pastor, that was probably James. You know, he was very, a very prominent apostle, and yet the apostle Paul, who came came out of out of due season He says in another Paul says in another place. Look at verse eleven of Galatians chapter two. It says, Now when Peter had come to Antioch, I withstood him to his face. Because he was to be blamed for certain for before s before certain men came from James, he would eat with Gentiles, but when they came, he withdrew and separated himself, fearing those who were of the circumcision. And the rest of the Jews also blamed the hypocrite with him, so that even Barnabas was carried away with their hypocrisy. When I saw that they were not straightforward about the truth of the gospel, I said to Peter, before them all, if you being a Jew, live in the manner of Gentiles and not as Jews, who do you compel Gentiles to live as Jews? Or why do you compel Gentiles to live as Jews? We who are Jews by nature and not sinners of the Gentiles. P imagine the scene. Peter who has said who has uh s gone to Gentiles and been had the opportunity to eat with Gentiles and not in a way that is sinful, in a way that is certainly appropriate for the time, the church age that they're in is is succumbing to um to pressure, I could almost say peer pressure from the circumcision. That's the physical Jewish Christians of the day that were trying to convince Peter not to associate with these Gentiles And actually Barnabas, who is not an apostle but a prominent church leader as well, is also being swept away by this kind of pressure. To go this direction. And the Apostle Paul has to take a stand and say, hey, you're wrong, Peter. In public because of what's going on there. Now you could imagine from that that some would Some would infer that Paul and Peter are at odds with each other, but that is actually not the case. Paul, just like anybody else, can do, can rebuke in love. And there is no doubt that that was Paul. I think there's no doubt that that was what Paul was doing. And there is no reason to believe that Peter was taking offense to what Paul did there. In fact Paul points out in Galatians 1 verse 18 that after three years, he says, I went up to Jerusalem to see Peter and remained with him fifteen days. They were buddies who who he could go and be in his house and and and stay overnight for fifteen days. Somebody stays in my night uh for uh in my house for fifteen days overnight, they're either gonna be a friend or an enemy, I'll tell you that. And in this case they were they were friends. And there are other places that indicate that that was the case with between Paul and Peter. And Peter is now, in his own epistle, going to affirm this. He says, our what? Our beloved brother Paul. Let me put to put to rest all the any of these rumors, any of these things that Paul's theology is different than my theology and his ways are No. This is my this is our beloved brother And there's a sense in which Peter was probably even inviting them to recognize Paul's apostleship in that statement as well. And he says, according to the wisdom given to him, has written to you. He has written written with God's divine wisdom. Peter is now endorsing the writings of the Apostle Paul. There's a unity within the leadership here. There's a unity within the apostleship here. And Peter is not wanting them to take this letter, which shows another side that is that is concerning that that uh this antinomianism, this anti-law that Peter addresses and somehow pinned against the epistle of like Galatians, which deals with legalism to somehow say that they're two different gospels or two different theologies. No, no, no. Peter and Paul are dealing with standing firmly in the gospel and not straying toward anti-law and not straying toward legalism either And so he says, our beloved Paul. Now what he does then is he deals with a particular problem in that uh that that was going on. Where they were, the Bible says they were twisting Paul's writings. Now the word uh twist is an an interesting term. And the word writings is an interesting term as well. And said it's in in fact it says of these writings, Peter says As other scriptures. Peter actually says that the epistles of Paul are to have the same kind of weight as the Old Testament scriptures. This word scriptures is used 50 times in the New Testament to refer to Old Testament scriptures. So Peter, as an apostle, is actually affirming Paul's epistles as scripture, very scripture. By the way, that that is just amazing how God puts all these things together where Christ affirmed the Old Testament prophets so that we have Old Testament affirmed by Christ And the fact that the apostles in the New Testament are going to inscript uh right uh Peter uh Jesus said this is gonna happen, they're gonna write new things by the by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit. Jesus said this was going to happen. And now you have apostles that are verifying each other's writings. And that's how you get this canon of scripture that we have today. It's verifiable and authoritative. It's something that we can completely depend upon. That was for free, but just something I wanted to point out to you. But then you'll notice here in the passage that the problem is that they're twisting, distorting Scripture. Well, what does it mean to twist or distort? This is an interesting word. It's only you it's not used anywhere in the New Testament other than this time, uh, this this passage. It's used in the Greek version of the Old Testament in 2 Samuel 22, 27, and in that passage says, To the pure you show yourself pure, but to the crooked you show yourself shrewd. That word Crooked is the same word. It's twisted or distort or crooked. In extra biblical writings, it's used to reference a rope. that is twisted together and stretched. Or it's also used in in like a stringed instrument. And for those of you who play a stringed instrument, like guitar, for example, or really even piano or whatever, they they have to stretch those inst they they stretch and twist those strings in order to get the the tone that they're looking for. It's how you tune a guitar, for example. You tune you uh you twist the machines and they tune the the uh the the uh Well, the word of God is not to be stretched and twisted. distorted. That's what was happening here. And there is a really important warning not to stretch and twist and distort scripture. I have to say to you, brothers and sisters in Christ, that this is extremely common in Christianity Over church history, it is amazing the amount of misinterpretations and reading into the text and coming up with what we want things to say The distortions and the twistings and the stretchings of Scripture are absolutely putting us in a place where we are unsafe. And I have can tell you from personal experience, I have watched in counseling and in other situations in ministry where this has caused great havoc on churches. and families and individuals when they have taken scripture out of context, when they have distorted scripture, when they have twisted scripture and applied it wrongly, and great problems can come from this. And Peter is warning them about this, that there are some that are twisting and distorting Scripture. And the question then becomes, well, how does this happen? What occurs? And he says that there are people, and he identifies the people which are actually going to help us Which are actually going to help us to identify to understand what it means to twist and uh and and all of that. Before we do that, let me just mention this. It says that the particular scriptures that were twisted and distorted were hard passages. were difficult to understand. Now let me ask you a question, those of you who have read through the New Testament. Do you ever come to the Apostle Paul's writings and go, that's pretty hard? That's pretty difficult to understand. If you s if you if you think that in English, it's even more difficult in Greek. You literally, if you if you know how to read Greek, uh New Testament Greek, you literally can very quickly identify Paul's writings, even if you don't know it's Paul's writings, from Peter's or from James's writings in Greek. He will put parsible on top of parciple on top of parciple on top of parsible And you can't hardly find the main verb until you finally find it. And it's like this run-on sentence that goes on forever, which run-on sentences, by the way, were not grammatically incorrect in Greek, which makes things difficult, but not incorrect. And the Apostle Paul would put argument on top of argument on top of argument in one very, very long run-on sentence. I think if I remember correctly, the entire chapter of Ephesians Ephesians 1 is all one sentence in the Greek. You have that kind of thing going on, and Paul's writings are hard some of them are hard to understand. And when they are hard to understand, they're easy to twist. And they're easy to stretch. Paul even had to correct misinterpretations and misapplications of his own of his own uh uh uh writings. In 1 Corinthians chapter 5, verses 9 through eleven, there apparently was an epistle that was not inscripturated that he wrote to Corinth prior to uh prior to this epis this epistle And in this and this and in 1 Corinthians chapter 5 verse 9 eleven he says, I wrote to you in my epistle not to keep company with sexually immoral people, yet I certainly did not mean with sexually immoral people of this world, or with the covetous or extortioners, or idolaters, sins. then you would need to go out of the world. But now I have written to you not to keep company with anyone named a brother who is sexually immoral or covetous or an idolater or a violer or uh drunkard or an extortioner, even to eat with such a person They misunderstood what Paul meant. Paul in a previous epistle that we don't have anymore must have exhorted them to s to not keep fellowship and company with those kinds of people, with people that are in unrepentant, o obvious sin, and they took it to mean, they misinterpreted it to mean the people of the world. Like if they're Christians and they're in unrepentant sin. That's perfectly fine. But if they're in the world in unrepentant sin, uh then um then that's who the people we need to stay away from. And Paul basically says, no, it's actually the exactly the opposite It's the people that are name the name of Christ and they're in unrepentant sin. Those are the people you shouldn't even be eating with. You have misinterpreted and misapplied this. Now Um that's after an attempt for restoration, after attempt for uh in church discipline, all of that, but that's what he's saying here. So the point is that even the Apostle Paul had to help them understand his own writings. Now, does that mean the Apostle Paul was a bad writer? It does not mean that. Does it mean the Apostle Paul should have just simplified things? No, he wrote under the inspiration of the Spirit of God. The fact is, folks, that some doctrine and some theology, in order for there to be precision, it has to be difficult. There's no way around it Now the gospel itself is simple and can be received and understood by a child. But the the inner workings of the doctrine and theology are difficult to understand. There is complexities in Scripture. There are difficult passages where you go, well, at first glance, I can't really get that. I don't really understand that. Now the question is how do you deal with all of that? And I want to I want to explore that for a few moments with you by pointing out that the that the that Peter actually says what the problems were. He first of all says by these people who were basically he says they were untrained. He he points out that there there are two problems and the first one is that they're untrained. So let's discuss what that's talking about. It's not saying that these people were dumb. That they were somehow didn't have the IQ of able to be able to understand the writings of the Apostle Paul. No, they were untrained. They were not educated. They were not given the appropriate tools to be able to understand the sayings. And that is the case. There are some passages of Scripture that requires someone to teach That's why we find in Scripture that God gifts certain people within the body of Christ the gift of teaching. That's given by God so that those who who and they have to be trained by others, by the way. It's not some just summon a gift. I mean there's something There's a there's definitely a giftedness there, but there has to be training by training by and then those people have to train other people, those people have to train other people, those people have to train other people because the Bible says that this is not given by private interpretation. Now that doesn't mean you can't understand any of God's word by yourself, but it does mean you can't understand all of God's word by yourself. And that's important to understand. And these people who were untrained to interpret scripture, they're untrained to understand the more complex passages of Scripture, they were attempting to do so, and by doing so they were twisting it. That was one problem. Then, though, there was another problem, apparently. The other problem is, according to verse 16, it says, as also in all his epistles speaking in them of these things which some things are hard to understand, which untaught, and then it says, unstable people. So they're untaught, they're untrained, they're uneducated. By the way, I'm not saying that everybody needs a formal seminary education, though it helps I'm saying that everybody needs to be trained in order to understand and and it God's given, for example, the pastor-teacher and those gifted in the church to be able to teach in order to train people to interpret scripture. So untru uh so lack of education is a problem, but then the other problem, according to scripture, according to this passage, is that these people were unstable. Well, what does that mean? Well, these are people that are unstable in the sense that they were drawn away easily into temptation. It's also translated weak. They were weak. They were spiritually weak. They they had a particular draw they were drawn to temptation. Now you take a person who is untrained. And a person who is easily drawn into temptation, and you put that together, and what they're going to begin to do with Scripture is they're going to twist Scripture to fit what they want. And that, folks, is a very dangerous problem. When we take Scripture to fit what we want it to mean so that we can do what we want That's the danger. And that's what was happening with these people. And that is what God was, that is what Peter is warning them. Now with that in mind I want us I want us to just I want us to think of several applications of all of this. I want to help us with this for a few moments. Number one Clear, accurate interpretations of Scripture are of utmost importance. There is virtually nothing more important than accurately interpreting. scripture. Very, very important. And I just can say to you that there are some people, there are some people, folks, that Candidly, and I've experienced this in the ministry where they sort of checked out of understanding Scripture because they felt like it was all just too hard to understand and they just sort of threw it out. Don't do that. Be under good teaching. Learn and be trained. It takes time. There was one particular man one time, was pastoring up in Pennsylvania There was a particular thing that he was really not doing correctly, and I don't think he necessarily had wrong motives, but he definitely wasn't doing it in the right way. And I showed him, it was a very simple, very clear passage of scripture. I showed him very clearly, and he just sloughed it off and just said, ah, it doesn't really matter. Everybody has their own interpretations of all that. Folks, that is not the way we are to live. We are not to live as though the Bible is just so difficult to interpret that everybody has their own interpretations and we just do what we want. We require training and we also require not to take the Word of God and just assume it's what we want it to be and twist it to make it what we want to be. Number two, training is necessary to understand and interpret complex scriptures. Training is necessary. In Ephesians chapter 4, verses 11 through 13 it says this. And he himself gave some to be apostles, some prophets, some evangelists, and some pastors and teachers for the equipping of the saints, for the work of the ministry. ministry for the edifying of the body of Christ, till we all come to the unity of the faith and to the knowledge of the Son of God to a perfect or mature man to measure uh to the measure of the stature of the full The Bible says that we're not to be tossed to and fro by every wind of doctrine, and it is the teacher of the Word of God, the faithful teacher, that helps us not to get to that place. Number three, the clear text should inform and help us interpret the complicated ones. This is just a general application of this. How do you interpret the complicated text of scripture? By making sure you understand the clear, simple ones. If you will first understand the clear, simple ones, and then you will you will then say, okay, well this complex passage can't mean this. Because a clear, simple passage says this, then it will guide you as you interpret the more complex passages. This is a very important thing to understand. And it would it would it will s this this This alone would really save a lot of people from misunderstanding Scripture. You don't you don't You take the complex passages and you take the simpler, easier, clearer passages, and you make sure that you're not contradicting the simple passages when you interpret the more complex ones Number four, this is important. Biblical theology. And I'm using that word theology to explain that this is what we get from the Word of God. Our understanding of God and who he is and his ways and his gospel and his redemption, all that. That's theology. Clear biblical theology is important. And what I mean by that is vertical theology, as you go through scripture and you study the word, that's important. But it is equally important to have a grasp of what I'll call horizontal theology. What is that? To understand scripture with scripture. to take a particular theme of Scripture and run it through the entire Bible and to get the whole mind of God on the matter. To understand grace in light of Galatians and 2 Peter. To understand the gospel in light of Romans and James. We have to understand the understand divorce and remarriage in light of Hosea and Malachi and Matthew. We have to understand in light of all of Scripture, the whole mind of God on a particular matter, which means we cannot really under we have to be very careful with understanding a particular passage without understanding the breadth of the matter within Scripture. Folks, that requires laboring in the word. And we ought not be we we ought to understand the importance of of clarity in s and and interpreting scripture clearly by not just understanding how to interpret a text just through the text, but the whole breadth of scripture Comparing Scripture with Scripture. Finally, I want us to understand this. The apparent contradictions in Scripture. are problems of interpretation, not of scripture. Just remember that as you're going through scripture and studying scripture. When you see an apparent contradiction, realize the problem is with the interpretation. If you see the contradiction, the problem is with your interpretation. This all does work together. It is all a unified a unified body of doctrine. It does work together. It's our and our misinterpreting something that causes us to think that it doesn't work together. And understanding that as well. Those are just some some important applications for us. Bottom line is, folks, be very careful of distorting Scripture. Accurate interpretation of Scripture is absolutely Important and necessary. Do not twist or distort scripture. When we do, we put it's like we're taking our seatbelt off And what God has placed us in security, we're not doing in the right way. Let's finally then move then secondly to be on guard against spiritual threats. To be on guard against spiritual threats. It says this, verse 17, you therefore, beloved, see you know this beforehand. Understand, before you would get up against a problem Be prepared. Beware lest you also fall from your own steadfastness, being led away with the error of the wicked. He says, look beforehand and beware. So he says, know in advance, and then this word I beware is the command in the passage, and it says to it means to be on guard. You and I as Christians, folks, we need to be on guard. We need to understand that there are spiritual threats that would draw us away from Christ. In 2 Corinthians, 2 Thessalonians rather 3, verse 3, it says, But the Lord is faithful who will establish you and guard you from the evil one. In Jude 24 it says, Now him who is able to keep you from stumbling and to present you faultless before the presence of us of his glory with exceeding Joy. Isn't it interesting in another place in Scripture the same word guard is actually used, and God is the one guarding us? It's like God's provided the airbags, but we have a role to play. In putting on our seatbelts so the airbags work. And it's a an imper imperfect illustration, it will break down at some point But I simply am s pointing pointing out here that yes, God will guard us, but that does not cause a Christian the the security of God Being in a secure place by the hand of God, it does not put us in a place where we suddenly say, Oh, it doesn't matter. God will take care of us. God will protect us, and we we don't have to be on guard. In fact, it's interesting then, it says, lest you fall from your own steadfastness. The word steadfast mean steadfastness is talking about a place of stability and security. That is, God, if you know Christ as your Savior, has placed you in a place of stability and security. But God says, be careful that you don't fall from your steadfastness. That you don't fall from your place of security. Peter 1, verses 3 through 4, it says, As his divine power has given us all things that pertain unto life and godliness. Galatians warns of this this of truth uh this as well. Paul warns a very similar thing to Peter in a different epistle dealing with a different problem. He says Galatians 5. 4 that you have become estranged from Christ who attempt to justify by law, you have fallen from grace. And then it says this, how does this happen? How does someone fall from a place of security? Galatians 2. 13. That you're led away, that you're carried away. And we've already read this over in Galatians chapter 2 through 13, 2, Galatians chapter 2. But both Paul Peter and Barnabas in that passage, they were carried away by the influence of the Jewish believers at that point who were giving them wrong advice. They were carried away. And that is a threat that even people that profess the name of Christ, if we're not careful, can carry us, carry us away, that can draw us away. And he says, be on guard from being in that secure place. It's kind of like this. It's kind of like you're you know you're if you're clim a rock climber, um, which I've never done before. It looks a little scary to me, honestly. And but you've got somebody who really knows what they're doing, who at the top of the of whatever you're trying to climb, they put they put a very secure anchor in that rock. And that person in our illustration is Christ. He has anchored us to the rock, but you've got to depend on that rope. And that is what Peter is essentially telling us to do. Depend on the rope. Now you might be saying, well, this is really confusing to me. Because I'm, you know, doesn't God keep me? Doesn't He guard me? Doesn't He keep me secure? And folks, the answer to that is absolutely yes. He absolutely does. But that doesn't mean that we should just not care. In fact, we are misapplying God's security of us if it leads us to a place of apathy. We are misapplying God's foundation being planted on a rock if it causes us to be careless. In fact, if we read a verse like this, if we're exhorted to be on guard and we check out and say, it doesn't really matter, I don't really care. We really need to ask ourselves, are we really in the faith at all? Because a genuine Christian Sees the threat of sin, sees the threat of false doctrine, sees the world, and realizes how that there is a threat to our souls, and he and we're careful. That is a genuine Christian response to the exhortation to be on guard. It's kind of like we we we we read we read be on guard and we go, oh yeah, yes, definitely. Look around. We got to be on guard And that is the Christian's response, even though he is still secure. I wrote down several implications of this. Number one, genuine believers hold a secure position in Christ. That's true. Number two, but we are called to be to be on guard to hold that secure position. But number three, the divine perspective is that we are secure, but our perspective is that we must be on guard. And finally this. A professing Christian who is casual and careless about spiritual threats of evil should see if they really are of the faith at all. You look, you you can't it is not consistent with the gospel message to say, okay, I received the gospel and I can do whatever I want. It really just doesn't matter. I can just kind of I'm you know uh God will take care of me and I can live like the devil and my doctrine doesn't really matter and nothing really matters and I'll end up in heaven somehow. Folks, that is not the teachings of the New Testament. God says we need to be careful and vigilant and on guard. And finally this. Peter now moves from sort of these negative precautions. to something that is positive, but it is equally, if not more, important. He says this, we need to be growing by God's grace. Look at verse 18. It says this, by, but grow in the grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. He says, you and I need to grow. Now, this is this is something that God really, that Peter really uh pointed out in the first chapter of this epistle. Do you remember that where he says, give all diligence? Have your faith virtue, virtue, knowledge, knowledge, self-control, self-control, per perseverance, perseverance, godliness, and all those. Do you remember that? And God says that if you are growing in these things, if you're increasing and abounding, which is what this word is here. This word grow means to increase and abound. If you're abounding in these things, you will be neither barren or unfruitful in the knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. But he who lacks these things as short sighted, even to blindness, you can't, you've forgotten that you're cleansed from your old sins and you're in a place where you might stumble. So he's reminding them of all this here, and he's saying, grow, and he says this: grow by God's grace. Grow by the grace of God. Can I ask you a question? Are you growing? This is a credit question that you and I should ask ourselves frequently. When you look back on your life as a Christian, if you look back at 2021, we're coming to the end of it, and you look back, can you say, yes, I grew Here are some points where I know I spiritually grew. I grew in patience, I grew in diligence, I grew in faith. You can identify places where you say, yes, by God's grace, not by my effort, but by God's grace, I grew. Can you say that? Can you affirm it? that. What does it mean to grow by God's grace? Well, God's grace is why we live and move and have our being. God's grace is why we are is what has saved us, is redeemed us, who's kept us from hell, who's placed us in right standing with Him. And God wants us to grow every day by God's grace. I was Thinking through this and Titus 2 came to mind. It says, For the grace of God that brings salvation has appeared to all men. teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly lust we we should live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present age. Looking for the blessed hope and the glorious appearing of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ. How do we grow in the grace of God we allow on a daily basis, allow God's grace to be to teach us. Well, how does God grace teach us? I I wrote down several examples. I was meditating on this thinking about it and I said, I need to get real nitty-gritty on this. So that we understand this. And I wrote down these things. By his grace, we are forgiven so that we can forgive others. That's God's grace. By his grace, we have unmerited kindness. so we can return evil and abuse with goodness, love, and mercy. By God's grace, we have a secure position in Christ, so we don't have to be insecure in who we are. By God's grace, we have unmerited talent and can give full credit to God for our abilities, not take it in our own pride and ego. By his grace we have been saved from hell and realize that we are deserving of nothing so that we can live grateful and thankful. By God's grace, we know his love and are equipped to love others. By his grace, we know the patience of God and are able to show patience to others who would otherwise be frustrating. By God's grace, we do not have to we we've experienced the abundance of kindness of God, and we don't have to be jealous of others. By God's grace, we can return, when someone is mean toward us, we can show kindness to them in return. When someone undercuts us, we can show love to them. We can return good evil for good. There are probably hundreds of ways, folks, that we can grow by God's grace. And it is to be a daily thing where we ask ourselves, okay, because I am saved and sustained and secured in the grace of God. This is how I should respond. This is my thinking. This is how I should react. This is what's wrong. This is what I shouldn't do. This is what I should do. It's the grace of God that teaches us And folks, that's the way to grow. It's not through legalism. It's not, well, I got this list, and if I do everything on list, then I be I'll be right with God. Make sure I have my devotions and I make sure that you know I pray for forty five minutes a day and I have uh I make sure I have this family devotions and I have uh work uh uh if I get uh If I get all these things, I'm not saying all those things are bad. Spiritual disciplines are good, by the way. I'm not saying that. But if you if you if you say, okay, I've got this list, and if I could just do the list Then you could be thinking the whole time, man, that other person over there ain't doing everything I'm doing. And you're actually living in sin while you're doing all of these different things. Or I'm pretty good because I got this whole list. Or I've got all these things figured out in my life. I'm good. I'm secure. And you'll find security in yourself. This is one phrase here, folks, but there is so much in this that we must grow by God's grace. And number two, we must grow by the knowledge of Jesus Christ. Notice what it says, in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Peter is picking up where he left off from 2 Peter 1, verses 1 through 2, to sort of encapsulate the book and this whole theme. He says in chapter 1, verse 1, it says, Simon Peter, a bond servant of the apostle Jesus Christ, to those who have obtained like precious faith with us by the righteousness of our God. and Savior Jesus Christ. Grace and peace be multiplied to you in the knowledge of God and of the G and of Jesus our Lord. If you want to explore the grace of God and know the grace of God and allow the grace of God to teach you, then you've got to know Jesus. To know the ways of Jesus, to read through the Gospels and see how Jesus lived. To read through the Gospels and see how he responded and what he taught. He was the epitome of one who lived by grace. And we can know him and know his ways. And the more we know him and know his ways, the more we will learn about his grace. And then we will be able to live by his grace and grow in his grace. And folks, I'll just simply say this: you can't grow in God's grace and fall into apostasy at the same time. That's why maybe the most important Safeguard to falling into apostasy is to continue to grow. I guarantee you, no one has ever fallen away from the faith. who was growing. You can't grow at the same time grow and then suddenly, oh, one day I think I'm gonna fall away from the faith. It does not work that way. It works how you are stagnant and you don't grow for a long time and you're not in the word and you're not knowing God and you're not You're not thinking with the grid of grace in your life, and you're not applying the grace of God to your different circumstances and your life and all the different things, your attitudes, and your mindset, your thinking. You're not doing that And when that happens for a length of time, you begin to think fleshly, you begin to put things in your own terms, and you become your own God, and before long you're rejecting the God of the Bible. Growing in the grace of God is actually a safety to falling away from the Lord. And I would just ask you this question finally. Do you even know the grace of God in salvation? Because that's really where it starts. It is by grace we are saved through faith, and that not of ourselves. It is the gift of God, not of works, lest anyone should boast. We live by grace, we serve by grace, we grow by grace, and we're saved by grace. Have you truly been saved? Not by the merit of your own self-effort, not by the merit of your own good works, or that you're a good person Have you been saved by the grace, the unmerited favor of the kindness of God? Well you say, how does that work? For the knowledge of Jesus Christ. It's the knowledge of Jesus and what he did for you, that he is God and is perfect, live a perfect life, die to pay the punishment for your sin, took our sin on himself. died for us the death that we deserve, and then he gives us his righteousness that we accept as a gift by faith. That's how we're saved by grace, so that we can grow in grace. And if you don't know whether or not you truly have been saved by the grace of God, let me just encourage you. To come and talk with me or somebody else that you're comfortable with and learn more from God's Word how you can be saved by grace through faith alone. Let's pray to God. Father, we come to you and thank you for who you are. We praise you because you are a great God. Lord, would you help us to grow by your grace? It's not about placing all of our effort in self. There's diligence, we that's our role. But it's not on the merits of self-effort. It's by thinking and being taught by your grace and living as a result of your grace. Lord, teach us what that means in our daily lives, in our day-to-day walks, in our moment-by-moment steps. So that we can grow in your grace. Lord, keep us from self-righteousness on one hand, or lie license to sin on the other hand. Lord, keep us and grow us in your grace. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. To have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.