Let's bow our heads and go to the Lord in prayer. Emily Father, you are gracious, you are kind and merciful. You are the God of love. You are Almighty. You are all powerful. You are all all-wise and all-knowing. Father, you are the creator and sustainer of all life and you are sovereign over all of your creation. And we praise your great name this morning. And we give thanks to you for your precious Son Jesus and what he has done at the cross on our behalf. And what he's doing now at your right hand interceding. On our behalf. And Father, we come before you this morning with grateful and thankful hearts. Thank you for providing so richly for us. Thank you for protecting us. And thank you, Lord, for your word. And how it changes our hearts and our minds. We thank you for your spirit and how it works in and through us, for your glory and for your great praise. And Father, we ask this morning as we come together that Father, we want to lift up those who are unable to be with us this morning, Lord, our brothers and sisters. Sisters in Christ who are having different health issues and whatnot, Lord. Even traveling, we have some traveling, Lord, and we ask for your hand of blessing to continue to be upon them and protect them them and I pray this morning as uh we all come together that they would be able to be encouraged by your word and I pray that you would help us to set aside all the cares and all the thoughts of this week. And help us to concentrate upon your word this morning. That in all things, Lord, you will change our hearts and our minds and our thoughts more and more into your image, and we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. This morning we are going to be in uh Matthew chapter twenty-four, and Pastor Jim had asked that I go all the way back to the first verse. So follow along in your Bibles, Matthew chapter 24. Then Jesus went out and departed from the temple. His disciples came to show him the buildings of the temple. And Jesus said to them, Do you not see all these things? Assuredly I say to you, not one stone shall be left upon here, upon another, that shall not be thrown down. Now he sat on the Mount of Olives. The disciples came to him privately saying, Tell us, when will these things be? And what will be the sign of your coming And of the end of the eighth. And Jesus answered and said to them, Take heed that no one deceives you For many will come in my name, saying, I am the Christ, and will deceive many, and you will hear of wars and rumors of wars. See that you are not troubled, for all these things must come to pass, but the end is not yet. For nation will rise against nation and kingdom against kingdom. And there will be famines and pestilences and earthquakes in various places. And all these things are the beginning of sorrows. Then they will deliver you up to tribulation and kill you, and you will be hated by all nations for my name's sake. And then many will be offended, will betray one another, and hate one another. Then many false prophets will rise up and deceive many. And because lawlessness will abound, the love of many will grow cold. But he who endures to the end shall be saved. And this gospel of a kingdom will be preached in all the world as a witness to all the nations, and then the end will come. Therefore, when you see the abomination of desolation, spoken of by Daniel the prophet. standing in the holy place. Whoever reads, let him understand. Then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains. Let him who is on the housetop not go down to take anything out of the And let him who is in the field not go back to get his clothes. But woe to those who are pregnant and to those who are nursing babies in those days. And pray for your flight may not be in winter or on the Sabbath, for then there will be great tribulation, such as not been seen And unless those days be shortened, no flesh Would be saved. But for the elect's sake, those days will be shortened. Then if anyone says to you, Look, here is the Christ, or there, don't believe Don't believe it, for the false Christ and false prophets will rise and show great signs and wonders to deceive, if possible, even the elect. See, I have told you beforehand. Therefore, if they say to you, Look, he is in the desert, do not go out there. Or look, here he is in the inner rooms. Do not believe it. For as lightning comes from the east and flashes to the west, so also will the coming of the Son of Man For wherever the carcass is, there the eagles will be gathered together. Immediately after the tribulation of those days, the sun will be darkened And the moon will not give its light. The stars will fall from the heavens, and the powers of the heavens will be shaken. Then the sign of the Son of Man will appear. And then all the tribes of the earth will mourn, and they will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of heaven with power and great glory. And he will send his angels with a great sound of a trumpet, and they will gather together his elect from the four winds, and one from the end of heaven to the other. Have you ever wanted to be able to accurately predict the future? Just imagine what what your bank account might look like if you were able to predict the rise and fall of the stock market. You'd be able to, you know, you'd be able to buy during the low times and sell during the high times, and you would make a fortune if you knew what was in the future. Your decision making would be determined by what you knew would take place. No, in finance often it's often it's said we nobody has a crystal ball. And that is certainly true. We don't have a crystal ball. We can't see the future. But what Christ does here with his disciples is he is going to give them the future. What is going to take place? And he desires for his disciples and for us who are followers of him as well to be able to know what is in the future and then to live in light of that future. The fact is people long to live in peace and live a better life. Live in unity one with another. But so far, and it won't happen completely until the Lord's return, we have not we have not achieved that The n the express purpose of the United Nations is to is to uh create and to facilitate peace around the world. How's that going? Did I dunno if you were aware of this, but the last time the United Nations meet just recently met, Russia, China, and the UK didn't even show up. Of course, our country our president did. But m other major players literally didn't even show up to the last session of the United Nations. And of course you are aware of Israel and the and what is going on uh with its exp uh now its you know response, its appropriate response to what has taken place uh and and attacking the sovereignty of that nation from the Hamas. They have they're now, as of I believe it was yesterday, now going clearly into going into infiltrate Gaza. And there is all kinds of unrest in various parts of the world. You've got um rumblings in North Korea and in China and Russia and there's still we still have a uh we still have a war going on between uh Russia and Ukraine and now war in Israel. I mean look around During the times that we find ourselves in, we should be able, as Christians, to have a certain confidence because we know ultimately what is going to happen. I think it's accurate to say that what is taking place and what has taken place for the last 2,000 years are what the Bible would call birth pangs. When you have World War II, for example, and Nazi Germany and the persecution of ju of Jewish people in uh in thousands back in that day. When you have various wars and rumors of wars, they started in the v probab uh it's arguable arguable that they started with the temple the the uh the the destruction of the temple in 70 A. D. and really have not ceased since in various parts of the world. And will continue into the first half of the tribulation period. These are all what the Bible describes as birth pangs. But what we are going to get into this morning is the actual great tribulation this morning. We noted last week, if you remember, or the week before last actually, uh we noted these birth pangs brought about all kinds of um of of wars and rumors of wars and we said last week that the reason that G or two weeks ago that the reason that G Jesus brought these to the disciples' attention was so that it would prepare them for what was to come. And it is still Most of these things are still to come in the future, and so we must be prepared as well. Last week we learned in verses 1 through 2 of chapter 24 that we need to adjust our expectations. to what Scripture says. And we need to understand the present age that we live in in verses 3 through 6. And we need to see the preliminary signals that we found in verse Verses seven through eight. But in verse fourteen, if you would look at that, a very key verse. We begin we we realize the purpose of the age we are living in. Verse 14, it says, and this gospel of the kingdom will be preached in all the world as a witness to all the nations. And then the end will come. And by inference, it won't come until then. God's desire during this time period, which has now lasted for two thousand years. And we have no idea how much longer it will last. Every time a new upheaval happens, every time a new war starts, a new conflict, especially when it has something to do with Israel, we begin to think, well, maybe the end is near. And it is true that the end is, as somebody told me recently, the end is nearer today than it was yesterday. That's always true Thank you for stating the obvious. But the fact is, these things that happen on the news are birth pangs. They make us aware that eventually the end is not yet, but one day the end will come, and Christ will come. But there are distinct events that have to occur before the coming, the second coming of Christ. Now I want to say at the very outset of this that as you read through Matthew 24, what you won't see is you won't see the event of the rapture in Matthew 24. It's not there. Well at least I don't believe it's there. There's some that And so if you're saying there's something missing here that you know for us as Christians, it it's not in Matthew twenty four. Later on in first Thessalonians second Thessalonian is there, it's but but but here we're not going to see that. What we're going to see uh uh uh what we're going to see here is that the next event in this passage, the next event on God's prophetic timeline that is going to be a distinguishable event, is found in verse 15. And it is called the abomination of desolation. The abomination of desolation. Jesus now is going to identify a very distinct event. That was prophesied in the Old Testament, that now he says it is still is to come to pass. How is he how are we going to relate how do we how should we relate to what is going on in God's future program? There are three things we're going to learn from this passage. One We need to realize the connection between the biblical prophecy in the Old Testament and future fulfillment. There are some that would suggest that everything has already been fulfilled in the Old Testament. And there is nothing future to be fulfilled. But there are distinct details that we're going to see in this passage and we're going to see in the Old Testament. that have not yet been fulfilled. There is really no way around it unless you really begin to allegorize and make things figurative that don't seem to be figurative. There are still yet events to take place on God's prophetic calendar. And we're going to see that. We need to realize the connection, and we're going to see the connection verse 2. 15. And then we need to understand the severity and the purpose of the great tribulation to come. Verses 16 through 22. And finally, we're going to clearly identify the second coming to avoid deception. We need to clearly identify the second coming to avoid deception. Now the fact is, this is such a critical passage for understanding Bible prophecy. It is a critical passage for understanding what God says is yet to be fulfilled from Old Testament prophecy. And I will just point out that we are living in a day where there is a lot of information and a lot of misinformation. Frankly, anybody with a laptop and a bright idea can get on the internet and have all kinds of ideas and things of how certain things are supposed to put together in scripture and all of that and can come up with all kinds of events and all ki have attached their their imagination to different things and before you know it you're looking at a YouTube video and you have somebody that's go gone completely off the rails and predicting all kinds of things that is never going to happen. And before YouTube, you had family radio. Some of you remember that. WFSI had extremely conservative music and very weird teaching. It did. Uh Harold Camping, of course he is off I don't know if he's alive anymore, but uh he's certainly off the air, which is a blessing because he would be was predicting the coming of Christ multiple times and and saying that it was coming and then at one point he said it already came, but it was sort of a spiritual thing and all that And if he would if we just see what Matthew Matthew 24 is going to say here, we don't have to wonder. We don't have to uh uh be deceived by things. We going We can see what Scripture says here. And so we're going to begin here by realizing the connection between biblical prophecy and future fulfillment. We pick up in verse 15, it says, Therefore when you see the abomination of desolation Jesus says, spoken of by Daniel the prophet standing in the holy place. So Jesus is now identifying a particular event. that was prophesied by Daniel, and he says to the disciples, this is still yet to come. And that's very important for them, for him to explain that to the disciples because there was a lot of conjecture and belief that it had already come. And it really looked in some cate ways that it had already come. For example, in 167 BC, you have Antiochus Epiphanes who set up an altar to a Olympian Zeus. And a statue of himself. Both were erected in Israel's temple. That certainly would seem to have been a good description, as we're going to see, of the abomination of desolation. Wasn't that it? Or uh let or Antiochus further decreed that the Sabbath would be another festival of observances And swine and other an unclean animals were to be sacrificed in the temple on on the uh um uh on the uh sabbath. Maybe that, I mean certainly that seems very much to be descriptive of the abomination of desolation. And we find in A. D. twenty-six, Pontius Pilate arrives on the scene, as you're aware probably aware of, and he has all these idolatrous symbols. Some would say that was the abomination of desolation, the Jewish people back then. And there are others that would say that when Emperor Gaius or Caligula came about, he ordered a gigantic statue of himself to set in the temple of Jerusalem and yet actually that never happened. He ordered it, but King Agrippa talked him out of it and he died in 83 But anyway, there was all this conjecture about this event, the abomination of desolation that was prophesied by Daniel That was going to happen, and Israel thought at certain times that it was either had happened or was in the midst of happening. And Jesus is now going to say, it hasn't happened yet. It is still in the future. Very important point for them to understand. And that was going to happen or needs to happen in order for the second coming of Christ to occur. We pick up uh I I do want you to take your Bibles if you would and turn to Daniel. Daniel chapter nine, and we're going to look at verses twenty-five through twenty-seven. Daniel is an absolute key to prophetic prophetic truth. You really cannot understand Matthew 24 or 1st to 2 Thessalonians, the prophetic passages there, or 1 Corinthians. 15 or the book of Revelation without understanding some things in the book of Daniel. And while you're turning to Daniel chapter 9, I want to read from Daniel 8, 13, where it says, Then I heard a holy one speaking And another holy one was said to a certain one who was speaking, how long will the vision be concerning the daily sacrifices and the transgression of desolation? The giving of both the sanctuary and the host to be trampled underfoot. Now you'll pick up in Daniel 9 and look at verse 25. It says this. Now therefore and understand that from the going forth of the command to restore and build Jerusalem until Messiah the Prince There shall be seven weeks and sixty-two weeks. The street shall be built again, and the wall even in troublesome times. And after the sixty-two weeks, Messiah shall be cut off, but not before him not for himself, and for the people of the prince who is to come shall destroy the city and sanctuary, and the end of it shall be with a flood. Until the end of the war, desolations are determined. Then he shall confirm a covenant with many for one week. But the middle of the week he shall bring that week, by the way, is talking about the tribulation period. But in the middle of the week, that's the middle of the tribulation period, he shall bring an end to sacrifice and offering, talking about the temple. Bring an end to it. And on the wing of abominations shall be one who makes desolate. Even under the consummation which determined is poured out on the desolate. So what we see from Daniel, and we're going to build on this, but what we see from Daniel is that there is going to be a A time in the future where the birth pangs are over. The time of relative peace in the first part of the tribulation is over. And now there is going to be an event where the sacrificings in the temple are going to cease. And we're going to see as we develop as it develops here, we're going to see how that takes place. In Daniel 11, 31, it says, The forces shall be mustered by and shall defile the sanctuary fortress, then they shall take away the daily sacrifices and place there the abomination of desolation. And Daniel twelve eleven it says, And from the time of the daily sacrifice is taken away, and the abomination of desolation is set up, then there shall be one thousand two hundred hundred and ninety days. And by the way, that is, if you calculate it, that is approximately three and a half years. How do we get the idea that there's going to be a seven-year tribulation? How do we get the idea that there's going to be a half of a first half and a second half? It's actually all from the book of Daniel, Daniel 9 and Daniel 11. You can't find that in the book of Revelation. That's all in the book of Daniel. And it says in, Jesus says that this abomination of desolation will be take will happen in the holy place. Now, some would interpret what Jesus is talking about to be the destruction of a temple that was going to occur in 70 A. D. But the abomination of desolation is not the destruction of the temple. It is the desecration of the temple by s by ceasing of sacrifices to God and the and and the setting up of idolatry in the temple. So it's a different event than the birth pang, if you will, of the of 70 AD and the temple that was destroyed at that point. Now further we see in Scripture that as we think about this idea of the abomination of desolation The temple being desecrated, we find that this is going to be done by a particular person. And we find this in 2 Thessalonians 2, verse 3, where it says, Let no one deceive you by any means. For that day will not come unless the falling away comes first. 2 Thessalonians talks it calls it the falling away. And the man of sin is revealed, the son of perdition, who opposes and exalts himself above all that is called God or that is worshipped so that he sits as God in the temple of God, showing himself that he is God. And this, of course, is the Antichrist. So there's going to be a leader, a world leader that comes on the stage in the middle of the tribulation period. who comes into the temple of Israel and ceases the sacrifices that apparently at that point are going on. and stands in the midst of the temple and claims himself to be God. He is the Antichrist. Antichrist. And we find a further description of this in John's description in Revelation chapter 13. Would you take your Bible and turn there for a moment? Revelation chapter 13, and we'll pick up in verses 11 through 18. Revelation chapter thirteen. Today is not that day. Revelation chapter 13, verse 11 says this. Then I saw another beast coming out of the earth, and he had turned And he he had two horns like a lamb and spoke like a dragon. And he exercises all the authority of the first beast in his presence, and causes the earth and those who dwell in it to worship the first beast Whose deadly wound was healed. So we find that there is some sort of deadly wound that was healed that is to mimic essentially what Christ happened with his wound. wounds. He performs great signs so that he even makes fire come down from heaven on the earth in the sight of men. He deceives those who dwell on the earth. But those signs which he granted to do in the sight of the beast, telling those who the beast by the way is Satan, those who dwell on the earth to make an image to the beast who was wounded by the sword and lived. He was granted power to give breath in the image of the of the beast. And the image of the beast uh should both speak and cause as many as would not worship the image of the beast to be killed. receive a mark on their right hand or on their foreheads, and that no one may buy or sell except one who has the mark or the name of the beast, or the number of his name Here is wisdom. Let him who understands calculate the number of the beast, for it is the number of a man. His number is 666. So at this abomination of desolation, he sets himself the Antichrist who represents Satan. The Antichrist is the Satan is the beast, and then it says Antichrist is the beast of the passage. They're representing uh Satan sets up his image as God and everybody must worship him. And those who don't are going to be destroyed. Now that's an important point to then bring us to verse 16 of Matthew 24. So would you take your Bibles and turn back there? Matthew 24 is going to tell uh going to explain then they will fill in a lot for us as to what is taking place. Now keep in mind it the disciples didn't have all of this at this point. But they did begin to understand that they were going to be in danger when the abomination of desolation took place. Matthew 24, verse 16. Then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains. Let him who is on the housetop. This is talking about the Jewish On the housetop, not go down to take anything out of his house, and let him who is in the field not go back to get his clothes. But woe to those who are pregnant and to those who are nursing babies in those days, and pray that your flight may not be in winter or on the Sabbath. For then there will be a great tribulation, such as not Since uh the beginning of the world, until this time no nor eat nor ever shall be, and unless the those days were shortened No flesh shall be saved, but the elect's sake, but for the elect's sake, those days will be shortened. So what do we have going on here? You've got, he says, he talks about this flight. This flight of the elect. Now, let's at this point just point out here that we're talking primarily about the nation of Israel But I think it's very likely that we're that we're all that we're probably also talking about Christians during this time, during the abomination of the desolation. Why do I say that? Well, number one, historically Christians have always Well, not always. But historically Christians have usually uh sided with Israel. Think of World War II. And Christians really helped Jewish people escape uh the clutches of Nazi Germany. And also Christians, true Christians, will not worship the Antichrist. And so you have the elect here that I think is probably a reference to both Christians and Jewish. people that are not going uh that are and saying you've got you're gonna have to they're gonna have to flee they're gonna have to flee the presence of this person and of the situation. We find a little bit more information about the tyranny of the Antichrist in Daniel chapter 7. I'll just read it to you. It says this and He shall speak pompous words against the Most High, shall persecute the saints of the Most High, and shall intend to change times and law. Then the saints shall be given into his hand Daniel twelve seven says this Then I heard the man clothed in linen who was above the waters of the river When he held up his right hand and his left hand to he to heaven, and swore by him who li who lives forever, and it shall be for a time, times and half a time, and when the power of the holy po peop uh of the holy people has been Revelation twelve fourteen. But the woman has given two wings of gr of a great eagle, and she might fly into the wilderness of her place, and And she is nourished for a time and time and half a time from the be presence of the serpent. Now what I'm not going to get into is all the different um uh the different the timeline and all what that means We did, by the way, do that back in when we went through the book of Revelation during a c during a uh an extended time during a Sunday school class, which is really the appropriate place to do that. There are certain things you just can't teach But what we see here then We pick up in verse 16 as we have we have a description of what is going to happen to Christians, to saints. To Jewish people who at this point probably have accepted the true true Christ, they've seen, I think, this is my my my thinking, is they've seen the prophecy, some of the prophecies fulfilled, they sort of seen what has taken place and they're you know in the middle of the tribulation period they've experienced the first three and a half years and they're beginning to see who Christ really is. And they are going to have to flee. And of course you have 144,000 there uh that are chosen to be witnesses during that time as well. And they are fleeing Well it says let those who are in Judea flee into the mountains. Why does it say that? Well, there's nowhere else to flee. It's not like they can go to any other kind of sovereign nation to escape the clutches of the Antichrist because He is has formed a one-world government at this point. And some would say, and then it says in the passage, don't uh if you're on the roof, don't go down to the house. uh to get to get anything out of the house. That is the it's talking about the urgency that they're going to have to flee and get out of danger, that there is going to be Very likely some sort of army that is deployed by the Antichrist who is going to go and snuff out those who will not worship. It was a very serious time. And then the need to flee quickly here. He says, let no one who is in the field go back and get his cloak. Back in those days you didn't go anywhere without your cloak. You'd be out in the field and you'd do things, but it was kind of like considered a a a matter of modesty to have a cloak over your Your s your other garment. They said there uh Jesus said there's gonna be no time for that. They're gonna have to flee and get out. There's g there's an urgency And then there's an extreme severity. He says how dreadful it will be for those who who are pre who women who are pregnant and nursing mothers. Hope that you're not pregnant or nursing. 'Cause you're gonna have to go so fast and go so hard and get into places where you d are uncomfortable and you're not gonna want to be that will that's gonna be an increased hardship. Talk about how severe this is. I mean Jesus is describing what is going to happen in such a way that it's very vivid, and you begin to see how serious and dangerous this time is. And the final warning states bluntly, pray that your flight may not be in winter or on the Sabbath. Pray that your flight may not be in winter or on the Sabbath. Why? Well in wintertime it would be make it even harder if it were in winter. Try to travel into the mountains during the winter time. And so is all of this is to point out that this how severe the persecution is going to be for the nation of Israel when this event takes place. And then it says this, it goes even farther. Verse 21. For then there will be a great tribulation. Now the second half of the Tribulation period is called a gr the Great Tribulation. Such as has not been since the beginning of the world unto this time, no nor ever shall be The severity, the danger, the pain, the turmoil, we've never seen anything like it before, and it never will be that severe again. He's describing how how hard the tribulation period will be. Now this is probably this is really important because If you think of times in our world's history, we've there's been some very hard times. To me, probably the most, in my mind, the most severe time in our world's history probably was Nazi Germany, as far as I can tell. And yet it will be more severe than that. Very, very severe times during this tribulation period. Now Daniel backs this up. Daniel chapter 12, verse 1 says it this way, and that time the great prince will stand uh who stands Watch over the sons of your people, and there shall be a time of trouble, such as never was sent such as never was since there was a nation Even to that time, and at that time your people shall be delivered, everyone uh who is found written in the book. In Revelation 14, 20 it says, and the wine press was trampled outside the city, and blood came of the winepress up to the horses' bridles. That's how bad the bloodshed is going to be during this time. In Revelation 16, verse 10, it says, The fifth angel poured out his bowl on the throne of the beast, and his kingdom became full of darkness, and they gnawed their tongues because of the pain. It's how severe the pain will be during this these end-time tribulation period. Then it says in verse 22, just to uh continue to reiterate how severe this time will be, it says verse 22. twenty two and unless those days were shortened, no flesh would be saved. What is he saying? He's not saying that there's a possibility of it being short. And he's simply saying if there was no cutoff to the severity of what was going to happen, there would be zero people left. It would all be, it would all be decimated. But notice what it says then. But for the elect's sake, the saints For the people whom God is preparing for the elect's sake, those days will be shortened. See, God actually has a plan in all of this. You see, I don't understand how could God allow all of this And I want us to remember this that the reason that Israel must be chastened Along with anyone else who worships in idolatry is because of the nature of idolatry. Idolatry is such a severe digression into sin that God says it must be punished severely. And if you remember back in the Old Testament, over and over and over and over again, God gave Israel many, many, many, many chances to repent. He sent prophet after prophet after prophet. And in many cases, Israel, do you remember this? Israel stoned the prophets. The very people that were messengers of God come and warn them of what was going to happen. In other words, you have to take all of what all of Scripture To begin to understand what God is doing in a severe situation like this The fact is, we love to think of God as a kind, loving Heavenly Father, and He certainly is. But God is one who cannot tolerate sin. And if his people refuse to repent, there will be chastening. There will be judgment. And that's what we see from this passage. In fact, what we find in Scripture, and I think this is very important for us to understand. Because it tells us something of the character of God and really helps us to understand how we, as the people of God, must learn to live in light of who God is. In Zechariah chapter 13. It says this, and it shall come to pass in all the land, says the Lord, that two thirds of it shall be cut off and die, but one third shall be left in it. I will bring the one-third through the fire, will refine them as silver is refined, and test them as gold is tested. They will call on my name and I will answer them. I will say, This is my people, and each one will say, The Lord is my God. Behold, the day of the Lord is coming, and your spoil will be divided in your midst, for I will gather all the nations of the battle against Jerusalem The city shall be taken, the houses rifled, the women ravished. Half of the city shall go into captivity, but the remnant of the people shall not be cut off from the city. There is a teaching in the Old Testament about that there is always a remnant. God's desire has always been for the nation of Israel to follow after him. To accept the provision that he made in Christ for them to come to him. The problem was that Israel would not trust God. They would not depend upon God. They instead, over and over and over again, desired to depend upon themselves. God said, don't make alliances with other nations. But because they felt fearful that God, they didn't trust that God would protect them. They made alliances with other nations. What was this? This was a failure to trust God and a choice to make alliance with other nations so that they uh out of fear And ultimately, those, that was the connection to idolatry. As they made these alliances, these alliances came with idols. and false gods that ultimately were adopted by the people and marriages, multiple marriages, and these kings that you of course know of, the polygamous relationships that God also said don't do. All of this was as a result that Israel chose to depend upon themselves and their own understanding and their own ways instead of depending on themselves. It has been God's desire from the very beginning that his people depend on him. Isaiah 10 brings this out very, very well. It says in that passage, it shall come to pass in the day of the remnant of Israel, and such as have escaped the house of Jacob. Will never again depend on him who defeated them, but will depend on the Lord, the Holy One of Israel in truth. The remnant will return, the remnant of Jacob to the mighty God. For though your people, O Israel, be as the sand of the sea, a remnant of them will return. The destruction decree shall overflow with righteousness. What is God's purpose in all of this? God's purpose in all of this is ultimately that He would create a people or He would mold a people. Through tribulation and chastening to become a people that would truly trust and depend on him fully. Now I have a simple question. Are you and I those kinds of people? Do we depend on God? Do we trust in Him? Or do we lean on our own understanding? Do we acknowledge Him in all our ways? So that he can direct our paths? Or are we so fearful that we're going to trust ourselves? We're going to trust our own methods, our own ways. We're going to compromise where we think we need to compromise. We're going to do what we think we need to do to do what we need to do Instead of trusting God. God's, you want to know God's will for your life? Dependency. In one word, if there's one word that you could use to really understand what God's will for your life is, it is to be utterly dependent on you. upon him. And God will go to great lengths to bring things into our lives. To cause things to happen in our lives that bring us to a place of dependency on Him if we're truly His children. Remember in Hebrews it says that whom the Lord loves, he chastens. If we're not chastened, if we're self-dependent and independent, And not dependent upon God, and God does not work in our lives things that cause us to come back to Him and depend upon Him, then maybe we are not really His children at all. The fact is, God works these things out in our lives so that we truly depend on them. That is his desire. On a personal note, we need to trust that God knows. What does it mean to depend upon the Lord? Number one, you've got to trust that God knows Number two, trust that God knows best. You say, well, I don't like my life. I don't like my circumstances. This is not what I expected. This is not going the way I planned. God knows best. God knows, and God knows best. And number three, God will provide what is best. Well, that's not what I think. I don't think God's providing the way I want God to provide. I don't think God's providing the way He shouldn't provide God knows what's best, and God will provide what's best. The key is for us to come to a place of utter dependency. On God. That is always God's desire for His children. Are we at that place? Are we in a place where we are totally dependent upon the Lord? God desires for us to be in that place. Well, we see here in the passage then that finally Jesus does not He he he's now talking to his disciples and he wants them to not be deceived. There have been discussions as to in fact the the funny th I want us to think about it this way The disciples up to this point, which we've mentioned before, expected Jesus to set up his kingdom right then. And Jesus you know, maybe for the very first time explicitly, is about to say that there is actually going to be a second coming. This is not something that Israel ever would have figured out. In the Old Testament, it would always say, I'm coming, I'm coming, I'm coming. But the idea that there would be a first coming and then a second coming Yeah, that's normal to us. We know that as Christians, right? We see Scripture and we are aware of that. We know He came before. We celebrate Christmas and we know He's coming again. This is not a hard concept for us. But for them, Jesus is about to say, I'm coming again. But Jesus doesn't want them to mistake a pseudo coming for the true coming of Christ. And by the way, has that not been the case sometimes throughout history? church history. I mentioned some crazy times where people predicted the coming of Christ. I mean you have people like Joseph Smith who said that he saw God and brought up brought back a book and all these different things and you have different there have been all kinds of of uh erroneous and false prophecies and all kinds of things throughout history And God, but God, Christ did not want us to be deceived. And so he gives very specific instructions here. Notice what it says in Matthew 24. twenty three. We need to clearly identify the second coming of Christ. Then if anyone says to you, Look here is the Christ, or there, do not believe it. For false Christs and false prophets will rise and show great signs and wonders to the second He says there's going to be people that say, hey, Christ is over here, he's the Messiah, he's the Savior. Or there's false Christs, there's false prophets, there are people that are saying that God said something to them when God didn't say anything to them. Those kind of things And frankly, that is not just during the tribulation period. That has happened from the you know for the last 2,000 years. It's probably just going to be very much more prolific during the first hit during the the the the tribulation period. Verse 25. See I have told you beforehand Therefore, if they say to you, look, he is in the desert, do not go out, or look, he is in the inner rooms, do not believe it. For as the lightning comes from the east and flashes to the west, so also will the coming of the Son of Man be What is he saying here? He's saying this. There are different claims that will happen, there are different ideas of when crisis will come or people. They're saying that he has already come, those kind of things. And what Jesus is saying to his disciples back then is that it is going to be obvious. You are not going to mistake the coming of Christ. It is going to be obvious to everyone. It's not subtle. It's not, oh, he's hidden over in a room. Oh, he's out in the desert or he's No, it is something that is very clear, and it will be very clear, and it will be very, very obvious to all. And he wants them to understand that so that they're not deceived. And so what we see here is a contrast because the Bible actually tells us that there are many antichrists. Said that very in the very much in 1 John in the first century. And so what we need to understand is that Satan in his ways are is very subtle. And Satan, the way that he works is he wants he works by method of a counterfeit. In other words, he wants people to be deceived to think that they're following the truth when they're really not. But Satan in his working is always subtle. He's always sneaky. There's always an underhanded deception in the way that he works. When Jesus comes back, it's going to be very, very obvious to all. And so you have this Antichrist, uh the Antichrist, uh this the subtlety there, and then you have the what is obvious there. This is also described, says it says the passage, for as the lightning comes from the east and flashes to the west, so also will the coming of the Son of Man be. This is also mentioned in Revelation chapter 1, verse 7. Behold, he is coming Coming with the clouds, and every eye will see him. Even they who pierced him, and all the tribes of the earth will mourn because of him, even so, amen. And then in Revelation chapter 6 it says this the kings of the earth, the great men, the rich men, the commanders, the mighty men, every slave and every free man hid themselves in the caves and the rocks of the mountains, and said to them The way that God works, God works in very obvious in the light In clarity, God works in that way. And it's important for us to understand. We see 28, verse 28, that there is a a corruption there. What Jesus is saying finally in verse Matthew 24-28 it says where wherefore the carcass is, there is the there the eagles will be gathered. Things during the tribulation period will get as evil as they possibly can, and guaranteed when it's as evil as it possibly can't can come, that is when Christ will come It's just sort of illustrating that. In verse 29 then, we have these natural signs, these heavenly disturbances. And we see uh we see there uh it says verse twenty nine, immediately after the tribulation of those days, the sun will be darkened, the moon will be given given its light, and the stars will fall from the heavens, and the powers of the heavens will be shaken. Now, there are this is throughout Scripture we see these different things. You may want to write some of these down. Zechariah chapter 12, verses 10 through 11 prophesies some of this. We see the sun will be darkened in Isaiah 13, 10. It says, For the stars of heaven and their constellation will not give their light. The sun will be darkened and And in Isaiah 34, 4, you have the stars will fall from heaven. This is why what is all this pointing to? It's all pointing to the fact that we When Jesus comes, it is going to be very clear and very obvious, and every eye will see, and every and actually every knee will bow as well. You see these heavenly appearances then in verses 30 through 31. You have here, pick up in verse 30, it says, Then the sign of the Son of Man will appear in heaven. And then all the tribes of the earth will mourn, and they will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of the heaven with power and great glory. And he will send his angels with a great sound of a trumpet, and they will gather together his elect from the four winds from one end of the heaven to the other. Now, very simply, what he's talking about here in in basic general terms is that during the second coming this there will also be uh the gathering of the judgment. And I would take this to mean that there will be the the the Angels will from all all from from the four winds of the earth, talking about the four winds of the universe, from all from uh from everywhere, they will come and they will be distinguished Those who are who need to be who are saved and who are not for the time of judgment. And we see this from Matthew chapter 13. Matthew chapter 13, verse 41 says this, the Son of Man will send out his angels, and they will gather out of his kingdom all things that offend. And then in the same chapter, Matthew 13, 49, it says, so it will come to the end of the age, and the angel So that's the role of the angels is a separating those who are Christians from those who are not, so that there will be a judgment finally of the first time. Matthew twenty five thirty one when the Son of Man comes in glory and all the holy angels with him, then he will sit on the throne of So the question is is this. Where will you be? On what side will you be on? Are you truly a Christian or are you not? There will be no middle gr there is no middle ground now actually, but there will be no middle ground then. Some that would s like to suggest that uh a non-Christian is you know you know I I I'm kind of a Christian or I'm I'm um you know I'm I'm uh I'm I yeah I'm I'm I'm I'm I think I'm okay The Bible is very clear in Scripture that you are either a Christian or you are not. You are either one who follows after Christ or one who is not. And God desires for Christians, for true Christians, to be confident, to look forward to the second coming of Christ. Christ, as the hope of the believer. We find this in 1 John 2, verse 24. Therefore, let that abide in you which you heard from the beginning. If what you heard from the beginning abides in you, you also will abide in the Son and in the Father. And this is the promise that he has promised us, eternal life. These things have I written to you Concerning those who uh try to deceive you, but the anointed which you have received from from him abides in you. And you do not need anyone teach you, but as the same anointing teach you And now, little children, abide in him, that when he appears we will have confidence and not be ashamed before him at his coming. If you know that he is righteous, you know that everyone who practices righteousness is born of him. There are three things ultimately that we can learn. Well, there's probably more, but that we should learn from this. Number one, God desires for us to realize that we are living in His redemptive program. We are living during a time between the first Advent of Christ and the second Advent of Christ. We are living in a current age that calls us to do what God has called us to do, and that is really to bring the gospel of the kingdom to all. God wants us to realize that that we are living this way. Number two, God will take whatever action necessary for His People to depend on him. Do you see the great lengths that God goes to getting his people to depend on him? If we are truly his people, God will go He is patient and loving and kind, but his desire is for us to truly And number three, we can avoid the deception of those who claim to take the place of Christ because we know exactly what the coming of Christ is. will look like. We can avoid that deception. We know what Christ is look like. Don't ever be the Bible tells us not to be tossed to and fro by every wind of doctrine. Why is it important to understand the events of the Second It is important to understand the second the events of the second coming because there are many that will try to deceive, and we God does not want us to be deceived. We need to understand, we're going to see this more as we go on in the book of Matthew, but we need to understand that there is actually an eminency to the coming of Christ in the rapture. It doesn't teach that here, but we need to understand that there that Christ is going to come for us. And that should cause us to want to purify according to 1 John. John, purify ourselves even as he is pure. God desires for us to live in light of his second coming. Let's go Lord and pray Father, we come to you and thank you for who you are. We thank you for the events and the truth from Matthew twenty. twenty four. We pray, Lord, that you would help us to not be deceived by false doctrine, to not be deceived by those who would claim to be um claim to uh know of the coming of Christ or uh to know uh of various uh to to to teach Be true to your word and to know your word and to be faithful to it so that we are not deceived. And Lord, I pray that you'd help us to see your heart here this morning. And desiring for you to for us as your people to be dependent upon you in our lives, I pray, Lord, that if there are if we are not, if we are But attempting to depend upon ourselves, our own understanding, our own ways, if we are compromising in some way, Lord, may we realize the need to depend upon And Lord, if there is someone here that doesn't truly know you as their Lord and Savior, I pray today would be a day hearing of what is going to happen in the future would cause them to want To be on the right side, to be a follower of Christ. We thank you that your word tells us that you're not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute To thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet. or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help you. Help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee. And join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call So we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.