Heavenly Father, we again come with grateful and thankful Thankful hearts. And Father, we have those who are unable to be with us today. And we want to lift them up to you and pray that uh Father you would comfort them and encourage them. them and uh father i pray that their hearts and their minds will be stayed upon you and lord i do lift up to you uh pastor jem and elizabeth as uh brother josh has spoken Lord, we're grateful for the ministry that you've called him to. And Father, we're grateful for his faithfulness. And Father, we know that uh times we need refreshing and times we need Rest and uh I just pray that he's away this week that uh you will give him a refreshing time, a time of rest, a time of enjoying his family together. And to spray your hand of blessing on them and your protection around them and bring them back safely to us. And as we come to your word this morning for those who are unable to be here and those of us who are here, I pray you would prepare our hearts and our minds, Lord. Help us to set aside all the distractions. And And that Lord your Spirit would guide us and lead us. And I pray that you be with Brother Enrique and uh just give him the abilities and uh Lord to present your word and Help us to have ears that are open and eyes desiring to see your truth. And I pray that we will be changed more and more into your image as we leave this place today. When we came in, and we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. I will be reading this morning from uh Philippians, and we are in chapter one, and And we're going to begin in chapter 3 and go to verse 11. I mean verse 3. Chapter 1, verse 3. I thank my God upon every remembrance of you. Always in every prayer of mine making requests for you and with all joy. For your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now. Being confident of this very thing, that he who began a good work in you will complete it until the day of Jesus Christ. Christ, just as it is right for me to think this of you all, because I have you in my heart, inasmuch as both in my chains and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel. You all are partakers with me of grace. For God is my witness. How greatly I long for you, all of you, with the affection of Jesus Christ Christ. And this I pray that your love may abound still more and more in knowledge and in all discernment. That you may approve the things that are excellent, that you may be sincere and without offense till the day of Christ, being filled with the fruits of righteousness Which are by Jesus Christ to the glory and praise of God. Thank you, Harry. So it's great to be back with you all. We did uh end up having a uh vacation right before VBS. We uh got uh for the second time got to go to a family camp. uh Christian camp uh is actually where Miranda and I went to school uh in college. And um it was a tremendous time of uh being with uh fellow believers in that in that atmosphere and we also got to see uh Miranda's folks in Wisconsin and um great time together and uh I just want to say too that um Through various conversations, I'm reminded of how I think unique Bethel Baptist Church is. There is a uh there's a lot of undue heartache and uh difficulties that are coming from from other places and that's that's not to elevate Bethel, that's not to say that we're perfect because we're not, but my goodness, the more and more I I hear of certain people and their tet and their stories and what they've gone through in various churches, churches that name the name of Christ, I just wonder. I wonder. And I I I pray for them and I I hurt for them because uh I think God is blessing us in a major way. So keep praying, because it can be lost, right? Keep praying along those lines that God would keep us faithful. That God would keep us centered on the truth, have Christ maintained as the head of our church, and that no one else would supplant him. Well, we have here in the the epistle to the Philippians uh this section of thankfulness and prayer and you may have been here uh when I preached uh verses three through seven last time. But I did mention at that time that um three preaching through three through seven was actually a surprise for me. I I hadn't planned that. I actually was studying eight uh through eleven And God directed me more towards those first few verses. So I preached through there and what we uh what we discussed that time was that What we are thankful for reveals, can reveal, can be a revealer of what we value. Can be a revealer of what we value. We see here the things that Paul is thankful for. We saw in this that he is thankful for their fellowship in the gospel. He's thankful also because of that confident expectation that he has of the work that God is doing in the Philippian believers, that he will Complete it. He will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. And that isn't a baseless confidence. That confidence is based on the fruit of their faith. What they uh demonstrate. From being saved. It's a work that isn't a natural work, it is a supernatural work. And he verifies that and sees that in their life, and so he is confident because of that And in verse 7, he says that it is right for him to think this of you because of this connection that he has with them, and because they have partaken in the ministry of the gospel with him. We even mentioned that time where it's almost as if the Philippians were so closely knit with Paul that they were imprisoned with him too. they sort of linked up with him to such a level that it was like that. Um We saw here that the closeness the closeness that we have as believers should cause us to be thankful for one another. We should be thankful for the work that is being done in your own individual lives, and we should be thankful for what God is doing in all of the individual lives that are in a local church But this joyful thankfulness doesn't stop there. This joyful thankfulness that Paul has actually propels him to pray. And he has a particular type of prayer. This does impact our prayer life. As we mature in Christ, our priorities in prayer and prayer change. Have you noticed that? When you were first saved, what were the things that you prayed for? Maybe you were a child, maybe you were a teenager, maybe you were an adult, but what were the types of things that you prayed for? Some of those things I'm sure have carried over, but uh some of those original prayers, perhaps you noticed, are a little bit faulty. A little bit uh that maybe they they contained some error in them. And you have matured in that and you have grown in that aspect. Well, what about when it comes to praying for your fellow believers? You know, just as What we are thankful for reveals what we value. What we pray for also reveals what we value. And I will go as far as to say that what we pray for in relationship to our brothers and sisters in Christ also demonstrates what we value. And more on that to come. What we want to do today is look at this prayer in Philippians chapter 1. And we want to compare it, number one, with our lives in our prayers. We want to do that. is what we value also, the second thing that we how we want to apply this is do we uh what we value in our own Christian growth. Because we see here that There is a significant emphasis in Paul's prayer, not on the physical, but on the spiritual And so when we look at our own maturation in Christ, when we look at our own Christian growth, are we valuing the same things that Paul is praying for? Does the content of our prayer mimic the priorities found in this prayer? Does the pursuit of our lives spiritually mimic the priorities found in this prayer? So we will see this morning what a properly prioritized prayer life looks like. I didn't really mean to alliterate that, but perhaps it'll be memorable. Uh we will see this morning what a properly prioritized prayer life looks like. Three uh elements to this, a properly prioritized prayer life for fellow believers stems from a sincere compassion And it is centered on spiritual growth, and it has the day of Christ in view. It stems from sincere compassion. It is centered on spiritual growth, and it has the day of Christ in view. So, first off from verse 8, we see our prayers for each other must stem from a sincere compassion. Let's look at verse 8 again. For God is my witness how greatly I long for you. How greatly I long for you all with the affection of Jesus Christ. In the life of a church. The longing for each other or desire for one another or the love for each other is to be maintained and growing. Again, this is really, this verse acts as a link from the thanksgiving part of his letter to the prayer part of this chapter. And the joyful thankfulness that binds a group of believers together causes our affections toward one another to grow, to become stronger. But this isn't a work that happens naturally. I mean, think about it for a moment. We even in our church we have multiple ethnicities represented. We have many backgrounds. We have different financial statuses. If that's even the right word, and so forth. And yet the common denominator of the gospel that we have placed our faith in Christ Unites a various a variety of people together in a local church. And there are churches that are even more diverse than ours across this world. This doesn't happen. Do you realize that? Sh you know, the people you work with, you just sort of ended up working with them. Unless you are the you know the one who does all the hiring. You know, that's out of your control. The people you live around out of your control. All of that out you if you're here at Bethel today I think you chose to be here unless maybe you're an unwilling uh child that wanted to stay home today, and your parents made you come But that's the reality, right? You chose to come here and for those who are members you chose to commit to this body of believers. You did that willingly. You did that because you wanted to be here. And you know there's a there are multiple personalities in this group as well. Some of you would rather just stay home. And be like in a dark room seeing nothing but maybe a blank wall, and that's how you'd like to spend your day. Um not because you you're you're sad or depressed, but just because too many people makes you feel like it's just too many people. And so, how does God do this? Well, there is a binding aspect that we see in the gospel. It unites, it brings people of all walks of life together. So it is a super super natural thing. The affection here that we have towards each other that, Lord willing, is growing for one another is something that that keeps us together. You know what what is a remarkable thing in the life of a local church? Is the more we end up serving together, the more linked up we become. Do you notice that? Have you noticed that? Uh you know, a a a uh a a r a way that that takes place actually just happened last week, right? Where we had vacation Bible school. And that is sort of an intense week. Not as intense as it has been some years, right? We dialed it back some, which I think was wise. But even so, in the way that we were able to get together under a a a A gospel cause, and there were multiple facets and multiple moving parts. We were all serving together. Another way that that those affections grow is when we spend time with each other in each other's homes. When we get together in that aspect. And we're, yeah, we can have conversations here, and those are important, and you can have phenomenal conversations at the the place that we meet. But when we get together sometimes outside of that, and we we are together in in those different atmospheres That can be something that's incredibly important. And that's why I think and w we we believe that the you know the home groups are are a valuable part of our body life. Because we we get an element of that in those times. Those affections grow for each other. We become more close together, closely knit together, or welded together, you might say Now it says here in verse 8, how greatly I long for you. This is this desire that he has for them. This uh this affection, this desire towards them. It is a love for the believers in Philippi. And he says, though, he qualifies it with by saying this, he says, with the affection of Jesus Christ. You know, the compassion that he has for these believers isn't necessarily something that naturally sprung up within Within Paul. What this is saying here is that the source of this affection comes from Christ. Comes from Him. It is true that none of us can love one another the way God commands without a supernatural work being done. in us. Do you remember how the Lord Jesus commanded us to love one another? Remember that in John 13 He says, a new commandment I have given to you, that you love one another as I have loved you. How has Christ loved us? Now he hadn't completely demonstrated that love at the time of saying that, but he was about to. He was that was the night before he was going to be crucified He gave himself for us, right? And so what we see here is that if we're going to obey that command, It is a love that we have for each other, but it is not generated just from ourselves. It is something, it is a work that God does in us. What this does then is it causes us to want to help each other to serve each other, but also pray for each other. And it directs the contents of our prayers But this does come from a genuine source of Christ working in us. And so we see that here in verse 8, and then in verse 9, he launches into this. He says, And this I pray. This is what his prayer is for the Philippian believers. And I don't think we have the time necessarily to turn to every single one, but if you look at the various prayers for the churches. That he writes to, you're going to find very similar content for of his prayers. And have you ever, before we launch into this, If you've read the Pauline epistles and you you've seen what he prays for, he prays for their knowledge, he prays for their love. for each other. He prays for their unity. He prays for such variety of things. But have you noticed what is significantly absent from these prayers? The physical. Right? When you look at the the prayers of Paul, two local churches. It is significantly the the the the the tone, the content, the direction is always on spiritual things. spiritual growth. And so that will we that's what we see here from verses nine and ten. Not only does a properly prioritized prayer life find its source in Christ, Christ drives our love for one another, but it also directs the content of our prayers. Our prayers for fellow believers in this church must be centered. on spiritual growth. So our prayers for each other must be centered on spiritual growth. We see in this verse here, it says, and this I pray, that your love may abound still more and more in two ways, in knowledge and discernment. Right? That's what it says here. So let's first look at this word abound. Well, really, abound still more and more. This um this is a fascinating way to to uh to read to mention this and say this prayer. He says the the w the verb there is abound. It does mean to be present in abus in abundance or to to um to build up, to grow, to to basically overflow whatever container it might be in, that sort of idea And it this really the way it is said is is done in the most dynamic ways possible because it says Still more and more. Now just saying abound could have gotten the the idea across just fine Saying abound more could get the idea across even more. Saying abound more and more would even grow it from there. But he says abound still more and more. What he's showing us here is that he prioritizes this growth of love. He sees this as such importance. He views it with such an emphatic necessity. And he's delivering that to the Philippians by saying it this way. Praying that someone's love abounds is something I'm sure that we can all get on board with, right? There's a lot of unloving folks out there, unsaved, but there's sometimes in the body of believers there are also unloving folks However, I don't know about you, but when I read this, when I see the words, I pray that your love would abound more and more. I would not naturally expect the next two words, would you? How does one abound in love in these two ways that it talks about here Because I would have expected something like, and this I pray that your love would abound more and more in giving. Or abound more and more in service, right? And maybe that's because we have in the back of our minds like the five love languages and we we sort of cradle everything in in that realm. Um that's that's like the container that we put love in. But apparently that container is way too small because we see here that abounding in love Still more and more is prayed for in knowledge and discernment. Now what does that mean What does that mean here? The areas that we should be continuing to abound in love, the first is knowledge. The idea in this passage, as one commentator put it, is that the most basic elements In which foster love is not service, is not kind words is not physical touch, it's not any of those types of things. Actually when you get back to the rudimentary idea of what love is, it comes down to knowledge and discernment. How does that look? Well, think about it this way. If you are to love something or someone Or love a certain act or something of that nature. If you have inaccurate knowledge about a situation or a someone, can you love incorrectly? Can you uh get go about it in a particularly wrong way? Yeah, it is possible to do that Where does our love come from? We just talked about it. It stems from Jesus Christ, right? We love because He first loved us. So the idea then is that if we are to love, if we are to grow in our love. Then the quality of our love, how does that grow? It comes from knowledge. Now the question would be then Now, admittedly, he the the writer Paul is extremely vague in this, because he doesn't say of what directly. And so this is where I get a lot of commentary help. But he he says here, knowledge and insight. So the idea here, first of all, with knowledge. Is that the knowledge pertains to a couple of different things? We see uh later on, the context will also help us here. Is that what is the result of abounding in love, in knowledge, and discernment? Verse 10, it says, that you may approve the things that are excellent And that you may be able to be sincere without offense to the day of Jesus Christ. So with that coming next, we can basically narrow down quite well what this knowledge is talking about. How do we end up being blameless and being filled with the fruits of righteousness? How do we end up being sincere or pure, as it means? Well, it takes place by a growing knowledge of God and His truth. You cannot grow spiritually without growing in the knowledge of God and His truth. Truth. Knowledge of God and the knowledge of God's truth. This is how we grow in love. You want to you want your quote unquote love life to be impacted positively? Know the author of love. God is love, right Know the author of love better, and you will grow in your knowledge, and you will grow in your love. You will abound more and more in it. This is a knowledge, this knowledge of God and His truth, it is a growing to maturity. It is a growing uh towards completeness. What this really shows, I think, as well, is that this is not something that will happen automatically for every believer. This takes diligence on our part. This takes study. This takes um prioritization in our time. We must set aside time to know our God. We must set aside time to study his word, study his truth. He says here that you may abound still more and more in knowledge This love abounds more and more in the category or in the realm of the knowledge of God and the knowledge of his truth. Really, though, this shows that our love could abound, but it could also be diverted, right? I think that's a critical element to this is that if this is commanded and this is the way we are to pursue, then it's possible that we pursue other loves, other false loves, erroneous loves, areas in which we will not actually abound more and more in knowledge and discuss But on top of that, more importantly, looking at this begs us to ask ourselves the questions first Are we growing in the knowledge of God and his truth? And second, are we praying for that very thing for our fellow believers? Are we growing in the knowledge of God and His truth? And are we praying for that very thing for our fellow believers? Are we growing? And is our priority to pray this type of growth in others? So this first aspect of abounding in love is found in knowledge. But part of the completeness is its ability to apply what is known to the practical aspects of life. And that's where we see here in all discernment. Now discernment, I think, is a typical word that we're we're used to, likely. The word could also be translated judgment. Not in a condemning sense, but in a in a in an evaluation of of circumstances, evaluation of things and and making a uh taking a stance, for instance. It also has translated depth of insight. It occurs here only in the New Testament. This is the only spot. But what we see here is that this conveys or this has the idea of moral discretion In other words, it is the application of the knowledge that we're talking about. So abounding more and more in the knowledge of God and his truth. And then it is taking that knowledge and applying it in different circumstances of life. Really, another word we could put here is wisdom. Is wisdom. You know, knowledge by itself, we find out from 1 Corinthians 8 1, what does it say there? It says it puffs up. Or another way to say it is it makes proud. But it says in that same verse, love edifies. And so we begin to see this importance, this connection here, that if if knowledge is by itself Yes, we can gain great we can make great gains in our relationship with God, but if it's left unchecked, it could just result in arrogance, and it can just result in a proud heart No, we need to skillfully apply that knowledge of truth and the knowledge of God in ourselves, in the lives of others, if we have opportunities to counsel, and then of course in our prayer life as well for others. And so God wants us to have loving knowledge And loving discernment in tandem. That's what Paul is praying for How much wisdom do you think we need to navigate this life in the world that we live today? I think all of us would probably say something like, more than I have. Right? I we at the uh uh one of the sessions that we were at together um at our at our family camp Uh I I chuckled with the guy who was chuckling when he he referenced James 1 and it and he where it says, if any man lacks wisdom, let him ask of God. And he's and he says he chuckles at if Like, there's a possibility that one of us don't. I don't know that that's exactly what it means, but it was funny. Like, yeah, okay, that's funny, James, if guess you got it together more than I do. But no, we we almost always lack wisdom, right? We must grow in our knowledge of God and His truth if we are to be properly discerning. Do we value the knowledge of God and his truth as we should? We cannot be discerning in different matters of life if we do not have accurate views of God and his truth. And our love must it must abound in this arena. And then so we take this small section of this letter and let's talk about this for a moment. Do we value the knowledge of God and his truth enough so that we pray? This way for others. Think about it for a moment. How much does this differ potentially from how we pray for others? You know, when we when we many of our prayers for believers, and I look I I include myself in this, I I I was convicted in in multiple areas with this, is that we do pray for wisdom a lot for others. We do that, don't we? I think we do That does come up a lot. But we sometimes lack this praying for abounding in love and knowledge of God and this truth. component. If someone is going through a particularly difficult time, what do we normally do? What do we normally think If we ourselves are going through a particularly different time, it's often we want the difficult time removed, right? And we pray that way. If someone else is going through a difficult time, we often pray that that time would be removed. We want the bad things gone and the good things to stay. Right. And I don't I'm not an advocate of never praying that God would heal or God would remove. But should that be our emphasis? I wonder. I wonder if maybe we have our priorities a little bit out of whack there. Because what's more important in the life of a believer? That the difficulty be removed, or that they abound more and more in the knowledge of God and His truth? And that they abound more and more in the application of that truth and wisdom. We don't see that type of prayers really in the letters of the New Testament almost at all. I can think of one in 2 Corinthians 12 where Paul uh asks for the tormentor to be removed from him. He asks for it three times, right? But God says, no, my grace is sufficient for you. And he learns a valuable, valuable lesson, right? That God's strength is made perfect in weakness, and he will rather glory in his infirmities. You know, last year, uh about this time, I um Um I suffered a uh self-inflicted injury. And um uh don't put a blade in your leg. I I don't recommend it. However, um you know that that was uh that was not a time that I would have selected for myself. And then it didn't heal properly, so I needed a surgery uh in August of last year. And that was another setback, and then it was the recovery period, and you know So much focus, it it was interesting. I don't think I've even told this to anybody because I don't think about it often, but I was in a Starbucks uh sometime after the surgery, and This very outgoing lady came up to me and I I had saw her with a group um over in the corner and they were very intent on something. And um and then she came up to me and just started talking and we talked a little bit and she found out I was an elder in the church and And um through various things she mentioned how religious she was and and then she said, Well, can I pray for you? And I said Weird, but okay. And and uh and you know, I don't know this person, she doesn't know me, but obviously she's a very exuberant lady. And um and I said, Well yeah, sure, you can You can pray for this situation uh with my with my leg. And it was, you know, at the time I didn't know how it was gonna heal. I didn't know if I would regain everything that I had before and even a year later it's not quite the same, but it does a lot better than it did, so I'm thankful for that But you know she went on an extensive prayer about how all the ways that the healing process could go wrong And how it should go right and not demanding of God, but basically, you know, claiming promises that aren't in the Bible to to make this, you know, heel uh this leg heel all the way whole again. And I I I went away from that after I got my coffee and um and I thought, man Everything that was prayed for was pretty much the things that God has put in place in my body already. You know what I mean? Like God made my body to heal, actually. Now did it you know if it heals perfectly or if it doesn't heal perfectly What kind of big deal is that, really, in the gram scheme of things? It's not. What's more important? You know, the things that I learned that I don't think I could have learned in any other way when when God had me go through a time of You know, severing one's own muscles completely through is not an easy thing to deal with. But God was dealing, teaching me to deal with physical pain. He was teaching me things during a long recovery process through physical therapy, through surgery, through anesthesia, all of these different things that I hadn't dealt with before. And what he was doing was he was teaching me, get this, about himself. And what else he was teaching me? About his truth. And what else he was teaching me? Wisdom. Application of that truth. And you know, the truth is that we must know that it is the same For every one of God's children. What are we more concerned about? Whether in times of peace Or in times of suffering, whether in times of relative ease or in times of difficulty, what is God doing? What is he teaching us? And you know what is you know what is a remarkable thing is that when we're going through difficulties when we're going through uh rather more importantly, like more specifically, different issues in our spiritual growth, have you ever found that you kind of have to learn the same lesson more than once? Have you ever found that man you're just not getting it in some area or another? Maybe it's because You haven't grown in the knowledge, you haven't abounded in love and the knowledge of God and His truth. You haven't abounded in the application of that truth. There's something lacking there and then so God has to take you through that classroom again. You have to retake it. When we go through different trials, when we go through different physical ailments I'm not saying that we shouldn't pray for healing. And I'm not saying that we shouldn't pray maybe for the end of a trial. But I am saying those aren't the priorities. What I see in the New Testament, the priority is spiritual growth. And it's emphasized here in this passage, and it's emphasized in almost all of the Pauline prayers. Now, this really does lead us to some critical results for our lives. There is a threefold result that we see here in verse 10. Really, so we see from verses 9 and 10, the result is abounding in love. So he's praying for that, and the result is you will abound in love. But first, it is to approve what is excellent. And we see that in verse 10: that you may approve the things that are excellent, that you may be sincere without offense till the day of Christ. And then it says, being filled with the fruits of righteousness which are by Jesus Christ to the glory and praise of God. So, what we're seeing here is, first of all, to prove what is excellent. The result of the knowledge of God and the knowledge of God applied Knowing what is right, it shows that we are able to distinguish what is wrong. Using the commands and principles of God, we are able to navigate and say, this Is sin, or this is wrong. This is error. This is false. This over here is true. This over here is excellent. This is good. We can properly do that. Second that we see here is the word is sincere, or the idea here is purity or pure The two words here together, honestly, they sort of form a a um they're they're they're in tandem a little bit. That you may be sincere and without offense. The uh the without offense is the same word as as blameless in other portions of the scripture. And so blameless uh pure and without offense. Now, what is this talking about? This can be a little confusing at first because we think, well, at face value, I'm not pure. God views me that way. because of the work of Christ. But uh that's not the reality right now, correct? So what does he mean? Well, the idea then is not really in the present, but in the future. Because it says here, Till the day of Christ. Just as he said back in verse six that he who uh that he was confident that he who had begun a good work in them would complete it until the day of Jesus. Christ, the that that day of Christ is still in view. And so what it's talking about here is the concept of you are growing In knowledge, you are growing spiritually, you are maturing in Christ until that ultimate day when you have been matured, when you have been completed in Christ. Fully, the presence of sin has been removed, and you are therefore pure and blameless, without offense But then it says here in verse eleven being filled with the fruits of righteousness. Um it uh says here this idea it does imply character. Does imply that sort of thing. And it is it is correctly uh written here that it's in the passive tense This is something, though, that isn't again generated by ourselves. We can see that, right? Being filled with the fruits of righteousness doesn't mean that we are filling ourselves with the fruits of righteousness. Somebody or something is doing that filling to us, and that yet again is Christ. One's testimony can be in view here, perhaps, but this context really we see that Paul has the end in mind. That we can be presented to God pure and blameless. In other words, acceptable to God through the work of Christ being done in you. So this goes well beyond a Christian life that we live for the temporal benefits of living a pure and blameless life, right? And view here is our perseverance, is our struggle, is our our our our struggle to stay on the way of salvation that God has designed for us. The first, you might say, the where it says approve what it ex what is excellent, that that looks to the time interval between the present situation And the return of the Lord. You see that, right? That can be that part. But we see here the part where it says, to be sincere and blameless, it takes perspective of the second coming. And it looks to the preparation of the church for that event. This is now further emphasized. Yes, prior properly prioritized prayer is sourced in our deep affection for each other, and the content is focused on the spiritual growth of fellow believers and the body of Christ. But also Our prayers must have the end in view. Must have the end in view. So We see here being filled with the fruits of righteousness which are by Jesus Christ to the glory and praise of God What are these fruits of righteousness? We already mentioned that this is not being done by us, it's actually being done to us. It's not our own accomplishment. This fruit includes a present benefit, but it really has to do with that future expectation, focusing on the future expectation In this flow of thought that we see here in the letter, it is to one day be with Christ. So what is the outcome of this fruit of righteousness? Do you see the outcome? You see what do you see here in verse 11 Why Paul is praying this way. It is towards or to the glory and praise of God. You might say in this passage, if you asked Paul, what what is the point of praying this way, Paul? Well it's so that God gains all the glory and all the praise. Why? Because it's his work in his people. It's his work in his people. It's not our work for our own sakes. It's not some convoluted combination of the two. No, it's God's work in his people. And when God's work in his people comes to fruition, he gains all the glory and all the praise. The day of Christ, that end, characterizes so much of the epistles And this glory of God motivates Paul's actions, it motivates his prayer, and it ought to motivate ours as well. We see here that the entire scope of salvation is an outworking of God's grace, and it is a furtherance of God's glory. So, as we come to the end of this passage and the end of this message, what are the applications that we can take home from this? I have several questions to consider. Number one, how are our affections toward each other? How are our affections toward each other? Remember we see here in verse 8 how greatly Paul longs or desires or has an affinity towards those believers in Philippi. And that that love, that affection is coming, is sourced in Christ. You know, a diminished love and a diminished gratitude Towards others in the body of Christ will inevitably diminish our prayers for other believers in the church. So, how are our affections toward each other? Second question: What is the content of our prayers for other believers? Do we merely seek for our maladies to be healed and the trials to end? Is that the scope of our prayers? Is that the priority of our prayers? Or do we pray, do we prioritize the spiritual growth in others' lives? I'm reminded of of uh Jesus. when when Peter um so remarkably incorrectly said that you know he's a would go to prison or go to the death for Jesus, right? And and he tells them, get behind me, Satan. And he says to him, Satan has desired to sift you. He's asked for you. He wants to ruin you and end you. And what did Jesus say? I have prayed for you. I have prayed for you. We should be constantly praying for our love to superabound in the knowledge of God and His truth. That should be the priority for each other. Our spiritual growth must become Do we pray with the end in view? Do we pray with the end in view? The next question. The day of Christ is a constant theme in the New Testament letters, and we see it in this prayer as well. And this portion of Thanksgiving, we should be praying that we stay on the path that God has for us to walk. The we are to be presented to the Lord, pure and blameless. And then fourthly, do you see, this is more for your individual or own uh introspection, do you see these marks of spiritually growing in your life? Are ailments and trials simply a burden that you want to go away? Or do you see them as a perfect thing from God to mature you? until the day of Christ. And perhaps you're here today and you say, you know, you've talked a lot, Enrique, about being accepted by God, acceptable by God, and you've Talked a lot about spiritual growing, but I I don't even think I have spiritual life that you're talking about. And perhaps you're here today and you actually are not certain where you stand before God, if you are right with him or if you are wrong with him. Today would be a great day. to get that straight because Jesus and God has not made it unclear in his word. He has made it clear that you can know how to have your sins forgiven and how you can spend eternity with Christ in heaven. This would be a great day to do that. If you want, you can talk to me afterwards or talk to Harry or one o someone else. That you're comfortable with. We can show you from the Bible how you can be accepted by God and made right with Him. All these things we see here I'm so thankful for portions of Scripture like this because it doesn't matter how long you have been a child of God, how long you have uh walked with him, how many times perhaps you have departed from him. It is passages like these that cause us to To refocus, to regain an understanding, and be reminded of certain things that can so easily fall by the wayside Both in our own personal walks and in our prayer lives for others. Let's go ahead and go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we're thankful today that you save us And that you guide us. We're thankful, Lord, that you in your wisdom have shown your goodness and greatness to us. We thank you, Lord, for our salvation. You have bought us. You have cleansed us. You have placed us on uh the path that we should go. But Lord, we we do admit and confess to you that we divert from that path at times Whether willingly or other times blindly, and we realize afterwards Lord, I ask that you would help us to view our difficulties and our ailments in view of what you are doing in us spiritually. May we not be distracted by the cares of life. May instead we keep Jesus as our focus. And may we continue to abound more and more, still more and more, in knowledge of you and your truth, and abound more and more in wisdom. We pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.