The text today that I'm going to be preaching from is Matthew uh Matthew chapter five. And the text is going to be dealing with some marital issues that are I I'm not going to it's not going to be explicit, but I am going to have to go into enough detail to be able to explain the text. With that in mind, we usually have junior church go up through about age, I think it's age through age seven. If you would like your kids to go to junior church today up through age twelve. then you are welcome to do that. I'm not going to be explicit, but I may be saying words that they're going to ask questions later. uh if I if they are here. And if you don't want those questions yet, then I feel free to if you want them, then that's fine. And it's not a bad place for them to ha have questions and then they come and ask you. It's not gonna be anything unbiblical, uh but I would encourage you, but if you're wondering about that, you have any questions about that. Now if you are 13 and above, you need this. Psalm one sixteen one through seven says, I love the Lord because he has heard my voice and my supplications, because he has inclined his ear to me, therefore I will call upon him as long as I live The pains of death surrounded me, and the pangs of Sheol laid hold of me. I found trouble and sorrow, then I called upon the name of the Lord. O Lord, I implore you, deliver my soul. Gracious is the Lord and righteous. Yes, our God is merciful. The Lord preserves the simple. I was brought low and he saved me. Return to your your rest, O my soul, for the Lord has dealt bountifully with you. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and praise you because you are a God who has truly dealt bountifully with you. with us. We are blessed beyond measure and you have taken care of us so well and you have shown us in your word that there is no level of self self-righteousness that is that is going to be up to your righteous standards. And we are learning that today as we look through the book of, as we look at Matthew chapter 5, we're going to see that very clearly this morning. as we've seen it last Sunday morning and um and we're going through the Sermon on the Mount. And we confess before you, Father, that we our hearts are so inclined to self-righteousness. And I pray, Lord, that instead you would help us all to see that there is nothing in of ourselves that is righteous and good. All of our righteousnesses are as filthy rags. And rather, we need to glory in the righteousness of Christ, and particularly that that righteousness has made available to us who place our faith and trust in Christ. And Lord, if there are some is are people here today that don't know you, that they're trusting in their own righteousness instead of Christ's righteousness given to them through the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. Lord, may today be the day that they understand that they cannot trust their own righteousness, but instead they must trust in the righteousness of Christ applied to their account May they understand that today. May we all be thankful for that. And we pray, Lord, that you'd help us to worship you in spirit and in truth this morning. And we pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen. Let's bow together in prayer. Heavenly Father, we come with grateful hearts this morning. And in great humility. Father, you are high and lifted up. You are most gracious and most merciful to us. And we are grateful and thankful for that And Father, we come before you this morning seeking to worship you in spirit and in truth. And Father, we ask that you would help us to prepare our hearts. That we would set aside all the cares and concerns of this week, and that we would draw near to your word as it's proclaimed. Father, help us not to be just hearers and not doers. But help us, Lord, to hear, to seek understanding. And seek, Father, your Spirit, to enlighten us and ponder what you teach us in your Word today, and that we would have the wisdom to be able to apply it in our own lives. And Father, we want to lift up those who are unable to be out with us this morning. And we would just ask your blessing on them and prepare their ears and their hearts for your word. And we pray for those who are not feeling well and ask that you would comfort them. And encourage them and strengthen them, Father. And we pray also for all that's going on in our nation and in our world, Lord. We ask for uh mercy and father I pray that you would work in the hearts of our nation and that uh Lord we would humble ourselves before you And Lord, that we would confess our weakness and our self-righteousness, and that we would seek you to help us, Lord, to come to know you. In a true way. And I pray particularly for our leaders that they would come to know you and put their faith and trust in you. And Father, we would ask that in all things you would hear us and come and heal this land. And we pray for those who are in wartime, Lord, and we pray for our Christian brothers and sisters, and particularly our missionaries there, I think, of the Kellers, Lord, and I just thank you. so much for how you provided for them and got them to safety and as they are continuing and desiring to bring others to safety and to share your gospel where you have placed them today. So we're asking for your guidance and direction. And Father, as we come to your word, open our ears and our hearts and our minds to you. And we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. We will be reading from Matthew five, twenty-seven through thirty-two. Matthew five twenty-seven through thirty-two. You have heard that it was said to those of old You shall not commit adultery. But I say to you that whoever looks at a woman to lust for her has already committed adultery with her in his heart. If your right eye causes you to sin, pluck it out and cast it from you. For it is more profitable for you that one of your members perish. than your whole body to be cast into hell. And if your right hand causes you to sin, cut it off and cast it from you, for it is more profitable for you that one of your members perish. Than for your whole body to be cast into hell. Furthermore, it has been said, whoever divorces his wife, let him give her a certificate of divorce. But I say to you that whosoever divorces his wife for any reason except sexual immorality causes her to commit adultery. And whoever marries a woman who is divorced commits adultery. So Jesus is working through six different clarifications of the law in Matthew 5 here in his Sermon on the Mount. And last week we looked at the clarification of of murder slash hatred and the fact that hatred is the is the root problem of murder. And if you remember from last week Uh the Pharisees were very intent on murder being something that was a violation of the law, but they failed to see the inner problem, the inner sin of of anger and hatred being a problem. And now we're moving to another area. It's within the realm of marriage, particularly the sin of adultery. And you may say to yourself, well, why is Jesus addressing this? He's got six different clarifications. Why this one? And I want to suggest to you that partially why he is dealing with this is because marriage is such an important institution. In fact, I would argue that it is the most important. It is the first, for sure And perhaps if I'm almost, I would argue that it's the most important institution ordained by God. Marriage is how we we even begin to uh we understand some semblance of the relationship of the Trinity, one being three and three and one and The Godhead itself, we understand certain aspects of that. It's how we relate to to the understanding and understand our relationship with God as Christ's. makes the parallel between Christ and his church. It is the very building block of society. God intended it to be that way. Marriage is just the oneness of marriage is absolutely important and essential and vital. And yet, folks, it is without question. under attack. It was un it's under attack today by Satan, I think there's no doubt by Satan himself. Politically, we have the very definition of marriage being attacked with the idea of same-sex marriage Which is totally an abomination. It's not something that God would at all attribute to being right in any way. We've got we've got the divorce rate, even among Christians, ex continuing to be high. And I want to say very at the very outset of For those who are in this room, there are Christians who have really gone through the pain and struggle of divorce. I hope that this will be an encouragement and a help to you, not to be something that you feel shame and guilt about. This where you're going to see in the context as Jesus deals with it that what he's really dealing with is the real heart problem. And we're going to see that in this text. There is such uh there is it is really under attack. Even the societal thinking about call of so many people now are doing, are acting like they're married and they're not married. They're living together, they're having kids together, and they're not married at all. They don't they're doing everything they're sp they're they're doing except being married, and it seems like the only people that actually really want to be married are the people that aren't supposed to be married, the same-sex people. I mean that's really true. Our society is really, it's really down uh uh hitting at the very foundation of marriage. And the truth is that that was actually the case in the day in a different way in the case back in the very first century. In the very first century, you had a real emphasis on making sure that you didn't commit adultery. And by adultery it meant very basically intercourse between two consenting adults, one of which were married or both were married. That was by definition adultery. And there was a real emphasis by the Pharisees and the scribes and the religious leaders of the day to make sure that you do not commit adultery. Of course that was right and appropriate. That's biblically what it says in Scripture, that you should not commit adultery. But on the other hand, there were all kinds of other cultural things that they were allowed. They were allowing men, not women, but men to divorce their wives for just about any cause. It was actually said by one of the more liberal religious groups that even if a woman spoiled if a if a wife spoiled her husband's dinner, that was legitimate cause for divorce. It's true. It was that bad. So the definition of marriage and the institution of marriage in a different way was very much under attack back then as well And so you had men who were, for no good reason at all, divorcing their wives. and wives that were put in positions in that society where they were either accused of sinfulness or and and they were forced to remarry in less than ideal circumstances Why because their status was so connected to being married? It really wasn't until Christ came And the Apostle Paul taught in 1 Corinthians 7 about really that singleness is something that is should be celebrated along with marriage. That actually being single, Paul said, I would that you be single like me. That you could act, there is a way in which that you could actually serve God better single than married if that is what God chooses Before that time, before Christ came on the scene, the status of marriage was really for particularly a woman, you didn't have any status in society if you didn't if you weren't married. So it put women in awfully difficult situations. This is where we find ourselves in when we come to the context of Matthew chapter 5, and Jesus is dealing with this problem. It's also interesting that one of the things that was emphasized back then and is today, some people really just reduced marriage down to a physical union. When Scripture does not teach that marriage is only a physical union. The Bible says this in Genesis 2, verse 22. Then the ri rib which w which the Lord God had taken from man had made into a woman, and he brought her to to the man. And Adam said, This is now bone of my bone and flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman. because she was taken out of man. Therefore a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and they shall become one flesh. The word flesh, folks, does not just mean physical. Clearly we see in Genesis chapter 6, verse 12, it says, So God looked on the earth, and indeed it was corrupt, for all flesh had corrupted their own way in the earth. Literally it says all flesh. It's talking about all people. It's talking about the entire person. When it says the two are to become one flesh, it means the two are to have oneness, not only physically, but spiritually, emotionally, and mentally. There is to be a oneness in marriage. The two become one. In Ephesians chapter 5, verse 30, it says, For we are members of his body, of his flesh, and of his bones. For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother, be joined to his wife. And the two shall become one flesh. This is a great mystery I speak concerning Christ and the church. So God intends marriage to be one of oneness. It is divinely ordained that the oneness of marriage not be compromised. So, how is oneness of marriage compromised? And that's what this passage deals with. How does that happen? Two ways. One It is compromised inwardly before it is compromised outwardly. And secondly, it is compromised by divorce because divorce results in adultery Those are the two points, and we're going to flesh out both of those points. The first point then is that marital oneness is compromised inwardly before it is compromised outwardly. And we pick up here again in Matthew 5. 27, it says, You have heard it was said of those of old, you shall not commit adultery. But I say to you, whoever looks on a woman to lust for her has already committed adultery with her in his heart. If your eye right eye causes you to sin, pluck it out and cast it at cast it from you For it is more profitable for you that one of your members perish than that your whole body is to be cast into hell. And if your right hand causes you to sin. Cut it off and cast it from you, for it is more profitable for you that one of your members perish than your whole body is to cast is to be cast into hell. In verses 27 through 28, we see then Christ is going to, he states, as he's already done, the oral saying. And now he is going to give it the right original intent, the divine intent, the divine purpose, the divine interpretation. of what he was trying to try what he was wanting to point out. In fact, what Christ does here in this text is that he actually equates The sin of adultery to covetousness, which was also a violation of the Ten Commandments At this point, they saw the sin of adultery as a sin of theft, and in a sense it is, but they did not see the sin of adultery as one of covetousness. And they failed to see the spiritual oneness that was intended by marriage in the marriage relationship. And so Jesus deals with this. So just think of it this way. A man who was not, who was prohibited from committing adultery, was By it wasn't it was not emphasized at all that he could not desire to be out of the marriage because he wanted someone else And that is what Jesus is dealing with here when he says, you say you're committing adultery. I say, if a man looks on a woman with lust in his heart, he has already committed adultery unto her. He's pointing out that there is a inward sin that occurs before the outward sin is expressed. This was something that absolutely they were not paying attention to. They were paying attention to outward sins, but not inward sins, and Jesus wanted them to understand the inward nature of lust and sin. And so he says, if a man does this, if a man looks on a woman with lust in his heart, he commits adultery to her. So we then it's it's an interesting the way it says it here. A couple of things is of what it means. One is that he is saying there is a lust with the intent of purpose. A purposeful lust. There is a desire to want her. There's a desire even to want her to want him and an intention there. And that's important to understand. I want us to, first of all, understand what this is not talking about, and then we will begin to understand what this is talking about. Because I think that sometimes this becomes people can have actually false guilt about this and become very confused about it. So I want to point out a couple of things. One is He's not saying it's wrong to notice that a woman is attractive. Now, you have to be careful with this. I'm not suggesting that you should be looking around men to every woman that's attractive, but it's also not wrong to to generally notice that someone is attractive. You're not sinning if you happen to notice that. That's not what he's talking about here in the context. He's also not talking about man's natural attraction to women, that there's sort of a natural or women to men as well. He's not talking about that just a natural attraction He isn't saying that it's wrong to be exposed to certain things. The fact of the matter is we are, folks, we are living in a society where you're going to be exposed. Now you should avoid being exposed if you can. Really, I mean, make great effort to be exposed. I remember we my wife and I went uh down to Las Vegas. Over to Las Vegas. Not like to go to Vegas, but there's a conference. Uh should make that clear. And the whole ti I wouldn't go to Vegas with anybody except my wife, actually, I and not alone at all. And we were and the whole time she's like Eyes there. Look there. Look there. Look over here. By the way, ladies, I'm just going to tell you ahead of time. Don't say, don't look there. Don't don't don't do that, okay? Just say look there. Okay? It's a lot of help. Like don't look there. Why uh oh okay. Anyway, that's just for free. But anyway. So all I could say is that you're going to be exposed to certain to certain things, and just the exposure itself is not sin. But folks, on the other hand, what we do with that is absolutely can be sin. It is placing um placing in front of us, surely it's placing a temptation. And it's interesting that this word is linked to covetousness. The word lust is linked to covetousness. We find this in Romans 7, verse 7. It says What shall we say then? Is the law sin? God forbid, nay, I had not known sin, but by the law, for I had not known lust, except the law had said, Thou shalt not covet. So it links this concept of lust with this concept of covet. While it isn't wrong to be exposed to something that is lewd or inappropriate It is wrong to gaze on it with a desire for want. That is clearly wrong because now it is covetousness. And Jesus is pointing out to the men that he's speaking to, which are actually his disciples, he's saying, understand that this This is a violation of the law because you are violating the law to not covet. Romans 13 verse 9 says this, thou shalt not commit adultery, thou shalt not kill, thou shalt not steal. Thou shalt not bear false witness, thou shalt not covet. This is Romans thirteen. And if ye if there be any other commandment, it is briefly comprehended in this. Love thy neighbor as thyself. Notice he he mentions Jesus or Paul rather in Romans thirteen six nine mentions all of these different commandments kill, steal, bear false witness, covet He's reiterating all of these commandments to apply to the New Testament believer as well. And covetousness is one that is clearly a sin. So James helps us understand what's going on here. In James chapter 1, verses 13 through 15, it says this. Let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God. For God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man. But every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lust and enticed. Then when lust hath conceived, it brings forth sin, and sin, when it is finished, brings forth death. It's an interesting word in that passage. It tells us temptation, we know Christ himself was tempted. Temptation is not sin. Temptation is not wrong. But when he is drawn away of his own lust and enticed And that word enticed means to hook. It is actually a fishing term. And if any of you have gone fishing, and if you haven't, then you should go. Um but uh if you go if any of you have gone fishing, then you go and you cast, you know, a f uh uh a lure out there or worm or whatever. And you wait to set the hook. If you're fishing right, you're you're trying to set the hook. The hook comes, fish comes and hits your uh hits your uh your bait and you set the hook. And that's what the word is, it's to set the hook. And what Jesus is telling us here is that when a man lusts after a woman and the hook is set, then he has committed adultery already under her. It is a very serious thing to understand and to realize. And when less is conceived, it brings forth sin, and sin, when it is finished, brings forth death. Now, folks, um So far, all I've really said is talking about men looking at women. But the truth of the matter is this applies to women as well. Now it doesn't apply specifically here, or it doesn't say that specifically in their passage, because culturally the problem that they were dealing with at the time was men doing divorcing for no real cause and uh at all And um and women uh were not even I mean for m most cases weren't allowed divorce at all. Um but in this particular situation what you have here uh is is um not it doesn't it's not that it doesn't apply to women as well. Uh because do you remember back in the Old Testament In Genesis chapter 39, one of the examples that you have of this kind of sexual sin, you have Potiphar's wife. Do you remember that story? And she's looking at Joseph? Here's what it says. And it came to pass after these things that his master's wife cast longing eyes on Joseph, and she said, Lie with me. So apparently from what scripture says, I don't know how the woman's minds mind work, and I'm not sure I want to, but but um that's a joke. But anyway, um But apparently, from what Scripture says, a woman can cast longing eyes on a man and have the same problem as well. And so this is a problem that is universally a sin. And what Jesus is really saying is we are all guilty. Isn't that true? Is there anyone that has that has been born that has lived beyond you know at puberty or beyond, that has not experienced this problem and this sin on one some level or another. And his point is, look, he's saying to his scribes and Pharisees, he's saying, he's correcting, he's saying to his disciples in reference to the problems of the day, and he's saying, look. We are all guilty. And he's pointing out none of us. He's giving illustration after illustration after illustration of why you cannot, you don't have any self-righteousness. Just like you are a murderer because you're angry, you are an adulterer because you have lusted after the opposite sex. Or I guess of same sex as well. And you have that kind of sin in here in Scripture. Now let me just mention this by way of wisdom. uh before we move on to the next verses, several verses here. I want to be clear about this that even though you are tempted You're not uh you're tempting temptation is not sin, and there is a difference. We ought to do our best to avoid temptation. That's a matter of wisdom. Wisdom says, I'm going to avoid temptation. Temptation isn't sin, but a wise person avoids temptation. Job chapter 31 verse 1 says, I have made a covenant with my eyes. Why then should I look upon a young woman? Proverbs 6 verse 25 says, Do not lust after her beauty in your heart, nor let her allure your with her eyelids. Another place in Proverbs says, Can a man take fire in his bosom and not be burnt? In 2 Peter 2, verse 14, it says, having eyes full of adultery, and that cannot cease from sin, enticing unstable souls that have hurt a heart trained in covetous practices and our cursed children. So men and women, we all need to be very careful about the sexual sin of lust of the eyes. And we ought to avoid the temptation and realize it's you know I've heard I've heard even pastors Say, you know, uh pr and preachers say something to the effect of, well, you can you can in and I've read books about this, you can you can enjoy a woman's beauty, uh not unless they're your wife. If you're your wife, you should enjoy her beauty. Look, look, you know, drink water out of your own cistern, Scripture says. But when it comes to But when it comes to enjoying the beauty of the opposite sex, look, stay away from it. Don't do it. The Bible says it's unwise. Realize that there is temptation out there. All of us need to be very, very careful about this. Now we move on then in verses 39 through 4- I'm sorry 29 through 30. And in 29 through 30, we pick up here And he is now going to be even more intent on what he's already said. He says, if your right eye causes you to sin, pluck it out. And cast it from you, for it is more profitable for you that one of your members perish than for your whole body to be cast into hell. And if your right ha and if your right hand causes you to sin, cut it off and cast it from you, for it is bet more profitable for you. that one of your members perish than for your whole body to be cast into hell. Now let me pause and ask this question. As you read through this, many people say that this is hyperbole. And I think there probably is a little bit there, but let me just ask this question. Would it is it better to cut an eye, gouge an eye out or cut uh uh uh an arm off So that you can be spared hell? Absolutely, it would be better. And so in a sense, that's not hyperbole. He's pointing something out about this. that he's saying that we need to be serious about that. This is something that is is very- we need to be very purposeful about. But he's also pointing out a couple we need to point out a couple of things to understand what's going on here. And there have been many people that have Even in church history that have not quite, that have taken this in different ways. In fact, Origen literally castrated himself because of this verse. Augustine, there was a point in which he did not allow women to be in his presence because he didn't want to deal with this particular temptation. This is the kind of thing that church history there has been struggled with over the years. And of course, the answer, folks, to this problem is not What Jesus is not saying here, he is not saying that the problem is in the hand or the problem is in the eye. He has already said the problem is in the mind. He's already said if a man looks on a woman with lust in his heart, he commits adultery. That's where the problem is. What is he then saying when he's talking about the eye and the hand? He's using this, folks, as an illustration. He's using it as an illustration of the importance of dealing this is such a serious problem and one that must be dealt with. It must be dealt with in the mind. So be very, catch it there, deal with it violently there in the mind. And he's using this as an illustration to point this out In other words, the mind is the battle. The battle is in the mind. And so you need to be very purposeful and intentional about this. Cut it off in the mind. rather than dwelling on this at all. The right eye was the eye, for some reason, and I don't really know why, but The Jews valued the right eye over the left eye. They just saw the right eye as better than the left eye. It works for me. My left eye is is lazy. I have a le lazy left eye. I would actually be legally blind if I didn't have my right eye So that works for me, but I I don't know if that's more like more common or what, but anyway. Um that's the the right eye is more valuable. The um the hand, he uses the hand. Because they would have vo they would have um they would have associated adultery with theft. That's Jew the Jewish people would And so he uses the hand because actually in those days a as a matter of theft you could have your hand cut off. That's why they didn't have a lot of ceiling back then, I g I I suppose, at least not being caught. There was in certain cultures at certain times in the Middle East that was that was a severe punishment for that. He's saying, he's pointing out, look, these are this is that severe. In other words, let me put it this way We tend to be in denial about what we think. And we tend to think that if it's not physical, if it's just in the mind, it's not all that bad. And you know what Christ says? It's just as bad. Understand that. Do you know when somebody relegates, when he reduces everything to, okay, well I didn't do anything wrong? When somebody relegates everything to that, do you know what do you know what we're doing? It's actually legalism. We are actually trying to make ourselves righteous. by making sure that we're following a list of rules, a certain things. Don't do this. That's wrong. But not saying that the heart is is is deceitful and desperately wicked. And the sins are in the heart. So he says, pluck it out, cast it from you, cut it off His point is to be very severe about these things. And the word offend here is to cause to stumble, to cause to sin. If you have something in your mind that's causing you to sin, deal with it in the mind and deal with it severely so that it does not cause you to sin. any longer. That is what he is getting at. So in applying all of this, all of these, we need to understand a few things. First of all, that marriage is a physical, spiritual, mental, emotional union. And that is why Jesus is dealing with it on that level, on the spiritual, emotional, mental level, not just on the physical level. It certainly includes physical, but it is not only physical. Marriage also is a vertical and a horizontal relationship. Did you know that? Here's what I mean by that. There is a vertical covenant made and a horizontal covenant made. The horizontal covenant made in marriage is a covenant between the man and the woman. And it happens during a a wedding ceremony. There are vows made to each other. But before that I don't know if you ever noticed this, but before I go over this in my premier counseling before that, the the couple should not be facing each other. They're actually facing the person who is asking them to vow before God. There is a vertical vow before God when it comes to the relationship, the marriage relationship as well. It is a vow before and not just before God, but to God. A vow to God and a vow to each other. There is both vertical and horizontal vowing in the marriage relationship. And it's important to understand this. All something else that we can learn from this. All sin begins in the mind. and in the imagination. This is an example of this, certainly sexual sin that is the way it is. But really all sin begins in the mind and in the imagination. That's where the battle is. You can apply this to many, many areas. It starts in the mind. That's why it's folks, it's so important to think right and then do right, and then we'll feel right. And then finally, we need to determine not to yield our members as instruments of sin. So it's not one it's not physic the only matters what's in the mind, and then you can do what you want with the body. I want to be clear about that. There was a teaching about that in the first century, was Gnosticism. People thought, well The physical is totally wrong and the spiritual is totally right and so all I need to do is s I I can do whatever I want physically since it's all bad anyway as long as I do something right with my s my mind. No, it's all it's Sin is sin. Mental sin is sin, and physical sin is sin as well. Romans 6. 13 says this, and do not present your members as instruments of unrighteousness to sin. For present yourselves to God as being alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness to God Romans 6. 19 says, I speak in human terms because of the weakness of your flesh, for just as you presented your members as slaves of uncleanness and lawlessness leading to more lawlessness, so now present your members as slaves of r of righteousness for holiness. And Romans 7. 5 says this for when we were in the flesh, sinful passions which were aroused by the law were at work in our members to bear fruit to death. Now, then we notice, picking up in the next verse here, There's this there's this, it says this, verse 30, and if your I'm sorry, verse 31, furthermore, it has been said, whoever divorces, I want to say first of all, this word furthermore connects these two concepts. The word furthermore connects what we just talked about to then what we're seeing here. And that's why I have the message going together, because there's a clear connection. It's actually a stronger connection. than some of the other words here that are in the text that are connecting these six different clarifications. In verse 31 it says, Furthermore, it has been said, Whoever divorces his wife, let him give her a certificate of divorce. But I say to you that whoever divorces his wife for any reason except sexual immorality causes her to commit adultery. And whoever marries a woman who is divorced commits adultery. So what is he talking about here? To really understand what he's getting at, we need to uh understand a few things about the culture again. I've mentioned some of them, but we'll reiterate a couple of them because I think it's important for us to understand. The discussion that was always made during with the religious leaders is that you've got to make sure that you do it, you divorce in a legal manner. And Deuteronomy 24 is actually the passage that talks about how to divorce legally It's actually in that passage we're not going to take the time to turn there because I'll just say this. This is not going to be a full discussion of the issue of divorce or remarriage You're looking at your watches and saying, okay, I'm glad to hear that. We're going to get the hit this again in Matthew 19 more thoroughly So this is not going to be a full discussion on this, just to be clear. But in Romans, but in Deuteronomy 24, you have case law there that doesn't say, it doesn't say, okay, well, in this particular case you can be divorced. What it says is When there is a divorce, then you must do it legally. And that was actually to protect women If you didn't do this, if they didn't do it legally when there was a written letter of divorcement, then a woman could actually easily be accused of being uh of being um a prostitute, those kinds of things. And so to protect the woman There was these this law made in Deuteronomy 24, and really to protect the man as well, that there was something legally that occurred But folks, what would begin to happen was that there was much controversy over the whole issue of divorce and remarriage in in the first century here. And there were made there were two schools of thought primarily. One, the cu the more conservative school of thought was the was by the sh the Shaman, known as the Shamma And they believe that divorce was not allowed under any circumstances except for what is known as unchastity. The other school was the liberal school of thought, the Hillel, and that school of thought suggest uh basically said Well, I mentioned before, that for any reason a man could divorce his wife, even if she, quote, spoiled a dish for him, unquote. So there was a lot of confusion about what was biblical and what was right and what was not Part of the confusion is that in the Old Testament, you don't have anywhere that actually, like you have with the Ten Commandments, you don't have anywhere that actually commands you that divorce don't ever get divorced. What it says is divor God hates it. Now, let me just pause and point that out. Shouldn't that be enough? The Bible says this in Malachi 2. 16, for the Lord God of Israel says that he hates divorce. For it covers one's garment with violence, says the Lord of hosts. Therefore take heed to your spirit. You do not deal treacherously. God hates divorce. And that is very clear in Scripture, of course, even in the Old Testament. But of course, there was still a lot of under you know a lot of issues. So secondly, our second point, there's only two points today, and that is marital oneness is compromised. through divorce, which actually results in adultery. And here's why. Jesus is saying That legally, even if you divorce legally, that doesn't mean you are divorced necessarily in the eyes of God. Now catch that. Just because you have there's been a legal letter of divorcement, it doesn't always mean That God recognizes that as a true divorce, which means when that happens, when someone is divorced, and they go and remarry, they've actually committed adultery. Now, why is this important to understand? Notice what the text says. Let's look at it again. It says this. Furthermore, it has been said, whoever divorces wife, let him give her a certificate of divorce. If you divorce, make sure you do it legally That's what's been said. Jesus says, but I say unto you that whoever divorces his wife for any reason, except for sexual immorality, we'll get to that in a minute, causes her to commit adultery. Why would it cause her to commit adultery? Because in God's eyes, she's not, she's still married. And so when she actually goes to Get married, she's actually committing adultery. That's really what the text is saying there. But I say to you that whoever divorces his wife for any reason except sexuality causes him causes her to commit adultery. And whoever marries a woman who is divorced commits adultery as well. Now, let's go through a little bit. There's a sort of this clarification that we need to understand here. Mark 10 says it this way. Parallel passage, verse 5. And Jesus answered and said to them, Because of the hardness of your heart, he wrote to you this precept. But from the beginning of the of creation God made them male and female. For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother, and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. So that then they are no longer two but one flesh. Therefore, what God has joined together, let not man separate And the house of his disciples also asked them, they were listening to this, disciples were listening to this, and this is going to see this also in Matthew 19 later on. W we're asking again about the same matter and they said to them, Whoever divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery, and if a woman uh divorces her husband gets committed to adultery. The disciples basically say in that passage, Well, we ought to never get married Because that's how strict Jesus was. That's how confining Jesus was, that marriage is for life. Marriage is put together by God, but no man put it asunder. Now, the question then becomes, I think I've I've said everything I need to say about all of this, but then let me ask then the question the question comes up, what about this exception clause? What about what about where it says accept for the cause of sexual immorality. What is it talking about there? Well let me say first of all that the way that this reads, if you read it carefully, it is not a license to divorce here. Now again, I'm going to flesh this all out in Matthew 19. So you're going to have to wait several chapters, many chapters. So make sure you just stay and and uh come every service. You might miss it if you don't, and all that, okay. But but this is not okay here is your license. They committed adultery. Okay, now are they they they had sexual ascent? There's your license. That's not what's here Okay? And so it's important to understand that we are not talking here about a license. Now let's just pause here. If it's not talking about a license, what is it saying? Well Let's just think about it this way. Actually, let me give you a scenario. Okay? I'm just going to give you a scenario and we're going to walk through the scenario. A woman makes a bad meal for a man. Okay? A man submits a letter of divorcement to the woman to the woman. The woman is legally divorced, but not in God's eyes. The woman marries. She just committed adultery. Who caused her to commit adultery? The man did by divorcing her. What Jesus is saying is that he is culpable. He was the cause of her adultery Does that make sense? He's causing, he's showing scripturally that he can't, this is not right. This advantage that the man has in being able to do this, it's not right at all. And he's showing this. A man finds another divorced woman who is actually still married before God, and he commits adultery And he marries her uh and he marries her by old test and by old testament ball law, both of them have just committed adultery. That's what's going on here. Now What's the difference? So let's say the husband, the wife actually, she doesn't just make a bad meal, she actually commits sexual sin. She commits adultery. Well then he hasn't caused her to commit adultery. You get it? I mean just think of it that way. Okay? First point. It's not make a bad meal. First point is she she has sexual sin. She commits adultery Okay? Alright. Well then he's not causing her to do it. She did it. Does that then say, well he should divorce her? It doesn't say that. Did you catch that? It doesn't say that in the passage. Well he has a license to divorce her. It doesn't say that. It only says he's not the cause of her adultery. That's what it's saying. Alright? So what about what about this situation, that situation, that situation? You're gonna have to wait till we get to Matthew 19. I am, I'm gonna make you wait, because that's not the point here. The point of this passage is this. You and I need to respect the oneness of marriage. You and I need to be we need to honor the oneness of marriage. And there are two general ways uh if it's not like political, but two general ways within the marriage that can cause the marriage to go the wrong way. Number one, the internal problem of sin, and number two the external problem of divorcing for no reason. For no good reason. And there is no good reason scripturally with with it with this exception, which is not a license. Now, all of that, let's summarize all of this then. Number one, all sexual sin. Whether mental or physical, is a violation of God's law, we are all guilty. Is that not right? We're all guilty. It's a violation of God's law. But I'm here to tell you that if you will just realize this, that Christ is here to forgive you of your sin and to cleanse you from all unrighteousness. He even died for the worst kinds of sin And he wants us to realize that there is no righteousness in of ourselves. We are absolutely wicked before him. And we desperately need the righteousness of Christ. And when Christ saves us, he saves us and separates that sin from as far as the East is from the West. so that we can then be rightly related to God. And He takes our sin off on Himself and He gives us His righteousness. And folks, that's the point here. The point here is that no one has self-righteousness. by these standards. And your righteousness must exceed the righteousness of the Pharisees. Number two All sin begins with the mind and then works out into actions. We must learn to believe right, think right, do right, and then we'll feel right. And folks, when you get that all mixed up, Do you see how that gets all mixed up in this? Somebody thinks wrong and then why does he think wrong? Because he wants to feel right. And he feels right and then feels really wrong after he feels right. You get this mixed up and you start doing to feel or thinking to feel, then you're going to be in the wrong place. No, you've got to believe right. And by the way, covetousness ultimately is unbelief. Covetousness says, what God has provided for me is not enough. When a man looks on a woman with lust in his heart, He is essentially saying to himself, what I already have is not enough. That's unbelief, is what that is. And so it's covetousness and it's sin. Number three, God does not take divorce lightly. It is the tearing apart of a union that God has made. Now, let me just be very clear. One real clear scripture in 1 Corinthians 7 is that sometimes divorce happens because of abandonment. the the other person leaves. And in that passage it says, let them go. So if you are divorced because someone, because you've been abandoned. then then you should not feel guilty about that. It's very clear in 1 Corinthians 7 about that. And there are many, many situations that I would just simply say this. I want to say this sort of summarizing and and and being compassionate to those who have dealt with the with the pain of divorce. And the struggle of divorce, isn't it wonderful that we have a God that is so loving and so gracious and his nature is redemptive? and restorative, so that he can restore and redeem situations and problems and issues in such a way with his He has that ability because of the gospel. And so I just want to this should not be something where we're we're discouraged by this. This hopefully encourages us to simply realize that we are poor in spirit, that we are nothing apart from the grace of God. And cause if we have any self-righteousness in ourselves, these clarifications that Christ makes ought to cause us to realize how much we need If we know Christ our Savior, that we have the righteousness of Christ. But if there is somebody here who doesn't have the righteousness of Christ, because you have never said, I know I'm a sinner And there's no righteousness of myself. I'm not a good person. I am wicked. My righteousness is as filthy rags to God. Yeah, I might like good look good on the outside. I might do everything right, but I know up in here and in here I am a filthy sinner. And you realize that, then understand that Jesus came to die, to take your sin on himself and to give you his righteousness so that you could be in right standing with God. And the only thing that you've got to do is to place your dependence upon what Christ did for you on the cross. The Bible says, But as many as received him, to them gave you the power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. And so all of us can have right standing with God and be His child, His son, His children. when we accept him as our Lord and Savior. And if you have never if there's never been a if there has never been a time where you have truly understood your sin And that Christ died for your sin. And you placed your trust in him to save you. You may have grown up in a good church. You may have uh had a religious family, you may have had ex read the Bible, but if there's not been a time where Christ has brought you from death to life, you need to be saved. And that first step to being saved is to understanding your own self-righteousness, which is sin in and of itself. And these lessons, these messages, these points that Christ will bring bring to us are to help are to remind us from this. Remind us of this. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and praise you for who you are, and we thank you for your word. We thank you that your word is sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even the dividing asunder of soul and spirit, and of the joints of marrow. As the discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart. As Jesus proclaimed this truth and it was enscripturated by Matthew, these things do pierce our hearts and penetrate down to our very to our very spiritual joints and marrow. And Lord, I pray that you'd help us to to, when there is conviction needed, that we would be convicted. That we would realize our sin, our sin in our minds. That we realize those things and cause our and and and confess them before you and recognize them and realize That when we do that, even as Christians, when we do that, you're faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And Lord, I pray that you would be with anybody here. that has been depending upon their own self-righteousness, but they need to come to faith in Jesus Christ. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Bethel Baptist Church is a family made up of people from very different backgrounds and from every age group. But we all have one thing in common. We have found a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. We also understand that looking for a church to attend can be unsettling. Before you even drive into our parking lot, we'd like to give you an idea of what to expect on your first visit to Bethel Baptist Church. After arriving at Bethel, feel free to park at one of our guest parking spaces, close to the front doors. It is our privilege to have you visit us, and we want you to feel at home while you're here. We are ready to assist you in understanding your needs and locating facilities such as the nursery, coffee area, and the specific ministries and classes available for you and your family. When a person discovers how to have a genuine relationship with God, they are given a sense of purpose and meaning in life. When that same person belongs to a loving community where God's word is taught, they will grow in their relationship with the Lord, and their life grows in purpose and meaning. Since I uh started coming to Bethel, I noticed that my walk with the Lord became more serious. more faithful. The church has impacted my walk with the Lord in terms that my faith became real. I I'd had some some spiritual struggles in my own life that have sort of turned around night and day, just just having come here. The the church family here is just so uh great in terms of their unity and their activeness and involvement in the church. When I first came to Bethel I was a babe in Christ. I was Spiritually immature through hearing God's word, preached, studying God's word, and continuing You know, reading in the Bible is helping me to grow spiritually. Bethel is a place for someone They if they want to grow spiritually, if they're ready to take the the next steps in their spiritual walk with God in their Christian life Uh this this is a place for them. We sincerely desire to help people grow in the relationship with the Lord, with their families, and with one another. Our focus is on making and building disciples for God's glory. We accomplish this through corporate worship on Sunday mornings, through adult Bible studies where we learn God's Word and how to effectively apply it to our lives, and through our discipleship home groups that meet in various locations throughout the region. Additionally, there are one-on-one and couple-to-couple counseling and discipleship opportunities. We genuinely desire to help you grow spiritually any way you possibly can. Our children's ministries are extremely important to us. We have a lot of young families with children, and we believe in the importance of teaching truth to the next generation. Teachers and nursery workers will be available to introduce themselves and assist you in signing your children in and out of their classrooms. My family is involved in the church. My children are growing in the church. And the ministry and the love of the people of the church is helping my children and my family to stay faithful to the Lord. As a young mom I have two small kids and so I am very much looking forward to seeing them grow up in this church where I know there are gonna be people who care about them and love them and want what is best for them. It's a body of believers that is striving together to serve the Lord. Uh genuinely we have a real unity in the faith because we believe in that objective truth in the scriptures, and um it just draws us together as a faith. family. So being new members here, I'm most looking forward to uh continuing to deepen my walk with Christ and and grow in my relationship with him. And even getting involved in the ministry, I'm looking forward to uh being able to help out and and to help build up others in the faith the way that they've helped build me up. Bethel Baptist Church is a growing loving family community We hope that we've been able to show you a small glimpse of what Bethel is like. But we'd love to meet you personally. Join us for a worship service, a small group for Bible study. Let us be a blessing to you and your family.