Well, good morning. It's a beautiful day to be in the house of the Lord. How about we bow our heads together and praise the Lord? Heavenly Father, we come this morning with grateful and thankful hearts. Father, we praise you for who you are. You are the great I Am. You are the creator and sustainer of all life. You are holy, holy, holy. You are righteous and just. All of your ways, they are right and true. And Father, we are grateful and thankful to you this morning for your great love wherewith you have loved us, that you would send your only begotten Son to die on a cross to pay the penalty for our sin. sins. And Father, we're grateful this morning that we can come together and worship you in spirit and in truth. You have provided everything for us. Father, you provided salvation You provide your word, you provide every uh instance in our life that we can reflect your great glory. And I pray this morning for those who are unable to be out with us this morning that God you will comfort them and encourage them as they uh hear your word this morning. And I just pray that you'll keep them healthy and strengthen them that they may be able to come back to us soon. And pray for those who are away on vacation that you'll keep watch over them and give them a blessed time together. And Father, we pray this morning as we come to your word that you would open our ears and our eyes and our hearts and our minds. To you. Father, that we would set aside all the cares, all the things that we came in here with this morning, Father. Help us to set that aside and listen to your word this morning. May your spirit make us to understand understand who you are and what it is you have called us to in Jesus' name. Amen. We'll be reading this morning from Matthew chapter 20, continuing in verse 17 through thirty-four. Okay. Matthew twenty, seventeen, verses seventeen through thirty-four Now Jesus was going up to Jerusalem, took the twelve disciples aside on the road, and said to them, Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem. And the Son of Man will be betrayed to the chief priest and to the scribes, that they will condemn him. to death, and deliver him to the Gentiles, to mock and to scourge, and to crucify, and the third day he will rise again Then the mother of Zebedee's sons came to him with her sons, kneeling down and asking something from him. And he said to her, What do you wish? And she said to him, Grant that these two sons of mine may sit on one on your right and one on your left in your kingdom. And Jesus said to her, You do not know what you ask. Are you able to drink the cup that I am about to drink and be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with? And they said to him, We are able. So he said to them, You will indeed drink my cup and be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with. But to sit on my right hand or on my left hand is not mine to give, but it is for those for whom it is prepared by my Father. And when the ten heard it, they were greatly displeased with the two brothers. But Jesus called them to himself, and he said You know that rulers of the Gentiles, lord it over them, and those who are great exercise authority over them. Yet it shall not be so among you But whoever desires to become great among you, let him be your servant. And whoever desires to be first among you, Let him be your slave, just as the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give his life a ransom for many Now as they went on out of Jer Jericho, a great multitude followed him. And behold, two blind men sitting by the road, when they heard that Jesus was passing by, they cried out, saying Have mercy on us, O Lord, Son of David. Then the multitude warned them that they should be Quiet. But they cried out all the more, saying, Have mercy on my us, O Lord, son of David. And Jesus stood still. And he called them and said, What do you want me to do for you? And they said to him, Lord, that our eyes may be open. So Jesus had compassion. And touched their eyes, and immediately their eyes received sight, and they followed him. passage he is actually uh going through all kinds of uh of truths that have Let me ask this question kind of to get us started is what do you you value. You think about your life, what is it that you really value? I have another question. How much of what you value is influenced by society? How much of what you value is actually influenced by society influenced by our culture. And you might say, uh well I'm I'm uh you know I'm an individual and I have I'm I'm a distinct and unique Unique individual and so I don't think that society really influences me that much. Culture doesn't really influence me that much. Um well I I'm just gonna say this that uh uh culture and society really influence is what we value more than we realize. I'll give you an example of this. This is kind of a silly example, but it's one that's uh very clear. When I was up in Pennsylvania, I pastored up there for a couple of years. Up in Western V Pennsylvania, and I'll just simply say that Pennsylvania, Western Pennsylvania is very different than central Maryland. It's Distinctly different. Uh I really, you know, I three hours away, what's the big deal, right? It's like world's difference, the culture. Very, very, very different. One of the things that I realized when I first got up there is everybody asked me, everyone asked me if I liked hunting. In fact, the first person that asked me, I had never been hunting before And the first person that asked me that, do you like hunting? I said, Well, I've never been hunting. And they just immediately went put their head down and kind of I thought I thought, what's up with that? Like, oh, you're not you don't belong here if you don't like hunting. I had to modify my answer because I was asked that so often. So the next time somebody asked me, I said, absolutely, I'm sure I will like hunting. As though I I mean I didn't even I mean I said I was honest because I said I will like it, I was gonna force myself to like it. But I actually found I could not As much as I try. Now I think if I actually would have seen a deer and shot a deer or something like that, maybe I would have liked it. But the p but the fact is, you've got more people than deer up there. I mean and there's not a lot of people, but there's more people than deer, more hunters than deer, so it's a massive thing. I mean the entire church, ev like ninety-eight percent of of the men in the church went hunting. I think there was one guy that was not a hunter in the entire church that I can remember. And uh in fact it was such a big thing up there, all the public schools shut down on opening day of hunting. And and uh and so when I went hunting, uh the first time I went hunting, um they took me to the these public game lands and it was early, early in the morning, four four thirty in the morning. morning maybe four o'clock in the morning before it was you know light at all. And I'm a pretty early riser, so that didn't bother me so much. But I got up early in the morning. The b thing that bothered me is ridiculously cold weather up there. I mean w We're talking about frigid, like three degrees. That's what at least I'm uh I don't think I'm exaggerating much. Anyway, it was really, really cold. So we get up and we we get I get out there and um I b borrowed a gun and and got my hunting license and all of that kind of thing. So the two you know, I I'm hunting with another guy and we're and so we sit down and he said, Now it's really important a couple of things really important. Really important to be extremely quiet so that you can hear. And also to uh to be very, very still. And I'm thinking, for how long are we going to be doing this? All day. Still and quiet, not listening to anything, really not talking much. Everyone we did eat something it's like beef jerky is a big thing up there and we had like our our our I mean I had eaten all the beef jerky I brought and all the s the the uh the coffee I had and everything I'm going what are we doing so so the You know, next time I went up there, I'm like, this I got back, I'm like, this doesn't and I saw no deer. And on the way back, I'm like, we didn't see any deer. And the guy goes, Yeah, but wasn't it great just to be out there? I'm going I'm going, No I didn't say that to him. I was like, it was cold and not great to be out there. So I went back home and I'm thinking to myself, this is pain Painful. I can't I can't lie any I don't now I can't say I'm sure I will so so so the next time I went out I hid earbuds put them in my ears and listened to all kinds of stuff while we were hunting. I was totally quiet. I didn't hear a deer and it didn't really matter. I you know I I I I I never saw d I never saw any moving animal when I went up there the whole the whole time I was up there. I actually have thought to myself, you know, if like I said, you know, if I was in this area, you actually see deer everywhere around here. I'm thinking, man, they don't come down here we'd uh we'd have that would be great. Uh anyway, all that's to say that that that Clearly culture really influenced all I you know, individual fine, unique, fine, but all these men went hunting. And all the whole culture was a culture w you moved down to the m uh central metro you know, Maryland areas or m more metropolitan between Baltimore and D. And you have some hunters and you've got some fishermen and you've got some golfer You really can't define a particular hobby that everybody has. But one thing you do see about how people, what people value, is the vast majority of people really value their careers. They find their identity in their careers. They're pursuing their careers. They're wanting advancement in their careers. They're promoting, they want their They're looking for promotion, they work long hours for the sake of their careers, they drive long distances, they sit in traffic uh uh for for for for the sake of their careers, all these kinds of things for the sake of their careers. So up in rural areas they work so that they can go hunt and in this in areas like more metropolitan areas you work to work. Um and you know to sort of uh have your sense of identity, sense of value, sense of contribution in your work. So th the the thing though that is really, really true about societies in general, about what we value is that society does impact what we value. And some things is perfectly fine, but there are other things in society that the values that we adopt because we are in a particular culture are actually a they're really against God's kingdom and his values. So what Jesus is going to teach us and what we're going to learn from this passage is that kingdom values are different. They differ from from soci from the core some of the core values of society. And I think you'll see that as we go through the passage. Now the by the book of Matthew really depicts Christ as a coming king. and his followers, the disciples of Christ, and all the followers that followed him, and us by extension, who follow Christ as well, as citizens of the kingdom. You have a king You have citizens of a kingdom, so the so it depicts us as being part of a spiritual kingdom. And those spiritual, the spiritual values of that kingdom The way that Matthew describes this, there are certain values, and these values differ from the values That we find in much of society. Now, it's not something like hunting and those kinds of things. What are they? Well, we're going to see three things in the passage. We're going to see, first of all, that Christ's kingdom values sacrifice over status. It values sacrifice over status. Number two, Christ's kingdom values submission to suffering rather than self-promotion. S just submitting to suffering. Everybody's got suffering in the world. There is suffering in the world. There's really no way around suffering in the world. But but but Christianity, the the Christ's kingdom has a way of actually valuing suffering and just submitting Submitting to it and letting God work through it rather than self-promotion. And then number three, Christ's kingdom values service as supreme. Christ's kingdom values being a servant, submitting as a servant, the way Christ did when He he came to the earth and served people. Christ's kingdom values service as supreme. So let's first look at Christ's kingdom. So we pick up here and we see in verse 17 it says, Now Jesus going to Jerusalem took up twelve took the twelve discipl disciples aside on the road and said to them, Behold, we are going to Jerusalem. We're going up to Jerusalem. And the Son of Man, here Jesus referred to himself as the Son of Man, the Son of Man will be betrayed to the chief priests And of the scribes, and they will condemn him to death. So he's prophesying what's going to happen when they go up into Jerusalem. And deliver him to the Gentiles to mock and discourage him and to crucify. And the third day he will rise again. Then the mothers and so we see then something happens there. So Jesus is actually prophesying at this point This is just weeks before he goes and he do and and what ha what he prophesies is going to happen actually does happen. He goes and he is taken he is uh accused by the scribes and the chief priests. And he is brought into the Roman Empire and they uh they try him and they eventually execute him at the cross. So Jesus is actually prophesying that this is going to happen. This time, previously he's done this in the book of Matthew. We've seen this two other times. This is the third of four times total, and this time he is much more specific. He's very detailed. He explains that scribes, the scribes and the ch the chief priests are going to be involved in this. They are going to turn us over the Gentiles. What he means by that is they're going to turn over the Roman Empire, which is a Gentile Empire. He he is prophesying and he's actually making connection to Old Testament prophecies and he's basically explaining that he is the one who is fulfilling these and And this is how it's going to happen. It's really actually quite remarkable what he does. And he is looking ahead from a very human perspective to the fact that he is going to die. He is going to sacrifice his life for the very people that he is talking to. We have the place there is going up to Jerusalem. By the way, up to Jerusalem. means uh doesn't mean that he's necessarily going north. Up to Jerusalem means it was a on a hill up an el elevation, just like if you were in England, you go up to uh up to London from just about anywhere because it's the elevation is a little bit higher. And there is sort of a sort of a um uh kind of a metaphorical use of it meaning that it's the the central place, it's the high place And so they th that was common to say, let's go up to Jerusalem. So that's what they were they were doing they were going to do. And the people there are described as well as the plan. So Jesus is looking forward to this very fateful day where he is going to die. Now, let me ask you a question. If you If you sit down with your closest friends, and there was apparently a large crowd there as well, but he says he specifically talked took it specifically took the disciples aside and talked with them. And and you say, I'm going to die. And with specificity, you explain how you intend how you're going to die. We can't do that, right? Except that maybe you have, you know, an incurable disease. You've got something that causes you to say, okay, well, all things being equal, I am going to die here and this is what's going to happen and this is This is how it's probably going to play out, that kind of a thing, and you're talking about that. What would you suppose an appropriate ri response would be from the people that you're talking to? Probably sympathy, maybe some grieving Notice what they do in the passage In verse twenty, it says the mother of then, so then connects what he just said. This is in the same context. Then the mother of Zebedee's sons came to him with her sons Kneeling down and asking something from him. The mother of Zebede is now going to ask the James and John are the are the brothers of Zebedee. And this mother and James and John together, the the the other passages in Luke and Mark, they actually leave the mother out, Matthew leaves the mother in. You've got all three basically here. the mom and these two two of Christ's twelve disciples come to Jesus and they ask a question, can they sit on your right side? Can you sit look at what look at what it says in the passage? It's it's really surprising. Verse twenty. Then the mother of Zebedee's sons came and to him with her sons, kneeling down and asking something from him, and he said to her, What do you wish? She said to him, Grant that these two sons of mine may sit, one on your right hand, and the other on the on the left in your kingdom. This mother is concerned and and the and the and it's not the mother's fault. It is the the the two boys want her to do this. This they're in they're collectively working together to try to get this to happen. They're saying when you set up your kingdom they really don't understand his kingdom actually. Actually, but when you set up your kingdom and you rule, can can my son sit on the right hand and the left hand of the kingdom? They are really concerned about the status in the kingdom kingdom. Right after he says, I'm going to go die. I'm going to sacrifice my life. And these two are occupied, really pre-occupied with their status. This is really quite remarkable, is it not? Hawaii in this right hand and left hand, what is that? Well it's a position of Prestige and power. In fact, in the Old Testament, this word right hand was used in that sense. Psalm sixty sixteen eleven says, You shall you will show me the path of life and your presence is for Psalm forty-five nine and Psalm one ten said the same kind of thing. Psalm one ten one says, And the Lord said to my Lord, sit at my right hand till I make your enemies. Your footstool. And by the way, that's a prophecy of Jesus himself. Jesus is actually the one that is going to be sitting or does sit on the right hand of the Father in heaven. In fact, in Acts chapter 7, verse 55 through 56, as Stephen is being martyred, it says that he sees this, Jesus standing at the right hand of God. And so this is a place of privilege and authority and power, and this is what these folks are wanting from Jesus. That is what they are concerned about. And unfortunately, this isn't the first time that they've been occupied with this. The disciples were occupied in Matthew chapter 18 with the same kind of thing. And that passage, you remember as we went through it, at that time the disciples came to the Jesus saying, who then is greatest in the kingdom of heaven? Then Jesus called a little child to him and said, uh and set them in the midst of him. They're asking, who's greatest in the kingdom of heaven? They're occupied with status. They're occupied with promotion. They're preoccupied with their position. And Jesus, Peter had remembered, remember from last week, Peter had asked about what their position would be And Jesus said, because of what I've called you to do in the kingdom, you are going to sit in a place that you're going to be be in a place of prominence. Matthew nineteen twenty eight it says, Assuredly I say to you that in the regeneration the Son of Man sits on the throne of the of his glory, you have followed me, uh you who have followed me will also sit at the twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Is Israel. He says Yeah, you're going to be involved in leading in the in the in the in the kingdom to come. But now that's not enough. They want the special, the most special place. And they are preoccupied with this. They have totally missed the prophecy that Jesus was going to die and sacrifice his life for them. because they're occupied with their status in the kingdom. Do we ever do that kind of thing ourselves Are we ever guilty of this? Are we occupied and preoccupied in our society? Think of society. Are we occupied with power, prestige, money, and fame? Are these not things that the world pursues as a whole? Even in following Christ, sometimes we are so occupied with the benefits of following Christ. That we forget the cost, the sacrifice that Christ made to give us those benefits. Because the reality is: look, salvation is free to all who will accept it by faith. But it doesn't mean there's not there wasn't a cost. It is free to us. The Bible says, not by works of righteousness which you have done, but according to his mercy, he saved us. We can be rightly related to God. Totally free for us. In fact, we can't even work for it. We can't even do any kind of self-effort for it. And yet, it create at what what great cost there was for Jesus. the cost of the sacrifice on the cross. Isaiah 53 says it this way, he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities, the chastisement of our peace was upon him, and by his stripes we are healed All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned everyone to his own way. And the Lord has laid on him, Jesus, the iniquity, the sin of us all. He was oppressed and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth. He was led as a land to the slaughter, and as a sheep before his shears is silent. So he opened not his mouth. We need to it's always, folks, very important for us as followers of Christ to remember the sacrifice that Christ made for us rather than being occupied with our own agendas, with our own self-interest, with our own focus, with our own prestige and power and fame, despite what society is encouraging us to do. to be in to to value. Now, Christ not only values sacrifice over over um uh over status, but he actually values submission to suffering over self promotion. We see that in verses 22 through 23. Jesus' response to these three people, to this mother, who by the way was a probably a relative of Jesus, a distant relative. Um and and and so thought she probably could have a a a more more of an in with Jesus because of that The way that he responds is really, really wise. And he says, Do you not know what you ask? He says, Are you able to drink the cup that I am about to drink? And be baptized with the baptism that I have baptized, that I am baptized with. He says, are you really ready to drink from the cup? We're going to learn what that cup is in a minute. Drink from the cup that I am about to drink. Well, what did he just talk about? What is it that he's about to do? He's about to go and sacrifice and die. And he says to them, Are you really ready to do this? His impl the implication is if you want the status, then you've actually got to sacrive to the suffering. And their answer is, yes, we're ready. The fact is they very likely had no clue what Jesus was really about to do at this point. They didn't really understand the sacrifice that Christ was going to make. So they want the status, so they simply say, yes, we're we're able. We're able to do this. Jesus says, you indeed will drink my cup. But he says the status that you're asking for is actually not mine to give. Now, what is this cup that Jesus is referring to? There are several things we actually see this cup, this word cup, used in the Old Testament on several occasions. For example, in Psalm 16 and in Psalm 116, the cup actually refers to divinely appointed destiny. In fact, to an future inheritance. Psalm 16. 5 says, O Lord, you are the portion of my inheritance and my cup. You maintain my lot. Psalm 116, 13 says, I will take up the cup of salvation. and call upon the name of the Lord. So you're the destin the the future destiny of somebody, the future inheritance, the what's going to happen in the future, that is the cup in the Old Testament. But not only that, we find in Psalm 75, we find another, we add, we're going to add to this concept of future destiny, we're going to add to the idea of God's judgment. In Psalm 75, verse 8, it says this, for the hand of the Lord is a cup, and wine is red. It is fully, and the wine is wet, it is fully mixed, and he pours it out. Surely its dregs shall all the wicked of the earth drain and drink down. And I read that verse, and I have to tell you that I had to really look at what that means because I don't, you know, I'm not a wine drinker. Okay. So I don't really know what that is and what dregs in wine is. So I Googled it. I did very scholarly research and I Googled what dregs are and it came right up and told me what it is. And um and dregs apparently are the sort of the uh my anal my my analogy is I am a very much a coffee drinker Well there apparently are grounds, there are things that don't dissolve in in wine sufficiently So it usually falls to the bottom. Apparently it's more common in red wine than white w wine and and uh and you if you can buy sometimes they call them wine crystals or something like that. But anyway, uh but they're they're they're not they're something that's not they're not desirable to have in the wine. And the wine's desirable, but the dregs are not desirable And what Jesus what what what this cup is a reference to is the mixture of what is desirable and what is not desirable. And what Jesus is essentially saying is you you're gonna have both. You can't have one or the other. You can't have the status without without the undesirable suffering that goes along with it. You're going to have to drink this thing together. And what's interesting is in Scripture that the dregs, the cup, is a reference of the cup is a reference to the judgment of Christ, the judgment of God. Isaiah 51, 12, 51, 17 through 18, awake, awake, stand up, O Jerusalem. You have drunk at the hand of the Lord the cup of his fury. You have drunk the dregs of the cup of trembling and drained it out. There is no one To guide her among all the sons she has brought forth, nor is there any who takes her by the hand among the sons she has brought up. And we see the same kind of thing in Jeremiah twenty-five, fifteen through twenty twenty eight. So on several occasions you have this idea of dregs being the judgment within the wine of the future destiny of some someone. And then we actually see that point blank, the cup can refer to suffering. We see that in the New Testament. In Matthew 26, 29, this is, or 39, this is just before Christ's death. He is in a garden weeping over the fact of what he's going to do, and he says, Oh my Father, if it is possible, let this cup pass from me. Now you might be saying to yourself, well what about this judgment of God? What what is that? And is that really something that is something that we we should really I mean, is God really that way where He is one who is a a God of judgment? Actually we we We should want God. We we should be thankful that God is a guide of judgment. And I say it the In this sense, would a judge would you be thankful if a judge let an axe murderer go free and didn't and didn't pronounce a judgment? Would you be th wo would you say, well there's there's a good thing that happened there? I mean this this person that's a you know multiplier mul many people, he he was let go and and uh nothing was done Justice isn't done. So we want uh it is it is it is something that we should want God to be a just God. And the fact is he is a just God. Um, we have all kinds of an injustice in the world, do we not? Is Isn't it frankly very comforting for us to know that there is ultimately going to day where God, who is the ultimate seer of all, is one who will set things right? God is a just God and all the weirdness in the world and all of the corruption in the world and all the problems in the world and nobody knows how to figure it knows how to solve all this. We're thankful that God is such that one day He will judge. He will set things right. Now the The fact is just judgment comes from this, according to Scripture, this problem of sin. And sin is a problem that all of us have. We're going to see how God deals with this of this passage in a few moments. But he says here that the cup refers also to the suffering, to the suffering that Jesus had to pay on the cross. And he did. Jesus suffered greatly as a as an execution On the cross. And in fact, if you look at the first century, these men, James and John, are going to suffer persecution as well. James is going to die as a martyr. John is going to be exiled to the Isle Isle of Patmos for his faith. These people are going to go through very similar suffering, maybe not to the to the great to the extent that Jesus did, but very simple similar suffering to Jesus himself. And the Apostle Paul did as well. What's interesting is what happened is after Jesus Jesus died and then rose from the grave three days later. And the disciples and the apostles realized what had happened, that Jesus literally bodily rose from the grave and began to tell people about this, and some people rejected it, and some people recep accepted it. And the people that rejected it did in fact persecute them ultimate eventually in the book of Acts. And yet because they knew what they were doing and why they were doing it, it Paul says this, Colossians chapter 1 verse 24. I now rejoice in my sufferings. I rejoice in my sufferings and fill up in my flesh that what is lacking in the afflictions of Christ for the sake of his body, which is the church. S Paul got to the place where he actually could he could s he it wasn't as though he didn't suffer, the suffering didn't mean suffering didn't mean Or he really wasn't experiencing pain or loss or anything like that. No, quite the contrary, the suffering had great meaning to him. It meant something to him. And he valued the suffering because of what it would what it would result in for the cause of the kingdom. Revelation 1-9 says this. I, John, both your brother and companion in the tribulation of the kingdom of and patience of the Now, how do we apply this? The fact is, folks, all of us have suffering. We don't have suffering to the extent that the first century apostles went through suffering. But all of us go through suffering in life. And for the Christian, that suffering means something. God is going to actually use that suffering in your life as a Christian. It says it this way in Romans chapter 8, verse 17, and if children then heirs, heirs of God, and joint heirs with Christ, if indeed we suffer with him that we may also be glorified together. Same thing in 2 Timothy 2 verse 12. If we endure, we shall also reign with him. If we deny him, he also will deny us. Revelation 3. 21, to him who overcomes, I will grant it to sit with me on my throne, as I also overcame and sat down with the Father on his throne. So God says that for the follower of Christ, for the person who is a a citizen of the kingdom, God says that he uses the suffering in your life and in my life with great meaning for That's why in Romans eight twenty eight eighteen It says, For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. That is, the more when And this is very practical. When someone goes through suffering, my dad went through great suffering at the end of his life. When someone goes through suffering, when a Christian particularly goes through suffering, what What happens is they get closer to Christ. When a Christian goes through suffering, what often happens in their lives is you see, and I did with my dad, you see more of Christ. You see more of the love of Christ, you see more of the humility of Christ, you see more of those kinds of things in their life. And I can tell you from first hand experience watching my dad, I saw more of those things in his life. In fact, w he literally said the But he told the doctor uh one time, an attending physician at in the ER when he was there, that cancer was a blessing for him. How does somebody say that? How is cancer actually a blessing? Because he saw the meaning in it Now, what is it, what is our responsibility as Christians when it comes to suffering? Number one, we need to see the meaning in it. We need to understand that God is going to use this in our lives for his purposes. We may not really understand how that's all going to work, and in time it might be revealed to us, but we don't you know there There's things that we're just not really going to understand entirely. But we know, we know from what the Bible says he will use it. But also it's important to realize that what our responsibility is, the Bible calls it this, enduring. Endurance. Our job is to endure the suffering. I've just recently started listening to a dramatized version of Pilgrim's Progress. I've read it on several occasions, but Recently somebody in our church gave me uh a copy, uh or not gave me, lent me a copy, even though I've had it for so long, uh he's probably wondering. But anyway, uh lent me a copy of uh of Pilgrim's Progress, uh and it's in a dramatized version. And uh I forced my kids to listen to it. Uh we were in a car trip recently. And I was just struck um by by this theme. of endurance as Christian in that in that great literary work, Pilgrim's Progress, as Christian is going on his way to the celestial king kingdom, on his way to the celestial city. And there there are all kinds of trials as he goes through the slou despond, he goes through uh temptations and all kinds of things. And there are temptations to to get sidetracked, to get off of the way, to Take worldly wise's advice, for example, and to get involved in legalism, or there's different things that happen in Christians' life to get them sacked, sidetracked. What is Christian supposed to do? Endure. Stay the course. Stay focused on Christ and endure the suffering. And that's what God has called us to do. He's called us to endure suffering. So in the kingdom, what God values for his kingdom says Now, we then see in verses twenty-four through thirty-four of this passage, finally, that Christ's king Kingdom values service, service, being a servant as supreme. He values service as supreme. Verse 24 says this. And when the ten heard it, remember there's other ten, there's ten disciples, there's twelve disciples total, right? Twelve disciples, and God's been Jesus is has been dealing with these two disciples plus their mom, and suddenly these other ten disciples pipe up and go, What are you doing? I mean think about it. These two disciples are like, can I be on your right hand and I can I be on your left hand of the kingdom What are the other ten disciples going to do? And s and so they're looking and they're going, Hey, wait a minute, what about us? I mean that's essentially what's going on here. And when the when the the the ten heard it, they were greatly dip displeased with the The two brothers, these brothers uh who want to be on the right hand and left hand of Jesus, um they're displeased, they're upset at these two brothers for trying to promote themselves above the other disciples. And actually wouldn't I mean we understand that, right? I mean that that is an understandable reaction. But notice how Jesus responds to this. This is Notice what he says. He says, verse 25, but Jesus called them to himself and said, You know that the rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them And those who are great exercise authority over them. And what he means by what he what Jesus is saying is this: He's saying, you understand that when someone reaches a place of prominence, In, generally speaking, in the world, when they reach a place of prominence, certainly in the first century this is the case in the Roman Empire. Certainly this is the case among even among Jewish people in that day. There was a lording over here, you have to do what I say, the way I say it, and the way I want it done, you gotta do it. I mean there really was this sort of Bond slave versus master. In fact, in the first century, over 50% of the population was in a slave master relationship. So that if somebody was going getting to a place of prominence, the reason they wanted to get there is actually because they didn't want to continue They didn't want to continue to have to be a slave. And so they wanted to be prominent so that they could lord over others. And that was the mentality. That was how these disciples were thinking. You got two options. Either you're lording over as a master or you're a slave. And so they're pretty upset when these two m people are trying to promote themselves above the ten because the mindset is, oh, you're you want to be over us and you want to tell us what to do and we're gonna end up being your slaves is that's what you're trying to ask for. And they're pretty upset about this. So Jesus is saying, that is n that and and and by the way, there is a connection even in our society today. If you think of our society, there is a general a general desire towards self-promotion. There is a general desire and and it's not wrong, by the way, if you're in a in a in a in a job to want to be promoted, to to work hard, to get but when there is this preoccupation with that, when that becomes your identity, when that when that becomes all you're about is getting promoted and your self-worth and your self and your your concept of self is entirely dependent upon What how you're promoted. When that kind of thing begins to happen and you value things that way, you're really falling into the same trap that the disciples here fall into fell fell into as well. So he says, no, that that's that is the way society of the world thinks. He said, no, in the value in The values in the kingdom of heaven are different. He says this, verse 26, it shall not be so among you, but whoever desires to become great among you, let him be your servant. Did you catch that? He says, if these two disciples that want to be great among you, actually they need to be below you. They need to be your servant in order to be great among you. This probably blew the mind of the disciples when Jesus said this. And yet Jesus is trying to teach them something about the value of Christ's kingdom. That is exactly what Christ values. In Luke 22, we have a parallel passage here that helps us understand this. Verse twenty-four it says Now there was also a dispute among them as to which of them should be considered the greatest. And he said to them, The kings of the Gentiles exercise lordship over them, and those who exercise authority over them are called benefactors. But not so among you, on the contrary, he who is greatest among you, let him be as the younger, he who governs as he who serves. For who is greater? Now he asked this question: who is greater? He who sits at the table, or he who serves? Is it not he who sits at the table? Yet I am among you as one who serves. He uses an illustration. He says, okay, you got people at the table. The people are sitting at the table, and of course in that day they had servants who would serve. Who's greater? And they he said, in in the world's mind, in society's mind, it's the people sitting at the table. And Jesus says, No. He says, No, no. Actually the servants are the one who are greater. Jesus says, I'm one of the servants. I'm one of the ones who came to serve, not one of the ones who came to be served. And that's exactly what he says then. He says, I did not come to this earth. Jesus, who claimed to be God, who is God, he said, I did not come to this earth to be served. I came to this earth. to serve. We see this fleshed out in the book of Philippians, chapter 2, verse 5. It says this, let this mind be in you, which is also in Christ Jesus. Who being in the form of God did not consider the thing to be grasped to be equal with God. Jesus is equal with God, according to the Bible, but made himself of no reputation. And taking the form of a bondservant, and coming in the likeness of men, and being found in appearance as a man, he He humbled himself and became obedient to the point of death, even the death of the cross. So Jesus says this, I am not come to serve be served, I've come to serve. And then he says this. He brings them back to the original discussion he was having before about his sacrifice and to give his life a ransom. He says, I have come to be a ransom for many. Now the disciples are probably thinking at this point, a ransom for many? What is that? What do you mean by a ransom? Well, let's ask the question. What is a ransom? The word means it refers to some to the deliverance from a prison or deliverance from slavery. Okay, so ransom is actual deliverance from slavery. And Christ delivers from slavery. His death delivers From slavery. In other words, he became a slave, so to speak, a servant, a slave, in order to free people. Now, from what? What did he free them from? And the answer is in 1 Corinthians 15, 54 through 57. It says it this way. So when this corruptible has put on incorruption and mortal has put on immortality, then shall be brought to pass the saying written. Death is swallowed up in victory. O death, where is your sting? O Hades, where is your victory? The sting of death is sin, and the strength of sin is the law. But thanks be to God who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus. Jesus Christ. What did Jesus free us from when he died from the on the cross? Death and sin. He freed us from death and sin. You say, well, if we physically die, we do. But the greater concern is actually spiritual death, which is what he's talking about there. See, when you know that you will spend eternity living with the Lord, the sting of death is removed. The enslavement to death is removed. You yes, death is something that is very um uh it's very uh nobody wants to go through it, right? I mean everybody looks ahead and goes, uh Not something I'm uh gr uh love. Even Christians do not love the idea of going through death. And yet the sting of it is gone because we know what the other side is and the eternal eternity that that that were afforded on the other side. And so because of that, the Bible depicts it this way, where we are actually Where does the death, the spiritual death, come from? It comes from the problem of sin. And we know all the way back to the first uh to Genesis that Adam and Eve sinned. They rebelled against God, and sin was passed upon every person because all have sinned. So we know that to be the case, and the Bible actually says death has passed upon every person because all have sinned. Adam and Eve would not have died had they not sinned. So you have sin and death that's passed upon. It was not natural death is something actually that's not natural according to Scripture. It's something that came as a result of sin. And yet what Jesus did on the cross in dying for us, he died as a substitute for us. Because the the other thing that the word ransom means is actually a a a pain. Payment to be freed by means of a payment. That's what a ransom is. I mean we know that, right? You think of a ransom, somebody holds somebody at ransom, what do they want? They want a payment in order to get the person that they're holding back. And so Jesus says, I have come to sacrifice myself as a ransom, as a payment to free many from the sting of death and sin. Titus 2. 14 says it this way, who gave himself for us That he might redeem us from every lawless deed and purify for himself his own special people, zealous for good works. He says to redeem us from every lawless deed. Now the truth is, I mean, this is one of the most empirically verifiable observations in in society. Something's wrong, right? I mean, look around the world the world. Something ain't right. You look around at society and you realize that everyone is has at least it doesn't mean that everybody is as bad as they could be. We're thankful for that, right? And it is it isn't as though there isn't there isn't because we're made in the image of God, there isn't, you know, people that want to do good and those kinds of things. But everyone in the world has sinned on some level. The Bible says if you sin in one point, you're actually guilty of all. It's how the why Bible does it's kind of like this. You've got a you've got a uh uh uh you bake a cake, right? And um you use eggs in a cake. If you use three eggs and one's rotten, what happens to the cake? Oh, the other two are good, so it's fine. No, it ruins the entire cake. One rotten edge is going to ruin the entire cake. It's really the same way with our sin. One sin, even one. Is going to ruin the whole thing. So we need what Christ did in taking our sin on himself and dying in our place as our substitute. And if we will accept that by faith, then keek is the payment for us, the payment for many. The many are those who will accept it by faith. And so why is that so important? It's so important for this reason. In order to be a perfect substitute, there had, Jesus had to be perfect. And people can't be perfect, which is why Jesus is the incarnate Son of God. He is God and He came to earth and became Came the God-man, the hypostatic union, the God-man. In Romans chapter 5, verse 18 through 19, it says this, therefore, as through one man's offense Judgment came to all men, resulting in condemnation, even so one man's righteous acts, the free gift came Many will be made righteous. Jesus came and he was the ransom payment of our sin. some payment of our sin and our and death. And we need to accept that by faith. We even see this prophesied in the Old Testament. In Psalm 42, verse 1, it says, Behold, my servant whom I uphold, my elect one in whom my soul delights. And then later on it says, All we like sheep have gone astray. We've turned every one to his own way, and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. Isaiah 53 10 then says, Yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him, ha he has put him to grief when you make his soul a uh an offering of sin, he shall see his seed and shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. And so we see what Scripture says here, that Jesus took our iniquities on himself and died for our sin. The next passage here, that what we see here is That Jesus now is going to go from Jericho and he's going to head toward Jerusalem. And on his way, we read in the passage, as Harry read it, on his way, there are there's a multitude following Jesus. A huge group of people that are following Jesus, and there are two blind people that are following Jesus as well. And the two blind people use the term son of David, which which shows us that they really recognize Jesus. Jesus as the Messiah. Now I want you to think of it this way. Jesus is coming from Jericho. He's going up to Jerusalem. He's really he's headed toward his execution, essentially. And you would think that Jesus would be so preoccupied with what he's about to do that he would have that he would be understandably preoccupied. And yet you've got these Two blind people that are calling out, the multitude saying, Hey, stop, be quiet. Like Jesus has got some important things. And yet He's He uh they're telling him be quiet. And yet those people, these people are crying out. Son of David, Messiah is what they're saying. Have mercy on us. And Jesus says to them, what do you want? And G and they say we want to be healed. And Jesus, the Bible says he was moved. the compassion. He was compassionate on them and he was healed. And why why why is that in there? And it's in there for this reason. Why did Matthew include that? Because it actually shows Jesus as an example of a servant. He's now on his way to To going to the cross to die for the sins of the world, and on his way you've got these needy brought blind men, and he's so loving and so compassionate that he stops to heal them in the midst of all of what is going on in the world. Even in this way. And he desires for his disciples to serve in this way now. And look, what Jesus then is saying ultimately is greatness, the greatness of Jesus Is realized in his servanthood. Because the Bible says that God will exalt him and give him a name which is above every name. But the name of Jesus, every knee shall bow, every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. This this is why do we know the greatness of Jesus Jesus. What manifests the greatness of Jesus? It's actually his servanthood. And he's saying the same thing about us as well. You know, the truth of the matter is we've got one life life to live, right? I mean, and it's a short life. And the value of the kingdom says I want to serve. The more that I serve, the more valuable my life is, the more influential I'll have the greater in God's eyes, maybe not the greater in the world's eyes, but the greater in God's eyes my life is if I choose to Now, with all of this in mind, there are four questions I'd like for us to consider. Four questions. Number one, do we become so occupied with earthly gain that we neglect the reality of the sacrifice Christ made I mean are we all not guilty of this? We go through life and we we are some of it's survival, right? Sometimes we're just you uh you know, uh y I I think of moms out there who are dealing with little ones and And you're just like you're like, I don't have time to really contemplate the sacrifice of Christ. I'm like trying to keep my kids alive. Right? And it's actually pretty understandable. Um but it's something that's important for us to not be too occupied with that we miss and we forget the cost that Christ gave in order to free us. So that the Bible says if the sun therefore will make us free, we will be free indeed. It's actually the preoccupation with early gain, with early earthly gain that can actually weigh us down rather than free us. Number two, do we value submission to suffering over self-promotion? Are we valuing the same thing that the kingdom of God values, where we we we submit to suffering as something that God is going to use Suffering and self promotion don't go together. They don't work very well together. Somebody who's occupied with self-promotion, su suffering comes in and it doesn't fit into the plan, right? But suffering is something that we understand will can ultimately uh God can use. Number three, do we desire to be great about, do we desire to be great or do we desire to serve for the glory of God? Do we desire to be great or do we desire to serve for the glory of God? These are values questions, right? These are the things that we need to ask ourselves, are we b what are we valuing? And then finally, have you accepted the ransom payment that Jesus made when he died on the cross to pay the punishment for your sin? Is that something that you've accepted? accepted before. So so God Christ has made the payment by dying on the cross for us. He rose bodily from the grave. He's made that payment. But it is not as though it's applied it's only applied to those. payment is only applied to those who accept it. It's like it's like taking a check of for a million dollars. It the check is not helpful unless you actually deposit the check. And it's the same thing when it comes to Jesus and the payment that he is made, it's only applied to those who will receive it by faith. John chapter 1, verse 12 says this, but as many as received him, To them gave he power, gave he the right to become the children of God, even those who believe in his name, who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man. So God tells us that we need to receive that payment, that ransom payment of eternal life, uh and and and by accepting what Jesus did in dying on the cross. to pay the punishment for our sin. Is that something that you've done before? If you if you haven't, let me encourage you. I'd be glad to to you say, hey, uh I'm not really sure about that. I don't know if I've done that before uh uh come and talk with me. Um I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you more. If you have questions, anything like that, please come and talk with me. I'd be I'd be more than happy to help you biblically to understand how you can for yourself receive That ransom payment on the cross of Christ. And I'd be glad to do that. Let's go ahead and go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you this morning and we thank you for the truth from your word. We thank you for Christ, for the example that he gave, for the very different value system from what we often see in society. And we thank you, Lord, that you've called us to this. And Lord, I pray that you would help us to be mindful of these things as we go through our own lives. Help us, Lord, to remember and to be mindful of the sacrifice that Christ made on the cross. And may that motivate us and propel us to desire to serve Him rather than to serve self And Lord, if there is anybody here that doesn't know you as their Savior, that hasn't accepted that payment of that gift of eternal life, I pray today they would really consider that and they would come to Christ. Christ. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for Streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.