Then he'll give me a wonderful life. In some of the other epistles, or some of the other gospels, rather, you'll see the kingdom of God, and sometimes you'll see them used interchangeably. And folks, y if you don't know Christ is your Savior, the ri true salvation, true true conversion starts with repentance going from And he was clothed with camel's hair and with leather, uh a leather belt around his waist. And he reached to these different regions. You'll notice, first of all, that these people come to him and they confess their sins and they are baptized. Now, there are a few things that we need to understand about what's going on here when it comes to John's baptism, and I want to be very clear about this. And then notice this, verse six, and when Paul had laid hands on them, spoke with tongues and prophesied. Let everything that hath breath praise the Lord. And the need for repentance, we look at our day that we live, and we look at the way that the gospel is sometimes communicated in our day and among our churches. And sometimes the concept of repentance is entirely removed from the path to receiving Christ. Help us to be able to see things from your perspective this morning. And grow in the knowledge of you, in the knowledge of your truth, that we would be drawn nearer and nearer to you each day M Harry did that. They get caught up in the moment of other people coming to Jesus, and they want the same quote-unquote experience that they had, and so they get caught up in the emotional moment of coming to Jesus without really understanding what they're doing. There has to be adjustments that are made as you go through the Christian experience. And we're going to take a moment to ask the question, what is preaching? We first see then that it is a faithfully proclaimed message in verses 1 through 3. And that herald would go out in the authority of the king to proclaim the message to all the land. Jesus would preach this later. For example, in Luke 24, 47, where it says, And the repentance and remissions of the sins should be preached in his name to all the nations, beginning at Jerusalem. And the other is to term, which we'll look at in a minute of the term. when there is true repentance. It is the act of the will to go. This is not I prayed a prayer and now I have a relationship with God. And when Eve took of that fruit, she said she and Adam took of that fruit. instead of being ruled by God. Uh but when I have, it's it's the owner's there. Every one of us need to live lives of repentance, constantly being aware of our tendency to want to be under our own rule. The same way that Elijah lived, very likely. So now we have a little bit about John's ministry, his lifestyle, and how he lived. uh that these profits would do. But I'd also notice this that locusts were permitted as food and still eaten by the poor. And there are a lot of passages we could go to, but for sake of time, we won't take the time to do that. Now the religious leaders are then coming. And Samuel, you have prophets that were able to function within society during godly reigns, during right times. He was functioning outside of the Sanhedrin and the religious leaders and all of that. And they are repenting, and we know they're repenting because they're aware of their sin. uh back in that day. w we call it pregnancy, whatever, during birth. But a bad tree bears bad fruit. For the tree is known by its fruit. There's got to be, your lifestyle needs to be, needs to reflect repentance. What was their hindrance? And God was saying, look, all of your self-importance, all of your self-value is nothing. In Acts 19, verses 1 through 7 it says, And it happened while Apollos was at Corinth, that Paul, having passed through the upper regions, came to Ephesus, and finding some disciples, he said to them, Do you receive the Holy Spirit when you believed? So they said to him, We we have not so much as heard whether there is a Holy Spirit. It's something that Christ does. And so they were identified as ones who were repentant in order for Christ to then come and they would then be able to give their allegiance to Christ and to follow him. That's the chaff, and God is going to be able to determine, Christ is going to be able to determine the difference between the wheat and the chaff. The synagogue and Judaism and all of that had become an idol for them. And I'll simply make this point finally. Or will you experience the wrath of God yourself? to come and talk with me after service or or to realize, come to a place of true repentance where you're not living for yourself any longer If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. Teachers and nursery workers will be available to introduce themselves and assist you in signing your children in and out of their classrooms. We believe in that objective truth in the scriptures. So being new members here, I'm most looking forward to uh continuing to deepen my walk with Christ and and grow in my relationship with him. Praise him for his mighty acts. Praise him with a timbrel and dance. And Lord, as we anticipate looking today at the ministry and preaching of John the Baptist and his message and the importance of repentance, And as we lift our voices to you, we pray, Lord, that you'd help us to be filled with thankfulness and gratefulness for all that you have done for us. in a fresh way the importance of repentance in order to truly enter into your kingdom. We thank you, Lord, for that comfort. For this is he who was spoken of by the prophet Isaiah, saying, The voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare the way of the Lord, make his path straight His winnowing fan is in his hand, and he will thoroughly clean out his threshing floor, and gather his wheat into the barn, but he will burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire. It's also the very first passage in the entire New Testament that gives us the message, a message preached. And the entire New Testament is the message that we are looking at this morning in Matthew chapter 3. And it's very ex- you know, really very important, extremely important, because it really lays the foundation of the true church preaches from until Christ returns. what I'm doing. put the blocks inside the trench and make sure they were l made sure they were all level and lined up exactly right. a faithfully proclaimed message, a ministry consistent with that message, and then finally we're going to see a warning to those who reject the message. And when an authority like a king wanted to get a message, he would send a message by way of a herald. It is the Bible. No, to exposit the word, to preach the word, to herald the word. Uh occasionally I like to watch TED Talks and they're not intended to be funny, but I think they're almost comedic sometimes. The the the the authority of what they are saying is based upon some experience that they've had, some story that they tell you. He was a prophet. In Matthew chapter 10, verse 7, it says, And as I as you go, preach, saying, the kingdom of heaven is at hand. The concept of repentance is very prominent throughout the entire New Testament. In Acts 2, verse 28, it says, And Peter said to them, Remember that sermon in the book of Acts? It was preached by John the Baptist, it was preached by Christ, it was later preached by the apostles, and you see it over and over again in Scripture. and you shall receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. That's repentance, brothers and sisters in Christ. When Christ came, he was going to describe a kingdom in a different way. And then we are to give have dominion over the earth to be stewards of what God has given us. And sin passed down from one to another. Rule of self to rule of God. And choosing instead to be under God's rule. So uh so he put this he put the stuff in in in honey and uh and this was his his normal diet And so this was one of the ways that God made sure that Israel knew and understood this as a prophet, or at least was able to recognize this as a prophet. And in Zechariah chapter 13, verse 4, it says, And it shall be in that day that every prophet will be ashamed of his vision when he prophesies, they will not wear a robe of coarse hair to deceive. John's target ministry were people of of that were not of means. Preaching the gospel, and it says that the people of Jud of the region of Jud of Jerusalem and all Judea and all that region around Jordan, these were the outlying areas, not the And so there's this connection for people that there's going to be this new exodus, this new kingdom, this new forming of the people of God. Jesus, he did interact with the uh with the leaders in the in the temple and things like that, but he functioned outside of that. By that point, he couldn't preach the message of the gospel well. Throughout church history, the more evil a society becomes, the more Christians can't function as well within that society. And so he's preaching outside of society because at this point society was so evil, not just evil by the Roman Empire, by the way, but evil by the Sanhedrin, who were self-righteous on uh he was evil on both sides a a constant uh attempt to function within society. And they're confessing it. such a movement that now it's got the religious leaders leaders' attention so that John the Baptist doesn't have to come into the into the the synagogues and into the temple and all that. And picking up at seven that says, coming to his baptism, he said to them, he immediately, they come to him, and he immediately directs his attention directly at them. and look trying to find the the biological connections here. He says, you brood of vipers, who warned you to flee from the wrath to come? For I say to you that God is able to raise up children to Abraham from these stones. which does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. that have fruit. 16 through 17, Jesus is going to say, you will know them by their fruits. But he who is coming after me is mightier than I, whose sandals I am not worthy to cut to carry. I baptize you with water unto repentance. Into what then were you baptized? Then Paul said, John indeed baptized with a baptism of repentance, saying to the people that they should believe on him who would come after him, that is, Christ Jesus. When they had heard this, very important phrase, when they had heard this, when they had understood and heard that Jesus is the one to believe in. And then you have this term by fire, which indicates the idea of purity. But there is one coming who is going to be able to change you from the inside out and baptize you with the Holy Spirit, who's going to be able to change you. between John's baptism, believers' baptism, and Holy Spirit baptism, and it's this one word, identification. And he will thoroughly clean out his fleshing his threshing floor and gather his wheat into the barn, but he will burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire. If they'll keep depending on self and living under their own rule and doing their own thing, they will experience the wrath of God themselves. Who doesn't know you as their Lord and Savior, who has not experienced true repentance, that they would experience that today. To have the best experience you can possibly have. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. Are extremely important to us. for them. We thank you, dear Father, for making a path for us to come to you through repentance and through faith in Christ. We neglect the role of repentance in our lives. saying the same things you're saying about our lives. Uh the fact that you are creator God who has made all things and made us Then Jerusalem, all Judea, and all the region around the Jordan went out to him and were baptized by him in the Jordan, confessing their sins. Therefore bear fruits worthy of repentance. Um but uh in in the whole process of building retain retaining on my pro uh on my property, we spent probably a good third of the time of the overall project on the first, on the bottom row come into situations where they say, this does not seem to line up with what I understand about the gospel Because maybe in the very beginning stages of their understanding of the gospel, something wasn't established correctly. Bottom row, foundational row. And it would do us very well to really understand this row as a foundational row to the rest of the message of the gospel that we will learn more in this book. How do you receive the king? Imagine being in a land where a new king comes in and the way to receive him is through repentance? Make his paths straight. And saying, Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. not to just preach opinion. experience that they have had some sort of epiphany about their lives and you here's the truth that from my experience and you ought to follow this this this person get up there and talk about some opinion that they have and in some cases they're good in some cases they make absolutely no sense whatsoever in what they're saying. the nations, and then the end will come. That God is holy and just and righteous, and that myself, because of my sin, offends God. That is the understanding in the mind that we must have to genuinely come to a place of repentance. The mind understands that there is a genuine offense and trespass against God. Two con it's not a compound word exactly, but it's derived from two other words in Scripture. afflicted regret that my sin is offensive against God and it causes me to feel afflicted about that. To I am being ruled by God. Eve was under the rule of God. The voice of one crying in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord, make his path straight. Well, it is to pave the way for Christ. We end up wanting to rule ourselves instead of being ruled by God. in order that Christ may be able to do his work. And what happens to us is we're born ruling ourselves because of what happened with sin When we choose to be under the rule of God rather than our own rule, then we are living under the under God's kingdom and living the way that God wants to as stewards of what God has given us. So that's the message first and foremost, and then we need to see the ministry that's consistent with the message. Then Jerusalem, all Judea, and all the region around the Jordan went out to him and were baptized by him in the Jordan, confessing their sin. During this time, it wasn't just John the Baptist that had this novel idea to eat locusts in Leviticus chapter 11, verse 22, this is allowed, but also the poor of that day also were able to eat locusts in order to survive. not the city, not the place where all where the where the the religious institutions were, where the um Where the the hierarchy of rel you know the Sanhedrin were, but these were he went out and and preached the gospel to the to a different target audience completely Those are the people that often he will go to, and the people that we ought to be sensitive to as well. Now we are not to isolate ourselves from society. that he had to function outside of society. Our that like the Baptist heritage comes from from John the Baptist, which is a bunch of nonsense. They're confessing their sins. Can you imagine sort of walking into a church sanctuary or church auditorium and immediately somebody starts talking directly to you? Well that's what John the Baptist does. And he's basically saying, you are as evil as you possibly could be. fruit, I'm sorry, between trees and Israel. Because nobody, it's not like, okay, well, some people would make great Christians and some people wouldn't make great Christians. Because people that were baptized by John were actually re-baptized after Christ rose from the grave during the church age. In Acts chapter 18, you have this, Apollos. Repentance. So this baptism is a special kind of baptism for this particular time. And you have something else you have the same thing in Acts chapter 19, which we'll get to in just a moment. With a, and he will baptize with the Spirit when he comes. You have actually three different kinds of baptisms, essentially. with John with a baptism of repentance and we we see here how this all plays out that the the tongue of prophecy is not necessary for Holy Spirit baptism, but by the time we get to 1 Corinthians chapter 12, it says that we are all, all believers, are baptized by the Holyzed in the Holy Spirit into the body of Christ. And that is his point when it comes to the idea of baptism here. Now I won't take the time to explain all that, but simply he is pointing this out. The whole illustration here is that God is going to be able, Christ is going to be able to come and the chaff, which is actually the Sanhedrin, they're the chaff. That organization becomes an idol. And there is a way that God satisfied his own wrath by pouring it out on his own son. to be redirected according to our own rule, that we would we would be we would you would make us aware of this and come under the rule, under your rule. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. that have sort of turned around night and day, just just haven't come here. so uh great in terms of their unity and their activeness and involvement in the church. through hearing God's word, preached, studying God's word and continuing, you know, reading in the Bible is helping me to grow spiritually. in purpose and meaning. and with one another. And the ministry and the love of the people of the church is helping my children and my family to stay faithful to the Lord. As a young mom I have two small kids and so I am very much looking forward to seeing them grow up in this church where I know there are gonna be people who care about them and love them and want what is best. And to help build up others in the faith the way that they've helped build me up. worship service, a small group or Bible study, let us be a blessing to you and your family. And Lord, we are forever thankful for that. And he and e frankly, he he didn't just help me start off well, he helped me finish well as uh no and you all know Harry well enough to know what I mean by that. Why Christians so often, or professing Christians so often, in the middle of their Christian experience, ha run into trouble. And in this passage, John the Baptist, before the entire gospel is even going to be revealed by Jesus himself, John the Baptist is the forerunner, and he's going to lay out an extremely important Faithfully proclaimed message, a ministry consistent with that message, and a warning to those who would reject the message. Folks, that carries no authority. And so when when John the Baptist preached, he preached on the authority of the truth that he had been given. In fact, many times you'll see the word kingdom, the phrase kingdom of God in Scripture. Failing as a nation because they continued to go into idolatry time and time again in the Old Testament. It's kind of, I was thinking about this, trying to illustrate it, it's kind of the difference between managing a restaurant and owning a restaurant. And the poor of Judea were there as well. mythology and folklore and things about the viper. He says you brood of this is how you win friends and infrared influence people. And he says in verse 8, therefore bear fruits worthy of repentance, and to do all and do not think to say to yourselves, we have Abraham as our father. This is not the only time that this is going to happen. Does it mean that in order to repent they had to be baptized? He was of the baptism. What it really means, the best understanding of this would be that it is baptism in some way, and we'll learn what it means here, but in some way associated with repentance. And we have here Apollos again, who is at Corinth, and there are a group of people that have been baptized They were baptized again. Now, all of this is a little bit confusing, but let me just lay it out this way. In those days the threshing floor was used, they would actually throw up the grain and the chaff together, and the wind would blow off the chaff and the grain would be left and they would be able to collect the grain and use it for food and flour and food and things like that. The wrath of God, and notice in the passage he says there will be a unquenchable fire. Let's pray together. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. or email us at info at bbcofmd. Christ. Discovers how to have a genuine relationship with God, they are given a sense of purpose and meaning in life. Home groups that meet in various locations throughout the region. uh awareness of our need to repent and to confess to you, Lord, and uh to to make sure that we are position of all who believe in the name of your son and trust in his sacrifice No one can take away the salvation that you have so freely given to us. And turn them for our good, so that we would grow in Christ's likeness But when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming to his baptism, he said to them, Brood of vipers, who warned you to flee from the wrath to come? My main concern was that it starts off right. Unfortunately, some people actually start off wrong. Other times they come to Jesus and they think that what's being offered is a really wonderful life. And now in this passage, as we come to it, we're going to see that this message that John preaches is a message, it is a call to repentance. So, very candidly, when I preach from the pulpit, I am not preaching from my own authority. And the message that he preached was the message of repentance. Sometimes people have an emotional experience and they think that's repentance. No, it requires the whole person. It causes me to be troubled. Repentance is an act of the will. And there are different, there were different realms back then. Then it says this, and we see clearly in scripture in verse 3, it says, For this he has was spoken by the prophet Isaiah, saying, In the book of Isaiah, chapter 40, verse 3, there is someone who is to prepare the way of the Lord, and this John the Baptist is the fulfillment of that. Um I'm I'm thinking to myself, why is this run so well? so that we are stewards of Him. So I looked up locust and whether it's edible, it is, it's edible. Now, it says in the passage that he went out in the wilderness. sends a signal that there is going to be essentially a new exodus. Well, why is that? You have Elijah, who could not function in an evil society in the Old Testament. Well, how can what can we learn from all this? Or you're part of the right denomination. And that's important for us to understand. And now we turn our attention to verse 7, where now this has become, I think what's happening here is this has become such a Who warned you to flee the wrath to come? process uh during the mating process would actually kill the the the the uh the male and this was sort of in re retribution to the mother I mean it was really some of the things I'm not sure were I started looking this up Notice what it says here in the passage again, picking up in uh just pick up in verse 7, it says, But when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees to him They are in a place of privilege because they were children of Abraham, and they made the assumption, which was a long-standing assumption, that if you're a child of Abraham, you're a child of God. When it it's the term is used baptism of repentance. Therefore, every tree which does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. What John was doing was that those who were repenting, he was identifying as those who were repentant. Number three, we will surely, God will surely judge the self-righteous and unrepentant and the unrepentant sinner with eternal judgment. And Christian, have we been living lives where we're ignorant of God's rule in our life? I thought I knew. Maybe we need to turn back and to a place of repentance again, where we turn we turn and live under the rule of Christ once again. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. more faithful. If they want to grow spiritually, if they're ready to take the the next steps in their spiritual walk with God in their Christian life, uh this this is a place for them. And in your redemptive plan, after your first creation, your Adam and Eve sinned and plunged us all into a sinful state. We deserve to stay in the same state that we were when we were born into this world, at enity with you. And I pray, Lord, that we would now give attention to your word as we are about to read it together and hear it preached. Now John himself was clothed in camel's hair, with a leather belt around his waist, and his food was locusts and wild honey. But he who is coming after me is mightier than I, whose sandals I am not worthy to carry. Is the very first passage in the entire New Testament that talks about John the Baptist. We spent a ton of time making sure that row was right. If the if our if our baseline understanding is not right, then everything else could very easily be a little bit off. And their pr their only reason for coming to Christ is they don't want to go to hell and they want to go to heaven. He is the coming king. John is going to lay this out for us. The gospel of the kingdom of God. I first want to reiterate this when we think about this whole concept of repentance and what repentance means. It's not just an emotional feeling. The word here, it's an interesting word. Perhaps you think you have, but you've actually never experienced repentance. And I think that that's actually a very important point for us to remember. And they're frankly not worried about it, by the way. We don't come to him with all of our value. Well, all three are mentioned in another place that's going to help us. believe in Jesus Christ. The religious leaders who are self-righteous, they're righteous in themselves, they're ruling themselves, they're not repentant It begins with remorse for sin and remorse for self-righteousness and understanding of self-righteousness, an understanding of ruling of self, and it ends with complete conversion. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Even before the foundation of the world, your word says that you plan to redeem those. Even loved ones, but the truth is no one can separate us from your love What were your initial things that you understood about Jesus when you first came to Christ? Some people come to Christ because that you know they they have they say, well, I don't want to go to hell and I want to go to heaven. That's our word. And when we are truly experiencing repentance, it's not just a mental thing. The kingdom of heaven is at hand. There were different realms and different territories, and they would have understood a kingdom of that nature. Sin. The best thing that we can look at in these very foundational steps is to look at the passage and see exactly what it says. That we are created. But we're never, we were not created to rule ourselves. He gave us dominion over all kinds over the earth. Because the operator has a vested interest in it. This is the very foundational building blocks of the gospel and the Christian life and the kingdom of God and all that God wants us to understand. And John chose to eat these and he was f you know, I I would want honey too if I were eating grasshoppers. And this was actually it's actually consider it's considered a delicacy in many countries. To the Jewish people that this was a prophet. And John was going to be functioning outside of organized religion. Which sounds, you know, sort of funny to us, but like the the most evil thing you can do is kill your own mom. Who told you you're going to flee it? This baptism of John is not the same baptism like believers' baptism that's later on described. Like a name tag, okay, that identifies you, or a stamp on a on a on a on cattle that identifies them as a particular owner. Be aware of this. So that if someone believes in Christ who satisfies the wrath of God, they will be, they can be saved from experiencing that wrath themselves. So everyone has a choice. It's repentance. Now, how do we, when this first part of this, this message fully proclaimed, how do we apply all this? Now, uh take Chick-fil-A for example, which is apples and oranges uh uh in these restaurants, but but Chick-fil-A is also run well, differently, but run well. And do not think to say to yourselves, we have Abraham as our fathers, for I say to you that God is able to raise up children to Abraham from these stones. There was this ethnic chosenness that their faith was relying on And that's what he's saying to them. It was an identifying mark for them. Number two, we must remember that Christianity is not based on an organization, a pedigree, a ritual. I'd like uh here's what I'd like to do. And submit yourself under the rule of God. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. dealing with uh family struggles, those who are uh dealing with um We pray that you and your complete goodness would turn our difficult situations It involves all of us, all of you. All right, well let's understand what a kingdom is. Kingdom is a rule. And repentance, repentance moves, turns from I am ruling myself. So he preached this message of repentance and to be ruled by God. Or being sort of an operator of a restaurant, those kinds of things. It's not something that we need to to we need to just understand that that is that is bound to happen in an evil society. And it's outside of organized religion. And you have this the Pharisees and the Sadducees that very likely make up the religious leaders, these are the Sanhedrin He doesn't need your self-value. It's not based upon an organization, a pedigree, a ritual. And by way of streaming as well, there would be some that think that they know the Lord, but there has never been true repentance in their life. Where we're simply just living by our own rules, doing what we want to do. We are ready to assist you in understanding your needs and locating facilities such as the nursery, coffee area, and the specific ministries and classes available for you and your family. Truly, Lord, we don't deserve any of that. That's first of all, it occurs in the mind. That your sins may be blotted out, so that times of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord. was clothed in camel's hair, with a leather belt around his waist, and his food was locusts and hunt and wild honey. But this idea basically that uh that I'm part of the of I'm part of the right church, I'm in the right circles, I'm in the right area, I'm right. How can that be? Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. We also understand that looking for a church to attend can be unsettling. It's a body of believers that is striving together to serve the Lord uh genuinely. the difficulties that many are facing this morning and this last week. Because many things can be taken away from us while on this earth. But uh this illustration involves him. You have a you're doing a TED talk. by the by society as a whole. And by the way, it was the it was the most insulting thing he ever could have said to them. And the only thing we need to know is that we're not valuable outside of Christ. And that is what he is talking about. The path to living under God's rule begins with remorse for sin and self-righteousness and ends with complete conversion. And you and I need to be careful about that. His his rat the the execution of the justice of God is the wrath of God. And even now the axe is laid to the root of the trees. Extremely important word, and there are many that really just don't completely understand it. And I pray, Lord, that you would work in all of our hearts to on a daily basis as we are constantly prone to wander, as we're constantly prone to Through your great grace, you have cleansed us from all sin. Troubles at work. I can read about things. Because if that row was not right, if the bottom row was not right, everything else was going to be off. Luke chapter 13 says, without repentance you will all likewise perish. So what is repentance? No, the Christian faith is entirely based upon Christ, in Christ alone. And he says this. Reading from today's text will be Matthew chapter three. I was like, that's good, it's fine. Repentance, true repentance is being going from being ruled by self to being ruled by God. We are operators. This is not easy believism. There has never been truly a turning from self and turning to God. Well, okay, if it's not believers' baptism, what kind of baptism is it? That through your faithfulness to us and through your grace, we're able to be called the sons of God. And so these these guys come in, these Pharisees and the Sanhedrin, and he immediately says to them, Brood of vipers. The Viper was one who it was said that they ate their they would kill their own mothers during during uh during when they were when uh during And John was saying to them, no, you will not escape the wrath to come if you're relying on your ethnic chosenness. He says, For I say to you, look, God can make children out of stones. For the message that John the Baptist continues to preach, and Christ will then preach, and then the apostles will preach, and in fact all The Bible is the authority. He was the last prophet. Repentance requires requires that. Because he has become our substitute, and we no longer have to pay the penalty for our own sin because he paid it all on the cross. And I would imagine that that in this room of self and of turning to the rule of God. The church has impacted my walk with the Lord in terms that my faith became real. In Matthew 5. Do you remember what happened in the Garden of uh the Garden of Eden? So so which is it? What was keeping them from actually coming to a place of repentance? So there is a spiritual baptism. And then they realize life isn't all that wonderful after you come to Jesus, and suddenly everything kind of breaks down. That's what preaching is. He's going to preach to them too in just a minute. And trees, trees that have no fruit or bad fruit or good fruit, the the the is there's going to be a constant comparison to trees and seeds and those kinds of things. They're aware of their sins. This is a warning to them. We have a lot of young families with children, and we believe in the importance of teaching truth to the next generation. In those days John the Baptist came preaching in the wilderness of Judea and saying, Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. In these days, of course, you did not have email, you didn't have internet, you didn't have have the the news, you didn't have television, you didn't have radio But if you know Christ is your Savior, this has to happen on a daily basis, does it not? They're recognizing it. And to prepare the way for this new kingdom, John says, you must repent. Father, we come to you and thank you and praise you for who you are. I'm going one direction, and now I'm going to move another direction. Do we think that John the Baptist really cares too much about what people think? And in Hebrews chapter six, verse one, it says, Therefore, leaving the discussion of the elementary principles of Christ, let us go on to perfection, not laying the foundation And the idea of a kingdom of heaven is really heaven, is another really another way of saying God. We won't take a take a l a lot of time to delve into this too much because I think we'll get the point from what we've already said Number one, he had a different target audience. So what about the opposition? Well, when Aquila Priscilla came in and they explained things to him, they explained that the they fleshed out the gospel in a th more thorough way, he was rebaptized. Because prophets usually could not function within evil societies in the Old Testament. I didn't say again, but that's what that's what it's saying. I can look at YouTube videos. It is the very foundation. It's not just that, oh man, I got caught. Well, first of all, we need to realize that God's target audience very often are the downcast and the poor and the rejected. So they said, into John's baptism. Our focus is on making and building disciples for God's glory. Praise him according to his excellent greatness. And he's like, no, it's not quite right. He is the coming ruler. And God doesn't tell us that we need to we need to isolate ourselves from society. That's repentance. Okay. The first thing we see about John the Baptist is that he comes preaching. Adam and Eve were under the rule of God. And we have this tendency to want to rule ourselves. He says, verse verse 10, and even it now the axe is laid to the root of the trees. Praise him with stringed instruments and flutes. But let's look first of all at the emotions here. There is a sense of remorse. It means to turn, to convert, to change. It's a rhetorical question like you're not going to flee the rack. So what does this call include? 17, it says, from that time Jesus began to preach and to say, Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Now we don't know, I don't think it says in the Old Testament that Elijah ate locusts and honey and wild honey primarily. And this that had and and the full gospel had not yet been revealed to these folks yet. I'd like every everybody to close their eyes for a few minutes, bow your head for a few minutes. Not to just go one opinion after another, or let me pick up a topic that I want to get across and let me let me come up with some good points on that topic and This is the message that we are to preach to the coming of Christ. Of course, they were under the Roman king, they were under the Roman Empire at that point. Lord, we we ask that uh you would provide a special measure of grace for them I'm sure he won't mind. It's really simple. Uh I I thought I thought, you know, yeah, I'd be I'm a Christian. And some of it was folklore and some of it has some has some connections. We don't come to him saying, well, that person would really make a great Christian. It's a little bit of a confusing, a little bit difficult phrase to really understand. And John points this out. So the passage here that we are uh looking at this morning He was a prophet in the essentially the last Old Testament prophet. Now, when when the when they would have heard this, they would have thought of a kingdom as a matter of a territory or a realm. Originally, we are created to be ruled. Remember, they hadn't had a prophet for 400 years. Repentance from self, repentance from rule of self, repentance of your sin, and a turning to Jesus Christ. Preaching is to herald a message from the authority of one who is not the herald. I'm not an authority. There are three very important components to repentance. Or you're part of some sort of some sort of uh you know I hate to say this, but there are some, it's it's it's a minority, but there are some Baptists that actually believe that Since I uh started coming to Bethel, I noticed that my walk with the Lord became more serious. And um it just draws us together as a family This is going to happen a lot, actually, throughout the book of Matthew and actually other books, other gospels as well, where the nation of Israel is likened as likened to trees. You remember Apollos? If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. The authority of the experience of a person pales in comparison to the authority of the Word of God. It's in the mind, it's in the emotions, and finally it's in the will. This is not, oh I felt a funny feeling, and now I know I'm I I I have a relationship with God. But that wasn't his target targeted audience. I pray, Lord, today that we would be reminded of the importance of repentance even as our in our lives as Christians as well. And I pray that that would comfort those who are feeling lonely right now, those who are And that's a really important question. And when we choose to be under our own rule and we realize that's what we've done, we repent of it. I figured I could build it as long as I'm you know I said, can you just help me get off on the right foot here? But the more evil a society becomes, the more the church, the more Christianity is going to be rejected by that society. Israel is a tree. I can try to figure out how to do this, but I just really feel like I need to I don't know what I'm doing well enough to be able to to to start off well You receive the king through repentance, and that doesn't even sound right when you think about it. The Christianity, the Christian faith is centered and based and founded on Christ alone. And Lord, may we worship you in spirit and in truth. Can I ask you a question, Christian? And they're coming to God humbly this way. As a and this is sort of a focal as a and the mothers during the during the consummation In Matthew 12, 33 it says, either make the tree good or its fruit good, or else make the tree bad and its fruit bad. In that sense, it's the same as believers' baptism, but of course it's not the same as believers' baptism, because believers' baptism, what do you first have to do? Bethel Baptist Church is a family made up of people from very different backgrounds and from every age group. Praise the Lord. And the way to the gospel is through repentance. It is a turn from being ruled by self to being ruled by God. Never do you see you have John the Baptist that is deliberately isolating himself from societies to some degree because Matthew 13, 22 through 23, Matthew 12, 21, there's many places where there is this comparison between He says um he says verse nine He gets paid a lot, like a whole lot, actually. Additionally, there are one-on-one and couple to couple counseling and discipleship opportunities. And do not think to say to yourselves, We have Abraham as our father. Repentance is the foundation for the way to be saved. But folks, it does certainly affect the emotions. It is to pave, and it's interesting, it says the voice of one crying in the wilderness to pave the way through the wilderness. In this sense, not worried about what everybody thinks about it. Viper was a viper was was uh i it's a it's a very harmful snake, okay, but it's not it wasn't as bad as they thought it was Well, in putting all of this together, let's understand a couple of things. And essentially, I think that was what was going on in the first century. God's justice must be satisfied. And it's repentance for those of you who perhaps here today and don't know Christ. God says that the way to come under God's rule is through this concept of repentance. Even now you could eat it. Well, two alluded to, and then later we know believers' baptism. In a Romans chapter 8, verse 9 it says, But you are not in the flesh, but in the spirit. Bethel Baptist Church is a growing loving family community. It indic it involves the entire individual. W here's the thing, we don't own anything He was preaching, and he was preaching the gospel of repentance, and he was baptized by John, uh by John the Baptist. The truth is we as Christians sin every day. The Bible is the authority, and I'm the herald of the authority as I preach. Oh man, I'm being punished for sin. It's a word that comes from two other words. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. Father, as we come to you this morning, we our hearts are filled with many of the words that we have just sung. It's going to include three things. Well the owner was there. In fact, if we become if we become too uh too uh loyal to an organization beyond loyalty to Christ He is the one who rules all, and he wants to rule you, and he wants to rule me. When they did, they took on, they said, we are going to be ruled by ourselves on our own. By the way, you'll see in the passage, notice before we get to the opposition. Would you take your Bible and turn to Acts 19 for a moment? This was God's plan for John the Baptist, and God clearly laid this out for him. I I was I went to a really nice restaurant this past week and uh it was one of the it's one of the best restaurants I've ever been to before. He says, look, I'm just identifying you as repentant with water. org. So this is an extremely important text. Anybody ever seen a TED Talk? Well, what just just looking at all of this, what's really going on here? You brood of vipers. Then he finally says this as a warning to these Sanhedrin. Will you trust and depend upon the wrath of God as it was satisfied in Christ, it was poured out on Christ? It's the idea of being troubled, remorse. He is saying that Christ is coming and he is going to be able to identify the difference between the grain and the chaff. Therefore every tree which does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. And what did God was told them? John lived, John the Baptist lived as a as a as a typical Old Testament prop prophet. In fact, he probably wasn't going to be able to preach. This is an indication of true repentance. What does that mean? That in and of itself was an idol. For this is he who was spoken by the prophet, Isaiah, saying, the voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare the way of the Lord. Now let's think about it for a minute. They were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus. Amen. There is a sense of regret that occurs It's interchangeable. We are to be ruled by him In fact, all four Gospels talk about the fact that he went out into the wilderness. This was a prophet that was excluded from society. No, uh-uh-uh-uh. After arriving at Bethel, feel free to park at one of our guest parking spaces, close to the front doors. And he would not be the only one that would preach this. I mean, w this is not somebody that's really particularly cared about what you think of him. The answer is no. Here's what I mean. His target audience was not the religious leaders of the day. You are not a Christian because you go to the right church. The Holy Spirit comes in and he purifies when there is a baptism of the Holy Spirit. God is a just God, and God's wrath must be satisfied. May Christ Savior and Lord accept him. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. May the Lord richly bless you. Before you even drive into our parking lot, we'd like to give you an idea of what to expect on your first visit to Bethel Baptist Church. Do you remember what happened? Actually, what he's saying is here, why do you think you're going to flee this wrath that's coming? Do men gather grapes from thorn bushes or figs from thistles? There you go. It is a decision that you made, and you know the path to get there? We don't deserve to be your children. Preaching means to make known by means of a herald. I watch them occasionally, some uh I I'll look at one and I'll watch this Peter said, Repent and let every one of you be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sin. Eat locust. The wilderness was also a place where fugitives would go, and it was also a place that were that was hostile to society Psalm 150 says, Praise the Lord, praise God in his sanctuary, praise him in his mighty firmament. Praise him with the sound of the trumpet. If you don't herald the word, if you don't preach the word when you're preaching, you're not preaching. It's not just an emotional thing. So you you imagine a restaurant where the owner's there all the time, it's going to be pretty good. Well what does it say about this tree? But so we see here that it's not the same kind of baptism, but it's a baptism associated with So what does it mean? Let's pray together. And Lord, I think of the And God says, God says, no, you must come under my rule again. There's John the Baptist's baptism The the church family here is just And that indicates to us, folks, by way of application, that that is how we come to Christ, realizing we are of no value outside of Christ. I baptize you with water and repentance, but when Jesus comes, he's going to baptize you with the Spirit. When I first came to Bethel I was a babe in Christ. We are stewards of the one who owns all. And even now the axe is laid to the root of trees, therefore every tree He likens these leaders of Israel, and really Israel as a whole, as trees. Well, let me throw something else in the mix here. Sometimes people have an intellectual experience and they think that's repentance. In Acts chapter 3, verse 19, it says this, repent and therefore and be converted. He was paving away outside of all that. The Christian faith has always functioned outside, it is not dependent on an organization, it is dependent upon Christ alone. Praise him with loud cymbals. Matthew three, and we'll read together verses one through twelve It wasn't just a territory. It doesn't come from John the Baptist at all. And that is a true, that is true repentance when you're aware of your sin. A couple of, I guess about two months ago, I asked him to help me build a retaining wall on my property. Because at the bottom row, we you know we dug our trench and Sometimes people will quote unquote come to Christ and really it's just an emotional experience. And he says, we pick up in verses 1 through 3, it says, In those days John the Baptist came proc preaching in the wilderness of Judea. They're grasshoppers what they are. It was very, very simple, very, very basic, and it was really to signal to um The book of Matthew, you'll see kingdom of heaven often That's another thing we see about the region that he went to. I mean so far, you know, the guy's got he he he he wears animal skins and a belt. He is not mincing any words with this with these Sanhedrin. First of all, the mind Remember in the Old Testament, you have when they when the Exodus came, in the old Old Testament, Exodus, they went out into the wilderness. I mean I I just like I it I I I don't know why it strikes me as funny, but he's preaching to all these people and this group comes in and he immediately says, You brood of vipers. That's the call. I think I I think you know I've had some but you've never actually experienced true repentance. It's all talking about the God's kingdom. We're going to learn a little bit more about the baptism in just a few moments, but they're baptized. This is in stark contrast, folks, to the to the religious leaders of the day. It's not believers' baptism. They weren't worshiping idols anymore. We accomplish this through corporate worship on Sunday mornings, through adult Bible studies where we learn God's Word and how to effectively apply it to our lives, and through our discipleship And and then in their in their overall experience of the Christian life, they realize that there's really a whole lot more to the gospel. It's going to include a faithful message proclaimed. The whole being turns from one dire going one direction and goes the other direction What does it mean? No, my sin, my life is an offense against a holy God. So what are we converting to? So this is a Matthew points out that what John the Baptist is doing here is a fulfillment of prophecy. And you have as well, but you I mean you have a few times, for example example during during David's reign and Nathan and you think of and But the bottom line was he was saying to them, you evil mother killers What does it mean or uh The the meticulousness with which How did you start off in Christ? But Okay? That's not what it means. And people people say, well, how can God, loving God, be s you know be so intent on sending so many people to hell? Let's be clear, folks. The ministry consistent with the message. And now there needed to be some really obvious signals that a prophet was here. In fact you see in the book of Acts where there was Because they thought they had a place of privilege. Father, we praise you this morning. John is going to, in his message, lay out for us the first row. They go from one town to another to another, and they would proclaim this message that was given by authority of the king. Repentance is an extremely So a viper was there was actually a lot of um What's the thread? And if you are listening today and you say, you know, I've had experiences where I thought I got came to Christ. We are created to rule in this sense. He was in the wilderness. I indeed baptize you with water unto repentance. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. Also, it shows that this prophet was not accepted by If he went directly into the synagogues to try to preach this message, he probably wouldn't have gotten very far What happened? But in our own sin and in our own our own twisted state Even today, grasshoppers are considered a delicacy. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. When that same person belongs to a loving community where God's word is taught, they will grow in their relationship with the Lord and their life grows. TED Talks are funny. And in Matthew 24, 14, it says, the gospel of the kingdom will be preached in all the world as a witness to all I have trespassed against God's justice. And he said to them, We hope to see you soon And we pray these things in Christ's name. Our health, our finances, our jobs. It means this. They were being ruled by self. Don't ever depend upon an organization for what we ought to be depending only on Christ for. You know what he's saying to them? The authority from which I preach is the Word of God. I want to be very clear about this, that this And and these two words indicate that there is an afflict one is afflictedness It is a decision In fact, every time I every time I've been to that restaurant, I uh which is not that often, but The command is to be under the rule of God, and your lifestyle should reflect that you're under the rule of God. What kind of baptism that is? He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire. I mean, what does that even mean? He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire. And that is the true The word literally means to turn. And without this, you do not have salvation. It's not the cicada things, although apparently you can eat those too. And John was paving a way for all of this. No, he wouldn't. And Lord, we confess before you that oftentimes in our lives as Christians And that means that every that we should have a constant And I'll begin by saying this: repentance involves the entire person. Even in this day, by the way. A turning from the rule. When this was preached, It's saying, folks, that we are turning to a new kingdom. It's not just a realm. These people are coming. Like I can't think of anything like more more evil than that, right? He's warning them and he's prophesying against them. We all come to Christ as sinners in need of a savior. And we ask that, uh we thank you that We've already learned in Matthew that in the first two chapters, Matthew presents Jesus as King. Here, you could have knowledge of good and evil. And the answer to that, folks, is that we need to understand, first of all, Like, whoa. Now, we won't get into the tongues and prophesy thing, but we actually we actually become to come to realize And I do pray today that if there is anybody here Praise him with the lute and harp. We're stones that God can make to be children. So the very first preached message. And the nation of Israel needed to understand that they were failing as a kingdom They're just transparent about their own sin. Does it mean that he baptized them so that they could be repentant? They were the idol And it is that time when we need to remember our position in Christ. This is the first time that we see the concept of preaching in the New Testament. And his payment is somewhat based on what how how well the restaurant does to some degree. It's going to be cut down. He says this that Christ comes, Christ comes We hope that we've been able to show you a small glimpse of what Bethel is like. We deserve to be alienated from you. The fact is, this is true throughout history. Let me illustrate it how important it is this way. We actually know this. What's the connection? He says this, verse 12, his winnowing fan is in the hand I I'd had some some spiritual struggles in my own life Repentance is absolutely necessary for salvation. But during evil times, these prophets were not able to function in society. Praise him with clashing cymbals. And if you do not have repentance, you do not have salvation. And by the way, when I'm being ruled by self, what is that called? My family is involved in the church. They sort of It's all based on their experience, almost always They usually tell you some sort of It's a spiritual baptism. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. And the same thing is true when it comes to our understanding of the gospel. There's some people that uh say that that's the case, as it's not the case. Acts chapter 19. Okay, now that's believers' baptism The preaching is the herald of the Or, as we have mentioned on many occasions before, God's rule. They really thought that they were above everyone else because they were children of Abraham We pray in Jesus' name. If I'll come to Jesus and follow him This was the message. In Matthew chapter 3, verse 4, we pick up and it says this, and John himself Because God, if He wants to make children, He can make children out of stone. And so they were repentant. But we really would love to meet you in person And so we should ask the question, what is repentance? Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Repent, therefore, and be converted. It's a rule. What does the passage say? And we are created to rule. Depend upon what Christ did for you on the cross. For I say to you that God is able to raise up children to Abraham from these stones. It's based on Christ alone. What are we turning from and what are we turning to? If indeed the Spirit of God dwells in you, now if you if anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ, he is none of his. We have a real unity in the faith because Unless he's saved by Christ. I was spiritually immature. And Jesus, by the way, did as well. Amen. I don't have the time to look at all these different passages, but you could pick many different places. I don't think he ever tried to be part of society. John's baptism was a different kind of baptism. I have genuinely offended and trespassed against God. Number one, We genuinely desire to help you grow spiritually any way you possibly can. But Lord, through your grace But I indeed baptize you with water unto repentance. It was the message of repentance. You could be under your own rule. We are going to be ruled by self instead of being ruled by God. He's talking about Israel. I don't really know Because what that is called is sin. But this is what John the Baptist did. Even so every good tree bears good fruit. And even getting involved in the ministry, I'm looking forward to uh being able to help out and I pray today that we would be reminded and really understand. Now I think in South Africa and a few other places as well, they're considered a delicacy. Okay, well then that must I must be right That's actually another kind of baptism But anyway, um but but it's it's grasshoppers. A couple of reasons why the w why why John went to the wilderness. But we all have one thing in common: we have found a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. God gave us dominion. Harry can't be here this morning. All who come to Christ must be, must do so with repentance. And in fact, I think that's one reason It says, repent for what? How's it why is it still run so well? Amen. And it tells us then also the purpose of John the Baptist, which is what? My children are growing in the church. Why? We sincerely desire to help people grow in the relationship with the Lord, with their family. Of the authority, by the way, that's why it's so important in preaching Let us pray together And we will see this in a few moments. Why? It is our privilege to have you visit us, and we want you to feel at home while you're here. Can I encourage you And folks, we need to expect that. You won't escape it. That really was what the proposition was In fact, he lived very much It is called the Exchange. Well, the wilderness The answer is no. Without it, you do not have salvation. There are all kinds of things But we'd love to meet you personally. That we are your children. Bethel is a place for someone And neither could they Will you trust in that? That is true repentance. But if they won't That's not what it means. John That's repentance. They come to him. In Matthew 7 Our children's ministry is And sometimes Join us for