Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we come this morning with grateful and thankful hearts. Father, we confess that we fall short so many times, and we're so grateful and so thankful for your great love for us and the grace and the mercy that you bestow upon us. We thank you for sending your only begotten Son, Jesus, to come and take on the sin of the world and suffer there in shame and pain and agony and died taking the wrath upon himself that belonged to us. And he was buried in the tomb and rose again, and now he rose up out of that grave and is now seated at your right hand, Father Father, we are grateful and thankful this morning for so great a salvation which you have provided for us. And we come with thankful hearts for how you have watched over us and protected us and provided for us this week. Father. And we're here this morning to come under your word, to worship you in spirit and truth, and to hear your word, Lord. And we ask that you would help us to Set aside all of the distractions and cares of the week and all the worries that we might have. Help us to concentrate on this next hour under your word, Lord And I pray that your Spirit will work in our hearts and change us more and more into your image. And Lord, that in all things you would be glorified and lifted up in us in Jesus' name. Amen. We are going to be in Romans chapter 8 this morning, and we are looking at verses 31 through 39. Romans 8 verses 31 to 39. Now, before we read the passage here, we just finished last uh two weeks ago about the foreknowledge and uh God's foreknowledge of us and predestination and conforming us into his image and we are justified and also glorified. And so now Paul says What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son, but delivered him up for us all. How shall he not with him also freely give us all things? Who shall bring a charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies. It is He who condemns. It is Christ who died and furthermore is also risen. Who is even at the right hand of God, who also makes intercession for us? Who shall separate us from the love of Christ Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or peril or sword? As it is written, For your sake we are killed all day long. We are accounted as sheep for the slaughter. Yet in all of these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us For I am persuaded that neither death nor life nor angels nor principalities nor powers nor things present nor things to come Nor height, nor depth, nor any other created things shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. Alright, so there was this man uh back in the 1500s who experienced extreme guilt and shame and fear. He was troubled, his soul was troubled, his conscience was troubled. Everything he tried never felt good enough He gave himself entirely to ministry and to the church and the feeding of the poor and gave his whole life for that, and yet it still felt as though he was never doing enough. He decided in 1511 to embark on a journey, a pilgrimage to Rome. And he would ascend a famous staircase called the staircase of the Scala Sancta. The staircase was a set of stairs, 28 white marble stairs, located on St. John's Lateran Church in Rome. And he would ascend those stairs on his knees. It was said that if you do this, you will attain eternal life. But Martin Luther got to the top of the stairs and he did not gain assurance of eternal life. In fact, he said, Who knows if it is true? He continued to be very, very troubled and went through the extreme guilt and shame and and really by our standard would even be called depression. Until one day he studied out the truths of the book of Romans and it changed him. He realized he was completely justified. He was completely declared righteous. His guilt was done away with And from that point on, he lived in incredible confidence. In fact, he would go under the council that would be called the Diet of Worms, the Council of the Leaders of the Roman Catholic Church. And he was prepared to be excommunicated. Which in their terms meant that he would be eternally damned to hell. But Martin Luther realized that he could not be eternally damned to hell, Because he'd accepted Christ as his Lord and Savior, and he was declared righteous by God And so with confidence he stood before them, and he did not waver, and he stood resolute in his decision. Realizing that it was by grace through faith alone that we would be saved. This book of Romans gave Luther wonderful assurance and great. The passage that we're coming to today is a passage that really culminates the first eight chapters of the book of Romans. And I would argue that actually he is, we are going to see the completion of the entire plan of salvation in these first eight chapters. Of course, Romans is not done. There are three chapters after this that are going to describe particular concerns and issues that Paul is dealing with in the day. And then after that, there's some applications of the Christian life in chapters 12 through 15. But chapters 1 through 8 comprise this entire Wonderful, glorious plan of salvation. We've seen in Romans 8 particularly that God has given us wonderful truths. We have seen in verses 11, 1 through 11 of Romans chapter 8 that we have freedom from indwelling sin, no condemnation. and assurance of adoption, no obligation. And matured by our fallen situation, the creation that we live in, the circumstances that we find ourselves in. No frustration. God, through his gospel, has given us so much. No condemnation, no obligation, no frustration God has made provision for every aspect of our lives as Christians so that we can stand complete in Him. But when we're complete in Him, just as though we have attained so much in our world When we have gathered so much or we attain so much, when we possess so much, the only thing left is to fear what we might lose. I mean if you think about it, when you're young and have nothing, you're worried about having nothing. But if you accumulate wealth and time, you're actually just worried about losing it. And so we find after Paul has now given us all of these wonderful truths, no condemnation. No obligation, no frustration, he's made, he has helped us to understand how everything is supposed to work because of the provision of the gospel. Now he says, no fear. Secured by Christ. In verses 31 through 39, what we're going to see today is that we are, if we know Christ is our Savior, if we've accepted what Christ has done for us, then we have we are completely and utterly and immeasurably secured in Christ This is an amazing passage. As we've gone through Romans chapters 1 through 8 We have seen different facets of the gospel. And each passage really helps us to understand the different facets of the gospel. And each week we have paused and looked at the different facets of the gospel. Romans chapter 4, for example, talks about how we are, it is not by works, but faith alone. Romans chapter uh five talks about how we are we are at peace with God. There's all of these different facets and we've looked at them. But it's as though the diamond of the facets of the gospel are put on a pedestal in this passage and spun around for us so that it it it gleams brightly and shines brightly for us. And we see all of these facets in succession, one after another, so that he concludes this entire section of Romans chapters 1 through 8 with this beautiful hymn. Most commentators see it that way. They see this as a hymn that the first century church would sing to remind them of the wonderful, amazing truths. that are spread throughout the book of Romans and now are culminated here. And they give us wonderful assurance. Because, see, folks, we live our lives Despite all of the truth of the gospel and what we have, our hearts are still flawed. Our minds are still that we're we're still under the curse. Our hearts and our minds are still, we still live in a fallen world. We still fear. We still have even false guilt. We still experience shame. We still experience loneliness. We still wonder about whether we really are secure or whether God really loves us. This passage, I would suggest to you is the greatest passage in all the New Testament when you're going through these kinds of experiences in your life. I can say from personal experience as a young man, when I uh speak I remember as a teenager, and you know, I I I don't know why it is, but teenagers, it's like you feel a lot of things all the time. And all kinds of different things. And you feel loneliness and you feel despair and discouragement and frustration and you don't know who you are and all kinds of things going on as a teenager. And I remember coming to this passage over and over and over and over again. I remember I don't know I don't know where I got it from. I don't know who some somebody told me to do this. But I remember experiencing as a teenager just the kinds of insecurities that a teenager goes through and the fear that a teenager goes through, and coming to this passage And just being assured that nothing separates me from the love of Christ But the fact of the matter is, it's not just for teenagers. Because all of us experience that. Isn't it true? Throughout our lives, because We live in a fallen world and our hearts have not yet, our minds have not yet been completely redeemed by Christ. We still struggle with shame and guilt and fear and loneliness and doubt. And all of these things. And so this passage is going to help us. We are going to see that God has immeasurably secured us. How? Based on what? We're going to see three things. First of all, it's based on what God has done. Verses 1 of 31 through 34. What God has done. Secondly, we're going to see that his security is based on who God is. 835 through 36. Who God is. And God has secured us then based upon who He has made us to be. Verses 37 through 39. What God has done Who God is and what He has made us to be. We are going to begin by looking first at the fact that God has secured us based on what God has done. In this beautiful passage, the question is asked, what then shall we say to these things? The things that he's talking about are previously what he just said. Moreover, whom he predestined, those of us who called, those who called, those who justified, those who justified, those he glorified, you have in a nutshell in verse in in the previous verse you have what the gospel does. It calls us, it justifies us, and ultimately it will glorify us and bring us to a place where we are conformed to the image of Christ. What should we say to all of these things? And then we're going to have these four there's four questions in the past questions of the passage, the three of which They bring up things that threaten us. Threaten us. So we have the threats of obligation, accusation, and condemnation. Look at what it says in the passage, you'll see this. If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son, but delivered him up for all us all, how shall he not with him also freely give us all things? Who shall bring a charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies Who is he who condemns? It is Christ who died, and furthermore also risen, who is even at the right hand of God, who also makes intercession for us. In verse 31, we see this threat of opposition. It says, if God, it asks a question, if God is for us, who can be against us? Now, in a sense, I think this is a rhetorical question. The answer is, no one can bring opposition against God, so therefore nobody is going to successfully bring opposition against us because of who God is. This is a promise to God gave to Abraham, Genesis 15:1. After these things, the word of the Lord came to Abram in a vision, saying, Do not be afraid, Abram. I am your shield, your exceedingly great reward. He's on your shield. Isaiah 40, verses 12 through 13. Who has measured the waters in the hollow of his hand, measured heaven? with the span and calculated the dust of the earth in a measure, weighed the mountains and scales and the hills and the balance? Who has directed the spirit of the Lord or as his counselor has taught him And so the answer is found in verse thirty-two. He who did not spare his own son. Now, that's interesting. We're talking about the Father, God the Father, who it says, he makes an argument that nobody can oppose God. Nobody can thwart the plan of God in our lives because God didn't spare his own son. A perfect illustration of this is back in the Old Testament. You remember that there was one day where Abraham, God called Abraham to sacrifice his only son Isaac. So they went up to the mount and on the way up he explained that uh there was uh Isaac noticed there was no real sacrifice and so So Abraham said that God would provide, and it got to where at the at uh Isaac was asked to go and put himself in that place of sacrifice. And it says this about Abraham, Genesis 22, 9. Then they came to the place of which God had told him. And Abram built an altar there, and placed a wooden altar, and he bound Isaac his son and laid him on the altar upon the wood. And Abraham stretched out his hand and took the knife to slay his son. That's a true story. Now we know that the archangel in uh intervened and God provided uh uh a ram in the place of Isaac, and we're thankful for that. But it points out, why did God give this illustration to us in the Old Testament? Because it points out that the Father literally sacrificed his own son for us. I think we've got to think in terms of our own children. What it would be like to sacrifice our own children for something? I mean, I think the closest we could probably get to this in our generation is that if a son or a daughter would go off into war To fight for our country. That would be sort of a sacrifice. God the Father, who was with his son for all of eternity sacrifice his own son for us. Isaiah 53 says this, surely is born our grief and carried our sorrows, yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities, the chastisement of our peace was upon him With the stripes we are healed. All we like sheep have gone away gone astray. We've turned it every one to his own way, and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. And then Isaiah 53 10 says this Yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him. He has put him, Jesus, to grief. When you make his soul an offering up for sin, he shall see his seed, he shall prolong his days, the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. This is what the Father did for us. He sacrificed his own son. That was the payment to bring us to God. How shall he not with him also freely give us all things? There's a logic to what he's saying here. This freely give is actually usually translated forgive throughout the New Testament. Colossians 2. 13 says it this way, and you being dead in your trespasses and uncircumcised of your flesh He has made alive together with him, having forgiven you all trespasses, all of our sin. Imagine buying a luxury car and never driving it. Or buying a beautiful mansion and never living in it. or paying for anything of any value and never using it. That's what it would be like, the thing of the great I mean you can't think of anything greater value than your own child, can you? To give up your own child? This is what the Father has done for us. How could could he give up his own child and then for it to be all for nothing? This is unfathomable. This makes no sense. So, on the basis of what Christ has done for us and what the Father has sacrificed for us on our sacrificed for us, we can be assured that there is no opposition anywhere, no hostility anywhere. that could separate us from the love of God. Despite God's obvious and unalterable forgiveness, we still experience guilt, don't we? We still experience shame. And so we move on and we see that there is another threat And even though this threat really can't get to us, because there is no opposition that can really thwart the plan of God, in our own hearts we feel accused sometimes We feel guilty sometimes. And so we come in verse 33 to the threat of accusation. Who shall bring a charge against God's elect? This charge is a legal accusation. Now, we're going to see God's answer, but let's just think about who might accuse a Christian. Well, I can only think of two out two possibilities. One is self. The Bible actually says if our heart condemns us. God is greater than our heart and knows all things. It is possible that our flawed heart could actually accuse us. But I think more likely what it's probably referring to is the accuser of the brethren, that is Satan. And we find in I in uh Revelation chapter 12, verse 10. It says, Now salvation and strength uh and the kingdom of God and the power of his Christ have come. For the accuser of our brethren who accused them before our God day and night has been cast down. Satan's the accuser of the brethren. He is the one that that constantly brings false accusations against us. But none of them will ever stand why. Very simple phrase next. Very simple sentence. It is God who justifies. I mean, case closed. Charge is brought against us. Satan accuses us. Satan brings a charge against us. We ought to be punished for all of our sin. It's real simple. It is God who justifies. We have this very simple phrase that has been expressed throughout the book of Romans. We have seen this. In Romans chapter 3, verse 24, being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. And Romans 5. 1, therefore, having been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. But we still can experience guilt and shame, even though we have been freed from all of that, and so we see that there is a threat of condemnation. Who is he that condemns us, the next question is in verse thirty four. Who is he who condemns And to answer this question, we have four realities here. The first reality is that there is a qualified sacrifice. It is Christ who died. See, the fact is we are born condemned. We are born uh born in sin, and so we are born condemned, separated from God from all of eternity, except there is someone who is qualified to take our place, and that is Jesus Christ. And so we have the reality of a qualified sacrifice, but we also have the reality of a complete victory It says, and furthermore, is also Christ risen. He's risen. He's alive. And And what you see in 1 Corinthians 15 is a long description of the resurrection of Christ and our future resurrection as believers. And associated with the resurrection throughout the New Testament is this idea of victory. The resurrection shows us complete victory in Christ. That's what it says in Colossians 2, verses 13 through 15. And you being dead in your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh has been made alive together with him, having forgiven you all trespasses. having wiped out the handwriting of requirements that was against us, which was contrary to us, and he has taken it out uh out of the way, having nailed it to the cross Having disarmed principalities and powers, he made a public spectacle of them, triumphing over them in it. We are victorious because of what Christ has done. We have the reality of ultimate authority. It says, who is even at the right hand of God? 1 Peter 3. 22 explains that this idea of being at the right hand of God is the idea that Christ is now in a place of authority. It says, who has given into 1 Peter 3. 22, who has gone into heaven and is at the right hand of God, angels and authorities and powers having been made subject to him. And then we have continual advocacy, qualified sacrifice, complete victory. Ultimate authority and continual advocacy. We have an advocate. We have someone who is ready to go to our offense, our defense And what's interesting is the very person that is ready to go to our defense is also the judge. Christ is the judge He is the sacrifice, and he is also the advocate. He's the one as the attorney, if you will, that comes to our defense 1 John 1 verse 9 says, If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. If we say that we have not sinned, we make him a liar, his word is not in us My little children, these things write to you that you may not sin. If anyone sins, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. And he himself is the propitiation for our sins, and not only for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole world. You say to yourself, Well, I understand that Christ died for my sin. But what about the things that I do in the future? What about the things that that that I I just I mess up on? We have an advocate with the Father that maintains our sacrifice, his sacrifice on our behalf. And he renders us forgiven and justified continually. There is nothing that can separate us from this. Hebrews 7. 25 says it this way, therefore he is also able to save to the uttermost those who come to God through him. Why? Since he always lives to make intercession for them. Christ is constantly, always living to make intercession for us. There's a really helpful, very amazing illustration of this example of Christ's intercession back when he was on earth with his disciple Peter Christ was about to go to the cross and y those of you who know the story of that realize that Peter he he had he was he he was He felt pretty full of himself. He was gonna stand with Christ. But Christ knew differently. He realized the weakness of Peter. He realized that, and it actually says in the passage in Luke chapter 22, verse 31, it says, And the Lord said, Simon Simon Indeed, Satan has asked for you that he may sift you as wheat. The idea of SIFT is to crush and strain. So wheat back then had to be the the gr had to be uh Uh there had the husks had to be separated and had to and so there was a crushing that went on and a sifting through. And Jesus uses this example to explain that what Satan desires to do in the life of Peter is to crush him. Verse 32, Jesus says, but I have prayed for you, that your faith should not fail. Isn't that wonderful, by the way? Now we look at the story of Peter and we go. I think his faith kind of failed. Right? You look at the story of Peter and and you and you see that he denied Christ three times and after the resurrection he's pretty bummed out if you remember and all of that. But apparently, because of the intercession of Christ, his faith never really failed. It stood firm. Peter at this point, they're about to go to the, he's about to uh come under opposition, Jesus is, and Peter's ready. He thinks he's ready, he's not, but he thinks he's ready. And so in verse 33 of the passage it says, And he said to him, Lord, I am ready to go with you both to prison and to death. Now, isn't that here's why here's why this is amazing. Jesus knows who Peter really is, and Jesus knows how weak Peter really is. And Peter doesn't know. Peter thinks, boy, I am determined. I'm going to go with you to prison to death. I'm going to take it on. And yet Jesus knows, and despite Peter's own pride, Jesus prays for him. Aren't you thankful for that? Aren't you thankful that in times where you're full of it, and I am too, and we think we can handle it without praying. And we can master the problem, we can take care of ourselves, we can figure it out, we can analyze it and come up with a solution, we can deal with it. That Christ intercedes on our behalf. This is the work of Christ. This is what he does for us, so that there is no more guilt, no more hostility, no more shame. 1 John chapter 3, as I mentioned earlier, it says, For if our heart condemns us, God is greater than our heart and knows all things. Beloved, if our heart does not condemn us, we have confidence Now, what Jesus has done for us is based upon who God is. And we see that in verses 35 through 36. It says, who shall separate us from the love of Christ? And then we have this list that goes on. This word separate Really, it just means separate. I mean it means it's actually translated sometimes divorce. It's in Matthew 19, 6 it says, Therefore what God is joined together, let no man separate, let no man divorce, let no man put asunder, let no man separate. And it's and what it's really interesting, we're going to see a list. These are all things that occur because we live in a fallen world. We talked about this before. Remember like last week and the weeks prior, we we've seen this. We've seen that The whole creation groans and travails together. You look at the news, you see all the terrible things happening all over the world You look at your own uh local areas and you see all the things, horrible things happening in the world. You go through circumstances of difficulty, of finances and and and and painful things and cancer and all kinds of issues. And he's about to go through this list, but he wants but understand what he's saying, going to say, that nothing can separate us from the power of God. It actually doesn't say that. No, it's true, but it doesn't say that. Do you know what he focuses on? The love of God. Nothing can separate us from the love of God. And do you know why? Do you know why he does that? Why got why Paul does that? Because when you go through difficult times in your life, aren't you tempted to doubt the love of God? I mean, I think we're tempted to doubt the power of God, too. But God actually never promises that we won't go through difficult things. He never says that as Christians we won't go through suffering. Actually, quite the opposite that we'll see. But sometimes we go through suffering and we understand biblically that suffering is part of the Christian life and we understand how difficult it is. But sometimes we really don't in those circumstances feel very loved. And so we are reminded here that nothing can separate us from the love of Christ. Now, I don't, we're not going to take a long time to explain every one of these words. I'm going to give you a very brief description because remember, this is like a diamond on a facet, and we want the we want to see the thing shine. And so we're not going to look at each facet very quickly very long. We're going to go through these. So we're going to see, first of all, shall tribulation. That's trouble, affliction, physical pain. or distress. Distress, I gotta stop on that one. Distress is stress. It's stress. I know you guys never go through any stress. There's never a time where you're just stressed out. Maybe right now, during this time of year, you're particularly stressed out. You're gonna see family you don't even like. And you're stressed out about it. Or you're not ready for Christmas. I go out you guys come out of here and and uh uh I'll say are you ready for Christmas? And all the men are like, yeah sure. And all the women are like, no, I'm not ready. Stress. All kinds of stress. Paul went Paul knew stress. I think Paul knew stress better than any of us in this room knew stress. In 2 Corinthians 12, verse 10, it says, Therefore I take pleasure in infirmities and reproaches and needs and persecutions. There's our word in distress for Christ's sake, for when I am weak, then I am strong. We see persecutions. That's the systematic hunting down of adherents to a particular religion that tends to inflict pain or death to destroy the religion. Or famine, that's hunger, financial loss and hardship, nakedness, not having enough clothing. Nakedness, clothing was a symbol of success. Nakedness is the opposite of that. Unsuccessful failure or the sword, death, or oppression from authority. Paul's going to use the word sword later in Romans 13, 4 to talk about authority. This list are things that we all at times, different times in our lives, we potentially are going to go through in our lives, and yet through all of this, Paul says Nothing, none of this can separate us from the love of Christ. When you're tempted, To doubt whether Christ really loves you. You're going through that particular thing that you can't imagine you ever were going to have to go through. Other people go through it, but not me. When you are faced with something you just can't understand the reason for, this passage is telling you that you are, if you know Christ as your Savior, if you are a child of God, you are not outside of the love. of God. Now, it's interesting what the passage does next. It looks, you know, you have this beautiful these beautiful descriptions, this beautiful hymn, if you will. And then we come and we look at this and we see it and notice what it says next in the passage. It is God that justifies, who is he that condemns? It is Christ who died, and furthermore is risen with all these verse thirty five, Who shall separate us from the love of Christ shall tribulation, shall distress, shall persecution for uh or famine or nakedness or peril or sword And then it says this, as it is written, and it almost, look at what it says, as it is written, for your sake we are killed all day long. We are counted as sheep for the slaughter. And that's all it says. And then he goes on, yet in all these things we're more than conquerors. If you read that and you're just going through it, you're reading it and you're going. Well what does that have to do with anything? Right? I mean if you just read the text, you go through, I guarantee it does, don't worry. But in verse 38, it it it's it's it looks at like, okay, what is this about killing all the day long? This is such a sublime text of such great beauty and the love of Christ and all this. And now we've got this verse that's an Old Testament quote about being killed all the day long and being as a sheep led to a slaughter. What gifts? Well, we're actually going to have to go there. But you take your Bibles and turn to Psalm 44. Psalm 44. Take your Bibles and turn there to Psalm 44. And in Psalm 44, we are going to see what is called a lament psalm. And we're going to see that the the verse that's mentioned here is the conclusion of a very difficult situation. So Israel is during this time period, as far as we could tell, it's a little hard to pinpoint exactly, but as far as we could tell, this is a time where Israel is in in Canaan land They are facing opposition against enemies. They are being faithful to God at this point, which is kind of rare in Israel's history, to be honest with you. I mean you look a lot of times in Israel's history and they're failing all over the place. But at this time at this point, it seems like they're being very, very faithful to God. They're doing they're they're obedient to God. They're doing what God wants them to do. And yet it as as though God is not with them. He's not giving them victory. They're getting defeated everywhere. They're getting killed all the time. They're getting slain. And this is a psalm that laments that, that expresses what it's like to go through suffering where it seems as though God isn't there. So look at the Psalm with me, verse 1, it says, We have heard with our ears, O God our fathers have told us. The deeds you did in their days, in days of old, you drove out the nations with your hand, but them you planted You afflicted the peoples and cast them out, for they did not gain possession of the land by their own sword, nor did they own arm uh arm save their own arm save them But it was your right hand, your arm, and the light of your countenance because you favored them. So they're they're declaring, they look back at our ancestors, we see that God they conquered the land in Joshua's time They conquered the land. It was not them, their might, that did that. It's not them that brought down the walls of Jericho. It was God who did that. Lord, we're realizing you're the one who did that. And they attribute that their future is in God's hand. Verse 4, you are my king, O God, command victories for Jacob. Through you will push down our enemies, through your name we will trample those who rise up against us. For I will not trust in my bow, nor shall I uh not nor shall my sword save me. But You have saved us from our enemies and have put to shame those who hate us. In God, we boast all day long and praise your name forever. They are confident That there is going to be victory in the future, that God is going to take care of them. He's going to do what he did for their ancestors. But their current situation, verse 9. They say, but you right now have cast us off and put us to shame. I mean And you do not go out with our armies. You make us turn back from the enemy. And those who hate us have taken spoil for themselves. You have given us up like sheep intended for food and have scattered us among the nations. You sell your people for next to nothing, and are enriched and are not enriched by selling them You make us reproach to our neighbors, a scorn and a derision to those who are all around us. You make us a byword among the nations, a shaking of the head among the peoples. My dishonor is continually before me, and the shame of my face has covered me. Because of the voice of him who reproaches and reviles, because of the enemy and the avenger, all this has come upon us But we have not forgotten you, nor have we dealt falsely with your covenant. Our heart has not turned back, nor have our steps departed from your way. But you have severely broken us in the place of the jackals and covered us with the shadow of death. If we have forgotten the name of our God or stretched out our hands to a foreign God, would you not search this out? For he knows the secrets of the heart. Do you get the picture? They're going through suffering and and defeat and everybody dishonor from the all their enemies and And everything is good. And they are continuing they are continuing to be faithful and then to not turn against the covenant with their God. But they're really not understanding You ever been there? They don't get why God is doing what he's doing. Lord, we know you can. We know you will, but right now you're not. And then we come to our verse, verse 22. This is what Paul quotes Yet for your sake We are killed all day long. We are accounted as sheep to the slaughter. Do you know the most important words there? For your sake. See, at this point, the psalmist realizes they lament the situation they're in. They don't like it. They don't understand it. They even say they know it's of God's doing. They know that God is in control. They know he's sovereign. They're faithful. All of that But they realize that the that the being killed all the day long, all of what they are going through, is for God's sake. Now we go back to our passage. As it is written, for your sake we are killed all the day long. We are counted as sheep for the slaughter. What is Paul pointing out here when he quotes this verse? And what is Psalm 44 trying to say? It tells us that in God's love, number one, suffering can be expected. This passage is not going to teach us that, boy, if you have enough faith, you can do whatever you want, anytime you want, have whatever you want. That is not what this passage teaches. And the Bible doesn't teach that. What it does is it tells us that for the Christian, for the one who is a child of God, God takes, which we have learned before, takes the sufferings and the trials and the struggles and the distress and the problems. And we can have confidence of knowing, confidence of knowing that God will use it for His sake. In other words, there is no suffering, there is no conflict, there is no trouble, there are no problems that we as Christians go through that are senseless. See, a a non-Christian, somebody who doesn't know the Lord, they go through trials and suffering and difficulties and problems, and they say this is senseless. This makes no sense This has no good outcome. This has no good result. This is utterly senseless. And frankly, as Christians, if we're not careful in our own hearts, in our own minds, because they are so flawed, we can begin to think that the sufferings that we're going through, because we don't understand why, is senseless. Never. For the Christian, you are never going to go through something that is senseless. It will always be, God will make it this way. It will always be within the love of God. And it will always be for his sake, for his purpose. Always. That might mean you've got to actually define love a little differently. Sometimes we think of love as somebody that just always wants to make me happy. And I think there is a real truth that God does want us to be happy insofar as it is according to His will. And ultimately, we will be happy in him. I mean the the the result eventually in heaven, we will have eternal happiness with God. No doubt about that But we need to understand that what this text is teaching us is that the love of God includes his hand in the midst of the hard times, his hardship. So that we can realize that the hard things we are going through will be in his love. We now turn, and just like suffering, that's the way suffering is, we've got this sort of this almost parenthetical statement to sort of point out the way the hard things really can be. We see the ultimate, the ultimate outcome in verses 37 through 39. This really pictures the nature of the Christian life. We go through these hard times, but ultimately, notice what it says, verse 37. Yet in all these things, we are what? We are more than conquerors through him who loved us. Now, this is an interesting word. It's actually It's actually a word, the word nekao in the Greek, which means victorious, completely, utterly victorious. But then Paul adds a preposition onto it, hooper, which actually you can think of super, because it is what it is. So it's literally meaning, it literally says super victorious. It's not just victorious, completely victorious, but hupernakao, super victorious That's this word. We are super victorious. We are more than super victorious. The immeasurable, nearly, if not comp not infinite. um uh wording he's choosing the most sublime most superlative language which I know that's the contradiction to say most superlative but superlative language That he possibly can. We are more than super victorious through him who loves us. And he says this, for I am persuaded that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor Things present, nor things to come, nor height, nor depth, nor any created thing shall be able to separate us from the love of Christ. There are there is a full scope of possibilities. He is going to summarize it this way. He's going to say, first of all, That I am per I'm fully persuaded, I'm completely convinced that anything physical that's death or life Or anything spiritual. It's angels and principalities and powers. In fact, we see that in some places in Scripture. 1 Corinthians 15, 24. Then comes the end when he delivers the kingdom of God, the Father, when he puts an end to all rule and authority and power. Anything time related, nor thinks present, nor things to come. And anything space related nor height nor depth. Physical, spiritual, time, and space. There is nothing that can separate us or any other created thing. Do you get the point here? I mean this is this is a hymn that has repeated phrasing that The goal is for us to really be that for this to be embedded in our hearts. That's the nature of Christian music, it's the nature of true biblical worship music. As we sing the truths of Scripture, they go from what we know in the mind, and they are embedded in the hearts and in our heart. And that's what he wants to happen here. That there is neither death nor life, angels or principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor height, nor death, nor any created thing shall be able to separate it from separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. And so I have one simple question this morning. Are you living in the love of God? That's the question. Today, are you living in the love of God? We have seen throughout the book of Romans that you are not born living in the kind of love we're talking about here. Do you know that? There is a general kind of love that God has for every creature. But there is a special kind of love that he has for his own children. And we see that here. And so the first question I would have for you this morning is: do you Are you in this kind of love? Are you in this kind of loving relationship as a true child of God? See, the Bible tells us that we are actually born at enmity with God. We're born enemies of God, but because of our sin, and that's because of our sin, and sin separates us from God. But because Jesus died on the cross, God took our sin and placed it on his own son, so that Jesus could give us his righteousness. So that we could depend upon that righteousness and be saved. Are you here this morning? And have you placed your faith as Martin Luther did? Have you placed your faith in the finished work of Jesus Christ, who died to pay the punishment for your sin? So that you could say, the Bible says, But as many as received him, to them gave me the power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. Are you a child of God this morning? If you're not, the Bible says these things are written that you may know that you have eternal life. God wants you to be his child. He's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. Can I encourage you afterwards, come and talk with me. I I will be glad to stop whatever I'm doing. If you say, hey, I want to know Jesus, or I want to become a child of God, or I'm not sure where I stand with God. Let me just really encourage you to come and talk with me. I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you. Maybe you're here this morning and you are a child of God, but you haven't been living in light of it. You have been questioning the love of God and questioning whether or not something in your life has separated you from the love of God. And it would be a wonderful thing this morning if you would just settle this. If you would go through this passage and read this and realize that there is absolutely, positively nothing Not your own sin, not any circumstances. There is nothing that can separate you from the love of God which is in Jesus Christ our Lord. He has forgiven and taken care of all of it. And I trust and hope that this will be an encouragement to you. And Christian, I would encourage you, keep this on your heart, memorize this, have this as a bookmark in your Bible. And when you go through the times of shame and guilt and struggle and loneliness and those kinds of things, pull this out and read through this and meditate on the truths of this passage. That work all of this Romans truth that we've been learning into our hearts so that we can stand without fear, no fear. Because we are confident in what Christ has done for us and in his great love. Let's go, Lord, in prayer. Father, we come to you and we thank you for this wonderful, awesome love. An inseparable love, a love that we do not have to question because Christ gave the ultimate sacrifice. And if there's ever any question in our hearts as to whether or not you love us, we need to just look to the cross. And so I pray, Lord, this morning, I pray that if there is somebody here today that doesn't know you, as their Savior, that they don't, that they would experience in a special way, in a new way this morning, your love for them. By accepting what Christ has done on the cross and paying the punishment for their sin. Or maybe there's somebody here, or many people here this morning, Christians who Their doubts. There's been just maybe Satan has plagued them with doubts about their position in Christ or their their eternal security or any of all those things. I pray, Lord, that they would be able to settle this in their own hearts that this passage teaches that there is absolutely nothing. that can separate them from your love. And I pray, Lord, that this would be a constant encouragement to us. We thank you for your great, immeasurable, inseparable love for us. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community here at BBC. You'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes. and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called The Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God. according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone. or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call, so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for Please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.