The Lord said to me, What I have spoke what I have spoken is good. Did you catch that? We experience the glory of God, and God changes us from the inside out so that one day that glorification will be complete as we see Christ. So the disciples hear this. And frankly, I don't think he wanted people trying to inaugurate him as king when he knew he had to go to the cross. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. He displayed his glory. He's scared. This is probably part of the reason why Peter's saying, let's put some tabernacles up for you. Because Jesus knew he was very now laser focused on his mission. in order to be able to put it all together for it to make sense sometimes. preeminent. that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. was he often had to not only encourage his troops, but challenge his troops to stay with him throughout the war. But we know not how to spare you. If anyone desires to come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. But I'm going to take you up on this mountain and I'm going to show you my glory. It's amazing to me how often Jesus took them to pray and they fell asleep. and the glory of his father once he rose from the grave and ascended into heaven. With the fat he had been with God. In chapter 34 of the book of Exodus, and when he came down, do you remember what happened? That was something that they must have been very, very common, that they understood this, that this was going to happen before the true Messiah came in Exodus of the glory that of Moses, uh that he wasn't his own glory, his glory c that came as he came down from the mountain. And the morning star rises in your hearts. The Spirit of God has to be working through the Word of God for us to be able to know the glory of God. That as we hear, see the Word of God, as we experience the Word of God, it changes us. or something. We ought to build a tabernacle for you for you guys. Now the Lord descended in the cloud and stood with him there and proclaimed the name of the Lord. and abounding in goodness and truth, keeping mercy for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin, by no means clearing the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children and the children's children. to the third and fourth generation. And there will be a tabernacle for shade in the daytime from the heat, for a place of refuge, and for a shelter from the storm and rain. And to really understand God, you have to have two things very clearly in view. and he is high and holy, both together. and gentleness and closeness of God, you don't have a true view of God. preeminence of Christ. It's it's Jesus. principalities or powers, all things were created through him and for him, and he is before all things, and in him all things consist. And the disciples understood that he spake to them of John the Baptist. Of course, you'll remember that the scribes, the ones reading the Word of God to the people, they didn't have a Bible for themselves. And who came in the spirit of the power of Elijah? in the book of Revelation when the witnesses come, being one of those being Elijah. And so Jesus will come again, and what it's possible, and I won't say this definitively, but it's possible that there is actually a further fulfillment to this. disob in a rebellious way to your parents, or this is how you run off and do something that's illegal. It has the right to cleanse us from our sin so that we can have the righteousness of God service. Mentioned it many, many times that we are to go and make disciples. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. can possibly have. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. Or email us at info at bbcofmd. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. for Christ in service for the beginning and the establishment of the church and local churches throughout in the book of Acts. with this text by saying, now after six days, Jesus took Peter, James, and John, his brother, and led them up to the high mountain by themselves. In other words, Jesus says, I'm calling you to suffer and to serve. for the work of Christ. And behold, it says, Moses and Elijah appear to them, talking with them. of the first century church in the very beginning, and they needed to understand exactly what Jesus was doing. They needed to experience the very glory of God. in what he was doing and he was praying and they were supposed to be praying but instead they were falling asleep as was not uncommon for them in situations like this and when they awoke there's they see the glory, the w the brightness but made himself of no reputation. of three figures in front of them, Jesus, Moses, and Elijah. Glorify me together with yourself with the glory which I had with you before the world was. For example, Revelation chapter 1 verse 16 says, his countenance was like the sun shining in its strength. figure. Do you remember in the book of Matthew, we've actually already seen a couple of times an emphasis on the law and the prophets? Matthew 5, verse 17 says, Do not think that I came to destroy the law or the prophets. are try is revealing to the disciples who he is. And certainly that wasn't entirely wrong. Uh there was one other, uh Enoch was the other, but that was actually translated that actually never died. these different kinds of fables, these different kinds of thoughts, these different kinds of philosophies. This was so memorable that even though later on they would experience the crucifixion and the resurrection and the ascension, this Is of any private interpretation? by the Spirit of God. mentioned. 2 Corinthians chapter 3, verse 12. Unlike Moses, who put a veil over his face so that the children of Israel could not look steadily at the end of what was passing away, that's the glory back in Exodus 34. But their minds were blinded, for until this day the same veil remains unlifted in the reading of the Old Testament because the veil was taken away in Christ. You know, if it will ever emulate the natural attributes of God, we're never gonna be omniscient, we're never gonna be uh immutable, we're never gonna be um all knowing, we're never gonna be infinite, we're ne Right? uh very impromptu, very fearful, very interesting idea kind of a thing. that that that burned from the from the tabernacle, showing the presence of God. Like casting a shadow, a dark darkness. And if you can imagine, I don't this is just my own imagination, I'm not sure exactly sure how this happened, but if you can imagine like it was already full of light everywhere. of Mount Zion and above her assemblies, a cloud and smoke by day, and a shining of the flaming fire by night. And it says this. This apparently came up a lot that Elijah was going to appear before Moses. to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children and to the disciples. the mission. Because you, in order to experience the glory of God, you must be saved from your sin. Stay as a man, go to the cross, live a perfect life, go to the cross, be completely righteous, that so that he could take on our sin on himself and as our representative, pay for our sin so that he had the right to And if you haven't done that yet, can I encourage you, do it today. Uh I would be glad to take a Bible and show you afterwards. hearts to be drawn one direction or another. to help each other grow in Christ's likeness until one day we will be changed by Christ himself, for we will see him as he is. together. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. From and from our perspective and we look at what seems to be insurmountable outcomes, we can't take Body. And he was transfigured before them. President of the United States of America, George Washington. The odds against the Continental Army were great. they would do on several occasions actually, was to set before them the reality of what would happen if they did not win. But your country is at stake, your wives, your houses, and all you hold dear. For what profit is it to a man if he gains the whole world and loses his own soul? For the Son of Man will come in the glory of his Father with his angels, and then he will reward each according to his works. Assuredly, I say to you, there are some standing here who shall not taste death till they see the Son of Man coming in the kingdom. They were going to need, on one hand, to be assured of who Jesus really is. by confirming the glory of Christ, secondly by elevating the centrality of Christ, and thirdly by explaining the mission of Christ. What was happening here? book in the book of John and his gospel, we beheld his glory, the glory of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. Now, Luke helps us a little bit with this passage to fill in some of the other things that were happening here. We don't actually know which mountain it is. It says, but Peter and those who were with him were heavy with sleep. He took his disciples up to the mountain to pray. In the sense that if you go to bed praying and fall asleep while you're praying, it's a really good thing to do. Shining exceedingly white like snow, such as no launder on earth can whiten them. Philippians 2, 637 tells us this, who being in the form of God did not consider a thing to be grasped to be equal with God. Later on in John, again he's going to say in his high-priestly prayer, chapter 17, verse 5, and now, O Father, that we could possibly think of for the disciples to see who Jesus really is, how great he is, his awesome glory, and the fact that he is the person who fulfills the law and the prophets. But they needed to realize the glory of Jesus outshined all of that. Him you shall hear according to all your desired of the Lord your God in Horeb in the day of the assembly, saying, Let me not hear again the voice of the Lord my God, nor let me see the great fire anyone lest I die. is though he didn't die, so he's coming back, and he is going to he's going to to prepare the way for Jesus and And it's interesting that they reflected later on on this transfiguration. This was so memorable that Peter's going to refer to it when he writes his epistle in 2 Peter. Which you do well to heed as a light that shines in a dark place until the day dawns For we did not follow cunningly devised fables when we made known to you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. He says, verse 18, and we heard the voice which came from heaven, when we heard with him on the holy mountain. But he also knew the Old Testament scriptures of how Moses experienced the glory of God. Nevertheless, when one turns to the Lord, the veil is taken away. They see in a mirror, the glory of the Lord are being transformed, notice what it says, are being transformed into the same image from glory to glory, just as by the Spirit of the Lord is. And we will share in the glory of God. But he was, he said, Jesus said, get thee behind me, Satan. They were a it l it appears that they were actually on their that Moses and Moses Moses and Elijah they were they were coming off going off the scene. They're going off the scene. This word is shelter or tabernacle, and if you think about it, go back to the Old Testament, and what did they do to house the house the glory of God? What's it for? And then an additional light just filled them at light. And prostrate on the ground. And it's also interesting in Isaiah, it actually predicts that there's going to be a cloud. 2. This was said one other time in Scripture, do you well several times in Scripture, but the one other time one other event in Scripture, do you remember? and humanity of Jesus and coming and touching them. clu uh true view of God. In all things, Jesus may have the preeminence. Do we take the difficult things of our lives and do we allow them to cause us to focus more on Jesus? Apparently, as I mentioned before, this Malachi 4-5 passage must have been very, very well known. In Matthew 3 and in Matthew chapter 11. or one of them are Elijah, and he will actually come again. has come already and they did not know him. Suffered at the hands of the government. It shows us that we are born into sin. He cannot just overlook our sin. You understand that Jesus Christ died to pay the punishment for your sin. And frankly, God wants us all to sacrifice for him. And I thought to myself, I don't feel like wandering. But the more you get you know the Lord, the more you you see in Scripture what God wants you to do, the more you love God. The more you know, the more you realize how much you you don't know. To be singularly focused on the on the preeminence of Christ. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. But we really would love to meet you in person. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. And when the disciples heard it, they fell on their faces and were greatly afraid. While he was still speaking, behold a bright cloud overshadowed them, and suddenly a voice came out of the cloud, saying, This is my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased. But did to him whatever they wished. If they did not conquer, if they did not continue the war, they would be slaves. I just want to remind us of what Jesus had already said to the disciples before we get into the text this morning. Later on in the book of John, John, of course this happened, and then the then he again limited his glory again when he came off the mountain with the disciples. Fulfilled what? And the significance of Elijah being translated, all of that pales in comparison to the fulfillment of who Jesus is. from God, the Father, honor and glory when He when such a voice came to him from the excellent glory. Peter, remember Peter. But were eyewitnesses of his majesty. This is my beloved Son in whom I am well pleased. Now the Lord is the Spirit, and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty. One for you, one for Moses, and one for Elijah. Mark says this. And then he says, look at verse 8, and when they had lifted up their heads, remember, they're prostrated on the ground, faces are to the ground. the firstborn over all creation. They're still not getting it. It has to constantly, we have to constantly order our loves in such a way that Jesus remains preeminent. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. We would not waver, but we would stay true because faithful and true are you. Until the Son of Man is risen from the dead. During the years of the Revolutionary War, one of the things that General Washington had to do On the other hand, if they did win, he said to them, then you can be assured of freedom and liberty, not only for you, but also for your posterity. He said on one occasion, my brave fellows, you have done all I asked you to do, and more than can be reasonably expected. But in order to do this great work, in order to be prepared to suffer and to be faithful and to serve greatly, there was something that the disciples were going to need. Now with that in mind, we then come to this text. by elevating the centrality of Christ and finally by explaining the mission of Christ. Vision of the glory of Jesus. And again, in Matthew chapter 7, verse 17, therefore, whatever you want men to do to you, do also to them, for this is the law and the prophets. The law. So they were and the Jewish people were anticipating that Elijah would actually precede the Messiah, that he would come. So they, but what God wanted to show them, the Father and of course Jesus, wanted to show his disciples was that the glory that they had remembered and read about and How does this happen? But even to this day, when Moses is read, a veil lies on their heart. Our responsibility, let me put this down a real practicality. That because Christ displayed his glory, and now he's with the Father, and now he's sharing in the glory of God, that one day we will be able to share in the glory of Christ as well. But he doesn't want to lose Moses and Elijah. Again, Moses. That now he is able to say in no uncertain terms, the Father. Not just the prominence. Well, verse seven, Jesus came and touched them, which, you know, I I see the the compassion and humility and In Colossians chapter 1, verse 13, it says, He has delivered us from the power of darkness and conveyed us under the kingdom of his Son in love. Jesus answered and said to them, Indeed Elijah is coming first, and will restore all things. No one ever had to teach us how to sin. Has that exchange occurred in your life? with the Lord. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. the hard and the difficult and in and of ourselves create good out of it. When the trials of this life are over, we will be like you, be conformed into the image of your glorious Then Peter answered and said to Jesus, Lord, it is good for us to be here. One of the things that General George Washington did to motivate his troops to go really to stay with him and to extend their commitment beyond what they originally said. So when Jesus presents himself this way, he is giving these disciples a glimpse of his glory. the lengths to which Jesus, with everything that you can imagine, and frankly a whole lot more than we could ever imagine, And so we have the prophetic word confirmed. Paul now is going to mention it. That is, it is that very glory that we can experience, the revelation of God, the knowledge of God, who He is. to also be glorified with him. But because we were made in the image of God, we literally have the ability to share in the glory of God. And what he says sometimes is profound, and what he says sometimes is satanic. So that Jesus would have the preeminence. but did to him whatever they wished. Or do we are we distracted by them and he becomes only prominent? Now that's a little bit a little bit confusing because we haven't actually had the person of Elijah appear. The same thing's going to happen to me. And so what he did was he sent his own son, Jesus, who is God, the only one who could limit his glory, come to earth, retain his deity. Remember that the reason that Jesus, at least partially, the reason that Jesus did all this was to prepare them for a life of sacrifice. in such a way that it focuses us and gives us a uh a knowledge of your glory If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273 or email us. Lord, we are reminded in singing these truths that we are not like you when bad things happen. When they had lifted up their eyes, they saw no one but Jesus only. And said Jesus answered and said to them, Indeed, Elijah is coming first, and will restore all things. But another thing, just remember this. This is the revelation of God. But be transformed how? Now, this is not shallow stuff, is it? It's okay. He says, and Peter answered and said to him said to Jesus, Lord, it is good for us to be here. So just even what he says is fulfilling Old Testament prophecy. 7. For us to in our minds have Christ as preeminent. He is the head of the body, the church, who is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead. Our dreams, our traditions, our ambitions, our desires, Jesus desires for us to have all those out of the way, and Him and Him only shall we focus on and shall we serve. Some suffering, some difficult things in life. He fell down into the water when he took his eyes off Christ. He it's interesting that he says this. He knew that this was necessary for his mission to be completed, so that the kingdom could be built, so that we could participate in his glory. But we have had on several occasions a reference to Elijah. In him taking on your sin and giving you his righteousness that occurs by faith, you understand your sin There's gonna be other things that distract us. The song is so true. And you realize your heart is actually quite prone to wander. What did God call us to do on this earth? And I pray, Lord, that in the days ahead, this message would motivate us to know you more. God was, Christ was commissioning the disciples to go eventually to go into all the world and to preach the gospel to every creature. We know that, right? So as a as a comment on what Peter says. We know that John the Baptist, of course that's who he's talking about here when he says Elijah has appeared. And Jesus in these words to the disciples as they come down from the mountain after all this glorious experience, what is he doing? The sin of unbelievers. That you can keep us on the path that you would have us on, the path of salvation. But we find that they went into this mountain, and Luke tells us they went to pray. And so we see here that that's the case. So what needs to happen right now, what needs to happen now, that we progress in Christ-likeness to prepare one day for that glory. word that can describe what's actually happening here. All of what Jesus is doing here. But they are part of your design. Now, what Jesus was calling the disciples to ultimately for most of them would be their own debts. Now, what is interesting is we've got two men that are with him, Moses and Elijah. Kind of the key prophet in Deuteronomy 18, verses 15 through 22, it says, The Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me from the midst of your brethren. It is prophesied that Elijah will precede whoever the Messiah is. By the renewing of your mind, by the truth of the Word of God, as we allow the Word of God to we we meditate it, we allow to absorb into our hearts So what did Peter do? You have those two things that must both be true in order for us to get a clarity about who God He is close and intimate. There is a difference. In that Peter tells us that we have a more sure word, a more sure reality than even the transfiguration in the written word of God. Tried and pure. He was calling them to prepare, to make citizens of the kingdom. And they not only needed to understand it in their heads, they really needed to experience it. Why not some other of the uh Daniel or Joseph? But the key is, very practical, you've got to be in the Word. only through the Word of God, and one day we will be with Him, for we will see Him as He is, we will be like Him. There's this there's this in in inscr you know in in theology you've got you you always have to have two things And I think that if we were honest with ourselves, all of us would, in our own frailty, say, yeah, it does happen, doesn't it? He gets back to the very mission that he has come to accomplish. But if you will give your life to Christ, you'll find it. And this is something that pro I would say needs to be done daily. Helps us know you more. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. It says, I will declare the decree, the Lord has said to me, You are my son, today I've begotten you. the Son of His love, in whom we have redemption through his blood and forgiveness of sins. He is now limiting himself from his glory. This is Jesus. And then verse eight, and when they had lifted up their heads, they saw no one but Jesus only. And yet the reason he tells them in this, implied in this, is don't tell people what's going what happened here. We must be confident of the glory of Jesus and the fact that we can one day share in that glory in heaven with the Lord. Frankly, if any of us are being honest, probably all of us have done that at one time or another. That is, not only was Jesus showing his glory, what we find throughout the New Testament is that is Jesus' goal for us. So the clouds, it says the glory of the Lord was re uh uh we we see here. They look up and he's the only one there. Number two, it requires a singular focus on Jesus as Father, we come to you this morning and we thank you for this glorious passage that gives us a glimpse into To sing these truths, to know that they come from the pages of your word, that we can rest on these incredible promises. Now, Peter, you've got to love Peter, right? Remember why Jesus is presenting all of this to the disciples, because they're going to have to go through some really hard times. Preparation for sacrificial service begins with confidence in the glory of Jesus and our inclusion in it. Now I find this to be amazing. It says we have a more sure word of prophecy whereby the glory of God internally causes us to realize who Jesus really is. I've been with you for maybe I don't know a couple years now, or a year now, whatever, year and a half, whatever, quor months now, many months. Does Jesus have the preeminence? But Lord, you are a God who is not limited by the calamities that take place on this earth. Now, in a much greater cause, the cause of the establishment of Christ's Church. Because what they're going to do is they're going to experience the very glory of Christ. So the this cloud was a representation, this is the very presence of the Father here. And you know what Elijah represented? There is a sense in which we, through the Word of God, can experience the reality of the glory of God in the transfiguration. And you know what happens when we know the glory of God through the Word of God? They wanted to, with no, in no uncertain terms, the Godhead wanted these three individuals to know that Jesus has the preeminence. In another parallel passage, by the way, it says that the disciples were left wondering what it meant that he was going to rise again Now it's interesting the question they ask next. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery We know this because we know the story that it's actually so that Jesus becomes central and Elijah and Moses they're not important anymore. It was so that they knew this was the Father. You know, it's funny, when I was a kid, I was a Christian, but certainly a young Christian. You are a great God. Now Paul was not a he was not an eyewitness to the transfiguration, but no doubt, there is no doubt in my mind that he that probably all Peter, James, and John told them about it. It's Christ-likeness. Jesus is the one that needs to be central. And he touches them. He has said multiple times, now, I think at least three times, explicitly, that he's rising from the grave and they're still not putting it together. What a day that will be. Okay, they've got the clouds leading them. How Jesus revealed Himself in all of His glory to the disciples. Who has the unveiled face? Now, as they came down from the mountain, Jesus commanded them, saying, Tell the vision to no one until the Son of Man is risen from the dead. It affected John, so he wrote John chapter 1. Look at what it says. I find this a little bit humorous. He says, likewise, the Son of Man is also about to suffer at the hands just like John the Baptist Well, they were taking Peter, James, and John. I mean it's just sort of blurts out. So he's like, let's build a house for you guys. Peter said, let's do three tabernacles. Reading uh today's text from Matthew 17, 1 through 13. There's gonna be other things that take us one way or another way or or um cause our May the Lord richly bless you. He's not just some other very good character like Moses and very gr he's not going to become just a patriarch. He is the fulfillment of everything, and he is literally to be worshipped. They fell on their faces. Here you have both. That was John the Baptist. Likewise, the Son of Man is also about to suffer at their hands. It says here that they went up on a high mountain and he was transfigured before them. The entire Old Testament law and prophets. He says, I'm about to suffer at the hands of the government as well. Do you remember what Moses looked like after he went up into the mountain? Likewise, the Son of Man is also coming to this to suffer all to suffer at the hand their hands. But maybe even more than those, when hard times come, we have we have a choice to make. If you emphasize the h the the height of God and the holiness of God to the exclusion of the intimacy and If you will consent to stay one month longer, you will render the service to the cause of liberty and to your country, which you probably can never do under any other circumstance. There's a lot of different debate on which mountain it is. To glory in their heritage, to glory in the Old Testament We're going to see more Peter in a minute. The Bible says the Father glorified his son, desired to give glory to his son. Let's go to the Lord in prayer together. His face shone like the sun, and his clothes became as white as the light. That phrase there means to he emptied himself. Come by, just say, hey, I need to know more about how to I need to know more about Jesus. Before he became the president, he was a general. Therefore, since we have such hope, we use great boldness of speech. He says, Arise and do not be afraid. For prophecy never came by the will of man, but holy men of God spoke as they were moved What does that mean? They finally, it's like they finally get who Jesus really is. They did whatever they wished. For by him all things were created that are in heaven and are in earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or Are there other things that compete for the attention of Jesus? Now that doesn't mean that we will ever become God, that we will ever expect It's it's the opposite of that. Does he have preeminence in your life and in my life? Nobody had to sit us down and say, look, this is how you s rob a bank, or this is how you are speak Knowing this first, that no prophecy of what? This is not shallow stuff. Hello, my name is Jim Gannam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. For now, what do we do? Helps us in conforming to the image of your son. Now after six days, Jesus took Peter, James, and John, his brother, led them up on a high mountain by themselves. You have the transcendence of God and how high He is and how holy He is Jesus in his glory and He touches them. I think really the connection between Elijah and the John the Baptist is in Luke chapter 1, verse 17. So there's a sense in which he had already come. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. Actually, we'll look at verse 10. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Another reason that Moses and Elijah were used, Moses, for example, he was actually identified as So Peter, Peter is literally overwhelmed by all this, like, and they're afraid, and he's scared, and he says. This was so memorable to Peter that this was this stood as a major reason in Peter's mind why there was no doubt that Jesus is who he said he was. And that is actually a quote from Malachi 4, the spirit and the power of Elijah. Number three, we need to sacrifice, sacrificial service requires clarity of mission. To make disciples. And so Moses appears here, and Elijah appears here. They say, well, why do the scribes say that Elijah must come first? Because when Christ came the first time, what do we know? And his disciples asked him, saying, Why then do the scribes say that Elijah must come first? In fact, this was so compelling to them that John writes in his For the rest of us, we need to understand a few things about sacrificial sacrifice. If you name the name of Christ, the Bible says if you, remember, if you try to save your life, you'll lose it. In fact, you aren't even limited by our own sin. You accept him as your Lord and Savior. We have to, as C. Amen. I raise up from the prophet like you from among the brethren. The transcendence of God, that is, God is so high above his creation that he can't be touched by his creation. Until then, Lord, we ask that you would strengthen us, increase our faith, increase our knowledge, increase our dependence on you. In word, in deed. There is a way that this dawning of the glory of God rises even in the hearts of men So Peter's going to speak up again, and we're going to see here what he says. Mark chapter 9, verse 6 says, Because he did not know what to say, for they were greatly afraid. They're greatly afraid. I mean think of the contrast. His mission was to die and to be buried and to rise from the grave. In Luke chapter 1, verse 17, it says this, he will also go before him in the spirit and power of Elijah. Now, what was going on here? By the renewing of your mind, that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. If you if you exalt the gentleness and closeness and intimacy of God without him being high and holy, you don't have a true Basically they put him to death. Because it says in the text, it links the previous text The one who knows Christ as their Savior has the unveiled face. Okay. The prophets. We have to be in the Word of God. That is all of what is happening, the creation of the church, the establishment of the church Have you trusted by faith, the Bible says, the finished work of Christ on the cross org. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. We look forward to that day, Lord, when we see you face to face. And as we just sung, that through these purgings, through these trials, we can come forth at the end. Also not uncommon was the fact that they fell fast asleep, according to Luke. Now, what was Peter saying here? That is our role in this world. We hope to see you soon. The Bible says his face shone, his skin of his face shone. They saw the majesty of Christ. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. You ever you ever prayed falling asleep? But Peter, he is Romans 12, 2. And they're coming down off of the mountain. So Jesus warns them, don't tell anybody about this until I have risen from the grave. I mean they they they were pretty important. When one turns to Christ, the veil is taken away. I mean, literally, that's what he's saying here. I'm not sure it's really all that important which mountain it is, to be honest with you. What does Christ-likeness mean? I have come to die and rise from the grave. It is called the Exchange. Our responsibility then folks is Christ-likeness And Jesus answers the question. May the Lord richly bless you. We beheld his glory. And so what Jes what I think I think God uses Peter's uh you know in uh In these three verses, we have a grand display. Going, man, I I'm not, I guess we need to do an air pelly code. And so we find here verse also he says, but I say to you, Elijah No, no, we never have to we're not learning those things. But God desires for us to experience the glory that He intended in the very beginning when He made us in His image. Uh I don't I'm not prone to wander. And yet the goal, the prize, if you will, was also great. It's also amazing because of what the disciples did with this. It was brightness that became more bright. The Lord passed before him and proclaimed the Lord, the Lord God, merciful and gracious, long-suffering. It is extremely important for us as Christians. How does that prepare us? In the temple, the tabernacle, there was a cloud. And we find that that's exactly what occurs because in the book of Revelation, when Jesus appears, he is in all of his glory. The Old Testament prophetic word confirmed This is really something to wrap our minds around. S. And there are no things that happen that are somehow an accident or mistake No, we were eyewitnesses of his majesty, verse 17, for he received This is it. It's like, hey, it's me. They were listening to the scribes reading from the Old Testament. Now, there's something else that we find that's also interesting as well in the Luke in the Luke passage And what's the problem with that, folks? This was to signal the very presence of God. Lewis says, we have to continue to reorder our loves. He was the general of the Continental Army. So Jesus is there with his disciples. They did whatever they wished with him. The more you love God, the more you realize how much you don't love God Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. Now as they came down from the mountain, Jesus commanded them, saying, Tell the vision to no one When they were fully awake, they saw the gl his glory in the two men who stood with him. He pops up five different times. Probably they look at each other, they look white. Hello, my name is Jim Gannam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. Well, as you may remember, Jesus relinquished his glory when he came to this earth. You've got this transcendent God in all of his glory. Why? He fulfilled all of it. And his disciples ask him, saying, Why then do you describes say that Elijah must come first? If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last Jesus was giving them a vivid picture of the reality that Jesus This was the very presence of God who said what? If you need help with that, if you need help understanding more about how you can have a relationship with the Lord. Matthew twenty-eight, the end of this book, we'll we'll probably As most of you are aware, uh our president, our first president The Mark passage says that his clothes, Jesus' clothes, became I did not come to destroy, but listen carefully to fulfill. Now he's up on a mountain showing his glory. He comes by the way in a cloud. He is the image of the invisible God. And there is a real temptation, folks, when you come into things that you don't understand to take your eyes off Jesus. But I say to you that Elijah has come already, that they do not know him, but did This was not uncommon for Jesus. But that's not what was happening here. And in fact, in in scripture It affected Peter. Take your Bibles and turn to 2 Corinthians chapter 3. But we all with unveiled face, beholding as in a mirror the glory of the Lord. But Jesus came and touched them and said, Arise, do not be afraid Christ is going to prepare his disciples, first of all Notice what it says in 2 Corinthians chapter 3, and pick up in verse 12 here. He is a precursor to what Jesus is going to go through. If you wish, let us make here three tabernacles, one for you, one for Moses, and one for Elijah. And what we see here then is this. What is it? It is very easy for us to do. Why was Peter saying this? That the brightness, it says, overshadowed. And then he says, hear him The scribes must have said it a lot, that Elijah is coming first. Um I won't take the time to turn there, but in Exodus 13, 4 and also chapter 40, you see that there. This would be very important because the Jewish mindset was to glory in the law and the prophets. Malachi 4, 5 through 6 says, Behold, I will send Elijah the prophet before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord. And when the Father says this, they are on their face worshiping him. In Colossians chapter 1, verse 13, this is the entire goal of God in our time. Something that is very important for us. We need to reorder our love. How does experiencing the glory of Christ prepare us I'm calling you to the work that I desire for you to do. Number one, it confirms the glory of Christ by confirming the glory of Christ. He uses this in such a way John the Baptist has uh had he's been a prophet. The Bible says if you will confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God hath raised him from the dead, you will be saved. I need to know more about how to have a relationship with God, something like that. And we thank you, Father, that we have such a sure word You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. You have worn yourselves out with fatigues and hardships But when he says, this is my beloved son, which by the way was a prophecy, was a fulfilled prophecy from Psalm He says, actually, Elijah has already appeared. For whoever did not desires to save his life will lose it. To be light, to be salt, to make disciples He was, while he was on this earth, looking again, looking forward to sharing David he was pretty why why Moses and Elijah Or worse off yet, he becomes something that we're not even focused on at all. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can We hope to see you soon. In Matthew 16, verses 25 through 28, it says, Then Jesus said to the disciples, So Jesus took up these this group into the mountains. In fact, when you take your Bibles, and I want to show you this, would you take your Bibles and turn to 2 Peter 1? Isaiah chapter 4, verse 5, it says, Then the Lord will create above every dwelling place And then he says this, he points this out The Bible tells us very clearly that our sin, we are born into sin Actually, it's not really a bad practice. This reveals God. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. That in all things he may have the preeminence. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide We pray these things in Christ's name. Or what will a man give in exchange for his soul? I mean you ever going to pray and then like fall asleep? Well what did he empty himself of? Do not be conformed to this world. And then who of whom I am well pleased is actually a fulfillment of Isaiah 42, 1. I heard that song, Pro Prone to Wander, Lord, I feel it. I don't feel that. And on the other hand, they were going to need a clear goal of what Jesus was wanting to accomplish. At Jesus' baptism, he says the exact same thing. He speaks up five different times in the book of Matthew. And in his mind And the Father says with this voice, by the way, it was a bright cloud. They would have to sacrifice their lives in service. In other words, they were not like just following some some leader. Of Scripture So this was actually predicted in Isaiah as something that would happen in the future. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We've got to be meditating on the Word of God. We also have this, and I think this is really the key. Israel rejected Jesus, right? And so number one These would be the most prominent of Christ's disciples. Obviously, they were being distracted they were not staying with Jesus in in this Talk about the Israel, the nation of Israel. Well, it includes this idea. If you wish, let us make here three tabernacles. And the Bible tells us that God can by no means clear the guilty. The entire nation, they said, would be s enslaved by the British They're just filled with light everywhere For over all the glory there will be a covering Now, there's also a sense in which it's possible that the witnesses in the book of Revelation I will put my words in his mouth, he shall speak to them that I command them He is very God. Verse 9. And so he warned them, don't We know other places where Jesus took his disciples to pray, and this is exactly what he did here. This was a grand Of all of the Old Testament figures, why Moses and Elijah? If you'll pick up chapter 1, verse 16, it says this. But I want you to notice something about what Peter says here. It's in us. I don't want to leave God. It's it's the it's the it's the it's the guy you've been with the whole time He's the only one there. Well, it's interesting that in the book of Mark, it actually tells us he didn't know what to say Why? The war extended far beyond what anybody expected. His face shone like the sun, and his clothes became as white as the light. He went up into the mountain in the book of Exodus. What does it say? It is unveiled. Like I'm not even exaggerating. It says the a bright cloud overshadowed them. But I say to you that Elijah has come already, and they did not know him We ask that Then the disciples understood that he spoke to them of John the Baptist. Let's first see how Jesus confirmed Every day. And we look forward to the day that you will come for us. But they're coming off the scene and it's like Peter doesn't know what to say and he That you only need one. Or is he just prominent? That as we look at your word, it would reveal the character of God. It transforms us from glory to glory. Exodus 34, verse 5 says Or does he become more preeminent? We're going to see another passage where this is. He had limited himself from it, but now he was showing the very glory of God. And I think Matthew writes this in such a way to really show us the significance of the This is Jesus is talking about. I am amazed, I will tell you, I am amazed as we go through the book of Matthew. It's just born in us to do those kinds of things If you have a family, we Are there other things that become sometimes more preoccupying than Jesus? Why, folks? In fact, truth be told, we make it worse. Father, this morning we are so thankful He is doing everything. Elijah was the only person in the Old Testament But we really would love to meet you in person. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Matthew 17, 1 through 13. We see finally that there is a centrality. There are so many things in life that compete for our attention. I I didn't understand it at all He is rehearsing Remember the disciples that were up there, Peter, James, and John? It's me This is my beloved Son. And behold, Moses and Elijah appeared to them, talking with him. This is why, by the way, folks, it's so important to take scripture scripture. Amen. He emptied himself of his glory. It was already bright and brightness like filled everything Can you show me? It's because of this. It was bright. That's literally what we learned last week. Now when you think of the word overshadowed, you think of And he comes and he touches them. And I will be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you will spend eternity. So picture this. This is my beloved son in whom I am well pleased. And on the other hand, God is imminent. And whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. It was so bright that they actually had to cover his face because he had been with Jesus comes, touches them, says, Don't be afraid, it's me. Let's pray. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. They would be the leader leaders No. This is quite amazing. They used the tabernacle. Look uh prone to leave the God I love. Are we not prone to wander? What does that remind you of? And you know what Moses represented? This is the God of the universe You are not limited by He's labeled as a prophet This was not just any leader that had these different kinds of ideas. All that was apt we that had to happen. Read along with me, please, if you will. Look at verse 8. It is called the Exchange. Hear him There is no there's no That's the Luke passage. Hear him. Why not Abraham? He is so close to his creation. You've got to take the whole mind of God on something. Did you catch that? Remember Peter? I mean he was a pretty important figure.