Why don't we bow our heads together and go to the Lord in prayer? Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning with grateful and thankful hearts God, you are so good to us. You are worthy of all praise and honor and glory. You are the one true living God, the creator and sustainer Of all life. And in your great love for us, Father, we are grateful this morning that you would send your only begotten Son to take on human flesh and set aside his glory. And come and die on this cross for the sin of the world. And in that, Father, he was buried in the tomb, and on the third day he arose up out of the ground And Father, we're grateful that He satisfied your just demand for the punishment Of sin. And you tell us, Father, that if we repent of our sins and recognize our sinful condition and come to Him and put our faith in Jesus Christ and what He has done at the cross on our behalf. That you promise to nail those sins to that cross and put them as far as the east is from the west, and you would impute your righteousness. And Father, we're grateful this morning for that great and wonderful gift. And Father, we ask that as we come to your word this morning, a lot of times we are asked, Father, can we know that we have eternal life? And you tell us in your word in John 1 John chapter 5 that you have written these things that we may know that we have eternal And so, Father, as we are getting into your word this morning, I pray, Father, that you would help us just to set aside all the cares and stress and struggles of the week. And that Father you would give us this time by your Spirit to work in our hearts and our minds and help us to concentrate upon your word as it is presented to us this morning. May we be changed more and more into your image as we we leave here today than when we have come in. And Father, we're grateful and thankful for your goodness, your kindness, and your blessings. And I pray now as we come to your word that Father you will open our ears and eyes. to your word and change us from within by the power of your spirit. In Jesus' name. Amen. Matthew 19, 16 through 25. Now behold, one came and said to him, Good teacher, what good things shall I do that I may have between Eternal life. So he said to him, Why do you call me good? No one is good, but one that is God. But if you want to enter into life and keep the commandments. He said to him, Which ones? And Jesus said, You shall not murder, you shall not commit adultery. You shall not steal, you shall not bear false witness, honor your father and your mother, and you shall love your neighbor as yourself And the young man said to him, All these things I have kept from my youth. What do I still lack? And Jesus said, Jesus said to him, If you want to be perfect, go sell what you have and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven, and come, follow me. But when the young man heard Heard that saying, he went away sorrowful. We had great possessions. The passage that we're looking at, we've got a person in a story that comes to Jesus. He is a the rich young ruler, is what he is called oftentimes. This man is a man who is very wealthy. He has fame. He has position. He has power. He has prestige. And yet there is something missing. Let that sink in for a moment. Is it true that those who have fame and power and money and prestige and all of the things that seems like the world is going for Those who have it, isn't it true that they are they are missing something? In fact, if you look at the testimonies, the biographies, those who have talked about their lives, the thing about one uh one that is very uh Michael Phelps is one that comes to mind very frequently. He has more gold medals, he comes from Baltimore, has more gold gold medals I think than anybody else in the history of the Olympic Games uh certainly in swimming, but I think it I think in general. And and he has battled depression. He has fame, he has money, he has fortune, he has prestige, he has influence, all of that. And yet there's something missing. And as you l you just think throughout history of whether it's politicians or movie stars or people in leadership or whatever, you there those kinds of things that people are striving for and pursuing and giving their entire lives for, they get to the point where they attain them and yet there's something missing. And this man is realizing there is something missing in his life. There's something that he says it to this way to Jesus, what do I lack? What is missing? And we find in the text exactly what Jesus says is missing. Jesus has to lead him to the answer You can't just come outright and say it. He has to lead him to coming to coming to understanding about what this is Because at the end of the day, the question that this man asks is, what must I do to gain eternal life? And there's a sense of which he's asking the wrong question. Because there is nothing that we can do to gain or merit eternal life. Actually, what has to happen is an entirely new heart has to be given in order for the conditions to be right in our life in order to gain eternal life. How do you explain that? How do you get somebody to realize that? Well that's what Jesus is going to do in this passage. And so what we're going to learn Is that is the right kind of heart gains eternal life. And we're going to see this four, we're going to see four things in this passage. We're first going to see That a heart a heart that understands what kind of heart gains eternal life? A heart that understands the exclusive goodness of God Then we're going to see the a heart that ex that that uh exclusively commits to God. Exclusively commits to God. Three, a heart that is supernaturally changed by God And finally, a heart that wholeheartedly follows Christ for eternal gain. What kind of heart, what kind of person enters into eternal life. He needs to understand the exclusive goodness of God, commit exclusively commit to God. But you can't do that. He can't do that on himself. A person is unable to commit himself to God exclusively. So he has to be supernaturally changed by God and he has to wholeheartedly follow after Christ. First let's see the heart that understands the exclusive goodness of God. So this man, the rich man, comes to Jesus, he says Now behold, one came to him and said, Good teacher, what good thing shall I do that I may have eternal life? He says, Good teacher What good thing will I do, can I do, that I may have eternal life? He is looking for a good thing that he should do. And Jesus answers the question with a different answer than the question he asked. In other words, the answer, if you look at it, doesn't match the question. He says, he answers the question the question. He says, why do you call me good? Well that wasn't his an his question. The question was what The question was not about who Jesus is. The question was about what must I do? And yet what Jesus is pointing to is he's asking the wrong question. This man is should be asking, number one, who Jesus is and and what do I need to be? What Jesus is going to point them to is not what he must do, but who he must be. And he can't do it himself, which we're going to see in the passage. So he says, Why do you call me good? And he says this Now, when Jesus says that this to uh to this man, he is not saying he's not good. He's certainly not saying that because Jesus is God. So he's not saying that Jesus himself, he's not saying I well, I'm not good. He is simply asking the question to get the person to understand this that there is actually only one who is completely, exclusively good. Now let's think about that. Does that make sense in if you think of practical life? Is there anybody in this world that is completely good, that all of the time is good, that uh 100% of the time they do the right thing, 100% of the time they have the right motives, 100% of the time they are good? And of course the answer is is no. There is none righteous, the Bible says, no not one. There is none that seeks after God. Not one. No one And so he this is what he's trying to get the man to understand, that doing a good thing is not going to There is no good thing that you can just add on to what you've already been doing because you know something is missing in order to gain eternal life. You have to think entirely differently. And so he wants this man to understand this. And he says to this man that there is no one good but God. And of course the Old Testament explains this in Psalm 106, verse 1. It says, Praise the Lord. Oh, give thanks to the Lord for he is good for his mercy endures forever. Psalm 16118, 1 says, Oh, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good. Psalm 118, 29, oh give thanks to the Lord for He is good. 1 Chronicles 16, 34, oh give thanks to the Lord, for He is good. We are to be thanking God because He is good. In 2 Chronicles 5, verse 13, it says, when the trumpeters and singers were as one to make one sound And when they lifted their voices with the trumpets and cymbals and the instruments of the music and praised the Lord, saying, For what they praise all this company of of Israel that was uh led by a choir and all these instruments, for he is good, for his mercy endures forever. If you were to summarize the character of God, perhaps the best attribute to summarize his character is that he is good. He's righteous, he's holy, he's merciful, he's just he's good. God, and he is the only one who is perfectly good. That is, if you are to relate to God, then you must be perfectly good as well. This man having a little hard time with this, he's not understanding this. We need to understand that even a man, this is probably a Pharisee, very likely. And we know about the Pharisees, this man was very likely you know we're going to see in the passage, he's self-righteous He is not seeing himself as falling short and utterly falling short of the glory of God. He's not seeing himself this way. And he's not really seeing God as the only source of goodness. In other words, he's seeing himself as a source of goodness. Instead of seeing God as the only source of goodness. And by the way, that is a problem, right? What people think about themselves, nobody wants to think of themselves as being bad. Nobody wants to think of themselves as having as not having any good thing, like Paul says, in my flesh dwells no good thing. Nobody wants to think of themselves that way Do you realize, folks, that the only source of true, pure unadulterated goodness is God? And it's and understanding having a relationship with God actually begins not just by understanding who we are that we're sinful, but by really understanding who God is. And that's how Jesus starts this man. He starts this man that way. Matthew 12, verse 23 says this: a good man out of good treasure of his heart brings forth good things. And an evil man out of the evil treasure of his heart brings forth evil things. The problem with this man is not that there's something else he needs to The problem is this man's heart is bad. The Bible tells us that we are all born with a sinful heart because of Adam's original sin, wherefore as by one man sin entered the world, and death by sin, therefore death passed upon all men, for all have sinned So Jesus identifies this internal problem, and now he's going to move to help this man. We find then that the that what kind of heart needs to uh is going to have eternal life? Well he is one who exclusively commits to God. Look at Matthew chapter 19, verse 17. It says, So he said to him, Why do you call me good? No one is good. No one is good but one, that is God. But if you want to enter into life, that's his question: how do I enter into eternal life? If you want to enter into eternal life, keep the commandments. Now, pause for a minute. Why would Jesus say that to him? Why would he say, keep the commandments? It's because it's for this reason. If this man cannot understand that he does not keep all the commandments perfectly That he in fact cannot keep all the commandments perfectly. If he does not understand this, then he cannot have a heart that is changed. So the first step that Jesus, what Jesus wants to do is to get him to realize that his heart isn't perfect. But the problem is this man is deceiving himself into thinking that is that he is that he's essentially doing everything he's supposed to be doing. So Jesus points out some commands. He says, You shall not murder, you shall not commit adultery, you shall not steal, you shall not bear false witness. Honor your father and mother, and you shall love your neighbor as yourself. All of those are part of the Ten Commandments except for the last one, but the last one is really comprises all of the rest. In fact, if you think of the Ten Commandments, the first four have to do with with a our relationship to God or the character of God. And the second and the last have to do with the character of man. So he actually identifies those and he says, it's all summed up in loving your neighbor as yourself. This man says to him, I've done this since since my youth. I've always done this. I've always done the right thing since my youth. I've done all of these things. And he asked this question. He knows there's something that he still lacks. He says, but what do I still lack? He knows within his heart there's something that is still missing in him His soul. He knows he's lacking something. And so it's not like he said, I mean, it's not like he said, well, I've done all these things, so I guess I must be good. Have a good day. It's not what he did. He instead is saying he knows there's still something lacking. And then Jesus says to him, if you want to be perfect, Go sell what you have and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven and come follow me Now what is he saying there? What Jesus is doing is he is directing him to first if he directs him to the perfection of the law And and he deceives and this man deceives himself into thinking that he's kept that entirely. And then And then he specifically says to him, he identifies, he deals with this thing that is lacking. There is this internal whole. The young man says, All these things I have kept in my youth, what do I still lack? And so he says, Go t go sell all you have and give it to the poor. And and you will have treasure in heaven. And then very key, very important, come follow me. Now the fact is that he had kept all of uh he thought he had kept all the commandments and there is a sense in which he was deceiving himself. He's not the only one that really really viewed himself that way. Do you remember the Apostle Paul did this? The Apostle Paul in Philippians chapter 3, verse 6, says, Concerning zeal, persecuting the church, concerning righteousness which is in the law, blameless. The Apostle Paul says in Philippians chapter 3, verse 6, when it came to the actions and the behavior of the law He was blameless. In other words, the Apostle Paul, when he looked at his life, could not see any functions of behavior that were wrong, and so it caused him to believe him to believe that he was perfect. But let me ask you a question. Did the Apostle Paul before he was saved, or certainly after he was saved as well, was he perfect? I mean he says in the passage in Philippians 3 that as he considers the righteousness of the law, he was blameless. In other words, no one could point to anything that he had done, and that's the way it was. And the answer to that is actually found in Romans chapter 7. Will you turn there for a minute? Romans chapter 7. We actually find in Romans chapter 7 what convicted the Apostle Paul, who thought, of course before he was the Apostle Paul, who thought that he was blameless in the law. There was a particularly internal internal thing, a hard issue that Paul realized, whoa, I am not blameless. I may be blameless when it comes to all of the functions, all of the external behaviors, but what Christ is getting at is something beyond that. Romans chapter 7, verse 7 says this. What shall we say then? Is the law of sin? Certainly not. The law is not sin, it's righteous. On the contrary, I would not have known sin except through the law For I would not have known and what is it folks, what is it, what command did did it cause Paul to realize, Saul, before he was Paul, to realize Okay, I was uh I'm wrong. I am a sinner. It was covetousness. Is covetousness an external behavior? No It's an internal heart problem. He says, for I would not have known covetousness unless the law had said, you shall not covet. But sin, taking opportunity by the commandment, produced in me all manner of evil desire. For apart from the law, sin was dead. I was alive once without the law, but when the commandment came, sin revived, and I died. He realized Paul realized that he was a sinner because he realized that he was covetous. He wanted what was what God did not provide for him for provide for him, that's covetousness And when that occurred, it evoked in him a sense of guilt and a realization that he was a sinner. It was a heart problem. And folks, there is that possibility Among people that they could obey the law so well that they think that they are blameless and perhaps Perhaps they really, they really are, but at least by any external observations, they're blameless, and yet they still have a heart problem. The problem of the heart is a sin problem. And Jesus, this is why Jesus says, if you want to be perfect. When he says perfect, what does he mean? He actually is not saying inwardly and outwardly flawless. The word perfect has to do with singularly complete or singularly focused. Now it's interesting when Jesus says these words in the Mark passage we find Mark chapter 10 verse 21 that Jesus looking at him The man thinks he's unflawed. The man thinks he's kept everything to his youth. He has not broken any commandments. He's fine. And Jesus looking at him, it says he loved him. What he says to him, he does it with a desire for this man. He loves this man, and so he says to this man, one thing you lack. Go your way, sell whatever you have, give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven and come and take up the cross and follow me When he says when you want if you want to be perfect, he is what he's dealing with. He's not the issue is not, look, you've got to, you can't have a certain net worth and follow Jesus. We're going to talk about that in a minute But that's not really what his focus is. His focus is that you have to have an undivided heart. Now, this is exactly this is exactly what Scripture says In Matthew chapter 6, verse 22. Christ has already taught this. In Matthew chapter 6, verse 22, it says this: the lamp of the body is the eye. If therefore your eye is good Your whole body will be full of light. But if your eye is bad, your whole body will be full of darkness. If therefore the light that is in you is darkness, how great is that darkness? No one can serve two masters. For either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will be loyal to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammon, or you cannot serve God and money. Folks, what was this rich man's problem? The problem was his real master was money. That was the problem. It wasn't that he had money, it was that his master was money Now folks, this is a particularly tempt money is a particularly tempting master. Let me let me ex let me contrast it with other masters. You realize we are all born and built and created to have a master of some kind. Some people's master, let me take a real obvious one, some people's master is drugs and alcohol. But the thing about drugs and alcohol, drugs and alcohol is they are an abusive master. Right? I mean you get in you get into drugs and you get addicted to drugs and it is eventually going to beat you. You get addicted to alcohol, and eventually it's going to beat you. You're going to have bad results, very, very destructive results. that you can directly link to the problem of drugs or the problem of alcohol. So that, yes, people still have masters of drugs and alcohol, but there are very many clean living people that have never been exposed. to drugs and alcohol significantly and in their lives that's not a problem for mem. That's not their master because they know that the consequences of those masters Are going to be devastating for themselves and for their families. And so they never get into that. Some do, some don't. What about money? See, money is not money, at least on its surface. Now, money will destroy the heart from the inside out, but money is a very benevolent master. Think about it this way. Somebody has money, they get more money, they serve money, and they get more, they get more benefit from their money They serve money more, they get more money, they get more benefit from their money. They keep getting benefited from their money. The more that they serve money, the more they are benefited by their money. Until that becomes something that is mastering them. It's a very dangerous master. The truth of the matter is, God is a benevolent master. Okay? When we come to Christ and we we follow after him, he as Christians, he becomes our master. The difference is that sin, for example, sin is a very destructive master. The end of sin is death, Scripture says. God is a very benevolent master to us. But so is money. Money is a benevolent master. That is why it is more tempting than many other masters It's a very so this man has grown up, he's followed all of the commandments, he has done all the works of the c uh he's done he's done everything all the things since his youth, except in the process of of living and accumulating wealth, he has allowed money to become his master. And Jesus says, You cannot serve God and money. You cannot come to me With a divided heart like that. The issue is the same issue with Paul, it's covetousness. It's a heart problem. And that is what in this man's life he is missing. And so Jesus is trying to get him to realize that. Now, of course, we find that the reaction of this man is he he realizes, he turns away, Scripture says. When he hears this, Saw you have, come follow me. When he hears this, it says when he when the young man heard it, he went away sorrowful. For he had great possessions. The Mark parallel passage says it this way, 1022, for but he had he was sad at this word and went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions. Now God is not Christ was not saying that you we're going to learn this more in a minute, but Christ is not saying that nobody rich could come to him There are other examples. Joseph of Arimathea is one. Zacchaeus was one. In fact, Matthew himself, who wrote this book, the human author of this book, was a tax collector and very likely very wealthy before he came to Christ. Zacchaeus, in fact, was one, but the reaction when Jesus saved Zacchaeus afterwards was in verse 8, when Zacchaeus stood and said to the Lord, Lord, uh I give half my goods to the poor, and if I have taken anything from anyone by false accusation, I restore fourfold. And Jesus said to him, Today, salvation has come to your house, behold, because he also is a son of Abraham. He is uh a total different person when it comes to his perspective and money. His mind in his mind he is going to he it's all God's. He's gonna use it for his, he gives half of it away He makes restitution with the other parts of it. It's a totally different thing for Zacchaeus than it is this rich man. The question is, I want to dig a little deeper here. What God, look, what God wants is all of our hearts. He wants all of it. He wants us, He wants everything. He doesn't want any he does not want us to hold anything back. Why? Why is that? And the answer is he wants an undivided heart because what he is looking for is a certain kind of relationship. And we find in Scripture that the relationship that God wants us to have is best illustrated. In fact, it's It's so wonderful the relationship that God wants us to have that He uses a couple of different illustrations. One is a son with a father, right? He tells us, for example, in In John 1. 12, that if we will receive him, we will become the sons of God. So one illustration of our relationship with God is a father with a son, as a father and a son, we are sons of God. But the Bible also in other passages calls us uh calls us his bride. There is a there is a similarity between the relationship that teach wants with us and the relationship that a marriage has. What's the similarity? Do you know that God intends, we've already talked about marriage quite a bit in the last few weeks. God intends marriage to be the most permanent, the most intimate, and the most open relationship of any relationship on earth. That's what God intends. The most permanent, the most intimate, and the most open relationship of anyone. of any relationship on earth. Now let me illustrate it this way. In our society we have a epidemic problem now, culturally, with people deciding that they're going to live together before they're married. And the truth is, even statistically, even though the rate of divorce is very high in our culture, it is even higher for those Who live together before they're married. Did you know that? Even just among non-Christians, it's higher befor who for people who live together before they're married. And there's a reason for that. The reason is because before you're married, if you live together, you are known physically and you know the other person physically. But not spiritually, not emotionally, not any other way. You're holding back those things. You just naturally do. You don't show everything before you're married. But once you're in a committed Covenant kind of relationship, it's all open. Everything's exposed, not just physiologic, not just physically, but also spiritually and emotionally. That's why God intends He intends this intimacy only to be within marriage. It's not to hinder us or to hurt us or to keep us from some sort of pleasure or something like that. No. God intends this this intimacy to be, this openness to be only within the covenant of marriage. There is a sense, and all married people know this, there is a sense, you don't know your spouse until you marry it until you marry it. Isn't that true? Right? There it's been said that on the altar there you've got four people there. You've got the person that that they think they're marrying and the person that's really there. And on the other hand, you've got the person that think they're married and the person that's really there. You don't actually have two people, you got four people there. What's in their head and what's actually there. And after marriage, you actually are fully knowing the person. And frankly, the reality is as you get older and older and older, you spend more and more time with each other, you know more, know them more and more and more. Even the parent-child relationship is not as open as the marriage relationship. And if you just think physiologically, as a young child, as a baby, you would know a parent will see a baby unclothed, of course, right? But the baby shouldn't and doesn't see the child the parent unclothed. It's not total openness. And yet there is intended to be with God a total spiritual openness. But it must be when there is an undivided, fully committed relationship. In other words, there are some people that say that they say before they come to Christ They're non-Christians and they say, well, I gotta know more about God. And it is true there are certain things that you do need to know about God. You need to know his goodness. You need to know his holiness. You need to know your sin. There are things you do need to know before you come to Christ, but there are things you will never know until you come to Christ. Because God is such that He cannot be fully known until there is a covenant relationship there, until there is a commitment to Christ. And that is the same, that is what is so what is Jesus getting at when he says to this man, you can't serve God and money. There are things about me that you will never know until you choose me as your master, holy and in an undivided way. And if you are here and you don't know Christ as your Savior, understand there are things that you are never going to know. In fact, the fact is we are so finite that there are things still, even as Christians, we don't know about God until we see Him. In fact, even beyond that, God is so infinite that we will know him for all of eternity and we will never stop knowing him. But the reality is until we are in a relationship with God, there are things that we just simply can't know about him. And if you don't know Christ as your Savior this morning, and you are trying to weigh out whether or not who he is and what he has done and all those different things Yes, understand, know, search it out, but at some point you've got to make a commitment before you are really going to know And I think there's an application here for Christians as well. Right? Because isn't it true, folks, that as a Christian, we so easily fall off the altar? That's why Paul told Christians in Romans chapter 12 that we need to present our bodies, Christians he tells us to, a living sacrifice. wholly acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. You may be saying to yourself, you know, I I I've grown my my relationship with the Lord has grown cold. Well, are there things you're keeping from him? You may say to yourself, you know, I I don't I feel like I can I I want to know God more. But I don't I don't really know. I'm not learning more about him. I'm I feel like I'm stagnated. Well maybe maybe the problem is you are you are you fall off the altar, you are not presenting everything to God for his use. Completely. Because folks, when we do that, we we are then exposing ourselves to God. And there is a real sense, folks, in which God exposes ourselves Himself to us. Now, in a marriage relationship, when two people expose themselves entirely, they find all kinds of flaws, right? You kind find all kinds of problems that you learn patience with and you grow together in and you you compensate for and all those kinds of things in marriage. But in our relationship with God, what you're going to find on his end is perfection. And on our end is great imperfection. And that's why in the relationship that you have with God as Christian as a Christian It is one where he is constantly, by his very presence, and by that relationship, he is changing us to be more like himself, to be more Christ-like. So God we we went a little deep there, but what Jesus is wanting for this man, the thing that is hindering this man from truly coming to Christ, from truly following Christ, is that something, money particularly, possessions, they're his master. They're mastering over him Now, we then see that Jesus now is going to, this man goes away, he leaves, and there's a discussion that he has with his disciples. Verse 23. And Jesus said to his disciples, Assuredly I say to you that it is hard for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of heaven. And again I say unto you, it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heav of God. When his disciples heard it, they were greatly astonished, saying, who then can be saved? But Jesus took looked at him at them and said to them, With men, this is impossible. With God all things are possible. So what is Jesus teaching here? He is actually going to teach, here's what he's going to teach, and we'll flesh this out in a minute. He's going to teach that the heart, a heart, must be supranaturally changed by God. A heart must be supernaturally changed by God. He says this, that it's hard, it's difficult, or we could even say it's impossible for a rich man. What is he saying when he says that? Enter into the kingdom of heaven. What is he saying? Is he saying that if your net worth is not a certain amount is above a certain amount that you are not able to come to Christ. You're not able to have eternal life. You're not able to enter into the kingdom of heaven. All those mean the same thing. Is that what Jesus is saying? When he uses this illustration of a camel going through the eye of an eagle, is Jesus saying that if your net worth is too large, then you cannot go through that eye of an eagle? Is that what Jesus is saying? Well, there are a few things that I want us to understand about this passage. Number one, this passage is not teaching asceticism. Asceticism is the idea that you that you is kind of like a monastic idea. Like you think of somebody who goes into a monastery, he absolves himself of all earthly pleasures and all earthly possessions. And goes and isolates himself and lives as simply as possible in order to get closer to God. That is a false belief. And that is not what is being taught here scripturally. It's not saying that God is categorically against wealth. We have David and Solomon in the Old Testament, though Solomon to some And David actually uh struggled with it. Uh David and Solomon, Joseph of Aram Arimathea, and there are others in scripture that were wealthy. This is really hard for some people to grasp. This concept of of a camel being an eye going through an eye of a needle. And a rich person cannot then enter into the it's impossible for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God. So much so that there are all kinds of different views That try to deal with this in different ways. For example, one view says that what really is there, what's really talking about, was called the eye of a needle. It's talking about a small gate where a camel, if he really tried hard, could fit through the gate. The problem is there is no indication of that, there's no real s serious indication of that, either in scripture or in first century archaeology or things like that. There's things that people try to come up with, but it is a real stretch. There are other people that say, actually it's not talking about a camel, it's talking about a large rope. They're doing everything they can to get out of this illustration. The camel isn't going through the eye of a needle. Actually, what we're talking about here is a large rope going through the eye of needle. It's just kind of a mistranslation here Well there's two problems with that. Number one, it's not a mistranslation. And number two, uh a large rope still can't fit through an eye the eye of a needle. So that doesn't work very well. Some actually suggest that what we're actually talking about is a scribal error. That this cannot possibly mean what it says it what it looks like it means. And so what this is is really a scribal error And view number four is exactly what it says it is. And folks, that is the view that I'm going to strongly encourage you to take. It's exactly what it says it is. Now pause and think about that. Here's what it says. It says that a rich man is impossible for a rich man, just as the a camel goes through the eye of a needle, so a rich man it's impossible for a rich man to enter into heaven. Now, the camel for that first century audience was the largest animal that probably most of them had ever seen. In fact, there is a saying, a camel going through the eye of an eagle, that actually in Babylonian literature is an elephant going through the eye of an eagle. This was a common saying, a common colloquial saying to demonstrate how impossible something is. Right? And we have those kinds of things in our day as well. And so this is sort of this colloquial saying, camel going through an eye of a needle, that's how impossible it is for a rich man to go through, to go, to enter into heaven. Now, they're shocked by this when they hear this. They understand what this means. And they're shocked by it. They're shocked by it, the disciples are, because Their belief, their thinking so far is that according to the Old Testament, your riches are an indication actually of your obedience to God. In other words Those who were rich in the Old Testament and blessed with material wealth were were seen as being blessed by God because they were truly following God. And indeed, in Deuteronomy chapter 28, you find this. It says in verse 1 there, Now it shall come to pass if a diligent obey the voice of the Lord your God. And observe carefully all his commandments which I command you today, that the Lord your God will set you high above all the nations of the earth, and you and all these blessings shall come upon you and overtake you, because obey because you obey the voice of the Lord your God Blessed shall you be in the city and blessed shall you be in the country. Blessed shall be the fruit of your body, and produce the uh of the ground and increase of your herds, and increase of your cattle, and offspring, your flocks. In verse eight there of that passage, the Lord will command the blessings of you in your storehouses and in all which you set your hand, he will bless you in the land which the Lord your God has given you. You we have these con this blessing, you're going to be blessed, you'll be rich, you'll be able to abundance and all that. If you will follow me and do what I say. And so there was this this thinking among it Jewish people that if you are rich, you must be very close to the Lord. And so the disciples say this, they're shocked by this statement, and then they say, who then can be saved? I mean, if the rich who are blessed by God can't be saved, how is it that anybody can be saved? And there's a sense in which that's exactly the point. Who can be saved? Is it possible for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven? No. Is it ro possible for the poor poor man to enter the kingdom of heaven? No, it is impossible for anyone to be saved. Apart from what? Apart from God saving them And that's exactly what the passage says. Look what the passage says. It says, for it isn't uh uh it says here in the passage um Uh it tells us here that that that's exactly the case. Uh let's pick up here. I lost my place for a minute here. Let me get it here. Um Then Jesus said to them, Assuredly, I say to you, it is hard for rich men. Oh, verse 26. But Jesus looked at them and said to them, With men, this is impossible. But what? But with God, all things are possible. That's exactly. No one can be saved apart from God's work in their lives. No one. It requires the work of Christ on the cross. It requires the drawing of God to themselves. It requires God's working in giving a person a new heart. No one can be saved apart from God. With God, all things are possible. Without Him, it is impossible. But there is something else that is certainly being implied in this passage as well. It is implied that it is very hard for rich people to come to the place that they are utterly dependent upon God. in order to be saved. It's not impossible, but it is hard. It is difficult for someone who is self-sufficient who is used to having done everything for themselves, who has followed the master of money so well that the benefit of the of the master has been bestowed on him so often that he feels entirely self-sufficient to handle anything. It is very hard for that person to come to a realization that he is utterly in need of Christ. The Bible says in Mark chapter four, for example, verses eighteen through nineteen that the care that the deceitfulness of riches can Can cause the Word of God that has been the seed of the Word of God that has been planted in soil to be plucked out Mark four, eighteen through nineteen says, Now these are the ones sown among thorns. They are the ones who hear the word and the cares of this world, and the seitfulness of riches, and the desires for other things, and entering choke the word and become an it becomes unfruitful. In Luke chapter 12, verses 18 through 22, there is a parable about a man who has barns and he fills the barns. And he builds more barns, and he fills those barns, and he constantly, he is clearly in that passage that money and possessions and filling barns has become his master It's become dis it's become his source of security. It's become those things. And he and God says to him, verse twenty, Fool, this night your soul will be required of you. Then whose will those things then whose will those things be which you have provided? So he said, he who lays up treasure for himself and is not rich toward God is a fool. And we find in the book of Revelation, in fact, folks, a a dangerous situation in the church of Laodicea. Many people misunderstand and and misinterpret what's going on in the church of Laodicea. They think that the what it's saying there in that passage is God would rather you either be really cold to hor toward him or really hot toward him But you ought not be Luke Wardhorde him. And that is not what the passage is saying actually. Passage that is there there is an illustration of uh uh a kind of rancid water that only people in Laodicea could drink because it wasn't fresh. And as a result, he's saying that when you are a certain way, God will spit you out of my mouth. But what is that way? Will you take your Bibles and turn for just a moment to Revelation chapter 3 and we'll see exactly what put these people in a position Where God was going to say to them, I'm going to have to spew you out of my mouth. I'm going to have to reject you. Notice what it says in the passage, Romans chapter Revelation chapter 3. We pick up in verses 14 through 21. It says this. These things say the Says the Amen, the faithful and true witness, that's Jesus, the beginning of the creation of God. I know your works that you are neither cold nor hot. I could wish you were cold nor hot or hot So then, because you are lukewarm and neither cold nor hot, I will vomit you out of my mouth. What's the problem? The problem is this. Because you say, I am rich and have become wealthy and have what? Have need of nothing. I do not know that you are rich. You do not know. You don't realize it, that you are wretched, miserable, poor, blind, and naked. History tells us that the church the the city of Laodicea was actually through a massive earthquake was destroyed. And the Roman Empire offered to rebuild the city, but the Laodiceans were so full of themselves and so independent that they said we d they didn't need the help of the Roman Empire. They were themselves going to rebuild the city because of their own self-sufficiency. And unfortunately that kind of culture b was in uh uh was in And so he says to Jesus says to these people, he says I counsel you to buy from me gold refined in the fire that you may be rich and wipe with white garments, that you may be clothed That the shame of your nakedness may not be revealed, that anoint your eyes with eyes cell, that you may see they were spiritually blind by their self-sufficiency, by their riches. God says you are you you need to come humbly before Him and realize your own Your own dependency. Realize that you are spiritually poor. You may be physically rich, but you are spiritually destitute. Do we ever have that in our day, or are the is that a hindrance for us? Does our money, our riches, our wealth, or the pursuit of those things, does it cause us to be blind to our own spiritual condition? Whether you know Christ is your Savior or not, there are applications for us in this area. Now the truth is the disciples really did. Give over everything to follow Jesus. They left their nets. Remember that? They left their nets and followed Christ. They left their source of vocation even to follow Christ. And that's not to say that that's what we should all do. We should all quit our jobs when we come to Christ. But they did. Their master was entirely Christ. Christ was their master. They were looking to Christ for their substance. They were looking to Christ for their livelihood. They were following Christ and looking to Christ. And vocationally, we must always, as followers of Christ, look at things that way. Where we say that God is the one, I follow my master. And he benevolently provides for me through my vocation as I do my vocation for his glory. It is a totally different way of looking at everything. It's not my money, it's his money. It's not my life, it's his life. I'm not and that is that so that he is my master. And when we when when we decide to go down that route, there is, I think, a very natural question, and it's the question that Peter asks In the passage, he asks this question, verse 27. And Peter answered and said to him, See, we have left all and followed you. Therefore, what shall we have? Now, you may say, well what is p you know Peter, he's opening his mouth again. We'd see that a lot, you know, he puts puts his foot in his mouth a lot. We kind of see it we it looks like a minute for a minute here he's doing that again. Okay, here he is. He's like, well what are we gonna get out of this? We followed you now, what are we gonna get? But I don't think that's actually what he's going what's going on here. Because Jesus does not rebuke him here. Jesus has no problem rebuking Peter, right? I mean we've seen that before as well, right? Get thee behind me, Satan. We know what Jesus will do. if Peter says the wrong thing. Jesus will put him in his place. We don't see that here. Don't see Jesus saying to Peter, Yeah, what you should not be asking that question. No, there, folks, there, did you know that it is, I think, a valid question to ask the question, what will we have? If we will give all to Christ in this life, what will we have eternally? What will we have in the next What will be the rewards? In fact, we find in the New Testament, we do not find this sort of prohibition about thinking about rewards in heaven. In fact, God encourages us to think about rewards in heaven. Jesus, in a Sermon on the Mount, do you remember? He says with the Beatitudes, he says, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. And then he says later on in the passage, Great is your reward. So when Peter asks, What will our reward be? That's not a wrong question. The heart that is to follow Christ for eternal gain. We ought to follow Christ because we know it's eternal gain. to do so. We see here then, remember what Jesus has already taught. Matthew 6, verse 19, do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth where moth and rust destroy, and where thieves break in and steal. But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys, and where thieves do not break in and steal. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. That is that's the point Where's your heart? That's his whole point with a rich people, with a rich man. That's his whole point with his disciples. Where are our hearts? So Jesus answers the question. He is going to tell them exactly what this reward is going to look like. And he says this. He says in the regeneration, the word there is in the renewal. Now it's interesting because we haven't seen Jesus talking using that word maybe ever in in Matthew and I don't think I don't think it's in Matthew uh so far and I don't think it's in the gospels if I remember correctly where I did the word study on it. But we actually find this concept in the Old Testament. This idea of God making all things new, of God renewing all things. For example, in Isaiah 65, verse 17, for behold, I create new heavens and a new earth, and the former things shall be remembered or come to mind. He promises that he's going to create a new heavens and a new earth. And in Isaiah 66, verse 12, it says, For thus says the Lord, Behold, I will extend peace to her like a river, and the glory of the Gentiles like a flowing stream. Then you shall feed on her sides, shall you be carried and be danced on her knees. So we have many other places as well. God promises to the nation of Israel, I'll make all things new. And we are still looking forward to that day, aren't we? Where God will make all things new. We know this, for example, from the book of Revelation. But even Peter, when he spoke to the Jewish people in Acts chapter 3, verse 21, the Jewish leaders and all the Jewish people that were there, it said, he says, whom heaven must receive the times of restoration of all things. Which God has spoken by the mouth of all the holy prophets since the world began. And Paul applies this idea of regeneration or renewal actually to us. in the work of the Holy Spirit in our lives, when he says Titus 3. 5, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saves us. through the washing of regeneration and the renewing of the Holy Spirit. That is, when we come to Christ and we choose to follow Christ with all of our hearts, then what God does is he begins this renewal process uh within us of regenerating us, making us alive, and that is going to culminate when we see Christ. We will be like him, for we will see him as he is. And every Christian looks forward to that day. But not only that, but we actually find in Revelation 211 and 215 That the new earth and the new heavens. There will be new earth and new heaven. Revelation 21, 1. Now I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven, the first earth had passed away, and there was no more sea And Peter says, chapter 3, verse 13, nevertheless, we according to his promise look for new heavens and new earth in which righteousness dwells. So Jesus is going to say, Jesus says to his disciples, he says, that the Son of Man, when he sits in the throne of glory, You who have followed me will also sit on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. And what is he talking about there And the answer to that is that prior to the new heavens and the new earth, there is going to be a thousand years, back up a thousand years, and you're going to have the second coming of Christ And you're going to have a millennial kingdom. And during that time, it's prophesied in Daniel 7, Isaiah 1. We won't leave the time to turn to those passages. But in Revelation chapter 20, verses four through six we have the fulfillment of what Jesus is saying here when he says verse four, I saw thrones. And they sat on them and judged and judgment was committed to them. And I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded for the for their witness to Jesus and for the Word of God and had not worshipped the beast or his image and had not received his mark on their foreheads and on their hands. And they lived and reigned with Christ for a thousand years. For the rest of the dead did not live again until the thousand years were finished. This is the first resurrection. Blessed and holy is he who is part of the first resurrection For uh uh over such the second death has no power, but they shall be priests of God and of Christ, and shall reign with him a thousand years. Those who read this passage here in this whole idea of the disciples judging the nations, those who read this passage and don't believe in a thousand-year millennial kingdom have a real have real problems with this. They don't they pretty much have to make the whole thing figurative and say, well, it's really just talking about Christ or something like that. But we see a literal fulfillment of this in Revelation 20, where we have the disciples, the apostles, are going to be judging the nations, and they are going to be representing Israel during the thousand-year millennial kingdom. But let's then move on to this. And that is finally, Jesus promises something to all of his followers. Aren't you glad he doesn't leave us out? Because he says in verses 29 through 30, everyone who has left houses and brothers and sisters or fathers or mother or wife or children or lands for my name's sake shall re Receive a hundredfold and inherit eternal life. The many who are first will be last and the last first That is a great promise, isn't it? Did you catch what he says there? He says, those who leave houses and brothers and sisters and fathers and mothers and wives and throughout church history, that's exactly what they had to do. We are living in a day where this might come to an end soon, but we're living in a day where you often are not rejected by, at least in our Western culture, we're not really rejected by our families if we come to Christ. Some are, certainly. And certainly in other cultures, that certainly is the case where they are rejected by their families. And they have to choose to leave their families in order to follow Christ. Jesus says those who will sacrifice for me, those who will give their lives to me, which all of us should be doing, those who say, it's all yours, God, it's all nothing in nothing is on reserve. It will be restored a hundredfold. Now he uses the very things that these people are sacrificing as an indication of what the rewards will be. You give up your family, you're gonna have a hundredfold family. You give up land, you're gonna have a hundredfold land. You give up I mean, that's what he does here. And if you think about it, if somebody gives up their family For Christ, to follow after Christ. They're rejected by their own family because of that. What kind of family are they getting in heaven? They're they're part of the marriage supper of the Lamb. They're part of thousands and millions of Christians for all of eternity, they have a huge family. Right? And the land and the possessions and the place that God has provided Preparing and the heavens and the beauty and all of the restored new heaven and new earth and all of what God is doing. There is no sacrifice too great, folks There is nothing that we're going to on the other end say, man, I wish I wouldn't have given that up. This just doesn't compare Quite the opposite is true. A hundredfold will be rewarded. And that is not wrong to want the reward. Aren't you glad about that? In fact, the Bible says it this way, 1 Corinthians 15, verse 58. Therefore, my beloved brethren, be steadfast, immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that your labor is not in vain in the Lord. And he goes on to say this in Hebrews 11, verse 6. But without faith it is impossible to please him. For he that comes to God must believe something. First he must believe that he is, but he also must believe that he is a what. A rewarder of those who diligently seek Him. Brothers and sisters of Christ, have you had to make sacrifices in your life? For the cause of Christ? Have you had to give over something for the cause of Christ? Understand that that is a act of faith and that is exact and what we need to realize is that when we do those kinds of things, we are doing it and Because we believe that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. God will reward you. And if he doesn't reward you in this life, he will reward you in the next life for diligently seeking him. So diligently seek him. Give your lives to him. If we've given our lives to him in the past and we've fallen off the altar, Get back on the altar. Present our bodies a living sacrifice to God, holy and acceptable to God, which is a reasonable service. I have four questions I'd like to ask us. Number one, do we understand that only God is completely good and that he wants an exclusive relationship with us? Only God is completely good. You are not a source of goodness. Only God is a source of goodness. And He wants an exclusive relationship with you. Have you come to Christ? Do you have more than one master? No, the Bible tells us we need to completely come to Him. Exclusively. He is our master, and when we do, we we will know him in a way that we we won't otherwise know him. We'll have a an open relation with him. We'll have access to him. We'll have fellowship with him and intimacy with him in a way that we otherwise cannot. Number two, are we struggling with money being our master instead of Christ? I'm not saying, folks, that you can't have money, but when it becomes our master, that we have a problem. And we have to realize that any money that we have, it's all God's. Every bit of it. To use as stewards for his purposes and for his glory, it's not ours. We are his master. He is our master. We follow him and he benevolently gives to us and we use it for his purposes and his glory. Number three, are we allowing riches to blind us and deceive us into thinking that we are self sufficient? Are we allowing riches to blind us and deceive us into thinking that we are self-sufficient? Understand, folks, that look, the physical things that we have can be here today and gone tomorrow like that. And as much as you try to br to diversify your portfolio, there is no security in those things ultimately. Our security is in the provision of God. And we must allow, not allow riches to blind us and to deceive us into thinking that we are self-sufficient. God will surely show us differently if we do. Number four, are we storing up for ourselves treasures in heaven or treasures in earth? Where are we storing our treasures? Because the Bible says where your treasures are, there that's where your heart. In other words, folks, you don't get a relationship with God by by giving treasures. Treasures are an indication of what your heart is like. The issue is not what you do, the issue is what you are. The issue is not, oh, I need to do a little more. The issue is who you are in Christ. Has God given you a new heart? And I would just simply ask this question: Has God given you a new heart? Do you have a desire to please him, a desire to follow after him with your life? Is that something that is true that can be that is true of you in your life? Are you a Christian? The Bible says, but as many as received him, to them gave you the power to become the sons of God. You need to understand, first of all, that you are a sinner, that God is good. He is the only one that is good. And that you cannot derive goodness in and of yourselves. You can't some get get enough goodness. Your goodness can't outweigh your badness. It doesn't work that way. Only God is good. And that is why you need Christ, who died to pay the punishment for your sin and took your sin on himself and desires to give you his righteousness. And that happens in a transaction by faith, where we trust in the work of Christ and his finished payment on the cross for us. So that we could have our sins forgiven and ha and be right with God. And if we will believe in what Christ did for us on the cross And we will not we will stop we will we will s choose to serve him. He is our master. If we will if we will Trust in what Jesus did for us. Receive Him as our Savior. Trust in Him. Then God will give us a new heart. That desires for him to be our master. In other words, you might say to yourself, well, I can't do this. I can't make God my master. You know, you can't. You can't do that. It is something that God does in you as you humble yourself before God and accept the gift of eternal life that God has given to you. You accept it as a free gift. And if you know Christ is your Savior, we need to ask ourselves the question: who is our master? May we even today say to ourselves, say to the Lord, really, actually, Lord, you are my only master, and everything is yours. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you this morning and thank you for the truth of your word. We thank you, Lord, for its conviction. We confess before you that we so easily, because of our flesh, follow after that wrong master and we hinder our relationship with you. you. And Lord, I would imagine in this room there is someone that doesn't have a relationship with you. I pray, Lord, that you would work in their lives to help them understand their sin and their need of a Savior. That they would desire to trust completely and dependently on what Jesus has done for them. And dying on the cross for them, so they can be saved. We pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.