Good morning Good morning. Let's bow our heads together and go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we come this morning with joyful and grateful hearts. With thankful hearts, Father. You are such a good God. And Father, you have been gracious to us and merciful to us all week. And we are so thankful That you brought us here together this morning to worship you and to give praise to your holy name. And Father, we lift up those who are unable to be with us this morning. And we thank you for those who are here. And I pray in both cases that you would help us to set aside all the cares of this world, cares even of this day, that we would concentrate fully upon your word. And may your Spirit do the mighty work in our hearts to convert us more and more into your image. And Father, I pray this morning that By your spirit, that Father, you will teach us the truth from your word. And may you use the mouth of Pastor Jim, as he is led by your spirit. And I pray that our ears Would be open, and that our hearts and minds would be fully concentrated upon you. That in all things you will be praised, you will be honored, and you will be glorified and lifted up We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. We are going to be reading this morning from Matthew chapter 11, verses 20 through 30. Matthew chapter 11, verses 20 twenty through thirty. Then he began to rebuke the cities in which most of his mighty works had been done, because they did not repent Woe to you, Corazan. Woe to you, Betheda, for if the mighty works which were done in you had been done in Tiri or Sidon. They would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes. But I say to you, it will be more tolerable for Kerry and Saddam. In the day of judgment than for you. And you, Coperna, who are exalted to heaven, will be brought down to Hades For if the mighty works which were done in you had been done in Sodom, it would have remained until this day. But I say to you, that it shall be more tolerable. For the land of Sodom in the day of judgment than for you. And at that time Jesus answered and said, I thank you, Father. Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that you have hidden these things from the wise and prudent, and have revealed them to babes. Even so, Father, for so it seemed good in your sight. All things have been delivered to me by my Father. And no one knows the Son except the Father. Nor does anyone know the Father except the Except the Son, and the one to whom the Son wills to reveal him. Come to me, all you who labor, and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy And my burden is light. So we're coming to the final uh the the end of this particular chapter, and um It's a very interesting chapter. I think it's going to, hopefully we'll really be able to lean a lot from this. Let me begin by asking a question. Have you ever been in a situation where you saw, maybe it was a person, maybe it was a relationship, something where you saw a per a person needed to do something. And and they needed they really needed to do this in order to avoid calamity, in order to avoid um uh you know uh or in order to prosper, whatever it is, but they just couldn't see it. Maybe parents you've seen that in your kids. And maybe they're adult kids and you've tried to explain to them that this would be really necessary and they are not seeing it and and and you know can you identify with that I I remember on several occasions you ever in Maryland you probably have experienced this before if you've driven any length of time you ever seen somebody an accident happen right in front of you Where you watch like two two vehicles collide right in front of you or almost collide right in front of you, somebody changes lanes and isn't looking at his blind spot and and cuts over that kind of a thing. You ever go, ah, there's something's about to happen. Um a lot of times it is because they're they're in a bl they have a blind spot. They're they're going down the road, they haven't checked their blind spot, and they're they're They're about to change lanes, and you can see clearly there's a car there, and you're sitting behind them watching them, and they can't see it, and you can see it, and they have a blind spot And the truth of the matter is, we are actually all born with a blind spot. Every one of us We are born, not only are we born into sin with the inability to be able to come to God at all We are born with the inability to be even able to search after God and the inability to be able to even know that we need Him. We have a serious blind spot I think that's n perhaps no better described than in Romans chapter 8, verses 9 through 18 that say this. What then? Are we better than they not at all? For we have previously charged both Jews and Greeks that they are all under sin. As it is written, there is none righteous, no not one. There is none who understands. There is none who seeks after God. They have all turned a w aside. They have turned they have together become unprofitable. There is none who does good, no not one. Their throat is an open sepulchre, their tongue uh with their tongue they have practiced the Their poison of asps is under their lips, whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness, their feet are swift to shed blood, destruction and misery are in their ways. And the way of peace they have not known, there is no fear of God before their eyes. That is the description of everyone born, with the exception of Christ Himself. Now, Jesus, if you think of it this way, that the Father and Jesus, and this is really the passage is going to describe it this way. The Father and Jesus are teamed up in in total unity. And they are seeing mankind. Of course, Jesus and the Father are one God. They're two persons. Holy Spirit, of course, another person there, one God. But they are seeing that all of humanity is lost and entirely separated from them, from Him, from God And and they can't and they can't see that they are. And they need them and they can't So the thing that I think we need to understand is that not only did Jesus come to this earth to die for our sin, to pay the punishment for our sins so that we could have the ability through the gospel to now relate to God, but we also have to understand that he came to show us who he was. He came to make the spiritually blind, which is all of us, to be able to see. And that is where we come to when we come to this passage. And Jesus Jesus just last week, as we were reading, he just what last week said he illustrates the blindness of spirit, the spiritual blindness that he is seeing all around him By this passage, he says, but what shall we liken this generation? Matthew 11, 16 through 17. Is it it is like children sitting in the marketplaces and calling to their companions and saying, We played the flute for you and you did not dance. We mourn to you and you did not lament. We played the flute of the wedding and you didn't do anything. We signaled to you, we're signaling to you And you're not doing anything. We are mourning and you're not lamenting. We're signaling to you it's time to lament and you're not responding. Now, how then did Jesus signal to the people to whom he was ministering to? At this point he was his headquarters was in Capernaum. He was in upper uh upper section of the Sea of Galilee. He was in the northern northern Sea of Galilee. That's primarily where he was ministering. primarily. How did he signal? The primary, there was actually several ways that we'll get to later, but the primary way in this passage that he was signaling was through his miracles. He was doing many, many, many miracles. And this passage that we're looking at going into now it it picks up by helping us to understand How the sovereign God of the universe plans to reach people. And he's going to use several illustrations of this. We're going to see this as we go through it. But how, what is God's sovereign plan. What is his plan to reach people? And we're going to see three things in this passage. First, we're going to see that he extends ample opportunity to the unrepentant. He extends ample opportunity to the unrepentant. He reveals himself only within his very specific plan. He reveals himself only Within his very specific plan, verses 25 through 27. And finally, he invites the enlightened to join him. He invites the enlightened to join him. That's 28 through 20. So he extends opportunity, 30 20 through 24. He reveals himself with a very, very specific only within a very specific plan, verses 25 through 27 And he invites the enlightened to join him. 28 through 30. So let's then pick up in verses 23-24. He extends ample opportunity to the unrepentant. And we pick up here, verse 20, it says this. Then he began to rebuke the cities in which which most of his mighty works, the mighty works are his miracles. has been done because they did not repent. Woe to you, Khorazan. Woe to you, Beth Seda. For if the mighty works were done in you had been done in Tyran Sidon, they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes. But I say to you, it will be more tolerable for Tyran Sidon in the day of judgment than for you. And you, Capernaum, who are exalted to heaven. will be brought down to Hades or Hell. For if the mighty works which were done in you had been done in Sot in Sodom, it would have remained until this day But I say to you that it shall be more tolerable for the land of Sodom in the day of judgment than for you. So Jesus is going to rebuke these three cities as a whole. It's not that there's no converts within these three cities cities, but as a whole, these three cities, Khorazan, Beth Seda, and Capernaum, which he has been doing many of his miracles, and he's done been doing lots and lots of miracles in the northern part of Galilee And uh over the Sea of Galilee, and they are they are unrepentant. And that's they they did not repent. What does it mean to repent? To turn from your sin and turn to God. And the miracles were designed by God to signal to these people That Jesus truly is the Savior, that truly is Lord and truly is God. And they were not responding the right way. They were responding in unrepentance instead of repentance. Matthew eight sixteen and evening had come he they brought to the Matthew nine, thirty-five, then Jesus went about all the cities of villages Teaching in the synagogues, preaching in the gospel of the kingdom, healing every sickness and every disease among the people. I mean you could see just from those passages Jesus is doing a lot of miracles and a lot of healing. In fact, John says, he says this. in John 20 verse 30, and surely Jesus did many other signs in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book. And actually later on, John says again, John 21, 25, and there were also many other things that Jesus did. Which if they were written by one by one, I suppose that even the world itself could not contain the books that w that would be written. Jesus had a very busy three and a half years of ministry, and at this point in his ministry he had done many, many miracles of many different kinds. And it should have been very obvious to all these three cities that he is who he said he was. And yet they were repentant. They did not turn to Jesus. They did not turn from their sin. And they did not turn to God. Caperna uh uh the first one he mentions is Corazon, and he is now going to say in verse 21, whoa. Woe. You see that word woe a lot in the book of Revelation. You see it several times in other places, but the word woe has kind of two components to it. to it. Two ideas, I should say. One is is warning, and the other is pity. Warning and pity. This is a pronouncement of judgment on these cities. There is no going back. It is going to happen the way that Jesus says. And it's a warning to them, and it's also like this is going to happen, and almost a pity on them. Whoa, this is going to happen to you. The judgment on these cities. And they are they are going to face the judgment. Jesus makes this comparison. Jesus is standing as a judge. And by the way, do you remember last week, or maybe it was the week before, when John the Baptist was doubting? Do you remember that? I think it was last week. Do you remember when John the Baptist was doubting? And John the Baptist, why was he doubting? He was doubting because he had heard of the miracles, but he didn't hear Jesus dealing with anybody. Well now Jesus is putting on his judge hat, if you will, and he is he is acting as judge. He is saying what is going to happen, and he says this He says that Tyre and Sidon and Sodom and Gomorrah are going to do better in the final judgment. Than these cities. Why? Because even Tyran Sidon and Sodom and Gomorrah, who were all cities in the Old Testament Tyrant Sidon was mentioned it was a Phoenician city in the Mediterranean. It was denounced by the Old Testament prophets for their Baal worship in Isaiah 23, Ezekiel, Joel, Amos, and Zachariah. All those passages We won't take the time to look at those, but um it's all well I'll I'll mention one. Jol three four for example, it says Indeed, what have you do with to do with me, O tyrant Sidon, and all the coast of Philicia Will you retaliate against me? But if you retaliate against me swiftly and speedily, I will return your retaliation upon you on your own head. You have those kind of judgments that are mentioned about toward these cities in the Old Testament. And now Jesus is making this comparison, and he's comparing what he's doing With Korazan, what he's done in Korazan, and what he's done in Capernaum, what he's done in Beth Seda, with Tyre and Sidon. And we all know Sodom and Gomorrah, what happened there, and how evil the city was there, how they rejected the witness of God there. And he and God destroyed that city. And Jesus says, in the final judgment, these cities are going to be worse off than those cities in the Old Testament. It's interesting. Jesus had this kind of knowledge. He had this contingent knowledge that that these old these Old Testament cities had they had been given the light that these cities now, you know, uh the the the Galilean cities had received, they would have repented. And that's the kind of knowledge that Jesus had And yet the cities that is northern Galilean cities, they would not repent. And we see in verses 22 through 24 that there is going to be great judgment on them And we have this term, the Day of Judgment, which is mentioned several times throughout the book of Matthew, and indeed in other places in Scripture as well. There is a coming judgment where Jesus will stand as judge of all things. He came in his first coming as Savior and Redeemer, but the next time he comes, he will be coming as judge and king. And he will judge the nations, and he will judge all people. There will be a judgment to come. And in that judgment, God says, Jesus says, these cities will not fare well. In Matthew chapter 12, verse 41, it says, The men of Nineveh will rise up in judgment with this generation and condemn it, because they repented at the The preaching of Jonah, and indeed gr uh uh greater than Jonah is here. And in Matthew 23, verse 13 it says, But woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites. You've got that woe word again. But you shut up the kingdom of heaven against men, for you neither go in yourselves, nor do you allow those who are entering to go in. Why were these cities? What caused these cities to be so resistant to the responding right to the miracles of Jesus? It was primarily, it was certainly their own hearts, okay, and that's enough, by the way, but also the Pharisees and the religious leaders that had so so taken them over with with empty religion, with self-righteousness, uh with self um self putting forward of self that they were blind. They were just completely blind to these miracles. Now, we there are several things that I want to just flesh out with all of this that we can learn. You say, well Uh you know, I don't you know, Tyrant Sidon and Corazon and Capernaum and all these cities, like what what's how how does this relate to us One of the things that it does when we read a passage like this that doesn't seem to be real relatable to us is we need to understand that this does show us quite a bit about the character of God. It really does. And I notice a wants to notice a few things about this. First of all, in all these cities, God presents many opportunities to repent. And despite the hardness of their hearts, they are without excuse. Now, you know, somebody might say, well, how could Jesus be so harsh on them and pronounce judgment on them? Did you remember all the miracles? I tried to get across the multiplicity of miracles that were done there to reveal himself to them. These cities, the people in these cities. They're without excuse. God revealed to themselves. And there is a real sense in which that is the case with all unrepentant people. We find this in Romans chapter 1, in verses 18 through 21. It says this, For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who suppress the truth in unrighteousness. Because what may be known of God is manifest in them. There is something that may be known of God, for God has shown it to them For since the creation of the world, his visible attributes are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power and Godhead, so that they are without excuse. Creation shows that there is a creator. Creation demonstrates and manifests and shows what God says is revealable. He reveals to all people so that they can look at creation, see there's a creator, and they they then are without excuse. Now, that's important to understand. Well, what else is important to understand? Well, there are apparently from this passage we gain the reality that there are there are different levels of hard-heartedness. You've got the hard hardness of Corazon and Capernaum and Besseda that they're hard they're they're hardened more even than Sodom and Gomorrah. There are levels of hard-heartedness. Doesn't mean everybody's born into sin. Everybody's spiritually dead and spiritually blind. But but we have sort of this indication of this. And there is also levels of reward and levels of punishment. There's levels of reward and levels of punishment. And we're not clear on all b how that works because Christ is judge, but we know that there are these different levels. And then finally, and I think This is probably more most important for us. There is this general understanding from this that to as much as been given and much has been revealed, much will be required. Luke twelve, twenty f uh forty-seven through forty-eight explains this as well. It says that And that servant who knew his master's will and did not prepare himself to do according to his will, shall be beaten with many stripes as you Using illustration here. But he who did not know yet committed things deserving of stripes should be beaten with few. There's a uh uh a knowledge more knowledge is creates more punishment. For every one to whom much is given, from him much will be required, and to whom much will be will uh has been committed of him, they will ask the more. There is this general principle in Scripture that when you have been given much, then you will have required, then much will be required of you. If you have been given much light, then you also will be required much of you. I think of us in our church. How much light have we been given? A lot. We've been given the Word of God. We've been given we've been we've gone through many, just in the last ten years that I've been here We've been going through many, many books of the Bible now. Many of you, and myself included, we grew up in solid Bible-believing churches. The level of light that we have compared to many people in the world is great. And the level of responsibility that we have as well is also great. Now, just in case if you're getting overwhelmed by this, understand I'm getting to where he says it's easy and light. We'll get there. But for now, understand that we do have great responsibility I I wrote down a couple of just applications that came to mind. One was that, just the the level of responsibility that I have with the amount of light that I've been given, and all of us, many of us here have that. But are we are we is that how we're raising our kids? The level of privilege should match the level of responsibility Are we careful about that? Are we thoughtful about balancing the amount of privilege with the amount of responsibility? God is. God's careful about it. There's a reason that God hadn't given me a bil million bucks yet. Yet. Ever, probably. Okay. There's a reason. There's a reason that God often does not bless us with billions of dollars, you know, Christians with billions of dollars. There's a reason for that. He the privilege must match the responsibility. You'll spoil a kid, candidly, if you don't really and a teenager uh as well. If you don't really consider the level of the level of privilege with the level of responsibility and make sure that they are somewhat balanced, which really is hard actually If we we the way that we do this as parents does to some degree send our kids signals about the nature of God. So these are things that are important for us to understand, and God extends ample opportunity to these unrepentant sinners. And then we move on to this: that God reveals Himself only within a very specific plan. He reveals Himself only within His very specific plan. Now we think in terms I think you know most of us think in terms of the gospel being very specific and very exclusive The Bible says, neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby ye must be saved. That's really, really exclusive. It's only through Jesus, exclusively by Jesus, it's only through the person and work of Jesus. Jesus Christ alone and no no other way. And that is very, very clear in Scripture. But did you know that God has an equally specific way of revealing Himself? And we find it in this passage. Look at verse 25, it says this. And that same time Jesus answered and said, I thank you, Father. He's now praying to his father, Lord of heaven and earth, that you have hidden these things from the wise and prudent and have revealed them to babes. Even so, Father, for so it seemed good in your sight, all things have been delivered to me. All things have been delivered to me by my Father, and no one knows the Son except the Father. Nor does anyone know the Father except the Son, and the one to whom the Son wills to reveal him. That is extremely precise. Very, very specific. So we first see the type of recipients that the father is choosing to reveal himself to. And we want to go through this carefully. First, Jesus says he's praying to his father and he addresses him as Father. He's pointing out the relationship, the unique relationship that he has with his father here. It's a father and son relationship. And then he he he points out the authority that the Father has, Lord of heaven and earth. He really is getting across here, and of course, I'll just mention this You say, well, this is a prayer to the Father. Yes, but it's a public prayer. And it there is intent there is no question Jesus is intended to teach through this prayer. So he's saying, he's pointing out that that God is his father, and also his authority over all things, the heaven and earth. Now, what's interesting is the the Lord Jesus is also Lord of heaven and earth. In Romans 4. 11 it says, For I have written As I live, says the Lord, every knee shall bow to me, and every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. He is Lord. Romans 15 nine the Gentiles might glorify God for uh for his mercy as it is written, for this reason I will confess you among the Gentiles and sing your name, Jesus And there are many other uh uh uh passages that explain this. Uh in fact, Philippians two eleven says, and every tongue shall confess that Jesus So the Father, Jesus says to the Father, You're Lord of heaven and earth And the Father declares that Jesus also is Lord. They are teaming up together in unity as Lord over all. And it says these things revealed. What are these things? Well, in context, these things are talking about the miracles. The significance of the miracles. What was the significance of the miracles? It was who Jesus is. Jesus is God. He was revealing himself as God, the Lord and Savior of the people of Israel, of the world. And it was, and these things reference that. Now notice what it says here. It says that the Father sees fit to reveal this. To who? To babes. In contrast with the wise and the prudent. Now, so and it says he hides it from the wise and the prudent, and he reveals it to babes. John 7, 48 through 49, enlighten us about this. It says this, have any of you rulers or the Pharisees believed in him, but this crowd not know uh but that uh but this crowd does not know the law is accursed. Uh John 7 explains that the rulers and the Pharisees were the people that were the wise and the prudent that he's talking about, and it's been hidden from them. But it also, on the other hand, has been given to babes. And we see this laid out in Scripture in the book of Matthew and other places as well. That the light of the gospel, the light of who Christ is, is revealed to to the little ones, to the babes, to the humble, to the foolish in the world's eyes. Matthew 18, verses 1 through 5 says this, that at the same time that Jesus came The disciples came to Jesus saying, Who then is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven? Then Jesus called a little child to him, set him in the midst of them, and said, Surely I say to you, unless you are converted and become as little children You will by no means enter the kingdom of heaven. Therefore, for whoever humbles himself as this little child is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven. Whoever receives one little child like this in my name receives me Jesus lifts up a child and he says, you have to become as a child. Not a child. You don't have to become child-ish. You have to become as a child, well what is a child, who humbles himself. Therefore, whoever humbles himself is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven. Similarly, in 1 Corinthians 1, verses 26 through 29, it says this, For you see your calling, brethren, that not any wise according to flesh Not many mighty, not many noble are called, but God has chosen the foolish things of this world to put to shame the wise, and God has chosen the weak things of this world to put to shame the things that are mighty And the base things of the world, and the things that are despised, God has chosen the things that are not to bring to nothing, the things that are, that no flesh shall glory in his presence. 1 Corinthians 3:10 says this: Let no one deceive himself. If anyone among you seems to be wise in this age, let him become a fool that he may become wise. God reveals Himself to babes, to fools, to humble people, not to people that are so full of themselves that they have no room for the light of Christ. And that seems to be this the the distinguish the only distinguishing characteristic that we can figure out from what Scripture says that I know of, that you could say, okay. We don't know. The Bible is very clear that no man comes to the Father except he draws them. And the criteria by which he draws them is the good pleasure of his will, which we're going to see in a moment. We don't there's there's not this criteria of, okay, well that one's more valuable than that. We're all valuable because we're made in the image of God. We're all unvaluable because we're sinners, right? But that seems to be an indication of the one thing that God looks at is the humility versus the pride. And we know this scripture says, God what? Resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble. Verse 26, it moves and it says this, very simple verse, even so, Father, for so it seemed good in your sight. If there's any question about the justice of God and revealing to some and hiding from others, what's the baseline? Bottom line is God is judged, God is wise, it seems good in his sight. He is good. Paul said something similar in Ephesians chapter 1, verses 3 through 6. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in heavenly places in Christ. just as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him in love, having predestined us to the adoption of sons by Jesus Christ to himself, according to what? The good pleasure of his will, to the praise of the glory of his grace, by whom he made us accepted in the beloved. And then verse 27 says this. It tells us that all things have been delivered to me by my Father That's an exclusive relationship. They have an exclusive relationship. It's all delivered to Jesus by the Father. Jesus is the sole revealer. And there's this exclusive identification. No one knows the Son except by the Father. And no one knows the Father except through the Son. And you see that throughout Scripture, there are many places where that is indicated in Scripture. Jesus says, for example, John 8:19, and they said to him, Where is your father? Answered, you know neither me nor my father. If you had known me, you would have known my father also. They go together. You cannot know the Father without knowing the Son, and you cannot know the Son without knowing the Father. And then you have this exclusive volition, and the one to whom the Son wills to reveal him. It must be the will. And in other places Jesus says, I do the come to do the will of the Father Do you see the unity that the Son and the Father have together in all of this? to bring us and to reveal themselves to whom they would choose to reveal themselves. Now I could go on about this, but let me just bring some application and some implications to us. Number one, God has chosen to hide divine truth from the proud and reveal divine truth to the humble. That's one of the main things we need to get. He reveals, he hides truth from the proud, and he reveals truth from the humble, to the humble. And there is an inseparable team between the Father and the Son in this. God's methods of revealing And his method of salvation is all very exclusive. John 6. 44 says, no one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. And Acts four four twelve, nor is there salvation in any other, for there is none of the name un among heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. Now, in our 21st century sensibility, we don't like this. This is too exclusive. This is too narrow. This is this is this is not this is not comfortable, is it? The world would not like to hear that there is only one way. In fact, they would suggest That the one way is kind of arrogance to say that there's only one way and you found the one way. Have you ever heard that before? I've talked to unsaved people People that don't know the Lord, non-Christians, and they say, well the problem is you guys are arrogant. And I'll say, uh and I've said, Well, how arrogant? How? Yeah, you think you've got the only way. And you know I would say, uh you know uh you know what you could say? Actually by definition we had to have had some humility in there somewhere Because otherwise it would not have been revealed to us. In other words, folks, it's n the what makes it humble is that it's none of none of it's by us. Why can the whole plan of God is so awesome? It's so wise because we have this exclusive plan of God that is revealed to those who are humble, so that only God gets the glory and we can get none of it. And so actually, because it's of no merit of our own and it's of no intellectual capacity of our own, because it's not of any of that that we are saved. It it is humble yet exclusive at the same time. And so we see that clearly in Scripture that that's the case. Now let me just make two applications that I think would be helpful. Number one is this. I think to some degree this should guide our evangelism. I do. I think it should guide our evangelism. Um I think that the greatest opportunities that we're going to have, it doesn't mean that uh that a uh a a you know sophisticated person can't get saved. God, the blood of Jesus Christ can penetrate the heart of anybody. But as a general rule, you've got to see your need. As a general rule, you've got not I mean you all not general rule, you have to see your need, that's precisely the case. But as a general rule, the opportunities are going to be with those who have some sense of their need. So look for opportunities of people that have a sense of their need. Number one. The other application is this. I think there's a general application that we can make. is that God reveals light to people who are humble. And I think even for the Christian, we can realize this. That God resists the proud. James said this to Christians. God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble. And we we ought to really create take great care to make sure that our in our own minds as much as much as we can that we don't see ourselves as having some angle on revelation or some angle on light. No, we are humble recipients of the light that God gives us through his word. And we want to continue to have that kind of hu uh humility. We don't want the pride of a hard heart and the pride that That keeps us from seeing who God really is and accepting who God really is. God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble. I want us then to move here. We've seen a lot of the justice of God, the responsibility that is placed on that Christ placed, and the exclusivity, and now Jesus is going to move to a some very personal, a very personal invitation where he invites those who have been enlightened by God to come Notice what it says next. And I think the next verses are extremely familiar to us, but I am convinced that we aren't really going to understand these verses unless we had the background of what we just went through. Notice what it says, verse 28. Come to me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn of learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls, for my yoke is easy and my burden is light. What is he talking about here? He says, come to me. That's an invitation. And he says, all you who labor and are heavy laden. Is he saying If you uh you know if somebody reads that and goes, yeah man, I've been working a lot of hours. You know, I've been working 60 hours a week. Man, I just need to come to Jesus. You know, people preach that kind of stuff. You just need to come to Jesus. You've been working a lot. Come to Jesus and get some rest. That is not what the passage is talking about. Okay. Come to Jesus, it says, all you who labor and heavy laden. Who is that in the passage? I'll tell you who it is in the passage. It is those humble people mentioned before. It is those people who realize their burden. Who recognize that they are burdened by their self and burdened by sin. And there is an allusion to s another passage that's going to be really helpful for us in understanding What's going on here is Matthew 23. I'll read it for you, verses 1 through 4, it says this. Then Jesus spoke to the multitudes and to his disciples, saying, The scribes and the Pharisees Sit in Moses' seat. Therefore, whatever they tell you to observe, that observe and do, but do not do according to their works, for they say, and do not do For they bind heavy burdens, hard to bear, and lay them on the men's on men's shoulders But they themselves will not move them with one of their fingers. The Pharisees, the religious leaders of the day, were placing burdens. Heavy burdens of legalism on the shoulders of the people of Israel. Jesus came and he said, I have come that you may have life and have it more abundantly. I have come that you may be, you may have you'll be liberated, not liberated from law from doing right, but liberated from the demands of these Pharisees who aren't doing it themselves, frankly, and they're placing great burdens on you Jesus says, please come to me, all you who are burdened and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. You know, the truth is empty religion burdens us. It burdens us with the weight of our own salvation. You can't save yourself. An empty religion calls you to work to save yourself, to somehow have your good outweigh your bad, and you can't do it, and it's a burden. You're always wondering, are you good enough? Am I good enough? Am I good enough? Have I done enough? I've had the experience even to even to disciple uh people who have come out of empty religion And they they've come into Christianity and they have a hard time getting past this. They'll say to me, Pastor, I just don't, I want to know if it's if if it's enough. I feel like it's not enough. That is a burden of empty religion. It's a burden of legalism. And very candidly, even in fundamental circles, that can be a burden if it's not handled right. Come to me, all you who labor and are heavy laden by the Pharisaical burden of a law that's frankly misinterpreted to bind the people and to weigh them down. He says, I'm going to give you rest. Well, what is that rest? Well, let me mention a couple more about the whole burden and how this all works. Jeremiah 31, verses 23. through twenty-six prophesies a day where the burdens will be lifted. Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, they shall again use this speech in the land of Judah and the cities when I bring back their captivity. That the Lord bless you, O home of justice, and mountains of holiness, and there shall dwell in the Judah itself and all its cities together, farmers and those going out with flocks For I have satiated the weary soul, I have replenished every sorrowful soul, and this I awoke and looked around, and my sleep was sweet. to me. Jeremiah is dreaming here and he is he is restored by God and this is a prophecy of when Christ comes, he's going to restore the soul. The weak and the humble of Israel are mentioned here. This is who these people are, and he says, I'll give you rest. In Jeremiah 31, in the same passage, it says this verse Verse 25. For I have satiated the weary soul, I have replenished every sorrowful soul. What is this rest? Well, it's mentioned also in Revelation chapter 6, verse 11. Then a white robe was given to each of them, and it was said to them that they should rest a little longer, a while longer, until the both a number of the f fellow servants of their brethren and who would be killed as they were was completed. They're in heaven and rest. In Revelation 15, verse 13, you have the same thing. They're in heaven and they're in rest. So have rest, this concept of rest includes eternal life. You're not having to work for it anymore. You're not under the under the law. Christ came to fulfill the law and to free you so that you can, and we'll see what you can do In a minute. But you will be given rest. But we're going to see the word rest in the future, in the in a minute here, and And we'll see more about this concept of rest, but let's not then move, as the passage does, as Christ says, how do we come to Jesus? Well, it's not let go and let God It's not. It's not, okay, well I'm just gonna let everything go and I'm gonna do what I want and I get to do whatever I want and I'll do kind of what I feel what I want and have this sort of like prayer time and I'll feel it all. I'll just kind of feel my way into Christ or something. People think that way. It's a mystical way of looking at this. This is not a mystical passage. He says this, take my yoke. Upon you and learn of me. Now he's going to say that this yoke is easy. It it's it's to the ears of the disciples, this would have been a contradiction. An easy yoke? What is a yoke? A yoke is a harness where usually two oxen were attached to you so that they could the beasts of burden could carry the burden and plow the field and labor. That's what a yoke was. Jesus says, take my yoke, which was easy. And the disciples probably would have gone, what? How is a yoke easy? And I think Jesus probably wanted exactly to provoke them to think about this. So when Jesus says, take my yoke upon you, he is not, he's clearly not saying, certainly he's not saying take legalism upon you. But on the other hand, he's not saying take no thought of morality upon you either. It's not antinomianism, it's not anti-law either. He's saying something else. He's saying, take my yoke upon you, take my the responsibility that I give you on yourself. Take my yoke upon you. Not the Pharisees who are imposing a stringent interpretation of the law. Take my yoke upon you. Well, what is his yoke? You know, if you go back to the Sermon on the Mount, you're going to see his yoke. And frankly, his yoke's not that easy in a sense. I mean his yoke, it's not as though he says what's in the heart really matters. It's not on the outside. It's not as though he says, well, none of it matters and do what you want. Right? So you clearly see that. In Jeremiah 31, again, verses 33 through 34, it says this, but this is the covenant that I make. I will put my law in their minds and write it on their hearts. I will be their God, and they shall be my people. No more shall every man teach his neighbor and every man his brother, saying, Know the Lord, for they all shall know me. From the least of them and the greatest of them, says the Lord, for I will forgive their iniquity and they shall sin and their sin I will remember no more. There is a forgiveness to Jesus' yoke, he is saying, don't put off the yoke of sin. Put off the yoke of self. I'm forgiving your sin, but now he is saying, I learn of me. Who can Who is teaching us? It's Jesus. Jesus. Learn of me. Don't learn of the Pharisees and their interpretation of the law. Don't learn of those who would impose uh their oppressive kinds of um of uh of of uh uh standards that that Cause you to feel perhaps that you're in favor with God, but has no relationship to what Jesus has taught. Jesus says, make sure you're learning of me Why? Because he says, I'm gentle. Not the Pharisees. They're not gentle and lowly of heart. They're prideful and full of themselves. He says, I'm gentle and lowly in heart, and you'll find rest for your souls, for my yoke is easy and my burden is light. I don't have the time, but you might want to write these passages down. Isaiah 42 and Isaiah 53 and Zechariah 9. 9 prophesy that there would be coming a savior that would be gentle. The coming of Savior that would be lowly in heart. And when Jesus came, he came. Gentle and lowly in heart. In fact, he came humble. He came in a way that he did exactly, he set the example on exactly how to live in this world. He wasn't like the Pharisees, do what I do what I say, not what I do. And I'll tell you what I do, and there's actually not what I really do, what I tell you to do, because they're lying a lot of times about Jesus says, I am meek and gentle and lowly in heart. You'll find rest for your soul. Jeremiah 6. 16 says this, stand in the ways and see, and ask for the old paths where good a good way is, and walk in it, when you will find rest. for your souls, but they said we will not walk in it. He says, my yoke is easy and my burden is light. Now let me let me just pause and when I read that I don't know. Sometimes life ain't that easy. I read that, I go, really? It's easy and light? You could read that and sort of go, maybe I'm doing something wrong here, because it doesn't seem that easy and it doesn't seem that light. You ever read that before and you thought that? Maybe it's just me, I don't know I had to really I had to think about it and I said and I and I'm gonna give you uh several ways. Why is this easy and light? I'm gonna suggest several w reasons why this is easy and light. yoke. Number one, because of its simplicity. You've got one master. You've got you've you've You've got one person that you're following. You've got one expectation. Now, within that master, it's not like you throw off all other authorities and you don't want to talk about, but essentially you're trying to please an audience of one. Their simplicity. Galatians 6. 1 through 6 says it this way, brethren, if a man is overtaken in his trespass, you are spiritual. Restore such a one in the spirit of gentleness. considering yourself lest you also be tempted. So there is accountability within the body of Christ. There is that. He says bear one another the burdens and fulfill the law of Christ. You need to bear one another's burdens. It's not like you're literally on this road by yourself. For if anyone thinks himself to be something, when he is nothing, he deceives himself. But let each one examine his own work, and then he will have rejoicing in himself alone, and not in another For each one shall bear his own load. Let him let whom him who is taught the word share in all things with him with me. whom he teaches. There becomes sort of the simplicity about one word, one teacher. Yes there's accountability, yes there's authority, but ultimately it all funnels into one person that we are trying to Please. And that is God. There's a sim Christ. There's a simplicity. Number two, we're not alone. We're not alone in this. Sorry. We're never alone. This is a yoke, and Christ says, take my yoke upon you and learn of me Who's in the other side of the yoke? Christ. Why is this easy and light? Because folks, we're not doing it alone We are with Christ, and we are never alone. Jesus says, I will never leave you nor forsake you. You are never alone. It's simple, the yoke is simple, and you are never alone. Doug Webster says this, and I I have this up on the screen for or I have this up uh uh he says says this. And I'll read it for you in case that's too small. It's fine. His easy yoke is neither cheap nor convenient. The surprising promise of this easy yoke was meant to free us from a self-serving, meritorious, performance-based religion. It is easy in that it frees us from the burden of self-centeredness. Liberates us from the load of self-righteousness and frees us to live the way God intended us to live. The easy yoke sounds like an oxymoron. Ploughing a field and pulling a load is hard work. And nowhere does Jesus promise soft ground for tilling a left a level paths for bearing the load. What he does promise is a relationship with himself. The demands are great, but the relationship with Jesus makes makes the burden light. Number three, because we are not well we are not functioning from a motive of love with a singular obje object We have a motive of love. So the motive is different. Why is it easy and light? Because the motive is not out of compulsion. It's out of not out of guilt, it's now out of love. It makes such a difference. You can do hard things out of love, and it's much easier than doing hard things out of guilt Webster says this: apart from the grace of Christ and saving work of the cross, it would be impossible to convince people that the easy yoke is doable, let alone easy. But for those who live under the yoke of live under the yoke, there is absolutely no other way to live, who in their right mind would go back to the gods of self, money, lust, and power Who would return to a bended return on a bended knee to the shrines of pious performance and judgmentalism? Is not love better than hate, purity better than lust, reconciliation better than retaliation? And is not better really easier when measured in character rather than convenience? Rest for the soul rather than selfish pride? When you take self off the when your self is done away with, when you when your s yoke is no longer self, not self-righteousness, not self- Not self-demand, not selfishness, not s wanting to build self, not caring about what everybody thinks of me. When all of that is gone and and Christ is the yoke. Take my yoke upon you and learn of me, then there is a sense in which it's not like you don't do difficult stuff. But there is a sense in which it is easy and light, and you will find rest for your soul. My yoke is easy and my burden is light. Well with that in mind, uh if you would just put those up there, I actually am missing a page of my notes, the last page. But if if you don't mind putting it up there, that would be great. Um here here's the here's the the all the points. Um if we've been given much, we're accountable for much. It's okay. It's all right. If we've been given much, here the it's a we're accountable for much. God reveals Himself to those who are humble and hides light from those who are not. God reveals Himself to those who are humble and hides light to those who are not. We must come to Jesus, who is the exclusive and only way. And number four. Therefore, we must remove the yoke of self, take on Jesus' yoke, and learn of Him to find rest for our souls. Now, if you're listening today, I just feel like I would be remiss for not mentioning this, and that is, maybe you have never really come to Jesus. Maybe you have mixed with empty religion, you've you would say you're a Christian, you've You know how to kind of talk the talk and you kind of know about a few things, but you have never really truly come to Christ. What you've come to is empty religion. What you you're still trying to do something in your own self-effort. The Bible says, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy, he saved us. And we're about to celebrate the Lord's table, and that represents the blood of Christ and the body of Christ. The shed blood of Christ on the cross. Our sin separates us from God. That is called spiritual death in the Bible But Jesus as our substitute died in our place so that we could have eternal life. He rose from the grave victorious over sin and death so that we could be in right standing with God. And the only thing we need to do is accept that free gift of eternal life for ourselves. But as many as received him, to them gave you the power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. That's all you have to do, is receive him as your Lord and Savior, and you will be. Saved. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you this morning and we thank you for who you are. We praise you because you are you are God. Who has made such an amazing and all-wise plan to reveal yourself to those who are blind. And I pray, Lord, that you would reveal yourself to us today. If there are people here today, Lord, that have never come to Christ, never truly come to Christ, I pray today that you through what has And Lord, all of us who are Christians need to continue to have the light from your word that your spirit helps us to see the significance. significance of and Lord I pray that you would help us to stay to humble ourselves before the mighty hand of God. And Lord also as we enter into this time of communion together as we celebrate what Christ has done for us. I pray, Lord, that we would set us continue to set aside distractions. That we would really focus on this time of communion together, of celebrating the death of Christ. And we pray these things in prayer. Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute To thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.