As we go through this service, we're thankful for all those that are here that and have put all this together. If you're visiting with us, we are thrilled that you're here. And uh if you would stop by the welcome table right afterwards uh we'll have a gift for you and um and just would like to connect with you just so you're well uh aware of that. Let's go ahead and open with a word of prayer. Father, we come to you and we praise you and thank you. For Christ, we thank you for this awesome plan that occurred before the foundation of the world. You had to send your own son to take on human flesh To ultimately die for the sins of the world. And we thank you, Father, that we can receive that gift of eternal life through your Son. And we pray that if there is anybody here this morning that doesn't know you as their Lord and Savior, I pray today would be a day that they would understand their sin, their need We thank you, Lord, for the gift of the Savior that we will celebrate this morning, and we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. I was born to a fan with a with a long line of political history. This is what I was raised to do. But for since being introduced to the so-called Messiah, Jesus, my heart has begun to wander from its heritage. Maybe there's something more than building an empire. Maybe all I've ever known is worth abandoning for the truth of Jesus. Professor ceases. The dead dead to life, the outcast restored, the guilty forgiven, From its humbly beginning to its triumphant ending. This story would give no measure to doubt to the love that God has for his creation. I recognized that I had an obligation to share this message with others. Many have taken advance, have set forth in order, a declaration of those things. which are most surely believed amongst us. Even as they deliver them to us, which from the beginning were eyewitnesses and ministers of the word. It seemed good to me also to write unto thee in order, O Most Excellent, that you might know the certainty of those things wherein Allah has been instructed. Athatias, this message delivered to you is intended for all. From generation to generation. This is story. Gori, will do not this, it's a tame, could good fortune, is this translast and good good man It is a message that gives life to all who believe it. The evil will attempt to destroy it. Skeptics will attempt to doubt it. But for those that live This story will deliver a new era of peace, a new covenant between God and his creation. I urge you that no one's life get kept in darkness. The good news is that God gave his son to save the world. Good morning Welcome everyone. Uh if you would like to follow along with the reading this morning, we are going to be in Luke chapter one and we're going to be looking I might want to get my glasses on here Comes with age. Okay, Luke chapter 2, verse 1. And it came to pass in those days that a decree went out from Caesar Augustus That all the world would be registered. This census first took place while Carennius was governing Syria. So all went to be registered, every one to his own city Now Joseph also went up from Galilee out of the city of Nazareth into Judea to the city of David, which is called Bethlehem, because he was of the house and and lineage of David, to be registered with Mary, his betrothed wife, who was with child. So it was that while they were there, the day were And she brought forth her firstborn child, son, and wrapped him in swaddling clothes, and laid him in a manger, because there was no room for them. Now there were in the same country shepherds living out in the fields, keeping watch over their flock at night. Night. And behold, an angel of the Lord stood before them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were greatly afraid. Then the angel said to them, Do not be afraid, for behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which will be to all people. For there is born to you this day in the city of David, a Savior, who is Christ the Lord. And this will be a sign to you. You will find a babe wrapped in swaddling clay. Lying in a manger. And suddenly there was the angels and a multitude, the heavenly host, praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and peace on earth, and good will toward men. So it was when the angels had gone away from Let us now go to Bethlehem and see this thing that has come And they came with haste and found Mary and Joseph and the babe lying in the Now, when they had seen him, they made widely known the saying which was told them concerning this child. And all those who heard it marveled at those things. But Mary kept these things and pondered them in her heart. That they had heard and seen as it was told them In the account of Christmas, we see the joy of a Savior coming to the world. Let's stand together and sing of that joy. Good Christian men rejoice. Goodness, many joy with our Now I mean the wings you've done right before you Right in one today, good Christian men rejoice with heart and soul and boys. Now you hear of them and bliss. Joy, joy, Jesus Christ was born for this. He has open heaven door and man is blessed foreverborn. Christ was born for this. Life was born for sin. Good Christian men rejoice with heart and soul and joy. Now we need a will and wait. Jesus Christ was born to be all and all we want in eternal life before. You make me seated. Very nice. Let's sing again. Let's stand together. Let's sing the hymn, Angels from the Realms of Glory. Angels from the round of glory wing your Even sanctuar story now proclaim all and worship, all and worship. Worship right the new born team shattered in the middle spy watching for your lost my eyes. God with man in thou residing Yonder Silver Light. Call and worship, call and work, worship. Sages leave your contemplation, writer vision be of arms. Great in our rotation, he has been worship, cause and worship, worship. Saint me voy a rain quand il fall. We are going with friendly in this temple shallow here. We will continue singing the first Noel. This is a classic uh Christmas hymn. It's also a very long Christmas hymn, so Out of the six verses, we're only going to sing four of them. Otherwise, I don't I don't know if Pastor Jim will have time to preach his sermon this morning. Uh and it covers almost all the details of the Christmas story, but we're going to sing the first Noel. Oh birth being angelic what you find. Let him for suffer this lay in me as well, maybe the sea All we enter the rotation. No well, no well, no well, no well, for him dry. Sun in me on them for an in great light. I know we can say you both day and I No well, no well, no well, no well, for it could be all his pride. Three, one, three, game, one, one, three, one, two, three, garb, three, one. Every boss all does dawn No well, no well, no well, no well, only no Amy Brave Guru. That has may have another and wheel is what they have got. No well, no well, no well, no well, or he likes. You may be seated. Common ye playful Joyful and triumphant, O come, oh come me to the Come and behold him for the king of angels, who come, let us adore him. Oh come, let us adore him. Oh come let us adore him Cross the Lord. Glory to God for Glory Oh God, jo him all him Oh, we grew. It we Let us not go let us ha do. Our next hymn is not quite as familiar as some of the ones we've been seeing. singing this morning. It's called Lo Howell Rose Air Blooming. And as while you s while you sing it, you may be wondering, what is this rose? And so I'd like to take just a quick moment to explain Who this rose is. Um the hymn writer was actually a German from way back in the fifteenth century and in the eighteen hundreds it translated to German to English and uh then it wasn't actually really sung much in America until the nineteen sixties. So even though it seems like an old hymn that People have been singing for a very time. It's actually a fairly more recent old hymn. And the author of the hymn, the author of the hymn actually is referring to a couple of different uh passages in the book of Isaiah. In fact the the ver second verse of the hymn says, Isaiah twos twas foretold it and we're like, when did he talk about a rose? If you're familiar with the book of Isaiah, you don't really remember any significant roses there. And the author actually has taken some poetic license And expanded on the prophecies in Isaiah 11. 1 and also Isaiah 35. Isaiah 11. 1 says, There shall come forth a rod from the stem of Jesse, and a branch shall grow out of his roots. When Isaiah wrote this hymn, it was a time where Israel was about to be in captivity, and their king was about to be removed from the throne. And the the line of Jesse is the line of David. That's where the king is supposed to come through, and Jesus is one of the distant descendants that would come after him. That tree of Israel was about to be cut off and become like a stump But God said it's not dead. There's got a shoot of life that's going to come out of that stump. Now this hymn writer decided that was actually a stump of a rose bush. And the shoot that comes out It's a rose. And so that picture here is being used to describe the coming of Jesus, of of of life coming out of something that looked like it was looked like it was dead. And it combines those Isaiah passages al along with another one, Isaiah seven fourteen, which speaks of a virgin. It should be Isaiah seven fourteen, not Where that says a virgin shall conceive and shall bring forth a son and shall call his name Emmanuel. He is the hope of Christmas and the hope also of the future as we look ahead to his Let's stand together, we'll sing this hymn, three verses, Lo how rose air blooming. Or why you say we don't make this When grass was bagwalight With Mary Holding, I'm not sure what I'm saying. True and let every God. You maybe see this. Since the beginning it is set in in motion. The place. The time. The elements of everything. It was all perfectly orchestrated. A way of bringing hope through through the chaos of mankind. For years. I've spent time collecting research. Speaking of speaking with people. Listening. And watching watching and A divine story unfold. I can't decide. The miracles. The teachings of Prophet. This story must be told. And it and it begins with with her Mary. She was young, full full of life. Get me in love. Passionate about her God and her people. Her story would have been more ordinary. Like any girl who has a But all in all of that was it was about to change Why Caesar sent a decree that all that all the world should be discussed. It was it was heaven that gave Gay of the approved to deliver you new up covenant Taxing. We have enough money as it as it is. Jehovah, you have to be a good thing. You've blessed your people and you've given us a name. But we are broken. Hurting. Lost. You have promised that one day deliverance from the succession will come. My heart longs for that now more than ever. Bring us peace, Abba. Bring us peace. Mary. Mary, fear not Mary, for you have found favor with God. Behold, thou shalt conceive in thy womb and bring forth a son, and shall call his name Jesus. The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the highest will overshadow you. Therefore, That the Holy One who is to be born will be called the Son of God. When God does something supernatural, it's difficult to explain. I patiently waited for the right moment to tell Joseph the news. But no moment seemed to fit my explanation. Miracles tend to give people hope. But for Joseph, it left him empty. Confused, abandoned We may never fully understand God's way. But one thing is for certain. He never fails us. That night through a dream. God's plan became clear to Joseph. And so our journey began. Months have Passed since we received the sign from the angel. We had prepared for the baby to be born in Nazareth, but the Roman decree forced us to return to Joseph's town of lineage. Bethlehem. Our journey was uncomfortable and tiring, but we found strength in knowing that God was with us. Once we made it to Bethlehem, we found the town to be full of travelers who had arrived for the senses. Joseph searched for days to find a place to save, but there was no room. However, all these disappointments do not overcome my joy. with what was about to happen. And mind him only. Until the So consuming. Jesus, he was finally here, our Messiah. I felt so unworthy to hold in my arms the hope of the world. We had waited so long for peace. And now Emmanuel, God is with us Chapter two Luke Chapter Two The point of Luke, that what he is writing, he of course, as you saw in the beginning of the service, he's writing to a man named Theophilus. And he wants to assure Theophilus and really all of us that the things that are in this text are true. Uh you know some people think that this is just sort of a novel, some sort of fable, some sort of uh helpful story. Uh Nice uh story, but if you actually read through Luke chapter 2, you actually find that in this passage you have these specific details of what occurred and when it occurred such that it doesn't read really like a story at all. That's because Luke wanted us to understand that what occurred back when Christ was born was absolutely true. And the other thing that we see from the text is that who was born was a savior. And we see this. For example, in Luke chapter 2, verse 4, it says that you may know with certainty the things in which you were instructed And then in Luke 2. 11 it says, For there is born to you this day in the city of David a Savior who is Christ the Lord. And then we find from the announcement of the angels in this text. that the Savior is going to bring true and lasting peace. The films that we saw took some poetic license in certain areas. But it does describe the situation as being bleak and dark and difficult during that time when Christ was born, and it certainly was. This was during the time that it says in Luke chapter 2, and it came to pass in those days that a decree went out from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be registered. It tells us that Caesar Augustus, who was the emperor at that time, sent out this decree. This was a man who was a uh a harsh man. He was a man who controlled strongly. Actually, uh the the Roman Empire had been in civil war uh for two decades and when he came to power, he was able to bring things into reign and into such control that he was lauded as a wonderful emperor. He even was described as one who brought peace, and we're going to see that in a few moments. Some of the way that he did that was through control. And the control that he had on the people was through things like taking census for for ultimately probably to tax them. The text says register or census. The King James says tax. The correct way to understand this is a registration or a census. But probably it is for the purpose of taxing. And Caesar Augustus would do this three times in his career. He would do it in 28 B. C. , again in 8 B. C. and again at AD 14 But this sense these senses would take so long that actually this one was probably finished up in 8 B. C. or actually started in 8 B. C. finished up in 4 B. C. , which puts the time of Christ and his birth around 6 to 4 B. C. And then we find the timing is, it says, when Quirenius was governor. of Syria. It's that specific. Luke wants us to know that this is a real time, a real place, where the governor of Syria, who was just north, as a sort of And we have specific location of being Bethlehem And we have the specific location of Nazareth, and they traveled from Nazareth to Bethlehem, which is about 10 miles. You have all these specific details to show that what actually took place was truly real. It was historically historically verifiable during a specific time period. This was an actual event that took place In verse 4 it tells us this. It says, Joseph also went up from Galilee out of the city of Nazareth into Judea in the city of David, which is called Bethlehem, because he was the house of lineage of David, and he was to be registered. And then we find just one verse in this passage, only one verse out of these seven verses that actually describe the birth I mean you would think if this is a a just a b sort of a a story of a beautiful story of a baby being born, that you would have a much longer greater description, more beautiful, more detailed description. And actually all you have is one verse here with some very, very important information. It says And she brought forth her firstborn son, and wrapped him in swaddling clothes, and laid him in a manger, because he was a there was no room for them in the inn. We have some very humble beginnings for this little baby, this little baby who was born and born of a virgin. This little baby was born and uh he he was wrapped in swaddling clothes. Uh swaddling swaddling clothes were used uh to actually bind the limbs of the of the baby to keep malformation from occurring. It was pretty superstitious actually. They don't do that anymore too often, but they thought that if they didn't bind the limbs to the body, that they would actually malf there would be malformation that occurred. And as that was why they had these uh these these swaddling clothes, these wrap these cloths of s uh of rap wrapped swaddling clothes. And then laid in a manger, of course, you know, is a feeding trough And this is really describing the way Christ left glory and came to earth Born in a feeding trough for animals in swaddling clothes in a manger because they didn't even make room for him him in the end. You know the story well. It's very obvious to you. It's very obvious what the details are here as we see them every year. But Caesar Augustus was a man, there was a specific atmosphere that's important to realize, was a man who brought about what is known today as the Pax Romana. Or sometimes it was actually called the Pax Augustus. This is was it to be and or it was described as an error, an era of peace peacefulness. And so Caesar Augustus wanted everybody to think, through propaganda, really, that this was going to be, this was a time of peace. And one poet back then, Virgil, he said this about this time period. It is destined to bound his domain with the ocean. This is talking about Augustus. War shall cease. He shall rebuild the golden age. But the same poet back then, during this time, also said, Remember, Romans, your art shall be to rule the nation as their masters. to establish the law of peace, to show clemency to the conquered, and to conquer the proud. Get the idea that we there's peace at a cost. See, yes, there was sort of this externally imposed peace, but it was through control. and through order, and really through oppression. Tacitus, one of the greatest historians during this time, He said about this time that it was done through, this patrimon was done through brute force. He says in describing this, he says the Romans call it an empire. It is It is in fact a murder and prop for profit. They make a desolation and they call it peace. So this time period was a time of external peace, but a time of great oppression. A time of peace that was imposed through order and control, imposed externally. Can I ask you a question What kind of peace do you have today? There are some people that they actually feel as though they're pretty much at peace, but their peace comes from having things in order. Their peace comes from having everything in their lives lined up in an orderly way and controlled in such a way that they feel good about their situation. I mean it is true that when you clean the house you feel better, right? And when you clean the when you when you have things in order you feel a bit better. When things are a mess Things don't feel so good. But all of that is is externally external kinds of peace. And Sometimes we can just sort of settle in that everything in my life externally is going just fine. But actually, is there really true internal peace? The Bible actually tells us that we are born outside of God's peace. All have sinned, the Bible says, and come short of the glory of God. So we're born outside of true internal peace. We are not at peace with God because we are born sinful and we are sinful. And that sin separates us from God. And no matter what we do in our lives to try to make things organized or try to put things in a certain place or try to fix situations or fix people or whatever we're doing in our lives to try to get this peace. We won't have that true internal peace until we are actually at peace with God. Jesus came to bring that kind of peace. Peace that works from the inside out. And that's what we see is the announcement is to the shepherds, as we pick up in verse 8. that a true Savior brings true peace. And we have the story that is very familiar to all of us, very likely. The shepherds have uh they're out in the fields and they're keeping watch of their flock by night, and you see all of the things that we uh we're we're aware of All of what happened. And we'll just remind ourselves of what these shepherds were. These were shepherds that were in a lowly place in society and they were ceremonially unclean because of what they had to do. Uh e even in nativ nativity scenes today in like kids kids' nativity plays You know, what what happens? Well, you've got to find a good Joseph, you've got to find a good Mary, maybe you're going to find a good uh Zacharias and a good Elizabeth, and you find all the different characters, and then everybody left over your shepherds. I mean th th that's the way shepherds are just, you know, sort of expendable. They're sort of the lowest of the low. There's this just the way they are. And they were that way back then as well. And yet it's interesting that in the passage, the most glorious, grandest announcement Of any of the announcements during this time of the birth of Christ is actually given to the shepherds. If you look at Joseph's announcement, it was during a dream. If you look at Mary's announcement, you have one angel. But you're going to have an angel here, but then you're going to have a host of angels with glory and light and all beauty To these lowly shepherds. Such is the nature of our God. God glorifies Himself in the humble, He brings glory to the lowly. Isaiah 9 2 says this, the people who walked in darkness have seen a great light Those who dwell in a land of the shadow of death, upon them a light has shined. And we see that in this passage. The glory of the Lord, it says, shone round about them, and they were sore afraid. They're afraid. They're afraid of the glory of God. Now that's understandable. You go from utter darkness and quiet to the Beaming light and the glory of this angel and all of this. That's an understandable thing, but there's a sense in which the glory of God outside of the person of Christ is a fearful thing. We find this in other places in the Old Testament as well. Isaac Watts said it this way: Till God in human flesh I see, my thoughts no comfort find. The holy, just, and sacred three are terrors on my mind. The angel says to the shepherds, don't fear. Fear not. He says, For we bring you good tidings of great joy, which will be to all people. And then this is a birth announcement The birth of Christ. But I want this, we kind of tend to pass over the details. But it says this, for unto you is born this day. in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. That's actually a pretty strange birth announcement. I mean imagine that my wife is pregnant and she's not. You know. But let's imagine that she is imagine she is and I'm making an announcement, okay? And uh and I say to you, I just want to announce the birth of a child for its born for you. You'd be like, what? I mean, I'm I hope you enjoy my kids, but But but you wouldn't usually say that in a birth announcement. It's born to me and my wife. It's not born to you. But this is a different announcement. This is a For unto us it's born to you, the baby that's going to be born to Mary and Joseph, it's unto you that's born this day in the city of David a Savior. which is Christ the Lord. This is a fulfillment of prophecy, of course, in Micah 5. 2. And we see this very important phrase, a Savior. He is to, that is why he came. He came not just this beautiful scene of the nativity. Actually, I don't think it was beautiful at all. Um I think it was probably disgusting. Um and uh there were animals everywhere and I don't think it was it and and there are some people that make out the birth of Christ like as though as though there was no pain involved and it was all peaceful. Uh that's there's nowhere in scripture that's the case. It was a virgin conception and the birth the b the birth was probably a very, very normal birth But he came to be a savior. Johann Sebastian Bach said this. He did not come to judge the world. He did not come to blame. He did only come to seek. It was to save he came. And when we call him Savior, and when we call him Savior, and when we call him Savior, we call him by his name. 2 Timothy 1 verse 10 says, but has now been revealed by the appearing of our Savior Jesus Christ. who has abolished death and brought life and immortality to light through the gospel. Matthew 1. 21, we see She shall bring forth a son, I shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. How? By living a perfect life And one day taking on the sins of the world on himself and paying the punishment for our sin as only he could do as the God of the universe clothed in human flesh So that we could have our sins forgiven, we could be in right standing with God, and we could be at complete peace with God. At this point the host of the angels came, the the the it says in verse 13, and suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of heavenly hosts. Praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth, peace, goodwill toward men. First, it was for the glory of God that this little baby was going to come, that Christ was was born. It was for the glory of God And then it says this, and on earth, what is God's intention with Christ? Peace. But a different kind of peace. A peace that is a peace that starts from the inside and works its way out. That becomes Quite obvious as Jesus begins to walk with people, begins to just talk about his what what's going to happen with the kingdom. physical peace on this earth that it was offered to them even back then. But there is another kind kind of peace and what God's ultimate intention was was that peace would come first on the inside and then work its way out. That there would be a true internal peace. Because we are at peace with God. Romans 5, 1 says this: therefore, having been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus. Christ. We have peace with God. A real Savior brings real peace. So Yeah. No, no, no, no, no, no. I'm late again. Do this every time. No, no, I gotta get going. You're gonna kill me. Sha Shepherd. We used to be Israel's finest. But somehow that didn't last too long. And then there's the sheep. Tending to an animal that is about as dumb as this dirt. Can can be a little chall challenging. But if I'm honest, these sheep aren't much different than myself. Lost. One wondering. Vulnerable. Weak weak. It would be easy to let this one go. Let him get what he deserves. Wandering from the fold that keeps him alive. But a butter rescue the sheep Because one day I believe my God would do would do the same for me. Only a shepherd would know the joy of rescuing a lost sheep. It's not always the easiest. But in the end, the celebration outweighs the sacrifice. Every year, stories are told of God's wonders with his people. God parted the Red Sea for Moses. He made the sun stand still for Joshua. Fire came down from heaven for Elijah. But in these last days there's been nothing but silence. From from heaven. Where where is our shepherd? A Redeemer. Our our King. Is this just a legend to conjure hope? Or is he coming for his people? Hear not. For behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall eat you all. people for unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior which is Christ the Lord and this shall be a sign unto you you shall find the baby Wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger. Glory to God in the eyes and on earth, peace, good will toward men. And just like that, the silence was broken. Heaven's voice declared in the night a savior was born. So this It's true. God did come for us. I was a shepherd. To my country, I had no merit. But to my God, I I found grace. Who was I to be to behold the Lamb of God? So I like how that how the shepherds were excited to come and to see Jesus. We do see this that is their response in the text that we've been looking at here in verse But what we do find here in the text is this, as we pick up in Luke chapter 2, verse 2 Verse fifteen it says, So it was when the angel had gone away from them into heaven, that the shepherds said to one another, Let us now go to Bethlehem and see this thing which has come to pass. which the Lord has made known to us. And they came with haste and found Mary and Joseph and the babe lying in a manger. When they had seen him they made widely known the saying which was told them concerning the And all those who heard it marveled at those things which were told them by the shepherds. So a sincere belief relays received peace. Sincere faith relays receive peace. They believed. They trusted exactly in what uh the angel had announced, and it caused them to act, it caused them to respond. in a way that they were they wanted to go and see w what had taken place. The angel had indicated to them that they should go and see. They actually said, This will be a sign to you, you'll find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes. lying in a manger. And so they were doing exactly what they should do for people that chose to believe in what was given and what was said. And actually, not only did they go and see, but they went and immediately there was an excitement and enthusiasm about their going One person suggested that this was the first Christmas rush. And they came with haste. And haste is not a person, haste is uh how they came, and they came with haste and found Mary and Joseph and the babe lying. Amen dur. They acted on what they knew, and then they began to broadcast this everywhere They marveled in amazement at those things in verse 18. And then they broadcasted. And then in verse 20 it says, and the shepherds returned. glorifying and praising God for all the things that they had heard and seen as it was told to them. They they worshipped their the the they worshiped Him. I have two questions, two I think very important questions. One is this: Are you at peace with God? Are you truly at peace with God? Have you received the Savior? We see the connection here between the Savior and peace. And you cannot be at peace with God without receiving the Savior Jesus Christ. And I just wonder even among us here this morning, if there is somebody here this morning that in your own heart There's not peace. There's loneliness. There's something missing. There's something that's not, there's this void. There's something there that you know needs to change. And what you actually need. is a relationship with God. This is why Christ came. He came, took on human flesh. bec lived among us so that we could have a relationship with him. He died to pay the punishment for our sin, so that we could receive him. John 112, but as many as receive Received him. To them gave you the right to become the children of God, even to those who believe on his name. And the Bible says that when this happens, we receive we are Romans 5 says this way, we are at peace with God when we receive Jesus as our Savior. Are you at peace with God this morning? If you aren't, Let me encourage you afterwards to come and talk with me. If you don't know where you stand, where your relationship with God is. You're not sure w what kind of relationship you have. Please come and talk with me after the service. I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you you have the Savior, receive the Savior, and have peace with God. Then for those of us who have received the Savior, I I love the enthusiasm of these shepherds. We read this every single year, over and over and over and over again. But there are very few places I know of in Scripture that the people are so enthusiastic and so ready to tell others. this passage here. Are we that way? Or has this become, this message of the gospel become so common to us? That we're we're not we're not enthusiastically inviting others to receive Christ. That's the second question. Are you enthusiastically inviting others to receive the Savior of peace. I don't know why it is that those of us who know the Lord is our Savior and for many years now. I don't know why it is that we sometimes lose our enthusiasm for this. We lose our our uh our uh zeal to tell others But I think part of it is because we we have lost we've forgotten what it's like to be without peace. We've forgotten what it's like to be to be lost without Christ, to be in sin and in bondage. And maybe today we can just think about what it would be like for a minute to be without the peace that we have known for so many years. And instead choose to be grateful for it, to marvel at all of what Christ has done in coming to earth, taking Taking on human flesh, living a perfect life, dying for us, to marvel at this, and then be enthusiastically ready to tell others. I pray that this will be a uh a a week and A great time of year for us to share Christ with others. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you and we thank you for the wonderful peace. That you have given through your Son Jesus Christ. Not a piece that is through some kind of control or Order, but a peace that passes all understanding that occurs inside the heart when we realize that we are at complete peace with you And have eternal life with you in heaven. And Lord, I do pray that if there is anybody here this morning who doesn't know you as their Savior, Who has not accepted that gift of eternal life, I pray this morning would be a day that they would understand their sin, their need of a Savior, that they would inquire about it and learn of Christ and be saved And Lord, those of us who have accepted that gift of eternal life, I pray that we would take the example of the shepherds well and be Enthusiastic and marvel at the wonders of what Christ has done, and that we would share Christ with others. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Let's all stand together and we'll sing our Lord. Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church for this letter. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet, or with a couple of clicks on our computer. When thou cameest to earth for me, but in that blood and home was there found no room For thy holinity of a family, we can help your all come to my heart, Lord Jesus There is room in my heart for the Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and heaven's arches rang when the angel sang. Proclaiming thy royal decree not with greatest concern for you. But of holy birth didst thou come. To the word and in great humanity and resource that will help all come to my heart, Lord Jesus. There is room for In my heart for have a relationship with God according to the world. And with people through over a face to the world, with walking scorn and with crown of swords, then a for the king. Or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.