Let's uh go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we are coming with grateful hearts this morning. Father, we have so many things biding for our time. life. And we're so grateful that we have these times that we can come together corporately and just worship you, Lord. And I pray that you will help us this morning Morning to set aside all of those cares and concerns for the week and help us to enjoy and come, Lord, joyfully to worship you and to sit under your teeth. teaching of your word. And I pray, Lord, that uh you would prepare our hearts. Help us, Lord, not to just listen and uh get it on the outside and not the inside. As it's going to be spoken of this morning and Jesus referring to the Pharisees. Father, I pray that you would help us not to be just hearers, but that we would be doers, and Lord, that it would come from our heart. hearts love for you. And that we would do it so that you are glorified and lifted up. We are your ambassadors and you work through us. And what a privilege and a joy that is. And I pray, Father, that you will help us. Help us this morning to gain new understanding from your word. And Lord, that we won't just set it aside and go on through the week, but we will ponder what we learn And Lord, that you would give us the ability and the wisdom to apply it to our lives this week, that others may see you in us. and come to know you. And Father, I want to lift up those also who are not here today, Father, who are having illnesses and uh different struggles in life. And I just pray for comfort for them and healing. And I pray, Lord, that uh your word will go out and be a blessing to them this morning. And we pray, Father, for their quick healing and strength. Bring them back to us. Father, we thank you again for your word this morning. May it be that we worship you in spirit and truth, and that we listen intently in Jesus' name. Amen. We are going to be reading from Matthew chapter 15, verses 1 through 20. Matthew chapter 15, verses 1 through 20 Then the scribes and the Pharisees, who were from Jerusalem, came to Jesus saying, Why do your disciples transgress the tradition of the elders? For they do not wash their hands when they eat bread. And Jesus, he answered and said to them, Why do you also transgress the commandment of God because of your tradition? For God commanded, saying, Honor your father and mother, and he who curses father or mother, let him be put to death But you say, whoever says to his father or mother, Whatever profit you might have received from me, is a gift to God. Then he need not honor his father and mother. Thus you have made the commandment of God of no effect by your traditions. Hypocrites Well did Isaiah's prophecy about you saying, These people draw near to me with their mouth, and they honor me with their lips. But their hearts are far from me, and in vain they worship me, teaching as doctrines the commandments of men. When he had called the multitude to himself, he said to them, Hear and understand. Not what goes into the mouth defiles a man. But what comes out of the mouth, this defiles a man. Then his disciples came and said to him, Do you know that the Pharisees were offended when you when they heard this saying? But he answered and said, Every plant which my heavenly father has not planted will be uprooted Let them alone. They are blind leaders of the blind. And if the blind leads the blind, both will fall into a ditch. Then Peter answered and said to him, Explain this parable to us. So Jesus said, Are you still without understanding Do you not yet understand that whatever enters the mouth goes into the stomach and is eliminated? But those things which proceed out of the mouth They come from the heart, and they defile a man. For out of the heart proceed evil thoughts, murderers, adulteries, fornications, theft, false witnesses, blasphemy These are the things which defile a man, but to eat with unwashed hands does not defile a man. What is true purity? Back in the 1990s, that entire decade for the most part, that was a question that was on the minds of evangelicalism in general. And during that time they came there was a strong push toward purity that has now become the evangelical purity movement of the 1990s. It started with a true love weights campaign. Some of you might remember that in 1993. I was a teenager during that during this this entire movement. And there were all kinds of things that happened. You you remember the purity rings uh that were on that that different people had Did you know I was looking this up, but did you know some of the people that were involved that had purity rings on? I'll read the list for you. Miley Cyrus, Demi Lovato, Selena Gomez, and the Jonas brothers all had purity rings. The central figure of this movement This purity movement was probably Josh Harris with his book I Kiss Dating Goodbye and where he promoted not kissing and not dating, though he used it in his title. And um And uh this was something that that was throughout the entire movement became um became a real emphasis not on the things that were internal, the heart, but all of these different things that needed to happen in order to protect the heart. The problem with this movement, and since then, both secularists and biblical people from a biblical perspective have looked at this movement and have seen that it actually caused more harm than good. Divorces uh are are at a at an increasingly higher rate now than they were before. Um and uh even among Christians. And this was not something that was helpful in the long run. It did uh it did uh statistically cause some things to occur um uh that were that on the surface were good, but ultimately it was not. And the problem the problem with this movement primarily was that it focused on the externals rather than focusing on the problem of the heart. In fact, it really intended to protect the purity of the heart and made the false assumption that the heart is pure Of course, the problem is what? The heart is not pure at all. And so to try to protect something that is impure in the first place is obviously not going to work. Frankly, if those that were leading this movement would have listened and heeded the words from Christ throughout the book of Matthew, this movement probably never would have happened. The teachings that we're going to learn today are going to teach us and show us exactly what true purity really is, what Christ says purity really is. This is something that is emphasized throughout the book of Matthew. In Matthew chapter 5, verse 8, the Sermon on the Mount says, Blessed are the pure in heart. in heart, for they shall see God. Later on in that same chapter in the Lord's uh the the Sermon on the Mount It says, For I say to you that unless your righteousness exceeds the righteousness of the scribes of the Pharisees, you will by no means enter the kingdom of heaven. That righteousness is the exceeding of that righteousness is talking about the need for internal righteousness. Now, in that day, what was going on, the context of what was happening here, was that there was a real need for physical cleanliness during the day. disease was rampant and there was a real value among Jewish people uh for for cleanliness, bodily clean cleanliness. And it was, you know, of course you were walking along the streets all the time. There are all there are different kinds of diseases that you could pick up. There was dirt that you would pick up just from walking from one place to another. In several places in the Old Testament you find one of the means of being hospitable was actually uh the you know you would you know people would take in other Israelite you know people would stop by and And uh you'd give them water for their feet to wash their feet, and you would want them to wash their, it would just be normal to wash their hands before before eating a meal. We do the same thing today for good practical reasons. But the Pharisees took all of this and they codified it to make it part of their ceremonial and moral uh law, their traditions, their their oral law. And in doing so, they became this this This external these external kinds of traditions didn't just become a matter of good hygiene or a matter of good of cleanliness, it became a matter of morality. They emphasize the traditions of men, which originally, you know, washing your hands is a good thing to do before you eat. And yet they made it something of moral value when there was really no moral value at all to that. What we're going to learn today, this morning, is what true purity looks like from this passage. What does true purity look like? We're going to see three things. First, we're going to see that true purity emphasizes Obedience to Scripture rather than man-made traditions. It emphasizes obedience to scripture rather than man-made traditions. It emphasizes true purity. is eternal, not external. True purity is eternal, not external. And then finally, true purity is determined by morality, or by morally lawful thinking. True purity is determined by morally lawful thinking. So we begin here by looking, first of all, that true purity emphasizes obedience to Scripture rather than man-made traditions. And we pick up in verse 1 here, and the scribes and the Pharisees have come to Jesus. in Jerusalem. And they're concerned about these disciples who aren't following their ceremonial washings, their traditions. And they say to Jesus, they come to Jesus and say, why do your disciples transgress? are tradition of the elders. The tradition of the elders. For they do not wash their hands when they eat bread. So they're concerned about what they are now they're using this term transgression. They're transgressing the tradition. of the elders. They're transgression transgressing the tradition of these religious leaders. In Mark's gospel, we get a little bit more background. Verse 7, chapter 7 rather, verses 1 through 4 say then the Philist the Pharisees And some of the scribes came together to to him, having come from Jerusalem. Now they saw some of his disciples eating bread with the uh with defil with defile, that is, with unwashed hands. This kind of idea of defilement. They found fault. For the Pharisees and all the Jews did not eat unless they washed their hands in a special way. holding the traditions of the elders. When they came uh when they come from the marketplace, they do not eat unless they wash. And there are many other things that they have reserved and hold, like the washing of cups, pitchers, copper vessels, and couches. So Mark gives further detail as to this ceremonial special washings in a certain way that you had to perform in order to eat meals and you had to wash your cups and pitchers and all those kinds of things in a certain way according to the rabbinical writings and according to the traditions of the Pharisees. And when the Pharisees come to Jesus, they use this term transgress. That word transgress is actually not used very frequently in the New Testament. In the Old Testament, its equivalent term is translated, for example, in Exodus chapter 32 as, they have turned aside quickly out of the way which I have commanded you to turn aside from a commandment. It's used again in Deuteronomy 9 And again in Deuteronomy chapter eleven, this idea of turning aside from God's law And when they said that the disciples had transgressed the tradition of the elders, clearly just by using that word transgress, they have elevated the law, the tran the transgression, the violating of that. of that uh tradition to the violation of the law of God itself. And we see that that is clearly something that Christ is going to deal with. This word, it's interesting that as you go on in the New Testament, this concept of traditions becomes a real problem for the church that they've got to deal with. For example, in Colossians 2, verse 8 it says, Beware lest any cheat anyone cheat you through philosophy and empty deceit according to the tradition of men, according to the basic principles of the world, and not according to Christ. In Galatians 1. 14, I advanced in Judaism beyond many of my contemporaries in my own nation, being more exceedingly zealous for the traditions of my fathers. This became something even in the book of Acts, chapter 15, they had to deal with the issue of circumcision and the various traditions involved with all of that. This is something they had to that became a stumbling block And a serious issue. And Jesus is going to answer all of this. He's going to answer this in verse 3 with a question. That's not uncommon for Jesus to do, by the way. He very frequently answers questions with questions. And he does so in this case, in verse 3, where he says Why do you transgress the commandment of God because of your tradition? Jesus takes this accusation against the disciples for actually they weren't actually doing anything morally wrong You know, unless you know kids, if your parents tell you to wash your hands and you don't do it, understand that's morally wrong, not because you didn't wash your hands, because you disobeyed your parents. But otherwise, it's not morally wrong to not wash your hands before a meal. And yet they made it a moral issue. And on the other hand, Jesus is pointing out, taking this opportunity to point out, that they actually have transgressed a commandment. And that commandment that they have transgressed was to was honoring their parents, honoring their father and their mother. And clearly we know from the Ten Commandments that that is a Clear commandment to honor their father your father and mother, Exodus chapter twenty, verse twelve. It says, Honor your father and mother, that your days may be long upon the land which the Lord your God is giving you. Again it's reiterated, and Exodus 21, 17. And actually in Deuteronomy 27, 16, it says, Cursed is the one who treats his father and his mother with contempt. And all the people shall say Amen. It was emphasized even in Proverbs the importance of listening to the advice and wisdom. of parents. And yet during that day there was this loophole, if you will, this workaround to not prov not really take care of parents. So honoring did not didn't was not just, honoring parents was not just you need to obey your parents as children. But honoring then became something that you need to do with your parents as a matter of providing for them when they are old. Now in our society, we have all kinds of different ways of doing that. Our Western world, usually, you know, there's Social Security, there's retirement, there's you know, different kinds of things that people use for that. But in in Eastern society, even today, and certainly back in this day, pretty much your retirement was your kids. That pretty much was what it was. In fact, that's one of the reasons why you invested so well in your kids' education and all of that, and they still do that today, because later on, that's what you're depending on in your old age. And that was not necessarily a wrong, it's not a right or wrong thing, but certainly, certainly in this day and certainly as a rule Part of honoring parents is making sure that they are taken care of in their old age when they are no longer able to work. And what we see here in this passage is that the Pharisees, they sanctioned a particular Lawful workaround. And I'll use uh I'll give you the passage and then we'll see how they did this. In Luke 27, verse, I'm sorry, Leviticus, not Luke. Leviticus 27, verse 9, it says If it is an animal that men may bring as an offering, all that anyone gives to the Lord shall be holy. And then later on in that passage, verse 16, if a man dedicates to the Lord part of a field of his possession, then your valuation should be according to the seed for it. An omer of varley sh uh seed shall be valued at fifty shekels of silver. So there was this way of dedicating a certain portion to the Lord. So that you you it was sort of in a ceremonial vow that you dedicated it so that it it couldn't there's certain things that It was dedicated for that. Certain things wouldn't be allowed to happen to it. And essentially, what the Pharisee says is if you will dedicate certain things to the Lord, Then you don't have to use that to honor your parents. It was a way to work around that commandment. And frankly, I suspect that the reason the Pharisees allowed for this was because of their own greed. In fact, what we find in the rabbinical writings was there was ways to annul this particular vow so that people could make the vow, dedicate a certain portion of land or property or money to the Lord And then later on, when the the need for it from a parent is no longer needed, they can then annul it and it becomes theirs again. And all of that is just lawful. All of that's just perfectly fine to do And Jesus indicts them by saying, you have violated, you have transgressed the law of God by making up traditions that cause this workaround, that that violate it. He says to them, actually you are, verse 7, hypocrites. Now, that's strong words from Jesus toward these Pharisees, isn't it? The word hypocrite means actor. It can be used positively, but can also be used very negatively An actor or a deceiver, that's used of in in the Old Testament equivalent, is uh the s uh is you the Hebrew equivalent is used as a false philosopher. One who has a mask on, one who has a fine costume and it is ripped off and you could see what truly is there. This is the idea of someone who is a hypocrite. And they are s uh Jesus is saying in no uncertain terms, you hypocrite. You think you're doing you're you say and act and as though you're doing everything right, you're you're following all of these external command all these external traditions, you're doing everything right on the outside But your heart, there is something seriously wrong with your heart. So we pick up in verse 8, it says, These people draw near to me with their mouth. And honor me with their lips, but their heart is far from me. Earlier, or at another place rather, in Luke chapter 11 They actually came, the Pharisees came to Jesus particularly and accused him of the same things in this passage that they accused the disciples of. And in that passage, Luke 11, 37, it says, And as he spoke, a certain Pharisee asked him to dine with him. So he went and sat down to eat. When the Pharisee saw it, he uh marveled that he had not first washed before dinner And the Lord said to him, Now you Pharisee, make the outside of your cup a dish clean, but you inward but your inward part is full of greed and wickedness. Foolish ones, did not he who made the outside make the inside also? But rather give alms of such things as you have indeed, then indeed all things are clean to you. And Jesus also quotes in Matthew here from Isaiah 29 verse 13 that says this, therefore the Lord said, insomuch as thus People draw near with their mouths and honor me with their lips, but have removed their hearts far from me, and their fear toward me is taught by the commandment of men And he says to these Pharisees, You honor me with your lips, you honor me with your actions, with your external behavior, but your heart is far from me. You are a hypocrite. And then he says this, indicting them, he further says, and you worship in vain. Now the entire Jewish mindset was centered around worship. You think about the Old Testament, you think about Israel, and you think about the twelve tribes of Israel centered around uh the tabernacle and then later on the temple and all of the different sacrificial uh s uh uh ceremonies and the system that was in place was all centered on worship. And the Pharisees and the religious leaders of the day, they were in charge of this worship, corporate worship. Certainly the priests of the day particularly, but certainly they were all involved in this. And Jesus says to them, Your worship is empty. Your worship is vain. It's empty. If our hearts are filthy and our external, our actions, our behavior, our lips are clean Our worship is empty. Does that ever happen to us? Is that a possibility for the Christian? That you or I as a Christian could get to the place where our worship is vain, our worship is empty. We're just going through the motions. There's no heart. There's a lack of sincerity. There's a lack of fervency. where we are just worshiping with empty tradition because it makes us feel better, it makes us look better, it makes us feel like we've fulfilled our obligations. And clearly an application for us here is that there is there's clearly the o the the possibility that we are worshiping. in vain. John Piper says it this way if God if God's reality is displayed to us in his word or his world, and we do not then feel in our heart any grief or longing or hope or fear or awe or joy or gratitude or confidence, then we may dutifully sing and pray and recite and gesture as much as we like But it will not be real worship. We cannot honor God if our heart is far from Him. And so that is a possibility for us. We go through the motions, we fulfill our obligations, but ultimately our worship is in vain. This is a tragedy. Can you imagine going through most of your adult experience and coming to the end of your life? And standing before the Lord and realizing that most of your worship has been in vain. It's been empty. Oh, you've looked like a good Christian. You've been a good person. You've done good things. You've gone to church faithfully. You've raised your kids well. Uh you don't, you know, you don't smoke and don't chew and don't run with those that do. You don't do those all those kinds of things. And yet your worship is vain. Are we focused on pleasing self and looking good in front of others and not concerned with pleasing God? Loving God, loving others. It's amazing how many of the Lord's teachings actually go back to those two basic principles, even though it's not explicitly in the text. In 1 Corinthians 13, verse 1, it says, Though I speak with the tongues of men And of angels that have not love, I have become a sounding brass and a clanging cymbal. And though I have the gift of prophecy, and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and though I have all faith, so that I would re could remove mountains, but have not love, I am nothing And though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and give my body to be burned But have not love, it profits me nothing. Isn't it amazing the extent to which we can serve and give up ourselves even to the point of self-sacrifice, even to the point of burning our bodies, of feeding the poor, of doing all of that, but it's possible to do all of that and not do it in love, and it ends up profit profiting uh profiting us nothing. Where our worship is fain. What was the root problem here? Well, it started actually with this. It started with elevating external traditions and reducing Obedience to the Word of God. Hebrews 4, verse 16 And that's a good verse, but that's not the one I was talking about. It's actually another verse where it talks about it's The Word of God is quick and sharper than any two-edged sword, even to the piercing of the dividing asunder of soul and spirit, and of both joints and marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart. That's the Word of God, the sword of the Spirit. When we elevate all of our Man-made traditions, all of our things that make us look good, all of our service that makes us feel like we're doing what we'll what a good Christian does. When we do all of that And we neglect the internal working of the Word of God with the Spirit of God, we are running the risk of worshiping in vain And it's very easy to do it. It can become an entire culture Frankly, much uh uh not much uh at least some some of the sort of fighting fundamentalist culture of the last several decades have placed too much of an emphasis on externals and not enough of an emphasis on the heart. Get caught up with things like whether women are wearing pants or skirts. My wife is wearing pants today. It was like 23 degrees outside. I wouldn't want to wear a skirt For a lot of reasons. On pa St. Patrick's Day I actually saw a a a male in a skirt, so a kilt obviously, but I I can't get used to that. But anyway And yet we focus on that kind of stuff. And if somebody is dressed a certain way, they've got everything together, they look like this, then we think, man, that must be a good Christian. That makes me feel good about them and and then I look that way and act that way and that makes me feel good about me and everybody's feeling good about everybody but our hearts are are just wicked inside Full of pride and self righteousness and all of that kind of thing. So then we move and and and Jesus changes focuses now. Now he's turned his attention from these Pharisees, and now he's going to he's going to broadcast this. Now, you know when you have a private conversation, and I don't know how private this was, I don't know if it was just them and there were people around, I don't know if it was something where there were people there and he just turned and sort of now okay. to the broader audience know how this works. But basically when you're having a a quasi-private conversation with people, and then you just decide to tell everybody about it, can you kind of imagine the Pharisees? Now he's going to broadcast it and he's going to pretty much identify them as a problem in front of everyone. Notice what he says in the passage, Matthew 15, 10 through 14. Look at verse 10, it says When he had called the multitude to himself, he said to them, Hear and understand. So apparently they were within earshot. He could call them and they could come. Not what goes into the mouth defiles a man, but what comes out of the mouth. This defiles a man. Now what was Jesus saying when he said this very simple statement? This is not complex. This was not a long parable. This was not something that would but he said he pointed, he says What defiles a man is not what goes in but comes out. And he is saying very clearly, true purity is internal, not external. And what he's saying here is that it's not food, when you take in food or drink or medication Or I'll meddle a little bit, or vaccines. When you take in those things, that has no moral bearing whatsoever, one way or the other. What has moral bearing, according to Scripture, is what comes out. From the heart through the lips. It's our words that that find their root in our heart. And he says, Jesus says, that's what really is defiling So what does this word def what does this concept of defiling mean? What does it mean to be defiled? Well it could you could it could it means common or unclean. Back in when this ver word was first u year uh used, you know, in in ancient times, it was probably used originally just just to mean um to get dirty. You know, to to soil something. Not too long ago we just got we got carpet in our house. And when we get something new For the first year we're really, really careful. And then we don't care about it anymore. But anyway, uh so we're still in the first year. No, I don't really say I don't really mean that we still care. But um for the first year my my Elizabeth literally put I don't know if she's I didn't ask her permission for this, but I usually don't. So um uh sh on the threshold As you go into our house, as of like Friday, there's this sign on the threshold that says, Welcome, take your shoes off. Not exactly, it's something like that. And I was reading this and I was thinking to myself, maybe it should say welcome. Don't defile our carpet with your shoes. Anyway. It's the same thing, basically. I mean originally that's essentially what it meant. It basically was uh this idea of soiling soiling something, getting something dirty You go into a house, you have shoes on, you have carpet, it it uh Stefan can tell you, man, when you clean that carpet after a while after it's been soiled for a long time, it is amazing what comes out of that thing, right? So so but this word then moved to mean something else. It m w m it it then the the Old Testament used it to mean ceremonially unclean. One of the clear examples is, for example, um in Leviticus thirteen verse three, it talk about leprosy there and the idea of of when someone gets leprosy then they're s they're ceremonially unclean. And then and then in Leviticus 16 you have this concept of common verses devoted. We won't take the time to look at that passage, but if you want to look it up later, Leviticus 16, 23 through 25, there's this The idea that some things, some clothing, uh when the when Aaron the priest went into the tabernacle, he first had to be cleansed. He had to put certain clothing on that were devoted to it. There's this concept of being completely devoted. versus things that were just commonly used. And anything that had to do with a tabernacle was something that was completely devoted to the tabernacle and was not used for common things. And then it moved into the rabbinical writings where all kinds of things were designated as common versus um versus uncommon, common versus special. The Mishnah in the Sixth Order talked about all kinds of different things, different vessels, different Uh Potts uh of course Leviticus talks about certain certain kinds of cleanliness, but it was spelled out more in these different rabbinical writings till the longer the longer time went on everything became more and more spelled out. We don't see this too often, evidence of this in the New Testament, but we see, for example, in John eighteen it says then they led Jesus from Caiaphas to the praetorium and it was uh early morning but they themselves did not go into the praetorium lest they should be defiled but that they might uh eat the Passover. So apparently they couldn't go into certain places uh if they wanted to then be able to uh certain gentile places if they wanted to be able to come in. uh and um and eat of the Passover among other Jewish people. All kinds of things like that happen. The main idea here really has that Jesus is picking up on here primarily has to do with this idea of common versus devoted. And what he is saying here He is implying, and he's going to be more defined later on, but he is implying that our hearts need to be completely devoted to God. And that the evil in our hearts keeps us from being devoted to God. That is essentially what he's talking about here. The evil that's expressed through words that it starts in our hearts That keeps us from total devotion to the Lord. It's not all of these external things that make us devoted or undevoted. It's the heart. Now, um uh the disciples hear this and they know that this is this is uh you know hitting the Pharisees square. Between the eyes. And so they're concerned. And they come to Jesus, verse 12, and they say to Jesus, Do you know that the Pharisees were offended when they heard this saying? You know they're offended when they heard this. And what's Jesus' reply? He says, God's plan to uproot plants. Um God's plan to uproot plants, verse uh every plant which my heavenly father has not planted will be uprooted. He said, leave them alone. And he says, the blind leaders will lead the blind into a ditch, essentially. Those are the three things he says. He basically tells them, he's warning these disciples about these Pharisees. The disciples at this point have a at least respect the Pharisees, which is hard to understand because if you go back a couple of chapters. He indicts the Pharisees so severely, and yet they still seem to respect the Pharisees. And he just warns them that they are blind. And he says this, he says, they are not involved in the plant of the kingdom of God. God is planting a kingdom, and they're not involved in this. In Isaiah 60, verse 21, it says, Also, your people shall be righteous, they shall inherit the land forever, the branch of my planting, the work of my hand, that I may be glorified. He's pointing out that the kingdom of God is being planted and they're not going to be part of it. Why? Because their emphasis, and they are just steeped in this, their emphasis is on externals rather than internals Now we see this kind of thing in Ezekiel 18, for example, verse 31, where it says, Cast away from you all the transgressions which you committed. Get yourselves a new heart and a new spirit. For why should you die a house, O house of Israel? And in Jared 31, which which talks about the new covenant It says, but this is Jeremiah 31. It says, but this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, says the Lord. I will put my law in their mind and write it on their hearts, and I will be their God. And they shall be my people. The kingdom of God, the kingdom that God is that Christ is building, that Christ came to build, is a kingdom that is concerned with the heart. and with purity in the heart. Now this becomes something that, again, is discussed over and over in the New Testament. One of the clearest places is in Romans 14 verse 17 where Paul is discussing the issue of meat offered with idols, and he says this. For the kingdom of God is not eating and drinking, but righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. For he who serves Christ in these things is acceptable to God and approved by men. Then he says, he talks about this whole idea of the blind leading the blind, as the blind leader. And this is actually used also In Romans chapter 2, in verses 17 through 25, and there it's talking, Paul elaborates on this whole concept. No doubt from the original teachings of Jesus. And in that passage it says, picking up in verse 17, indeed you are called a Jew, and Rest on the law and make your boast in God and know his will and approve the things that are excellent, being instructed out of the law, and are confident that you yourselves are a guide to the blind A light to those who are darkness, an instructor of the foolish, a teacher of babes, having the form of knowledge and truth in the law. You therefore who teach another, do you not teach yourself? You who preach of the man should not steal. Do you steal? You who say do not commit adultery? Do you commit adultery? You who abhor idols? Do you not do you rob temples, you who are uh you who make your boast in the law, do you dishonor God through breaking the law? For the name of God is blaspheme among the Gentiles because of you as it is written For circumcision is indeed profitable if you keep the law, but if you are a breaker of the law, your circumcision has become uncircumcision. He he points out to them, he said, You say you're a guide to the you're a guide to the blind But you don't keep the law yourself. And very likely, even in Romans, when Paul is saying this to these religious leaders, he is saying it probably that they are violating all of this in their hearts. The emphasis is clearly on the heart. Now, when we're looking at all of this, what can we, I mean I think the apply the application is obvious. The Bible tells us that the heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. We are not born with a pure heart. We are born with a desperately wicked heart. When God saves us, when we become a child of God, He gives us a new heart. But the old heart is still there. The flesh is still there. And it can defile us. It can make us unusable. It can keep us from being completely devoted to God. Heart sins, these heart sins defile the host and they defile others. They they They uh keep others from being completely devoted to the Lord. In Hebrews chapter 12, verse 12, it says this. Therefore strengthen the hands which hang down in the feeble knees and make straight paths for your feet, so that what a lame uh What is lame may not be dislocated, but rather be healed. Pursue peace with all people, holiness without which there one will seek the Lord Looking carefully lest any one fall short of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness spring up cause trouble, and by this many become defiled. Jesus, in no uncertain terms, is telling us that what causes us to be not devoted to the Lord, what causes us to waver And to serve self and to be occupied with pleasing people and to be concerned with our own image and our own name, just as the Pharisees are, if the problem is in our hearts Now what's interesting is that the disciples didn't get it. And in verse 15 of this passage, Peter asks a question. He says, Explain this parable to us. Now, when I read that statement, something came to me very quickly. My first inclination was something. I'm wondering if it's your What strikes you as different about that? What strikes you as odd about that? Explain this parable to us. I read that and I said, he didn't give a parable. I mean if you if you look at it, I mean you could you could maybe argue there was some illustration in there, but based upon what we've seen a parable is. I mean, look at the parable of the soils. Clearly, the soils, the seed and the soils, that needed to be explained. Nobody was going to fully understand that from that. Or the wheat and the tares, this long parable with this clear illustration, with no and not having clear associations with this. But this Is something quite different. And Peter is still going, Can you explain this to me? Isn't it interesting that Jesus before, he on these other occasions explains them? But in this case, he says to them Do you yet understand what this? Do you not get this yet? Is this not obvious? Whatever enters the mouth goes into the stomach and is eliminated. Now he understands. Oh, we're talking about food here And so that's what he's talking about. Verse 18, but those things which proceed out of the mouth from the heart. And they defile a man. And now he's going to get very, very specific with what defiles a person, what causes them to uh uh to not be able to be devoted to the Lord. Verse 19 For out of the heart proceeds evil thoughts. Okay, now we're talking about evil thoughts, but notice what it says here. Murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts. False witnesses, false witness, blasphemies, these are things which defile a man, but to eat with unwashed hands does not defile a man. Purity is determined by morally lawful thinking. See what Jesus does here then is he spells it out. So he explains to them that the problem is evil thinking in your heart. And note what things he points out. He says evil thoughts, and then he says murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witness, blasphemies. What does that remind you of? All those different things. It should remind you of the Ten Commandments. Right? With the exception of that word fornications, which is sort of embed adulterous fornications are kind of in the same vein. And even this evil thoughts could be a reference to the covetousness. He is citing, he is, Jesus is saying That the violations of the law, which actually he's already said in the Sermon on the Mount, but the violations of the law, they start in the heart. It's the very thing that the Pharisees should have been focused on. The violations of the law that start in their heart, not whether or not somebody's washed their hands. And now he says to them, You need to you need to understand where this comes from. And I think immediately, I get I'm thinking that immediately the disciples would have immediately made the connection back to the the Ten Commandments and back to the moral law of God. And there's six, maybe seven of these different uh uh seven uh commands that are referenced here in this passage and associated particularly with the internal heart. And then he says finally, in conclusion, verse 20, these are all things which defile a man, but to eat with unwashed hands does not defile man. Mark says it another way in his gospel, he says, what you eat and drink, that is not something that causes a problem. Now that's not to say, of course, in 1 Corinthians we actually said, whatever you eat or drink, do all to the glory of God. It's not that we don't, not that we forget, we totally disassociate our actions From glorifying God. Yes, all of us supposed to glorify God. Our thoughts, our words, and our actions. But ultimately, the problem, if we have a problem, the problem starts In the heart. The sin begins there. And it's very easy, folks, to clean up our lives in such a way that we evaluate ourselves And as we evaluate ourselves, we're like, you know, I'm doing pretty well. I got things together. I'm sure doing a lot better than the other person over there. Right? And God does not want us to evaluate ourselves based upon that. He wants us to take time to look at our hearts. I was thinking, trying to think of a good illustration, and I I came to a biblical illustration that I think would be helpful for us just in wrapping all of this up to look at. Will you take your Bibles and turn to 2 Chronicles chapter 14 from moment. This was this was quite uh helpful for me and there's no linguistic connection from here from this passage over to 2 Chronicles, but as my mind just kind of ran through the Old Testament and and thought about different things, this passage came to mind. And it talks about a man named Asa. And you may know the man Asa here, but just to be reminded of some of the things that happened there in the passage, we won't go through the entire passage, but I just want to note a couple of things. In 2 Chronicles chapter 14, verse 2, it says this, Asa, this king, he did what was good and right in the eyes of the Lord his God. And God greatly blessed him for this. He commanded Judah to seek the Lord God. He tore down the high places. Uh he g did away with any kind of uh idolatry. This was a godly man We pick pick up in in uh in 2 Chronicles 15, one and two, chapter 15. Um now the Spirit of God came upon Azariah the S And he went out to meet Asa and said, Hear me, Asa, all Judah and Benjamin, the Lord is with you while you are with him. If you seek him, he will be found by you. But you forsake him, he will forsake you. Well, what happened? If you know the story of Asa, unfortunately, Asa's life and kingly rule does not end well. We pick up in 2 Chronicles chapter 16 and in verses 2 through 3, now we're going to see something that Asa compromises. Prior to this time, everything that we see is that Asa is depending upon God. He is devoted to the Lord. He is seeking after the Lord. He is relying upon God. But notice what happens in verse 2. Of course, you know probably that there was a command given by God not to make associate to Israel, not to make associations with other nations. In verse 2, this is exactly what I what Asa does. Then Asa brought silver and gold from the treasuries of the house of the Lord and of the king's house and sent To Ben-Hadad, king of Syria, who dwelt in Damascus, saying, Let there be a treaty between you and me, and there was between my father and your father See, I have sent you silver and gold. Come break your treaty with Beshe, king of Israel, so that we he will withdraw from me. He makes this treaty. He violates the commandment of God. And then what do we find here in verse 7? So this pro seer, this prophet, Hanni comes to Asa and he says, this, what's the problem? Look at what it says. Because you have relied, that's the problem. You have relied on the king of Syria and have not relied on the Lord your God. Do you know how you know when your heart You you know how to tell when your heart is having um w when it's when it's far from God Just like Jesus said, your heart is far from God. You know when it's heart far from God? When you're no longer relying on Him. When you're relying on your own intellect, you're relying on your own abilities, you're relying on your own experience, that is a real problem, by the way. The older I get, which I'm not that old, I know you guys the older ones tell me all the time, um that I feel old sometimes, but I even at middle age I sort of get uh I sort of can easily sort of rest on what I've experienced and saying, well that worked before and maybe that'll work, you know, I'll just rely on the experience. There's all kinds of things that we are tempted to rely on and to shift our reliance from those things, from God to those things. What we have in this passage is that is Asa shifted his reliance from God to the king of Syria. And verse 8 says, Were the Ethiopians and Lubam not a a huge army with very many chariots and horsemen, reminding him of the victory you already had? Yet because you relied on the Lord, he delivered them into your hand And then he says this, for the eyes of the Lord run to and fro throughout the whole earth to what? To show himself strong on the behalf of those whose heart is loyal to him. Or it could be translated devoted, whose heart is completely devoted to him. Brothers and sisters in Christ, is your heart completely devoted and relying on God? That's the question. And how we answer that question will help us know whether we are close to Christ or not. Don't make the mistake of thinking that if every external thing is right in my life, then I must be close to God. That if I do everything a certain way and I have everything in a certain order or I have all of the things set out the right way, don't think that that is the right method of evaluation for being close to God. No. Total devotion and complete reliance on God. The more reliant and dependent you and I are on the Lord, the closer we are to Him. We ought not allow those evil thoughts, covetousness, wanting what I want In all those various areas within the Ten Commandments, the moral law of God that can cause us to move away from reliance on God and to move away from being completely devoted to Him and being in fellowship with Him Three questions. Number one, are we focused on following man-made traditions or heartfelt obedience to the Bible? What are you and I focused on this morning? Are we focused on man-made traditions? Things that will make us look acceptable to everyone? Or heartfelt obedience to the Bible? Do we even know the difference Sometimes there's a possibility that if we're not in the Word and knowing the Word and studying the Word, that we don't even know the difference between what the Bible actually says And what our Christian culture is sort of picking up from the Bible and then causing applications to be made. Number two, are we focused on things that truly defile the heart or only things that defile the body? Number three. Are you concerned about evil thoughts that pollute the heart? Are we concerned about those have we given you know I don't know how how we have any kind of concern about these kinds of things if sometimes we're just not quiet before the Lord Sometimes I think what happens in our hearts is that we are so busy running from one thing to the next we have no time to really give attention to what is happening to our hearts. In the Old Testament, there's a passage in, I believe it's in Zechariah that says, give heed to your heart. It is necessary for us to do that. And it may be that you have seen the gospel and Christianity As something that is primarily about us conforming to a certain ideal that makes us right with God. Through some kind of good work, some kind of good effort, some being a good person. And if I can If that happens, I can then be right with God and have a relationship with him. Or at least if my good outweighs my bad, then I can have a relationship with him. At least if I can do that It doesn't work that way. The Bible tells us that our hearts are deceitful and desperately wicked. That the Bible tells us that our hearts are completely sinful. And what we need to do is realize that we need a new heart. And did you know that if you will trust Christ as your Savior, that means that you realize that your heart, the very core of you, is sinful. And you may not be as sinful as you can be, but you are sinful and it affects every part of your being. And that sinfulness against God, that heart that you have is not something that can be changed. No, you need to repent of your sins. And realize that only God can give you a new heart. And when you accept Christ as your Savior, when you understand your sin, You're in need of a Savior, that Jesus Christ died to take your punishment, to take your sin away, so that he could give you a new heart. And when you begin to understand that, you can be saved, you can have a new heart, a new outlook on life. You'll still have that desire to sin until we see Christ, but you can have that new heart. If you're saying to yourself, I don't really know if I have within me a real, true desire to please God. I don't know if it's really ever been there. Yeah, I want to be a good person. I wanted to have feel good about myself, but I don't know if I've ever really had a true desire to please the Lord. If you've never had that, then you don't know the Lord. And the first step is for you to come to Christ. Because what Christ does is he gives you a new heart and a desire to please him. And if you're not sure about this, let me encourage you to come to me and talk with me after the service, or talk with somebody else that you're comfortable with. We'll take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure. That you can spend eternity with the Lord. You can talk to any of these guys that were up here this morning will be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can have a new heart from God. So that you can have a relationship with him. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word this morning and We thank you that it does pierce even the dividing asunder of soul and spirit and is it and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart And I pray, Lord, that your word, which was preached this morning and that we read and saw right in front of us this morning. would continue to do a work in our hearts even after we leave today that would help us to know what's really important. How we can really be close to you Help us to evaluate our relationship with you, not based upon some man-made evaluation. But may we do it based upon what is in our hearts. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.