Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we praise you for who you are. We praise you for all that you have done, all that you are doing, and all that you will do. You are gracious you are a mighty powerful merciful God a loving God and Father we come before you this morning with grateful and thankful heart And Father, as we come to this time that we prepare to get under your teaching, I pray that you'll prepare each heart. Help us, Lord, to focus this morning upon you. and your word. And Father, as we are sitting under your word, I pray that your spirit will do a mighty work in us and change us from inside. And Lord, that we would desire this week to meditate upon what we've learned and put that into practice for your glory and for your praise. And we ask in Jesus' name Amen. We are going to be in uh Matthew chapter 23. Uh a lot of woes there. Anyway, we are going to be in twenty three, thirteen through thirty-nine. But woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites. Hypocrites. For you shut the kingdom up of heaven against men. For you neither go in yourselves, nor do you allow those who are entering to go in. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, you hypocrites. For you devour widows' houses and for a pretense make long prayers. Therefore you will receive greater condemnation. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees and hypocrites. For you travel land and sea to win one proselyte, and when he is one, you make him twice as much a son of hell. as yourselves. Woe to you, blind guides, who say, Whoever swears by the temple, it is nothing. But whoever swears by the gold of the temple, he is obliged to perform it. Fools and blind. For which is greater? The gold of the temple or the temple that sacrifices, that sanctifies the gold. And whoever swears by the altar, it is nothing, but whoever swears by the gift that is on it, he is obligated. to perform, fools and blind. For which is greater? The gift, or the altar that sanctifies the gift? Therefore, he who swears by the altar Swears by it, and by all things on it. He who swears by the temple swears by it and by him who dwells in it, and he who swears by heaven. Swears by the throne of God and by him who sits on it. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites. For you tithe of mint and anise and common, and have neglected the weightier matters of the law, justice and mercy and faith. These you ought to have done, without leaving the others undone. Blind guides who strain out a gnat and swallow a camel. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees These hypocrites. For you cleanse the outside of the cup and the dish, but inside you're a fool of extortion and self-indulgence. Blind Pharisee. First cleanse the inside of the cup and the dish, that the outside of them may be seen clean also. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees Hypocrites, for you are like whitewashed tombs, which needed appear beautiful outside, but inside are full of dead Even so, also outwardly appear righteous to men, but inside you are full of hypocrisy And lawlessness. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, because you build the tombs of the prophets and adorn the monuments of the righteous. And say, if we had lived in the days of our fathers, we would not have been partakers with them in the blood of the prophets. Therefore, you are witnesses against yourselves, that you are sons of those who murdered the prophets. Fill up then the measure of your father's guilt Serpents, brood of vipers, how can you escape the condemnation of hell? Therefore, indeed, I send you prophets, wise men, and scribes, some of them you will kill and crucify. And some of them you will scout in your synagogues and persecute from city to city, that on you may come all the righteous blood shed on the earth From the blood of righteous Abel to the blood of Zechariah to the son of Birchiah, whom you murdered between the temple How often I wanted to gather your children together, as a hen gathers chicks under her wings. But you were not willing. See your house is left to you desolate. For I say to you, you shall see me no more, till you say, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. The passage that we're be we're looking at today is a passage that really is dealing with these false leaders, these Pharisees. And we have seen in in um in the book throughout the book of Matthew, we're we're nearing the end of Look the book of Matthew now and uh this is going to be Christ's final uh uh address to or about these Pharisees We've seen him deal with them on many occasions so far, and what we're actually going to see, much of the material that we're going to see, we've seen before, but it's all summarized for us in the in this uh in this passage this morning. There is a problem in that has really throughout the history of of the the official. hi of of the Bible as well as uh the last couple of thousand years, as well as modern history, a problem with leadership. In fact, if you think of the Old Testament and you think of the the where the common threads of truth in the Old Testament, sir certainly the story of redemption is one. But one of the things you see throughout the Old Testament as a whole is a failure in leadership. You go just just run your mind over the different characters of the Old Testament. We sometimes exalt them as uh larger than life kinds of people, but in many cases, even in a man after God's own heart, the failures that David had and and many others throughout the Old Testament, you see Failure in leadership as a common thing theme in the Old Testament. And when you get to the epit- when you get to the Gospels here, you clearly see failure in leadership from these Pharisees. And Jesus is going to deal with them. Frankly, even today, we have that there is often failures in leadership. There is heavy-handed leadership. Or there is, some people even call it spiritual abuse. The difficulty that we find ourselves in today is that some of that is really, really real. On the other hand, we live in a world where, in our postmodern world, where People think that the only true authority, the only right and wrong is from themselves, that the way you the way you find what's right is when you look inside yourself and that's what's truth. So the only only True authority is self. And so you have, on the one hand, abuse of authority, and on the other hand, you have people that are unwilling entirely to be any uh under any kind of authority at all. But certainly doesn't help a a church or individuals when leaders of that church are are not following biblical principles. Or falling into the same kinds of problems that these Pharisees fell into or deliberately went into. It is a serious problem. But I'd like to actually expand this in application beyond just Israel's leaders or church leaders. But there's a real sense in almost everyone in this room has some responsibility in leadership. If you are a father, you are a leader. If you're a mother, you're a leader. If you are an older sibling, you are a leader on some level. If we uh there there is But so when you start realizing and I think that there are really principles in here for any kind of leadership that I think will be very, very helpful for us. Christ is speaking here. He is pronouncing judgment on these Pharisees and scribes that would all that will ultimately put him to death And before they do, he knows they're going to, he is going to be pr he is pronouncing these woe judgments, and there are seven of them. But I was thinking about this and thinking, why would Matthew go through his, as Matthew as as the human author is writing writing this book, why would he go through the book of Matthew and and writing all these things and addressing all these and then essentially summarize them. Christ no doubt Christ summarized them too. in these judgment. But Matthew in a very uh uh fairly concise actually and really pretty exhaustive way, um he he goes through these And I think that there is real value here in in seeing all of these indictments on this leadership together. For a couple of reasons. One is in hometics and uh and uh expository preaching classes and things like that, there was this common common um teaching that you needed to preach positive messages, that overall it should be your messages should be positive, not negative. The truth of the matter is when you read this passage, it's negative. I mean there there really is no way around it. These are judgments. These are woe judgments. They are they are very they're quite negative. And so as we go through these, we are going to see them in the light of what Scripture says. But there is great value for us as we go through this. I can imagine as Jesus says these, Jesus has been ministering to his uh not only his disciples, but really all kinds of multitudes of people. teaching them and performing miracles and healing them and feeding them doing all kinds of things with them. And on the side you've got these Pharisees the whole time, they're claiming to be shepherds of the people, claiming to be leaders of the people, and yet the good shepherd is saying, I am the good shepherd, the good shepherd gives his life for the sheep. And you're going to see this significant contrast between the good shepherd that gives his life for the sheep And these folks who are really leading with selfish motives, with a selfishness and a pride, with a self-seeking Desire to promote self, to live for self, to exalt self, to glorify self. We're going to see a real contrast really between Christ and these folks, these false leaders in this passage. And I want to say also as well as we go through this, I'd really encourage you, uh you know, uh many of you do take notes, and that's great. We're going to go through seven different, as Harry said, there's a lot of woes here. Okay. And I I will some I'll just tell you personally that sometimes I do take notes when I'm listening to a sermon. sermons and sometimes I don't, but I will tell you if you have any t I mean I would strongly encourage you to take notes on this sermon. Uh you you know when you have three or four points you can kind of just follow the flow of thought. You're gonna have a little bit of a hard time remembering all these points. And so uh I would encourage you to take notes on this particular sermon. I think it would be helpful for you. And so actually in the back of your bulletin you should be able to do that. So I would encourage you to do that on this particular I want us to note also this that Jesus has already said in Matthew twenty three that these folks, verse four, that listen again to the description. Listen to the description of these false leaders. They bind heavy burdens hard to bear and lay them on men's shoulders. But they themselves will not move them with one of their fingers. Are you that kind of leader? Am I that kind of leader? Do we lay heavy burdens on the shoulders of the people to whom we're going to be able to do that? That is a question that I think is important for us to ask because it tells us something the real issue if we are that kind of if we are that kind of leader. The real issue is ultimately a heart issue, which we will see very clearly from this passage of Scripture. In other words, what happens to the heart of someone that makes a leader go the wrong direction. What happens to his heart? If a leader goes the wrong direction, whether it's a father, a mother, a pastor If a leader goes the wrong direction, it is because something in the heart of the person has caused him to go that way or her that way. What happens? We're really going to see that here. We're going to see the judge of the universe, Jesus Christ identify with their with the with the kind of specificity that only he can do the motives of these folks. We can't judge like Jesus judges. We're not supposed to judge motives. Jesus does, we see it very clearly here. And so we're going to see see him dive in here and really open up the heart of these fell these Pharisees, and we are able to get a glimpse inside of what's going on. on here in the hearts of these men. And I think it's going to be it can be very, very helpful. In this passage as well, I've got a lot of background here, but because but what once we start we're going to going be going a fairly quick clip. In this passage as well, you have what is called a it's a literary device called a chiasm. There are seven woes here, and we're actually only going to get through verse 33 today. There are seven woes here and it and it forms what is called a chiasm. You can look up that later, but basically all it means all it all what it's saying is that there is a central in the middle, there's parallel ideas here, and in the middle of them you have a you have a central a central theme and that is the the fourth woe which has to do with a treatment of the Word of God. So at its core, the problem with these Pharisees The ultimate problem was that they did not treat the Word of God in the appropriate way Whether it came to their interpretation of the Word of God, their teaching of the Word of God, certainly their living out the Word of God, their treatment of the Word of God was wrong. So how how did the treatment of the Word of God work in the heart of these Pharisees in a way that caused them to That is what we're going to be looking at this morning. And we're going to see seven things here. And we're actually not even going to mention all seven of them in the beginning like I do sometimes in the sermon because I don't think you're going to be able to remember them all. We'll go through them one at a time and uh and you'll see these. Well I I shouldn't I shouldn't you know some Some of you might be able to remember them. Some of you guys have great way better memories than I do, but uh I m some of you may have trouble. I know I would. So let's start, let's begin then and see w uh how they fail to track How do these folks, these these Pharisees, fa fail to treat Scripture properly? Number one, by preventing kingdom entrance. They are preventing kingdom kingdom Them entrance. Verse 13, but woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites. He's going to say that. He says blind guides at one point, but for the most part, he's going to say, Woe, Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites. For you shut up the kingdom of heaven against men. For you neither go in yourselves, nor do you allow those who are entering to go in. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites hypocrites for you devour widows' houses, for pretense make long prayers, therefore you will receive the greater judgment. Jesus, as he begins these judgments, says about these Pharisees that they are preventing people from entering the And this is a a great concern to Jesus because what did Jesus do when he came? He came to present the kingdom of heaven kingdom of heaven and to invite people to come as kingdom citizens. And these very people are blocking him. And he identifies them as ones who are blocking him. In Luke chapter 11, verse 452, it says it this way: Woe you lawyers, for you have taken away the keys of knowledge. You do not enter it, enter in yourself, and those who were entering in you hindered. The keys of knowledge in that passage probably correlate with the passage in Matthew that says, I give to you In other words, these folks, these false leaders are preventing people from truly accepting the gospel and coming into the kingdom. Kingdom. And I would say to you this morning that there are false leaders in our world, in our country today that are doing the exact same thing. They are preventing people from From truly accepting the true gospel of Christ in some re- in some regard, in some ways, because of the false gospel that they are preaching. And we need to be aware of them. In the book of Romans, chapter 2, we have these same folks that the Apostle Paul later on are going to describe, because these folks after they after they killed Jesus, ultimately, and were instrumental in killing Jesus anyway, and after Jesus rose from the grave and ascended to his father, these scribes and Pharisees continued to do their work in militant and violent ways. And Paul says to them and about them, Romans chapter 2, verse 17, indeed you are called a Jew and uh and rest on the law and make your boast in God. And know his will and approve the things that are excellent, being instructed out of the law, and are confident that you yourself are guide to the blind, the light to those who are in darkness, an instructor of the foolish. Teacher of babes, having the form of godliness and truth in the law, you therefore who teach another, do you not teach yourself? You who preach that the man shall not steal, do you steal? And then later on in the passage, verse 23, Romans 2, you who make your boast in the law, do you dishonor God through breaking the law? For the name of God is blasphemed among Gentiles because of you. Now this is illustrated very well, for example, in John chapter 9. In that passage, you have someone who was blind and Jesus heals him with clay. Remember that? And this man comes to Jesus, and it says in the passage, where the Far the Pharisees who asked him again how he had received his sight, he said to them, He, meaning Jesus, put clay on my eyes and wash And I see, therefore, some of the Pharisees said, this man is not from God, because he does not keep the Sabbath. Others said, How can a man who is a a sinner do such signs? And there was a division among them. This man comes and says, I've been healed by this man, and instead of Reveling in the glorious miracle that was done before their eyes, they say, Well, that guy did it on the Sabbath. They were far more Preoccupied with their imposing of rules, which we learned about last week, on people that were actually not Biblical rules. They were not laws. They were added to the law. They were far more concerned about that than what God was actually doing. And ultimately it became, as we see, as we see in Romans, essentially a works salvation. Do you remember last week we identified the problem? The problem, or Jesus identifies the problem rather, Matthew 22, verses 41 to Through 44. He asked the Pharisees, What do you think about the Christ who is the son, who, whose son is he? Of course, they said the Christ, the Messiah, is the Son of David, but they denied the fact that he was true. The problem with the Pharisees is that is that they never recognized who Jesus really was. And instead, they continued to propagate their false gospel. And their false gospel was essentially that you need to obey the law and obey all of these rules and regulations, these external things, in order to be able to gain God's favor and his approval. Folks, we have the same thing today. If you'll do this, that, and this, then you'll be right with God. It's preached all over our land today. It's preached all over our world. In fact, that is one of the characteristics of people that will name themselves Christian Christians, but really aren't Christians biblically because they say they're Christians, and yet the way to merit favor with God is through some self-effort. Romans chapter 4, Galatians chapter 3, that is clearly wrong. And so it's not as though we are we are naming wrong religions just for the sake of naming wrong religions, and we're right and they're wrong. It's really they are they are moving people away from the truth of accepting Christ by faith alone. And that's why Christ had to deal with these folks. Well, how did these false teachers become barriers to the kingdom? This is very interesting because we find now it is it is by their undermining of true conversion. Verse 15 fifteen. They're undermining of true conversion. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you travel land and sea to win a proselyte. Win one proselyte When he is one, you make him twice as much as a son, a son of hell as yourselves. Now, to really understand what's going on, we need to understand a little bit of background. First of all, the Pharisees loved to gain followers. And they would work hard at gaining followers. Apparently, and in fact there is Jewish in Jewish history, there is active propaganda propaganda directed toward gaining proselytes. And Josephus mentions that before and after the destruction of the temple, many proselytes were made among maps, there were masses of proselytes that were gathered together. But apparently and and by the way, Christ made that, or God rather, made that provision in Genesis. He said to the a to Abraham, In you all of the families of the earth will be blessed. Now the ultimate provision of that is Christ. But certainly we do find the provision of a proselyte who could become part of Israel and become a common right relationship to God. But there were in the first century two kinds of proselytes, apparently. One proselyte was called a proselyte of the gate. And that proselyte was a Gentile who attended worship and was true to God. But he uh true to the Lord and feared the Lord, but he did not take on all of the rituals and the league and legalistic Judaism. We have a really perfect example of this in Acts chapter 10 with Cornelius. Now this is later, but I still think it still applies. It's not that much later. Acts 10, verse 2, it says about Cornelius that he was a de a devout man and one who feared God with all his household, who games who gave alms generously to the people and prayed to God always. Later on, Acts 10, 22, Cornelius the centurion, a just man who fears God and has a good reputation among all the nations of the nation of the Jews. But we know that Cornelius didn't, for example, alter his diet. He didn't do some of the things that the Jewish people would never have kept from doing, but he was one who feared God. We he was a div in fact there seem to be quite a few of these from Acts chapter 17 verse 4 where it says a great multitude of devout Greeks were there. And then verse 17 of the same passage, they were Gentile worshipers. Gentiles that that that believed in the one and only true God, that worshiped the one and only true God, that feared the Lord, that were devout in their faith. But did not adopt all of these ceremonies. And to the Pharisees, they were not true paraproselytes. They were not truly following the God of the Bible unless they followed, can I say it this way, their brand. Their brand was they called them the proselytes of righteousness. These proselytes were ones who participated in all the ceremonies and all the rituals and all of the feasts. These were ones where the Pharisees would lift up as a notch in their belt. as ones who were truly proselytes, truly following after the one and only true God. And yet By lifting up all of the rituals and downplaying true faith in God, true faith in who God is. They actually caused these people to not be true spiritual proselytes at all. Because their reliance was on not truly being a God fearer. And truly looking forward to the provision that God would make in would ultimately be Christ. But in these rituals, these diets, these days, these practices. That was what they were putting their trust in. So they actually ended up, they would say that these false proselytes, who they called the proselytes of righteousness, were truly converted. But who does God target? Who does Peter send who does God send Peter to? No, it's these other proselytes actually Who are not looking to the diets, of the days, of the rituals, to be the sum total of their faith, but are devout and fearing God and worshiping God. So Jesus says, you are woe to you, judgment upon you, because you are actually preventing people from having true faith in God And he it says in the passage, they make you make him twice as much a son of hell as yourselves. The word hell there is not actually the word Hades, it is the word Gehenna Word Hades is sometimes translated grave, and very frequently actually should be translated grave. But in this case, there is in no uncertain terms what this word is talking about. This is Gehenna, and it's a reference to an Old Testament judgment which We won't get in a in a valley actually. We won't get into all of that for sake of time, but simply to say that this is without question talking about the true separation from God for all of eternity. God Christ says in no uncertain terms, the Pharisees and those who follow them because of what they're depending upon. Pharisees were also guilty not only of hindering true converts and not only of blocking people from entering the kingdom of God, but they were also guilty of corrupting the culture with their form of ethics and morality. They corrupted ethics and morality. Now we've we've seen this before, but let's re let's see it again here. Verse 16, it says, Woe to you blind guides who say, Whoever swears by the temple, it is nothing. And whoever swears by the gold of the temple, he is obliged to perform it. Fools and blind. For which is greater? The gold or the temple that sanctifies the gold? And whoever swears by the altar is nothing. But whoever swears by the gift that is on it, he is obliged to perform it. Fools and blind, for which is greater, the gift or the altar that sanctifies the gift? Therefore he who swears by the altar swears by it and by all things on it He who swears by the temple, swears by it, and by him who dwells in it, and he who swears by heaven, swears by the throne of God, and by him who sits on it. This is really quite weird, crazy, twisted, perverted, corrupted, what these Pharisees did. They would say, on the one hand, if you swear by the temple, you can make a contractual agreement by the temple, but that's not a big but that's not binding. But if you do it by the gold of the temple, that is binding. If you do it by uh by uh the if you swear by the altar, well that's nothing, but if you swear by the sacrifice on on the altar, the gift on the altar, well that's binding. What kind of nonsense is this? I mean a at its face value I look at it and I go, This is ridiculous, right? I mean, if you're just reading through this, it's kind of like a kid going putting you know, crossing his fingers behind telling a bold face lie, crossing his fingers behind his back and thinking it's it's not really a lie because he crosses his fingers behind his back, you bird of I mean it's the same thing You know, uh, you know, it's like grown adults putting their finger behind their back and lying to you. But there is a sense in which folks, is this not is this not a problem in our day How often do we are we evasive when it comes to the truth? How often are we lying? Will we taint the truth? Will we not be forthright? Because it's to our advantage. And we find in the Old Testament there was there were vows in the Old Testament. And in those, in the Old Testament, it was very clear that there were simply vows that you must Fulfill. Psalm six ten. Let my enemies be ashamed and greatly troubled, let them turn back and be ashamed suddenly. So I will uh Psalm 61:8 I will sing praise to the name forever, and that daily perform my vows. 6613, I will pay my vows. So there are vows that they made in the Old Testament, but they were obligated. no matter what the vow was, to follow them. But actually when we get into the New Testament, we actually find a little bit of different guidance from Jesus. Jesus is going to say, look, let your yes be yes and your no no. Says the same thing in the book of James. Matthew, again, 533. It's been a while since we've But I uh Matthew five thirty-three says again you have heard it has been said th of those you shall not swear falsely, but shall perform your oaths to the Lord. But I say to you, do not swear at all, neither by heaven. For it is God's throne, nor by the earth is his footstool, nor by Jerusalem, for it is the city of great the great king, nor shall you swear by your head. Because you cannot make one hair white or black, um though some of us want to, but let your yes be yes and your no no for whatever is more than these is from the evil one. We're supposed to let yes let our yes be yes and our no's be our no be no. I mean frankly the truth is as Christians we should not we We we really shouldn't absolutely have to have a signed contract to keep our word. Now contracts are are helpful for two reasons actually. One is creates accountability where where there's something you could do if it's not followed and also contracts are also helpful because you have details in there that you could otherwise forget or not get right. So I'm I'm uh in favor of contracts Not against them, but whatever happened to just keeping your word, whatever happened to just saying what you're going to do and doing it. And the fact is we are we live in a society that is that is just as corrupt and decep and deceptive probably as what the Pharisees had made made as as this code of ethics that really the whole point was to advantage them. They would be able they knew all the all these the sort of code of what could be binding and what what wasn't binding among the culture in society and they were able to say things they wouldn't necessarily be able to to uh to follow through on, didn't need to follow through on, because in their mind it wasn't all along the code of a binding agreement. Jesus says, be truthful. From the inside out, be truthful. Let your yes be yes and your no be no. Can I ask you a question this morning? Have you come to the place in your life as a Christian where you say, I am going to be truthful even to my own harm? I am going to be truthful even if it means My own harm. Does that not that requires trust, doesn't it? Trust in the Lord. Trusting that He is going to work things out. Trusting that He is going to He He is going to give grace and mercy if there's a mistake or something like that. It requires us to trust God desires Christians to be unmistakably truth truthful, and He desires leaders to be unmistakably truthful. Now that doesn't mean you disclose everything to everybody about everything. There's something called discretion. There's take the whole counsel of God. But certainly when we say something, it ought to be truth. And sometimes folks what we just need to say, if somebody comes to us and says, Hey, um uh hey, uh ask us a question that we can answer, we just simply say, I'm I'm not at liberty to say. That's honest. I don't feel comfortable saying anything. That's honest. It's a sort of evade or sell a half-truth to get somebody off our backs or those kinds of things. That is a v that is we have to be careful of with that. And certainly when we say we're going to do something, to to then go to somebody to to follow through on our word. Now there are s there are circumstances that That that make that not always possible, sickness or other but as a rule, are we dependable? Are we people that just are truthful, honest people? This is called integrity. We move on now and we are going to ask, what's the root problem? We we're we're now sort of plunging into the root problem for these Pharisees It is the their the root problem is we're going to see the core problem is that they are failing to prioritize biblically. They failed to prioritize biblically. And we pick up in verse 23 of this passage, verses 23 and 24, and it says, Woe to you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you pay tithe of mint and anis and cumin and And have neglected the weightier matters of the law, justice and mercy and faith, this you ought to have done without leaving the others undone. Blind guides who strain out strain a gnat and swallow a camel What is he talking about here? So back then uh scripturally actually, Leviticus 27, Numbers 18, Deuteronomy twelve, there was a requirement, a legal requirement for the nation of Israel. Israel to to give of their tithes. Tithes of different things. And we won't get into all of that, but basically it actually wasn't only ten It it it amounted to about twenty-three percent or so, roughly, of all of what they uh were to give to to the uh to Israel and to the to uh They were so good that they would take mint and dill like little herbs and they would take apparently take leaves And pick off the leave. Okay, this is my tenth of the dill of the le or the the m mint of the all these and and and they would make sure that those are set aside. And no doubt they did this quite publicly. Let everybody know what they're doing. And yet it says you neglected the weightier matters of the law, the things that are really much more important. And apparently in the rabbinical writings back then, there were this there was this um this distinction between lighter and weightier categories. The problem was they were getting it backwards. Jesus says issues of justice and mercy and faith, those are the weightier matters of the law, not tithing the cumin and the mint. and the bill at its very very precise specifications. He says y uh a gnat back then, a gnat was a unclean, probably the uh no doubt the the smallest unclean And the camel was the largest unclean animal, probably at least among those days, and they didn't have elephants in Israel. And so and so Jesus is basic Jesus is saying, you're you're you're trying to be careful that you don't swallow a net a gnat Uh but you're you're you're you're straining in that, but you are swallowing a camel. Camels were very useful back then and very likely they were overlooking some things when it came to the usefulness of camels, but either way he's he's this is really talking about he's really saying look the large massive problems you're overlooking and the little things you're you're straining at. We ever do that, by the way? Are Christians ever tempted to major on the minors and to minor on the majors? I wrote down three ways that we do this sometimes. One, when we from a scriptural standpoint point, when we over-emphasize what is unclear and emphasize what is clear. Sometimes we do that in our interpretation of Scripture. We get caught up on some of the passages that really are not clear. They could go one way or the other. There is one interpretation, but it's really not as clear what interpretation that is. And then there are other passages that are clear. Gospel passages, established passages. And sometimes we get caught up in the unclear things instead of emphasizing, prioritizing the things that are very clear in Scripture, like the gospel, for example. Or we weight conscience issues as scriptural mandates, things that are not clearly defined in scripture. Scripture, things that are matters of conscience, where one Christian could legitimately say that he he could not do such and such in faith, and if he were to do that, it would be sinful. For him to do it because it would be violating his conscience. Now, on the other hand, another Christian says, well, that doesn't bother me at all. But making, elevating it to where it's it's it's it's treated as though it's like a clear mandate of Scripture. We need to be careful about that. Sometimes we do that in our appearance and uh in our uh dress and music and all those different kinds of things. Sometimes we we weight conscience issues as though they're scriptural mandates. Another way is we elevate wisdom issues to the port to the level of moral issues. Something that really is a matter of wisdom. For example, maybe I'm guilty of this. Um I I have told my kids, don't date till your your first year in col uh after your first year in college. You gotta be get through one year and then you can date. That's not in scripture. It's wisdom. For some people. For my kids it's wisdom. Anyway. Uh and I uh and I do have the authority to uh I think for my kids it's good idea. Um and it's wise. But it's not scripture. It's not it's not shouldn't be elevated to a point of being of mandating. That's a silly example, but we do this all the time. As Christians, and we need to be careful about this. So what causes a person to begin to prioritize to misprioritize Scripture, to not prioritize things in the right way. This happens in ministry, by the way, where we make, we make um we have sacred cows, we have things in the church that we can't let go. And there's nothing that doesn't have anything in scripture about them one way or the other. Priorities. We must have scriptural priorities. We must prioritize correctly So how do we do that? What why does it what causes us in fact to prioritize Scripture in the wrong way? Well, we move to the next one. Because we as these folks did, these Pharisees, they were living in blind self-centeredness. They're living in blind self-centeredness. It was really a heart problem. Do you know why they misused Scripture? Do you know why they they misplaced priorities? Because they wanted to. It was their heart. It was deeply a heart problem. And Jesus is going to get to the get to the root of this by saying, what are you Scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you cleanse and out cleanse the outside of the cup and dish, but inside they are full of extortion and self-indulgence. Blind Pharisee, he says. First cleanse the inside of the cup and dish that the outside of them may be clean also. They were guilt this they were guilty of focusing on externals to the exclusion of internals. And in fact, they were self-deceiving in thinking that they were in right standing before God, even though they were selfish and unloving and judgmental and all of these different things in their hearts. as they thought about other people, as they wanted to get their own way and wanted to lift themselves up, pride and selfishness wound up within them, and yet They thought they were great with God. They were in good standing before God. Why? Because of their behavior, their action. They are lifestyle. They had a clean lifestyle. He says the word extortion is the idea of robbery or plundering or pillaging is the practicing of obtaining something especially money through force or threats. Very likely this was the kind of thing that the Pharisees would do. They would ex maybe they would they would uh ex exact money from people that uh for their own selfish gain that was not appropriate for them to do. They wanted to indulge themselves to instant grati the word self indulgence is uh lack of self-control and the desire for instant gratification and they were deceiving themselves. And Jesus' instruction to them in verse 26 is first cleanse the inside of the cup and dish, that the outside of them may be clean also. He didn't actually say that there is that externals have no bearing at all in true, in that God literally doesn't care at all about externals. Folks, what he did say that the emphasis, the priority, has got to be on the heart, on internal rather than external. They were highly committed to purity laws, but they were not committed to internal purity. Jesus says to them back in Matthew 15, 16 through 20, Are you also still without understanding? Do you not yet understand that whatever actually he's saying this to the disciples, that whatever ends enters the mouth goes into the stomach and is eliminated? But those things which proceed out of the mouth from the heart, they defile a man. For out of the heart proceed evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witness, blasphemies. These are the things which defile a man, but to eat with unwashed hands does not defile a man. Then so that was a root problem, but G Jesus is going to continue here. He says to them, verse twenty-five, Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you cleanse the outside of the cup and dish, but inside you are full of extortion and self- I read that already. Verse 27 actually says this Woe to you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you are like whitewashed tomb. Which indeed appear beautiful outwardly, but inside are full of dead men's bones and all uncleanness. Even so you also outwardly appear righteous to men, but inside you are full of hypocrisy and lawlessness. He really is doubling down on the previous woe, on the previous judgment. He says, and he illustrates it by saying that you are Historically what was going on there is that during particularly during the Passover and even other times, the nation of Israel they would mark out tombs It was it was considered irr uh disrespectful to some degree it is today, but certainly uh and and you would actually become unclean by standing on a tomb Back in those days of of a dead person. And uh and and during the Passover it was very crowded, and so they would actually mark these tombs out. They would whitewash them, they would mark them out so they'd be in in So maybe white chalk, something like that, so that you would be able to avoid them. Now, I think when Jesus says in this passage that they're beautiful, I think he's sort of being I think he's there there's sort of a tongue in cheek here. There's sort of a uh a sarcasm here. I think that's what's going on. I'm not sure, but I think that's what's going on. Where he's saying, Isn't that so beautiful? But actually it's not. It's a grave. And they're say and and and he's using this illustration, what's inside are dead men's bones, and he's saying to the Pharisees, That's what you are. You think you're beautiful, but you're actually really not beautiful on the outside. But you think you are. You're whitewashed. Inside, you are corrupt. There's deadness, spiritual deadness in you. You need to see who you really are. And it is very easy for even Christians, folks To think that they are fine or even growing spiritually by the external progress that they make We do that. Do we think that we're perfectly fine? We're we're good. We're we're good with God. We're good with He's plea we He please that we're pleased but our evaluation is not our hearts. Our valuation is not our motives. Our valuation is not inside. It's like I do this and this and this and this and this. So I must be good with I must be pleasing God I mean, this isn't even just a matter of gaining favor with God. For Christians, this is a matter of how do we please God. You cannot please God by doing the right thing for the wrong reason or the wrong motive. God cares about what's in our hearts. He cares about why we do what we do, and that's exactly why Jesus said that the commandment that fulfills all other commandments is to love God with all of our heart, soul, and mind and strength. strength and to love our neighbor as ourself. That is the first commandment and the second commandment with promise We ought not evaluate our spiritual growth or our our whether or not we're pleasing God merely by our external behavior. And finally, the what what is the final indictment? What finally, it's like the gavel comes down here We find in verses 29 through 33, it says, Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, because you build the tombs of the prophets. And ordain the monuments of the righteous. And say, if we have lived in the days of our fathers, we would have been partakers with them in the bill in the blood of the prophets. Therefore, you are witnesses against yourselves, that you are sons of those who murdered the prophets. Fill up then and measure of your the measure of your father's guilt. Serpents, brood of vipers, how can you escape the condemnation of hell? He says to them, You uh and what was going on there is that the prophets by this time, of course you know the Old Testament prophets, most of them were persecuted by the nation of Israel. Israel as they were uh speaking what God had told them to speak to the nation of Israel. Often it was judgment, uh it was uh it was prophecies of what would come, like the Babylonian captivity and those kinds of things And calling them to repentance, calling the nation of Israel to spiritual, heartfelt repentance. And as a result of that, the nation of Israel on many occasions put to death these prophets and persecuted them. And apparently what happened back by the time we get to the first century, they're actually building monuments for these prophets. There's something very um uh uh very sympathetic about um about uh honoring a honoring a martyr. Nothing wrong with that by the way to to st to a certain extent. The Pharisees, they honored the mart these martyrs as well. They honored these prophets as well. They would build big monuments. And they said we would we if we were back then, if we, us as leaders were back then, we would never do what they would do Be careful what you say. Never say never. Paul said, our hearts are deceitful and desperately wicked. He says, Wherein I think wherein ye think ye stand, take heed lest you f Fall, don't ever say you won't. You would never go that way. That's what they said. But they also claimed to be the sons, the children, the the authentic line. From Israel. And Jesus says, your own words condemn you. You are the sons of the persecutors of the You are the sons, the children. And you and he prophesies essentially that who are these folks going to put that put to death? Jesus himself, they're they're worse than the old than the people that put to death the old death the old the prophets in the old testament. And they would continue even after Jesus' death to put apostles and put other Christians to death. fourteen, for you brethren, became imitators of the Church of God, which are in Judea in Christ Jesus, for you also suffer the same things from your own countrymen, just as you did from the Ch Jud Judeans who killed both the Lord Jesus and their own prophets, and have persecuted us, that they do not please God and are contrary to all men, forbidding us to speak to the Gentiles that they that they may be saved. So as always to fill up the measure of their sins, but the wrath has come upon them to the uttermost. Again, judgment is pronounced on these folks. And he says here, serpents, brood of vipers. Serpents is a general word for snakes. A brood of vipers was, this was very common in the old uh during this time, uh a brood of viper that was sitting still looked like a stick. And people would accidentally pick up a stick and that was actually a viper and then get bit. The viper essentially was deceiving them. He's implying here that these Pharisees are deceived and they are deceiving others. But ultimately, they're going to be thrown into the fire like a stick is. This is clear judgment upon these people. John the Baptist says something similar in Matthew chapter three, verse seven, and when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming Matthew Matthew three uh John the Baptist warns them now you pretty much have an indictment that this is going to happen as Jesus Jesus pronounces judgment on these folks. Now clearly folks, we are not uh we're not Pharisees, we're not running the nation of Israel. We don't have these indictments upon us, thankfully. But I think that there are some very helpful lessons that we can learn when it comes to the matter of leadership. How is it that people get to a place where they're misprioritizing scripture? It really has to do with the person's heart. Selfishness and pride in the heart that causes them to Use Scripture for their own purposes rather than following and submitting to the purposes of Scripture in life and ministry. So I would suggest to you seven sorry seven points here and I'll go through them quickly. They're they we can't fit them all on one screen. So uh I I uh uh take a at the end of the point uh the of the first thing, take a pic feel free to take a picture. picture of the of the screen. Uh and in the next one you can take a picture of the screen. But if you go through these, I I want to I want to want to be uh help summarize all this. I I I just would suggest to you that there are there are I I wrote down seven different applications from this text that will really help us. If you're a mom, it will help you. If you're a dad, it will help you, if you're a husband will help you. If you're a an elder, it'll help you. If you're in leadership, these I think will really help us. Number one Follow and teach the agenda of Scripture. Don't use Scripture to accomplish personal agenda. Follow and teach the agenda of Scripture. Don't use Scripture to accomplish personal agenda. And folks, unfortunately, churches throughout history, pastors have gotten up in the pulpit, they really had a particular agenda, and they've taken the Word of God, and they have used it for their own. Agenda. May we not do that. Same kind of thing. Number two. Prioritize your private relationship with God over your public ministry. And I'm preaching myself on these as much as anybody else, by the way. We need to prioritize our private relationship with Christ over our public ministry. This is what the Pharisees failed to do. They prioritize the public over the private. We must prioritize the private over the public. Number three, point people to Christ, not our ourselves or our own brand. Point people to Christ, not ourselves or our own brand. Folks, Christians have a tendency, pastors have a tendency to do this. Where we don't just point people to Christ, we want people to follow us. Paul said, follow me as I follow Christ. The implication is: don't follow me where I don't follow Christ. Point people to Christ. And by the way, if s if you lead If we lead people to Christ and it would be best for them to be discipled in a different church, that's fine. Or if we disciple people and and they the Lord leads them somewhere else, that's okay. We want them to be where God wants them to be. Now I will always say that biblically they need to be a vital vitally linked to a local church as members. That's biblical. Folks we we we d or if they bec if they're a if they're a go to a Bible church instead of a Baptist church, if they go to a you know I mean, some of the some of the names of churches do have doctrinal implications to them that we would be concerned about. Folks, we we we ought not be concerned about people following us or following our old brand or conforming everything to the way that we would do it as Christ followers. We need to point people to following Christ. Number four, purpose to have integrity and honesty even if it harms you. Purpose to have integrity and honesty even if there is a risk of harm you. And I dare say that if you're in leadership, at some point, you're going to be tested on this. I know I have. Well I just have to simply say, you know what? That this is what's true? Or I just simply say, look, I can't say anymore, and you're gonna have to take it for what it is or whatever it is, but but but purpose to have integrity and honesty, even if it's to your own personal if you think it's to your own personal harm. And by the way, it might not be. And you just think it is. We should frankly, because Christians be doing this in business. We should be doing this at the workplace always. God will honor and more importantly, God will be pleased when we choose integrity and honesty. Number five, major on the majors, not on the minors. Major on the majors. Whatever the priority of Scripture is should be our priority. The death, burial, and resurrection of Christ, priority. The deity of Christ, priority. Holiness before God, internal, then act, then coming, priority. Which leads me to number six, purify and serve from the inside out. Purify and serve from the inside out. When you disciple somebody, help them with the internal, with their relationship with the Lord, with what will Please Lord, but how they can love God, how they can grow internally, and let it work from the inside out. Don't focus on the externals. Number seven, gain your from uh gain uh your sense of value from your identity. This is important. Important. Gain your sense of value from your identity in Christ, not in your position of influence. Gain your sense there's a typo there. Take the first. Gain your sense of value from your identity in Christ, not in your position of influence. Folks, this is something we've got to check ourselves on. If you are in a position of influence, it's very easy to measure your sense of value by the influence that you have. Pastors can be guilty of this. They've got a big church of a thousand people or something. And they think of themselves as more valuable because they've got a large church and large influence. It's very dangerous. Our sense of value needs to become from who we are in Christ. That I am created in the image of God and I am redeemed by the work of Christ. And he has gifted me in the way that He has wanted to get He has chosen to gift me. And I am responsibly faithful to Him for those things. Our sense of value must come from our identity in Christ, not our position of influence. I love Psalm 516. It says this. David is repenting, and he says this. Behold, you desire truth in the inward parts and in the hidden part you will make me to know Wisdom. God desires truth and purity in the inward heart. Folks, if we if we want to be like Christ, if we want to be the kind of leader Christ was, the servant leader Christ is, this has got to be something that we constantly check. In our flesh, Paul said it, in our flesh dwells no good thing, and our flesh can creep in and cause us to to and corrupt us and cause pride and selfishness which causes a misplaced prior misplaced priorities and twisting of scripture and using and and all kinds of evil that comes from that and and the abuse of leadership This is so important for us to this is something we have to do personally in examining our own hearts before the Lord in these areas. May we do this. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you this e this morning and we thank you for the truth of your word. We thank you for um this warning that really is not just a warning to these Pharisees, but that's a warning to all of us who know Christ. And understanding as Christians the importance of growing from the inside and the out and having integrity even to our own harm and those kinds of things that would corrupt us. Lord, we we don't want to be like the Pharisees. We want to be like Christ. And I pray, Lord, that you would help us remind us of these truths, not just today, but remind us of these truths. Lord, we do not say Where and where you know we we just think we'll never do something never be this or never do this kind of thing. Where we think we stand take heed lest we fall. Instead, Lord Lord, would you remind us? Would your spirit convict us when our hearts are impure? And when we are not leading and influencing in a way that really pleases you, we confess before you that our hearts are deceitful and desperately wicked. And Lord, would you help us to live and influence and please you with our lives? We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Gannam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we We live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community here at BBC. You'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our own. Safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that has Helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you You either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the exchange Bible study with us. Or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.