If you think of the book of Acts, you find that that's exactly what became the focal point. And one of the things to note as well is that these Nevites were not Jewish people. It literally says what day Christ died. I need to be able to see this for that. Uh presumably but prior to the the the because of the possession of the demon prior, his life was not in order. And be and having been set free from sin, you become slaves of righteousness. This is going to change Jesus or help the situation or whatever. In Matthew chapter eleven, verse twenty seven it says, All things are delivered to me by my Father, no one knows the Son except the Father, nor does anyone know the Father except the Son and Read the scriptures with her. He was an agnostic, didn't believe that there was any way to really prove that there was a God. It doesn't really matter what the term is, where we we will uh it's possible that a person can actually believe in such a way that in their minds they literally don't hear, they don't for performing these miracles, it's obvious that he is who he says he was. They know the Old Testament. forty two. Jonah, and indeed, a greater than Jonah is here. was very clear that would show that he was protected from being killed because of what he had done. term generation before and I've not really clarified what that what he's talking about there with the concept of the generation. It says this, this Queen of the South will rise up in the judgment with men of this generation and condemn them. I'm going to take a couple minutes with this as a sort of a side note for just a minute because I think there's a lot of there's there's been confusion about this and I just want to try to clear it up if I can't. And we know the time he rose from the grave by what Scripture says, and I won't get into all those different passages. point. fifteen verse forty two which says this now when evening had come because it was the preparation day, that is the day before the Sabbath. But that's really pretty baseless. He affirmed the God of Israel after seeing what God had done through Solomon. In James chapter 4, verse 4, it says, Adulterers and adulteresses, do you not know that the friendship of the world is enmity with God? You know, he's called them a pack of serpents, you know, uh uh and all kinds of things. This cup cannot pass away from me unless I drink it, your will be done. But he who does the will of my Father in heaven. in the Word of God. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. on our behalf. to be upon those who are unable to be here. I pray for those this morning, Lord, who are unable to be here with us, maybe traveling and all, and and father other things, uh unable to be out. Children. Maybe driving with somebody or something like that. people believe what they want to believe. also a lesbian and also one who was really involved in that movement heavily. But she should have a sympathy toward them instead of a skepticism toward them, toward the scriptures. To not read it with skepticism, but to read it with an open mind. Two wonderful examples of what happens when you set aside what you want and look at what is there and then choose to believe based upon what is actually there. But the Pharisees have been shown, I mean, it couldn't be any clearer if we were slapping them in the face. So will the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth. twenty-seven, which we'll get to not too long from now, for the Son of Man will come in the glory of his father with his angels, then he will reward each according to his works. They also said to him, Let him be crucified. Ezekiel 16,32 says, you talking about Israel are an adulterous wife who takes strangers instead of her husband. You have the same thing in Matthew 2919, that he will be raised, he will rise again on the third day. So it can't actually be literally three days and three nights. And the people departed. to me the third day. And I'll just mention one other thing. Setting you on the throne throne of Israel, because the Lord has loved Israel forever, therefore he made you king to do justice and righteousness. I've had questions about it for ten years. Just as Jonah spent, and he did literally spend three night three days and three nights in the in the belly of the whale, according to Jonah chapter two, so I will go in, or the Son of Man will go into the heart of the earth, and he will rise from the grave. There's a passage that I'm reminded of as we look at this that I often think about when somebody says something like that, and that's in Luke chapter 16. Verse 27 says, And I beg you therefore, Father, that you would send him to my father's house. And he said to him, If they do not hear Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded, though one rise from the dead. But the greatest sign that we can have is the testimony of the Scriptures themselves. And when he comes, he finds it empty, swept, and put in up put in order. themselves. This demon comes back with seven others, or seven included him, and and he's worse off than he was in the very beginning. And we're doing everything that we know to do that's right, but we don't have a relationship with Christ. Do you not know that to whom you present yourselves slaves to obey, you are that one slave whom you obey? His mother and brothers stood outside seeking to speak with him. something very different than that. to always understand. They didn't believe in who he was. In fact, if you don't follow what you know what your particular family follows, you can be disowned by your family. It's not based upon your heritage. will be those of all the of his own household. And he who does not take his cross and follow after me is not worthy of me. And if you find yourself in a situation where you name yourself as a Christian, but you do not have a desire to please God, and particularly if you have never had a desire to please God, So there's not going to be some sort of notable cosmic sign for us to then know for sure that Jesus is who he says he is That's not going to happen until the second coming of Christ, where he comes for us. will of God. Christ. And in commitment to Christ. It is called the Exchange. If we're trying to live in self-righteousness, then we will truly fail, and we are in a dangerous position. um for Christ's teaching here that explains in in very helpful illustration how much we need him. To have the best experience you can possibly have. only one worthy and deserving. Whereas Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the great fish, so will the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth Verses 38 through 50, Matthew 12, verses 38 through 50. But he answered and said to them, An evil and adulterous generation seeks after a sign, and no sign will be given it, except the sign of the prophet Jonah. Come before you this morning to ask that you would help us to clear our minds and our hearts and our thoughts from all the cares of this week and help us to focus upon you this morning and your word as Brother Jim brings your word to you. The men of Nineveh will rise up in the judgment with this generation and condemn it, because they repented at the preaching of Jonah. The Queen of the South will rise up in the judgment with this generation and condemn it. Then he says, I will return to my house from which I came. So shall it also be with this wicked generation. Then he goes and takes with him seven other spirits, more wicked than himself, and they enter and dwell there. scripture in our world. A man who was then um he was then able to speak w when he couldn't speak pri prior prev previously and Doing all this and they and pronouncing judgment on them and he said, you know, you you you you've you have rejected the witness of the Holy Spirit and all of this, and their reply is we need a sign from you from a from a standpoint of opening his mind to the possibility of what it believed he came to Christ Explained things, just read the scriptures and explained them, she came to Christ. And when he read had read the Bible, I think on a couple of occasions, uh, and yet did it with skepticism, but decided that he needed And what we're going to see in this passage is that the very focal point of the kingdom of God is Jesus Christ Himself. And no sign will be given to it except the sign of the prophet Jonah. Jeremiah 31, 32 says, Not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day, I took them by the ha hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt. He's using this marriage concept as an illustration for how he was with Israel, and they broke with him. the kingdom of God and recognize truly who God is. And he says, Jonah, a person. Jonah was in the belly of the fish for three days and three nights, so the Son of Man will be in the heart of the earth, or in the grave really, for three days and three nights. God and they weren't, this was continuing to be uh one of those things that were were causing condemnation on these people. Not three days and three nights and then he's raised, but there's a third day. It's on the third day. If he died on Friday, that would be one day he died prior to dusk, we actually know that. because this is not a doctrinal point, you know, we can all disagree on what day. Saturday is the Sabbath. I can send that to you. The glory and the wisdom of God through the life of Solomon caused the queen of Sheba, who was no slouch herself when it came to If we're struggling in what we believe, then we need to go back to the scriptures. Whoever, therefore, wants to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God. But a sympathetic eye to looking at them, to seeing the truth is there. The reason we don't see it, though, is because of idolatry. For you and I to derive our knowledge of God from the entirety of the scriptures. Then we will see how God works in our lives. As we see, we move to this next point, and that is, to enter God's kingdom, you must realize your need for Christ. In verse forty-three it says when an unclean spirit goes out of a man He goes through dry places, seeking rest, and finding none. Jesus says, I'm not going to give you a sign. He's talking actually about, well, let's just think about the context, and that will help us a lot. He is speaking to religious leaders. Than if you didn't clean up your life at all. Neutrality leaves you open for more of Satan, more of self, and more of the world, and blinds us to the truth of who God is. Your family wants to come to you. No, you continue to be a slave to sin. Who is my mother and who are my brothers? And it's interesting, in John chapter 7, we see this, verses 1 through 5, it says, After these things Jesus walked in Galilee, for he did not want to walk in Judea because the Jews sought to kill him. Now the Jews' feast of tabernacles was at hand. For even his brothers did not believe in him. of Jesus. For no one does anything in secret while he himself leak uh seeks to be known openly. So we come to this text and very likely, it doesn't explicitly say this in the text, but very likely these family members are are they at this point concerned about what he's saying. in the discussion. In his example prayer to the disciples, he says, Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Do not think I have c I came to bring peace on the earth. The fact is that in the first century, many, many people, when they came to Christ, had to break entirely from their family because their family was going to ostracize them for what they did. Or to live your life completely in perfection according to the will of the Father in order to gain entrance into heaven. You cannot become a Christian by pleasing God. Then perhaps the problem is that you are truly not a Christian. It is not. Or because we will feel better about ourselves if we do. I'm too busy doing my own will. Then some of the scribes and Pharisees answered, saying, Teacher, we want to see a sign from you. and uh couldn't hear, and then he was able to hear, so it was very, very clear. Comprehend the information that would oppose their view. in John chapter 5 as well as this passage. Matthew 24, 29 says, Immediately after the tribulation for the of those days the sun will be darkened, the moon will not be given its light, and the stars will fall in the heaven, the powers of the heaven will be shaken. And it sh explains that the second coming of Christ is a sign of the of the kingdom of God. talking about? led and represented by these leaders, these scribes and these Pharisees, would ultimately reject him. That's what he says. And Jesus says, there is someone standing before you that is greater than Jonah. probably looked at this illustration and were probably even more offended by it and because these were measly Gentiles and yet they were accepting But he was raised on the third day. I think the best answer is actually in 2 Chronicles chapter 10. It says this in 2 Chronicles chapter 10 verse 5. Um just because it's here and this is the the passage where people the the only verse actually that people use to address address this issue uh and say that it's on Thursday. But one of the things that we need to understand and really apply personally is this. The answer I think is this. And do you remember in that passage, the rich man ends up in in hell, essentially? For I have five brothers that he may testify to them, lest they also come to his place of torment. When the demon comes back, it finds that everything, the life of the person, is all in order. Leaves us in a worse off position than if we didn't do it in the first place. Really, for the nation of Israel here as well as for us. Do we are we guilty of this? to get to. So that's a wonderful thing that's going to happen. Now they think they've got Jesus on this again, by the way, because obviously family is important. uh heritage and all those things were extremely important to them. To bear witness of the truth of who God is and who Christ is. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. or email us at info at bbcofmd. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Who they have they have been you know Christ has been performing miracles, a very, very distinctive miracle of casting out demons and a manner, his very teachings, certainly his death, and we'll see in the passage as well, his resurrection are all a sign all signs of who he truly, truly is where the nation of Israel is representing, they are rep uh they are they are they are wanting Jesus to be Then Pilate saw that he could not prevail at all, but rather that the tumult was rising, and took water and washed his hands before the multitude, saying, I am innocent of the blood of this just person. And the fact is, because they were idolatrous, because they had made God in their own image, they could not see the real God standing right in front of them. It says in Matthew 12, 40 that there that Christ was in the heart of the earth, or makes this parallel between Jonah and We then move to the issue of the second illustration of the Queen of Sheba. being a queen, amazed her. And Jesus then says to these leaders who knew the Old Testament scriptures and knew of the story of Jonah and the Ninevehes and knew the story of the Queen of Sheba and the fact that she had And it's the passage you'll know, it's a very familiar passage, most of you will know it. Abraham's bosom there in the passage. ignoring the signs that he has. And having someone even rise from the dead in our midst does not give us a greater faith. If you see God as entirely tolerant of your sin, then when he chastens you, you're not going to see the chastening hand of God. That he gives more grace. And goes with his demon friends, that's my words, not the words of scripture, brings other demons with him to go and find and goes back into this house it's called, or the life of the person. They've gotten everything in their lives in order. They have not embraced the one who could fill them so that the demon could not come back and possess, or, as an illustration. And finally, also, we have, I think, this practical principle that the truth is we are always going to be enslaved to someone. Now, to some degree that's kind of understandable. Whether you desire to do the will of your father. Did you catch that? But what is generally characterized by a Christian is one who wants to please God. was used as a sign. They may know a lot about you, but they don't have a personal relationship with Christ. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. And people don't believe often because then they are accountable to someone for what they do. Rosaria Butterfield, many of you know know who she is. In 1 Corinthians 14, the tongues in the first century were a sign to the unbelieving Jew. But in a sense, also prophesying of the generation that is going, this generation of Israel that is going to fully and completely reject Jesus as their Messiah. And yet it is something that there has been quite a bit of a confusion about, and that is the issue of when Christ actually died. That he was raised on the third day. Saturday was always the Sabbath. You are likely not going to be able to see the merciful and loving and compassionate hand of God. Well, he's using the idea of demon possession as a convenient illustration for the position that this generation finds themselves in. Goes into the desert somewhere, looks for, it says rest, they're looking for someone else to possess, doesn't find any They would not be filled with themselves anymore. Whether of sin leading to death, or of obedience leading to righteousness. That is what God chooses to use. In a morally upright life or living for Christ in the desire to please him with our morality. The reality is most of us we believe what we want to believe. He says instead, essentially, I am the sign. To enter, then, we're going to see, to enter God's kingdom, you must rec realize your need for Christ. Are literally saying, we will accept responsibility for the crucifixion of Christ. is when speaking of the nation of Israel, and it does, by the way, quite a bit, is talking about the fact that they have fallen into idolatry. And both Israel and God had entered into that Abrahamic covenant, just like a covenant of marriage where two people are entering into that covenant of marriage. Now the issue then for the nation of Israel was idolatry, and it was idolatry even then, even here. How were they idolatrous? Now there is one issue here that I am uh there's a sense in which I don't want to bring it up because it's going to sidetrack us from the pat from the point of the passage. And I think this is one of them. that Jesus is using. And he said, No, Father Abraham, but if one goes to them from the dead, they will repent. Or if you see God as a totally impatient person, someone who is a tyrant, who is impatient. Now what is he talking about here? The illustration goes something like this, as the passage just said, the demon leaves possession of the body of a person It's a convenient illustration because he just casted out a demon. That's been their primary problem. Are you worse off than you were prior to cleaning yourself up? And ultimately, not an option. For whoever does the will of my Father in heaven is my brother and sister and mother. And that in that previous marriage he had children. And they don't have, they don't at this point, now they're later on going to convert to Christ. Now he was not disowning his physical family when he did this, but he really wanted them to get across two things. You are not his. Outside of the Word of God, what we need is more of the Word of God. Then we will be strengthened in our faith. And number three, can we identify as those who will do the will of the Father? But I think most importantly, most importantly is this. In every part of our lives, in every aspect of our lives, if we are trying to do it on our own, And I pray, Lord, that if that for those of us who know you as our Lord and Savior, may this be a reminder to us of the danger of self-righteousness, of the danger of moral reform. Now let's first then look at to identify God's kingdom, you must recognize the unique person and work of Christ. And in the old and scripture we see different signs given. In this illustration of repentance he says so so it says here in the passage that just as That this very clearly teaches, this passage among others, very clearly teaches that Jesus had literal half-brothers and sisters. He was being counter-culture toward the religious leaders of the day. I thought I was a Christian. We're going to see, first of all, that to recognize God's kingdom, you must recognize the unique person and work of Christ. And I think that is really key to understanding when Christ died. And this is exactly the case. And so I think that is the best explanation for understanding the that the when Christ died. Because you have more revelation than they did, and you still can't see. Do you catch what the Bible is saying here? But we're not embracing Christ. John Romans chapter 6 makes this clear in verses 15 through 18. He wouldn't give us a sign, he says he's the sign, and now they sort of shift gears, and somebody from the crowd, remember there's a multitude of crowd that's listening to all this, and somebody from the crowd says, hey, your family wants to talk to you. How we are in absolute dangerous futility without him. Do you remember that passage? Now there were other people that could, that actually had less revelation than they did, than these Pharisees and Scribes, that did recognize Now, there's a lot, quite a few things going on in this passage that we need that will help us if we can understand the background to help us understand. And the whom and the one to whom the Son will Son wills to reveal him. Matthew 7 makes this very, very clear in verse 21. And Father, we ask these things with a grateful and thankful heart in Jesus' name. Often they will believe what they want to believe. been very clear. Men or women, men and women, people. And we see that in Scripture. But then in Matthew 27, we have later on in Matthew, which we'll get there eventually, it'll be a while. And that is important. And that's what he's saying here. And there's this theological term that I want you guys to understand that I could I could go into all kinds of details about why that's not true and what crop problems that causes, but there's this theological term that I want you guys to If you're saying that, then it is worth asking the question of whether or not you really are in the faith. It says this, and some of the scribes and Pharisees answered, saying, Teacher, we want to see a sign from you. And all the people answered and said, His blood be on us and our children. When an unclean spirit goes out of a man, he goes out through dry places, seeking rest, and finds none. So Jesus is the greatest sign that they could ever have. Well he's talking about the Jewish people, the nation of Israel, and he's talking particularly about the fact that there are people that the generation, that generation was because they had made God in their own image. Prior to when he was possessed before, this man, the man who is being demon-possessed. And then finally, we have this final admonition, this final teaching, and it's an interesting situation actually in verses 26 through And Jesus is going to say in this passage, I'm not giving you one. She accepted who God was from the revelation that she received. And yet they're empty because they have not embraced Christ. Moral reform, cleaning our lives up morally without embracing Christ. I do not take their view on this point. One is who the kingdom of God is going to be filled with. Even to the extent that it causes a breach in my family. And Jesus really was taking that step. But it's why we do what we do. Or you're saying to yourself, I can't be identified as one who does who does the will of the Father. And we can't see God in what he does and through the Word because we have made God in our own image. And they enter and dwell there, and the last state of the man is worse than the first, so shall it also be with a wicked generation. I get the impression from this text as I read through it that they're final they're sort of going, we got nothing. It's called baloney. That leaves out a personal relationship to Christ. Choose not to believe in the truth of Christ and the scriptures. And it is because it says they are an adulterous generation. Then later on in verse twelve it says, And Jeroboam and all the people came to Jeroboam on the third day, as the king had directed, saying, Come back to me on So, in concluding all of this, let's ask three questions. He says, you're asking for a sign because you are an evil and adulterous generation. There even within that passage looks like a contradiction, except for this one fact. Okay, well how do you reckon what about this three days and three nights? And Father, we come this morning just grateful and thankful for the blessings and the mercy that you have shown us throughout the week. I mean think about that. They see he's fulfilling these things. And Israel was constantly going after other gods. Are you willing to do the will of the Father? Number two, are we morally reforming without commitment to Christ? And it's talking then about the resurrection of Christ, that the resurrection is going to be another clear sign of who Jesus really is. But there's a problem with that. It's Friday. Look at the text. Are we willing to simply say, to look at the Word of God, animated by the Spirit of God, and under the influence of the Spirit of God, to be able to say, yes, this is what I need. Father, we are grateful this morning. You have plenty of evidence. Unless you think that I take took the Roman Catholic view of Friday being being the day that he that they that Christ died, which it is their view. They were skeptical of things. And also they were trying to correct him, but really, really, belief was the issue. And he is saying to them, You're not believing the sign. I think it's an idiom. I'm not saying that we should just live however we want. But um but I I uh but I thought I would just address that at this point There seems to be no indication that in scripture or in church history of any kind of significant consequence or Israel's Israel. And she decided that if she was going to be a well-rounded person on every level, that she should actually go and read the scriptures We have this way in our minds. And they suggest that Jesus had no brothers and sisters. Let's pray together. It says verse 46. Good morning. So how do you reconcile these two things? That is actually the point that we need to be sure we understand in this passage. Not everybody that says they're a Christian is a Christian. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible And he says to Abraham, what is he? Therefore, he says, God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble. It's kind of obvious. Now, those who purport to the Thursday theory actually go so far as to say that during the Passover there was an extra Sabbath. We're not committing our lives to Him. And so people people will take that one verse and they will say that Jesus must have died on Thursday in order to be there to be three days and three nights. It says in verse 22 of Matthew 27: Pilate said to them, What then shall I do with Jesus who is called Christ? Do we seek signs of God that God has never provided while while I am the sign. Our lives are intended to be used as a sign of who Christ really is Whatever it is. The Pharisees and the scribes believed what they most wanted to believe. It's not a one-to-one comparison. But at this point in the uh in Jesus' life and ministry, they they do not believe in him. It's not based upon the fact that you are Jewish or anything else or that you came from a good tribe or anything like that. He's not one of the witnesses, but he is his very life, his very And so I just taken so take that that's actually not the point of this passage at all. You ever heard somebody say, well, I just need to know this from God. Are we guilty in our own lives of making sure that everything's in order and we're doing this right and doing that right and we're having our devotions and we're coming to church and we're doing all these different things At least the person who doesn't clean up his life realizes his own need. He also chooses to use, by the way, the life, just as the life of Christ. And Father, we are grateful and thankful for not only who you are, but what you have done You have the same thing in Matthew 17, 23. A litmus test, a test as to whether or not you are truly a Christian And we pray, Father, that you would uh encourage them and strengthen them and bring them back to us uh quickly, Lord. Well, we'll note that in a moment, but I want us to realize this. For he who loves father and mother more than me is not worthy of me. But when I really look at all this, I don't think I I don't really know if I have a true desire to please God. And you ever met somebody before that you you or been in a situation where something has been just And he said to them, Come back to me after three days. And she says in 1 Kings chapter 10, verse 9, Blessed be the Lord your God who delighted in you. It was the day before the Sabbath. This doesn't make seem uh why would he say this here? May that be said of us. People are going to be judged. And so more than likely, highly likely, Christ died on Friday. They saw him doing the miracles. I mean Jesus is not throwing is not pulling any punches here, is he? I did not come to bring peace with a sword. All it was was a person who came and preached. You're just a slave to self-righteous sin instead of being enslaved to God and to Christ, who of course is a benevolent master. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Jesus had been performing miracles, doing all these different things, teaching all these things, refuting all of their arguments. And yet they're saying, Would you please give me a sign? It will not always make sense. He is saying, you all who are full of your own self-righteousness, What has been their primary problem? Jesus says, if you're doing that, you're worse off. Let me be clear. Most clearly, the parallel passage to Matthew is in Luke chapter 11. They will affirm what they want. Then the governor said, Why? And he points two of them out. In fact, to get exactly three days and three nights is actually impossible because we know the specific time that Christ died. And also, uh just understand that this is an illustration Happens a lot. What Scripture is saying is that the greatest witness that we can have is the Holy Spirit and the Word of God. You're rejecting that sign because you're a wicked generation. In other words, they've been able to clean up their own lives. Now, there are good people to disagree, and if you disagree with me on this, please don't like leave the church or something. Because the reality is, when you of your own self-righteous decide to clean up your own life, you're still left with being full of yourself. You can't stay neutral when it comes to Christ and think that neutrality is fine. He was essentially saying, I must do the will of my Father, and those who follow me must do the will of my Father. The problem with that is that it actually says in Matthew 16, 21. And those are, that's who this is, that there's actually no uh no connect no actual physical net connection between the brother and the brother And so he did. For example, in Genesis chapter 4. When he was still taking, talking to the multitudes, behold There will be no other sign given to us, essentially, because the word of God is complete. Do we live clean and righteous lives before him because we want to please him? Father, we thank you and praise you for your word. And they're not seeing it. That's the situation that we have here in this passage. You have plenty of revelation for you to be able to accept me, and yet you are rejecting me. He stretched out his hand toward his disciples and said, Here are my mother and my brothers. His brothers therefore said to him, Depart from here and go into Judea, that your disciples also may see the works that you are doing. You can write it down or turn there, either one, but you might want to look at it at some point. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. It's a very familiar passage of, you remember Lazarus and the rich man? Then one said to him, Look, your mother and your brothers are standing outside seeking to speak with you. They were Gentiles. And this is something that they're somewhat familiar with, the idea of demon possession. I pray that today would be a day that they would come to Christ. org. She wrote a wonderful book, very helpful book, called The Secret Thoughts of an Unlikely Convert. Not three days and three nights, which would mean he'd be raised on the fourth day. Now, one thing that's going to help us is to understand the relationship of these half-brothers to Jesus. Well then, if you desire to please him, may this be an encouragement to you to come back to Christ. And Christ was the perfect example of this Where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. We praise you and give you all the glory and the praise and the honor for who you are. But what seems to be very confirm what what really confirms this is actually Mark chapter 15 Do you remember? They are more, in their own minds anyway, at least, they're morally, the house, the life is morally in order. You cannot become a Christian through some sort of self-effort. There are idioms and idioms in scripture. I've heard it happen many, or have people say that to me on many occasions. We will have questions, but we surely will be able to see the hand of God in our lives. And that's really all I'm going to say about that. He desired to be in the will of the Father They they did not I think I think what's going on here is they really did not like how he was approaching his ministry It says, Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, shall enter the kingdom of heaven. May the Lord richly bless you. He read the Gospels and New Testament, and when he read it There's actually a term for it. Then he goes and takes with him seven other spirits, more wicked than the Why? I mean, Jesus is who he says he was. I'm not going to give you any more signs. And so there's a sense in which these Jewish leaders What then? But God be thanked that though you were slaves of sin, yet you obeyed from the heart the form of doctrine which you were delivered. Now, that does not mean that you have to live a perfect life. Number one, are we looking for God to reveal Himself on our terms rather than through His Word and His Spirit? In fact, that Joseph had a previous marriage. And Jesus simply replies, Who's my real family? For I have come to set man against father, and daughter against mother, and daughter-in-law against mother-in-law, and man's enemies And that question will determine whether we're living for self And when he comes, he finds it empty, swept, and put in order. The men of Nineveh will rise up in the judgment with the generation and condemn it, because they repented at the preaching of And then he pronounces judgment on these Pharisees and all of this, and the Pharisees say, um, we need a sign. Well, why are they going to be judged? What evil has he done? One is the Ninevehites. And in Jewish culture, family is extremely important. An extremely biased kind of looking at things. He's fulfilling all kinds of Old Testament passages. And in that way, they were falling into idolatry, and they were called by God an adulterous generation. They were idolatrous. And they will kill him, and the third day will be raised up. And it contradicts the idea here that on the third day, three times in the book of Matthew, it says that, also says the same thing in 1 Corinthians chapter 15. Here it says three days and three nights, and here it says on the third day. And he says to both of them, look, these things condemn you. Or do you think that the scripture says the Spirit who dwells in us yearns jealously? That becomes the critical issue It's like right in front of them. They probably didn't like that. This is an illustration, just as just as Then he says, I will return to my house from which I came. This is an illustration. You're going, the the idea of you can be freed from sin and then you can just live for yourself And so perhaps they think at this point, or at least whoever calls out to them uh to Jesus, at this point, they think that this is going to That's why it says in Matthew 7: you will know them by their fruits. Why do people 15, God bestowed on Cain a sign that He wants Abraham to do what? And I would ask us that question. And we pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen. James is the half-brother of Jesus, as well as Jude. He who finds his life will lose it, and he who loses his life for my sake will find it. And if we are struggling with our faith, it is not that we need to see some other sign. For Jonah, for as Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the great fish, And this is a situation, a thing that we find continuing out in the New Testament as a clear problem What has been the religious leader's primary problem? Similar testimony of a man by the name of Mark Dever, who's a pastor down in D. It was a m merciful act of God. What day is that? Because you're just full of yourself more. And maybe you're listening today and you say, I'm not sure about this. For she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon, and indeed greater than Solomon is here. And we ought, if we are struggling in our faith. Shall we sin because we are not under the law, but under grace? I must follow after Christ. She decided she came to Christ though when there was a pastor and his family and his wife, a pastor's wife who invited to just come and And and so in responding, what Jesus does is very interesting. But the problem is they were an evil and adulterous generation. In the Old Testament, the the concept of adultery The book of Acts constantly asks the question: will you believe in the true bodily resurrection of Jesus Christ? So that so apparently his brothers and sisters, his brethren, they they did not No, we must choose to please Christ with our lives I'm the sign. And it doesn't equal three 24-hour periods. Now all of that to say then Matthew twenty-six, forty-two, again the second time he went away and praying, O fat my Father, if Not everybody that says, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven. And we are no different as adults. What is he referring to? We're not in fellowship with Him. And when that happens, you better have already believed in the signs that he's already given. You can find that in the interacting as a parent with your with your child. So Jesus replies to these teachers this way. It's interesting Send Lazarus, actually. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. It's not a more sure sign. It's not based upon your lineage. Let's got a good night's rest. He uh he studied comparative religions and all kinds of different possibilities of religions and But he answered and said to them, An evil and adulterous generation seeks after a sign Any part of a day is a whole day. You still can't believe. And now I want you to understand how dangerous a position you find yourselves in. And I pray, Lord, this morning, that if there is anybody here that doesn't truly know you, When he says you're an evil generation, he said this before in the book of Matthew or you are a generation or I'm rejecting you as a generation, what does he That's all it was, a person who came and preached. He e Abraham said to him, They have Moses and the prophets. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this We hope to see you soon And that is actually quite a warning. He is letting them have it. But in Matthew 27, verses 15 through 25, you have this rather dramatic passage. Jesus is essentially saying I think this is not idiots. How do we apply this personally? But when the demon leaves, he's able to get his life in order, except then Maybe he wasn't even, I think, probably he was embarrassing to them. Or do we think that moral reform is commitment to Christ Well, in Luke chapter 7, verses 29 through 30, we see that the scribes and Pharisees rejected Christ. Clearly, Jesus was right, both in noting the Pharisees and the scribes' rejection of him. Okay. I just need to have this happen in order to really believe these will. We need more we need to read it more and meditate on it more and obey it more And then finally, to identify with God's kingdom, you must desire to do God's will. The way that Israel viewed the day, they viewed any part of the day as being the whole day. And then Saturday, and then he rose from the grave on the third day. Queen of Sheba, as you know, came to visit Solomon in 1 Kings 10, verses 1 through 10. And we need to look at them not with a sense of skepticism. And if we do, we will very likely find it. That is why it is so absolutely necessary. We're not embracing Christ. Can that be said of you? And they're not seeing it. Now I have he's mentioned the Now, last week we said he wasn't one of the witnesses. Because And as she read the scriptures with this couple who But perhaps the most clear sign in all of Scripture is Jesus Himself and the coming of Christ. What is his point? In Matthew 16, But they cried out all the more, saying, Let him be crucified. They are literally these, this generation, if you will. And he who loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me We have these Pharisees, these scribes and Pharisees. The reason that they wanted a sign, that they couldn't see, that they were essentially blind to Christ. Well, I'll read it for you. Who is he speaking to? And if you have no desire to please God, then you are not God's. The simple answer to that is that they don't want to believe. They know Because if we do They did not believe. And the last state of that man is worse than the first And notice what Jesus says, I'm not going to give you a sign. Friday. I'm going to and if you want more information about it, I I have an entire article that goes through all the different boys uh uh views and I can If you do these things, show yourself to the world In Matthew chapter 10, it says We need Christ. What's going on here in this passage? But we ask, God, for your hand of blessing. We as well believe what we want to believe. And there is a skepticism toward the truth of the So we know that the generation are those who are very, very specifically But those who are truly Christians do desire to please God. We thank you for Christ's There's idioms in scripture. Now, there are several implications that we can gain from this that we've already mentioned. He is caught you know he he's called them It says this, Luke 16. Why? What is he talking about here Now, he's also saying here that neutrality is dangerous. It's just baloney because there are more important things here that I want us Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. The fact is, idolatry blinds us. I'll say at the very outset of this. So it was extremely important. Amen. There seemed to be a lot of it during that particular time period. Let's go to the Lord and bow our hearts before him. And they were exceedingly sorrowful. No, neutrality is not fine. And that makes sense. So Now there is a very, very large worldwide denomination that preaches And I think that's kind of what's happening here. My covenant which they broke, though I was a husband of them, says the Lord. Because you are an idolatrous generation. It's self-righteousness. That you are one who is characterized by the desire to do the will of the Father. Certainly not. Now, I have never in ten years addressed that issue. May we live embracing Christ. And I'm only going to take a few minutes with this. Has nothing to do with that at all. We have five different witnesses. And we For example. C. They have made a covenant. And lineage and You are the They have the Old Testament, they have the Bible. And indeed a greater than Jonah is here. And the Ninevites repented. And you're worse off because of it. They just happen to be right, even a stop clock's right twice a day She was a tenured professor of Syracuse University and Jesus says to them I really need this or that. But he answered and said to the one who told him, We are full of ourselves. And of course Now listen to what they said, these people. It really is not the point of the passage. Christ God had made a covenant with the nation of Israel. But we really would love to meet you in person. I'm not going to treat it thoroughly or comprehensively. It's around six o'clock It's based upon Secondly, Let them hear them.