Please bow your heads with me. Father, we are so grateful this morning for your goodness and your kindness, for the blessings that you bestow upon us Upon us, the protection and provision you give to us, Father. You are Almighty and all-powerful, all-wise and all-knowing. You are the creator and sustainer. of all life. And we thank you this morning for your Save our Savior, your Son, Jesus Christ, and what He has done at the cross on our behalf, making it possible for And we just want to praise you and give you all the glory and all the honor. And we pray, Lord, that you'll prepare our hearts as we come to this time when we sit under your I pray, Lord, for those who are unable to be here today, some because of illness, some because of uh unable to get out because of their health. And Father, we ask that your Holy Spirit will be working mightily in And we ask, Father, that you would keep those safe who are traveling and bring them back to us safely. And we ask now that even here among Us, Father, that you'll prepare our hearts and our minds and our thoughts. Help us to cast aside and set aside all the cares of this week. And may we, Father, listen intently to your word And may you change our hearts and our minds and our actions, Lord, from being in your presence this morning in Jesus' name. Amen. If you have your Bibles, please open to Ecclesiastes chapter 2, and we are going to be reading the whole chapter. And uh very good chapter here. I'm excited to hear Brother Enrique preach on this message this morning, even though I'm retired. But uh that doesn't matter. We still work, don't we? Always that work never stops Thank you, Lord. Alright, we are in chapter two of Ecclesiastes, and it begins in verse one. I said in my heart Come now, I will test you with myrrh. Therefore enjoy pleasure, but surely this also was vanity I said of laughter, madness, and of mirth. What does it accomplish? I search in my heart how to gratify my flesh with wine while guiding my heart with wisdom and how to lay hold on folly till I might see what was good for the sons of men to do under heaven all the days of their lives. I made my works great. I built myself houses. I planted myself vineyards. I made myself gardens and orchards. And I planted all kinds of fruit trees in them. I made myself water pools from which to water the growing trees of the grove. I acquired male and female servants and had servants born in my house Yes, I had greater possessions of herds and flocks than all who were in Jerusalem before me. I also gathered for myself silver and gold, and the special treasures of kings and of the provinces. I acquired male and female singers, the delights of the sons of men, and musical instruments of all kinds. So I became great and excelled more than all who were before me in Jerusalem. Also my wisdom remained with me. Whatever my eyes desired, I did not keep from them. I did not withhold my heart from any pleasure, for my heart rejoiced in all my labor. And this was my reward from all my labor. Then I looked on all the works that my hands had done, and on the labor in which I had toiled, and indeed all was vanity, and grasping for the wind. There was no prophet under the sun. Then I turned myself to consider wisdom and madness and folly. What can the man do who succeeds the king? Only what he has already done. Then I saw that wisdom excels folly. A light excels darkness. The wise man's eyes are in his head, but the fool walks in darkness. Yet I myself perceived that the same event happens to them all So I said in my heart, as it happens to the fool, so it happens to me. And why was I then more wise than I said in my heart, this also is vanity. For there is no remembrance of the wise than of the fool forever, since all that now is will be forgotten in the days to come. And how does a wise man die as the fool? Therefore I hated life because the work that I had done under the sun was distressing to me. For all is vanity and grasping for the wind. Then I hated all my labor in which I toiled under the sun because I must leave it to the men who come after me And who knows whether he will be wise or a fool. Yet he will rule over all my labor, in which I toiled, and which I have shown myself wise under the sun. This also is vain. Vanity. Therefore I turned my heart and despaired all of the labor in which I had toiled under the sun. For there is a man whose labor is with wisdom, knowledge, and skill, yet he must leave his heritage to a man who has not labored for it. This also is vanity vanity and great evil. For what has a man for all his labor and for the striving of his heart with which he has toiled under the sun? For all his days are sorrowful, and his work burdensome. Even in the night his heart takes no rest. This is also vanity. Nothing is better for a man that he should eat and drink, and that his soul should enjoy the good of his in his labor. This also I saw was from the hand of God. For who can eat, who can have enjoyment more than I? For God gives wisdom and knowledge and joy to a man who is good in his sight But to the sinner he gives the work of gathering and collecting, that he may give to him who is good before God. This also is vanity and grasping for Thank you, Harry, for Reading that extended portion of scripture. And thank you also for reminding us again that you're retired. I almost forgot. I'm glad uh actually also that you mentioned that because at the outset, you know, we calling this entitling it a biblical view of work. And uh you might think, well, I'm retired or I'm a kid or is this really going to apply to me? And I want to say at the outset that every one of us works In some capacity. You may not get paid for it all the time, but there is work anyway, no matter what So if you're not in Ecclesiastes 2, you can go ahead and turn there and be ready to go through this passage. This is a lengthy passage, and there are definitely some things that we might just touch on and then Move on to the next verse, but I think we will gain a really great understanding of this passage and help us to get a better biblical view of work. So I had a little experiment this Friday, this past Friday, knowing that I was going to preach on this passage And I thought I would pay attention to how many people to how many times people told me or told someone else, the obvious, that it was Friday. Anyone else experience this in their workplace at all? Am I the only one? No, it's it's pretty universal, isn't it? Uh so I counted and I didn't realize I forgot but I would have I had to count earlier than Friday because now there's this thing called Friday Eve. You heard about that too? Yeah, Friday Eve. That's Thursday night. Apparently. We m we've placed so much importance on Friday that we actually need to get ready for Friday on Thursday night. So, my counting began on Thursday because I was reminded that tomorrow was Friday three times on Thursday. Not too many, but that's when my count began. And then on Friday itself, this past Friday, I um I lost count after twenty-one. And after twenty-one there's probably a handful of times and I could I couldn't tell you the exact number. Friday? What is so amazing about Friday? Well, what are people saying when they reference How great Friday is, or they're looking forward to Friday. What are they talking about? Well, in a nutshell, they are stating that the work week is almost finished. Friday's coming or Friday's here, and I don't have to work anymore. Now I get to do what I want, essentially is the idea. I'm free from this bondage of work and now I get to do what I want. Which is funny because sometimes we still have work to do even on Friday night or Saturday or Sunday, right? Work actually never stops. This is a crazy existence when you think about it because the the very thing that they're complaining about is often The the catalyst or the reason why they can go and be free because of the money that they make from working. They're able to go buy this thing or enjoy this dinner or whatever it is. They it's a circular a cycl cyclical problem. So many have this love-hate relationship With work. People so often muscle through the work week and live for the weekend. I wonder how many of us, at times or even currently, fall into that trap. We muscle through the work week and we live for the weekend. Ask us this question, is this how God wants his children to view work? What about outside the realm of a full-time job? What about you who are in school? School is work. And it's bad because you don't get paid for it at all. It really stinks to be you. That's worse. It's worse. It is You have to. You're made to. Your parents make you go to school. Your parents make you do homework. Aren't you sad? What a Sad existence. What and then after work you after work you have to do housework. After the school you have to do work in the house, in the yard, chores. You're forced to do it, and you might not even get paid to do that. What do you do with that? How does God want us to view all of this work? The full time The the part-time, the unpaid work, the stuff that we just have to do, what about if we're not working? What if there is no full-time job at the moment? And you perhaps uh you're wondering what the next step is? What about that And you're just left with no money at the time. How does God want us to view these things Well, at the outset we want to say this, that your work of your view of work is directly related to what you think it is for. Your view of work is directly related to what you think it is for. In other words, what do you think the purpose of work is in the first place? From this passage, we're going to see three common purposes that people have for working. And the last purpose, the fourth purpose, is a very uncommon reason. So, what are the reasons that people work? Well, the first one that we see here, mainly from verses four through eleven, is that people often work for the purpose We see this in the uh in the in the words from King Solomon and in Ecclesiastes here where He is going over all of his accomplishments. And he even says later on in verse 10 with whatever his eyes desired. He didn't keep himself from anything. He had the ability and the power to do and get anything that he wanted. He didn't hold back. He let all of his desires Take the forefront, and he fulfilled his desires. Looking specifically at verse four, let's look at this together for a moment. I made my works great. I built myself houses and planted myself vineyards. I made myself gardens and orchards, planted all kinds of fruit trees. Now, maybe he had servants involved in that as well. I don't know that he did all of that himself necessarily, but he was at the head of that Outside of his normal responsibilities of king, he had things that he wanted to accomplish around his palace, around the kingdom. And then, not only that, it says that he made himself water pools and water to grow uh for the trees to grow. He acquired male and female servants. He had servants born in his household. He says that I had greater possessions of herds and flocks than all who were in Jerusalem before me. And then he also says that he gathered much silver and gold, special treasure. He had male and female singers, and he had people, musicians, that also were accompanying them. And then he says this statement in verse 9, so I became great and excelled more than all who were before me in Jerusalem. And his wisdom, remember that wisdom that he asked of God, that remained with him. So it wasn't as though what he's saying there is all this wasn't done in total just self-indulgence He was wise with his time and his money, and he he made all of this happen. But then it gets to verse ten, where perhaps it goes a little bit beyond what would have been Right for someone who was content with what God had given him. Because then in verse 10, he says, Whatever my eyes desired, I did not keep from them. I did not what hold my heart from any pleasure. And he rejoices at first. He rejoiced in the reward of his labor. But then he has this statement in verse 11. Then I looked on all the works that my hands had done. Which was a lot, right? And on all the labor in which I had toiled And indeed, all was vanity and grasping for the wind. There's one word that you might think of when you think of the book of Ecclesiastes. That's it right there: vanity Vanity, emptiness, purposelessness. What he says after that here, why is it vanity? Because there was no prophet under the sun He had every kind of pleasure. He had every kind, every way of relaxing. There was nothing inward or outward that he withhold from his desires. And what he sees here, what we see in verse 10 especially, is in verse where he says, For my heart rejoiced in all my labor, and this was my reward from all my labor, he's stating there that there was a great sense of achievement. And I think we could all relate to that, at least in some senses. Maybe we didn't achieve much as King Solomon did. But if you have been working for a while, if you have accumulated some wealth, if you have land and property, if you've done different things, you can sometimes sit back and say, ah. This is nice, especially perhaps when you look back at times when you didn't have as much. But what took place was an unhealthy Desire or unhealthy priority, unhealthy focus on these things, on pleasure and relaxation And so what he ends up saying was, all this was for naught, all of this is vanity. This was actually profitless. This goes in line with how we introduce the message today. People so often only work to splurge their earnings and what brings them the most happiness. It's the concept you've heard the term and maybe even have at times lived by it, living paycheck to paycheck. Not necessarily because They have they don't have enough money, but they sort of look at their paycheck as, okay, this is how much I get to spend this week or these two weeks And then half of it or more is gone by the end of Friday night. This can only happen When they are not working, so the weekend is the only thing that they look forward to. They can't splurge and do everything they want because they're tired from their labors of the week. So when Friday comes and they get that little boost of energy and happiness from that experience, they go and they give themselves what they want. And as a result, all other days are secondary. Friday and maybe Saturday, those are the pinnacle of the week. Nothing gets better than than that. The other days, those are the days that, well, it's just where I do the stuff that I have to do. And that's it. And we can't avoid either the fact that this way of thinking can start very early. It can start when we're children. It can start when those school days are just nothing but a drag. You got math and you got history and you have all these things to do. And it can be toilsome and hard. And you're just looking, you're just waiting for that time when you can Be done with school for the day or done with school for that week and get on to the games you want to play and playing outside and all of those things, which are fine. But Do we view work as just a catalyst to getting the things done that we need to get done so then we can do the things we want to do most? Is that how God wants us to view the work that He has before us? So, what's the problem with this There is a problem, and we see it in this passage. Working to gain the most pleasure brings no lasting fulfillment. The problem with this is working to gain the most pleasure brings no lasting fulfillment. There was a sense of an achievement for Solomon at first. And that went away. And all that was left was an emptiness. So we see here first then, people often work. To achieve the maximum amount of pleasure. But sometimes people work to get as much as possible Now we see some of that in the first section as well, where we see all the things that he was getting and acquiring and obtaining. And we see that really Solomon did it in a wise way to acquire all those things. He wasn't frivolous, he wasn't reckless necessarily. And so the second point that we see here from verses 12 through 17 is that people often work wisely to accumulate as much as possible. There's no doubt that King Solomon and many kings are able to acquire much. The amount of possessions, the amount of money, all of that would exceed the normal person. And when we think of our own situations here as well, and we consider what we have in comparison to Other countries that perhaps have higher inflation and less income. We too have it very good in our day and age here in the United States. So what does this result for Solomon? Well, he considers this thing, and this is what he says. Verse 12. Then I turned myself to consider wisdom, madness, and folly. So he's taking these three categories, you might say. And at first they feel different. They feel separate, right? That's what he's doing. He's distinguishing these two three. But look at what happens at the end. Then I turn myself to consider wisdom, madness, and folly. For what can the man do who succeeds the king? That is the person that comes after him Only what he has already done. Then I saw that wisdom excels folly, it does excel folly, as light excels darkness. The wise man's eyes are in his head, but the fool walks in darkness. Yet I perceived That the same event happens to all. What event is he talking about? We'll see. If you don't remember, you'll see it here shortly. So I said in my heart, as it happens to the fool, it also happens to me. And why was I then more wise? Then I said in my heart, This also is vanity For there is no more remembrance of the wise man than the full man forever, since all that is now will be forgotten in the days to come. And here we know what he's talking about. And how does a wise man die? As a fool. You can be as wise and you can be as frugal, you can be as as careful as possible. But death claims the fool and the wise one, and the mad one, the crazy one. They're both claimed by death And what is his feeling after this, after considering this? Verse 17 says, Therefore I hated life. Do you find that as a strong statement? Whew. Who would say that? This is King Solomon. I've only ever heard, I think, I've only ever heard one person say I hate my life. I think that it was a friend of mine that lived next door When we were kids. I was really sad that he said that. Have you ever heard someone utter those words? Have you ever thought them to yourself, or maybe said them yourself? I would say that it is not so unnatural a thing to think, and not so unnatural thing a thing to say. So in a nutshell with this passage, he's saying, in one's own labors, is there really any preference between being wise or being a pleasure seeker? Is there any difference In a wise person who accumulates as much as possible and lives for those things, obtains much And you might even connect this to the pleasure seeking that he talked about before. Is there really any difference of seeking wisdom and living after God? Is there really any difference? Because death is going to claim both of us. Well we do see in verses 13 and 14, wisdom is of value. The word the light there is likely a metaphor for understanding, for knowing, for knowing, for knowledge, for skill in living. But the other angle we see in verses fourteen through sixteen is that this these folks have the same fate. It is death. It confronts everyone, whether wise or foolish, in the second half of verse 14. So this inevitable event, death, puts the wise man and the foolish one on the same level. Neither can defeat that last enemy, so to speak. speak. Life can become so burdensome, maybe even so hopeless, that we would curse our own life. It is so easy to succumb to this purpose for working, to accumulate much families around you. It's a really real thing. Maybe it doesn't happen in the neighborhood necessarily, but so I thankful to God we we got a new vehicle. uh to commute with and I'm really happy about that. At the same time it happened that one of my bosses uh got a vehicle also. Now his was a lot nicer. I won't even tell you what it is Um uh and and so within the span of like two weeks, two people got cars. Well one of my other bosses, what do what do you think he He wanted a car. Like, this old truck of mine is, you know, beat up and it It's dumb and it's old. I don't want that anymore. It's a really nice drug. And and he just now he just feels this desire to want more. He wants the next thing. He wants to expand his possessions. To improve his possessions. We can put so much effort An emphasis on the accumulation of things. Even if we are wise in doing it, things are nice, but they are not the end-all. We're seeing here a hint at this point that those things that God allows us to have, they are the bonuses of life. This can happen as children as well. You think about the toys and the things and the games that you enjoy playing. We can end up as kids living for those things as well. We hate work. We love fun. So we see here that this is often people work wisely to accumulate as much as possible. But there's the problem with this as well. The problem here is that whether you are foolish or wise, death still separates you from everything you accumulate. You take none of it with you. There are some cultures today and cultures in the past that they would bury things with the dead person, thinking that in the afterlife they'll be able to Able to take it with them. It's not true. You take nothing with you. So we see people often work to achieve the maximum amount of pleasure Sometimes people work to get as much as possible. But we see thirdly here from verses 18 through 23, people will often work to obtain possessions or achieve goals, achieve goals that are precious to them. People often work hard to obtain possessions slash goals that are precious to them. So just after saying that Solomon hates his life, on the heels of that, he says, I hate all my labor in which I toiled under the sun. Because I must leave it to the man who will come after me. So we just talked about someone saying, I hate my life, and now we have someone saying I hate I hate my work. Now, how about that question? Have you ever heard someone say, I hate my job? Have you ever thought it yourself? Have you ever said it yourself? Have those words escaped your mouth? Well, you're in good company. Solomon hated it too, at least for a time. He says here the reason is that he must leave it to the man who will come after me. And who knows whether he will be wise or a fool. He will yet he will rule over all my labor in which I toiled and in which I have shown myself wise under the sun. So he says, you know, I've been really smart. with my possessions and with my wealth. I've done all this great stuff. I got all this stuff that I enjoy and the things that please me. And it's all going to go to somebody else. And we actually know that his uh his son, I believe it was Rayoboam, was not good with everything that he that you left him, was he? He says, this is also vanity. And then in verse 20, he says, I turned, and my heart despaired of all the labor in which I toiled under the sun. So we see here hatred of life then turns to a reiteration of his hatred towards work. The aggravation that he is feeling here is that all of his hard work, everything that he has accomplished, could be ruined By his successor. What he's saying here too is that this is this is an injustice. It's not fair. It's not fair that that I'm so I've done so well and and and done so good with all of the things and I have a great future that I've laid down a foundation for those that are after me, but I'm in no control over what happens to this after I die. And this caused struggle, this caused anxiety. In verse twenty three Verse 23 it says, For all his days are well, let's back up actually, verse uh twenty-one. For there is a man whose labor is wisdom, knowledge, and skill, yet he must leave his heritage to a man who has not labored for it. The guy who gets all this, he didn't work for it. This also is vanity and a great evil. For what has man for all his labor and for the striving of his heart, with which he has toiled under the sun For all his days are sorrowful, his work burdensome, and even in the night his heart takes no rest. This also is vanity. We see here this this grief, this pain It can refer to both mental and physical. Work is hard, right? I mean you put a lot of effort into your job. You put a lot of effort into the work that goes into your home. You put a lot of work into, or a lot of effort into the work that you do at school Is all that work, is all that effort worth it? Sometimes it feels like it doesn't, that it's not, right? Sometimes it doesn't feel worth it. There are times when I am stuck in traffic for the eighteen thousandth time Trying to get home. I just want to get home. I really like home. And I should be home in 31 minutes If there weren't all these other people in the way. You know what I'm talking about. I have devised schemes and ways, all legal, to to to get home faster, to use alternate routes. And I think I've done the best I could, and I still will never get home in thirty-one minutes I won't. It's hard. Is it worth it? For me All the time that it takes to work. What about you all? Some of you work full-time, some of you work part-time, some of you work way past 40 hours a week Is all that time that you devote to working worth it? For me, I I estimated bet including driving, because that counts. It really counts. I spend fifty to fifty-five hours away from home every week. And that doesn't account for the small amount of time that I devote to some work on the side as well. Is it worth it? You see maybe why there is this element of despair for Solomon. Is it worth it? And all this working that we're doing, the accumulation of things and the pleasure that we get from it We're reminded here by Solomon it it's not you're not going to keep it, it's going to another. It's going to be in someone else's hands to do with it what they will. And who knows if they will be wise with it or not. Our houses, our cars, the things that are associated with our favorite hobbies, we don't keep them. The fruits of all of our hard work, we don't keep it And so that leads us to the problem with this reason for working. The problem here is that all the fruit of your labors go to another. Which is unfair. It's not fair. But this is the reality. All the fruit of your labors go to another. So the logical conclusion to this is the same as what Solomon says. There is no point in working. We might as well all quit our jobs. Sounds good, right? Have you ever heard someone uh talk about the their desire to just I just I need to live win the lottery. That's what it comes down to. Lots of people say this every day. They don't want to work. They don't feel like it's worth it. They feel like, man, if I could just stop working, life would be so much better. But people erroneously believe that if they no longer had to work, they wouldn't have the problems that they have now. We should mention, though, that idleness brings its own set of problems. Well, so we have seen then these three common reasons that people have for working from this passage. But what about that fourth uncommon one? What is that? Well, it is the biblical one that we should exercise consistently, but we seldom do. And so the fourth point from verses 24 through 26, people seldomly enjoy work, accepting it as a gift from God. People seldomly enjoy work accepting it as a gift from God. Look what it says here in verse 24. At the end of 24, he says, This also I saw was from the hand of God. So we we see here from this passage there is a change in perspective. Okay? He's seeing this now from a new angle. From God's angle, you might say. Eat and drink, and that his soul should enjoy the good in his labor. This also I saw was from the hand of God For who can eat or who can have enjoyment more than I? For God gives wisdom and knowledge and joy to a man who is good in his sight, but to the sinner he gives the work of gathering and collecting that he may give to him who is good before God. This also is vanity and grasping for the wind. So in a nutshell these verses are saying He tells us, Solomon is telling us, that we should accept the blessings of God now, enjoy them, and benefit from them. Now, what about this section here where it says, but to the sinner he gives the work of gathering and collecting? This is an interesting uh passage, or section rather, of the passage. So the sinner is depicted as one who does not live to please God. The judgment is on the sinner, so that's what's being depicted here. So we have a contrast between what God gives, both goodness and judgment. But ultimately what's being said here is that even the work of the sinner He's giving the work of the gathering and collecting. What it says here is that he may give to him who is good before God. So Even those that are sinful, those who do not follow after God, we're seeing here that God actually uses that and gives it to who? To him who is good, or you might say the righteous. Now there's mystery there. And I don't know that this is a hundred percent uh guaranteed every time, but this is and and And it's meant to give both the writer and the readers hope in this situation. situation. There is not total reason for despair. And we're gonna give we'll see more of that here So let's go back then to verse 24 of the first part. What is he saying here? Humankind, people, we are to enjoy God's good provisions. Enjoy it. You can enjoy your life. You can enjoy your work. What we're seeing here by eating and drinking, it signifies the provisions and contentment that God that God has for all. He wants that for us. We can have an enjoyable life and enjoyable work when we experience these things and acknowledge where it is coming from. In verse 26, these three blessings that come from God are wisdom or skill and living skill and the application of truth and knowledge. We're also giving knowledge and joy. Now this is a little vague and and I actually wavered if I was going to be in this passage or chapter 5 when I was looking at at preaching this message. And so we're actually going to be in chapter 5 in a moment, but this is not a foreign concept in other places in Scripture. And we want to see that here. This is a concept that's found also in the New Testament. Paul agrees with this counsel from Solomon in 1 Timothy 6. 17. It says, Command those who are rich in this present age not to be hardy, nor to trust in uncertain riches. Where should their trust be? in in the living God. Why? Why should the rich or the wealthy not trust in their riches but in the living God? Because it is God who gives us richly all things to Also in Ecclesiastes chapter 9, it says, Whatever your hand finds to do, do it with all your might. Whether you have a full-time job, more than one job, the job of raising children, or even just the menial chores and schoolwork. We should not lament the work we have or curse it, but be grateful and enjoy it. So Solomon fleshes this idea out even more in chapter five. You're in chapter two. Go ahead and turn to chapter five. We'll look at this passage briefly as we're proving this point that God wants us to enjoy God wants us to enjoy life and work. So looking at verse 9, starting in verse 9 in Ecclesiastes. Increase. This is also vanity. So we're seeing some of the same principles and truth that we've seen in chapter two already. When goods increase, they increase who eat them. So what profit have the owners except to see them with their eyes? The sleep of a laboring man is sweet, whether he eats little or much, but the abundance of the rich will not permit him to sleep. Now let's stop there for a second. The man who is laboring, the person who is working and enjoying work and life, his sleep is sweet. He goes to sleep, he has a clean conscience, there is rest for him. But the one who prioritizes his per pleasure, his riches, his possessions That creates anxiety. That creates turmoil within. And it says here in verse 12, the riches will not permit him to sleep. Verse 13, there is a severe evil which I have seen under the sun, riches kept for their owner to his hurt. So, again, the happily working individual enjoys his life, enjoys his work, is content with what God has given him, sleeps well, and is not overly concerned about the physical. The person who works for possession/slash happiness is bound to them. He worries over them, and it harms him. Later on in this same chapter, though, in starting in verse 18, we see some of the balance. Look at look look at verse eighteen with me. Here is what I have seen. It is good and fitting for one to eat Eat and drink, and to enjoy the good of all his labor in which he toils under the sun, all the days of his life which God gives him. For it is his heritage. As for every man to whom God has given riches and wealth, and given him power to eat of it, to receive his heritage and rejoice in his labor, what does it say it is? This is the gift of God. For he will not dwell unduly on the days of his life, because God keeps him busy with the joy of his Heart. What is he saying here? He's saying, enjoy work. Enjoy it. And enjoy the benefits of your work. Both of these are God's gift to you. Now, at that statement, you might be really balking at that. Because you think, how can I enjoy work? Work is hard. We've already talked about it, right? Work is hard. It takes way too much time out of your days. And I don't really see a whole lot of fruit from it. And I'm tired. I'm tired all the time because of it. How can work be enjoyable? It is what I have to do. It's what I have to do, not what I want to do. Well, let me ask you this question. Is work in and of itself inherently? evil. Is work bad? Is schoolwork bad? I think I hear yes. We might feel like it is. Did you know that God's design from the beginning was for mankind to work? Well, yeah, but you know, sin and and and it's really bad with sin. Yeah, it is. It's true. But God's intent was for mankind We don't have to turn there. It's pretty familiar to most of us, I think. But God says in Genesis one twenty six, let us make man in our image according to our likeness. Let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, over the birds of the air, and over the cattle, over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. So God created man in his own image. In the image of God, he created him, male and female, he created them. Then God blessed them, and God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply, fill the earth, and subdue it. Have dominion over the fish of the sea, over the birds of the air, and over every living thing. that moves on the earth. And then chapter 2, verse 15, even more. We see elements of work and jobs in that in subduing and having dominion over the earth. But then there's even more specifics. Genesis 2, 15, then the Lord took God, the man, and put him in the Garden of Eden to tend and keep it. So now he has a job of in in the garden. Verse 19, out of the ground the Lord God formed every beast of the field and every bird of the air, and brought them to Adam to see what he would call them. Now that looks like the hardest job out of the whole thing. I got to name all these creatures. But that's what God was having him do. He was having him work in the garden. He was having him name the creatures. In verse 20, it says: So Adam gave names to all cattle, to the bird, to the birds of the air. and to every beast of the field. We see clearly, this is before sin entered into the picture. God intended his creatures, his creation, man and woman, to work. But not only that, it says here that we're created in the image of God, right? We saw that a couple times in that passage. Not only that, God worked and set for us an example of how we should work. In Genesis 2, verse 1, thus the heavens and the earth and all the hosts of them were finished. And on the seventh day God ended his work which he had done. And he rested on the seventh day from all his work which he had done. Then God blessed the seventh day and sanctified it because in it he rested from all his work which God had created and made. So, God worked. And he rested as well. And it is a work week that we even follow to this day for the most part. And we should. We shouldn't work every day. We need rest. And I don't mean just pleasurable, happy times necessarily. Sometimes we just need rest. Sometimes the best thing you can do is take a nap Take a nap. Even if you're not a napper, just try it sometime. You might like it. Work was God's idea from the beginning. Work is not evil, work is good. Sin made work difficult. That is true. Genesis 3 explains that. As part of the curse, man's work would become burdensome. Sin corrupted what God intended to be a perfect gift to us. So, work, yes, work now does include pain and sweat of your brow. And it takes time and takes effort. Yes. So like many things in this creation that we live now live in. Things that were once made perfect are corrupted, but they still have their seeds in God's mind. They started in God's mind, they started there. And the truth is, work does not last forever. We even sung about it a couple times this morning. We may feel like work never ends, but it will end. Work will come to an end, and rest awaits us. Hebrews 4 talks about it in those terms: that genuine rest from God awaits us. So when we don't want to work or we don't like work, I think those are natural things for us to feel, natural things for us to think. But the the The conclusion shouldn't be, well, I'm just gonna hate it, or I'm just going to hate work, hate life. That's not the conclusion. We should understand when those feelings and and and things arise arise in our hearts We can attribute that. We know why it's like that. It's the curse. It's part of the curse. It's part of the sin that has entered into this world. So we've hinted at it, but there is a problem with this one as well. People seldomly enjoy work accepting it as a gift from God. The problem then why why why don't we enjoy it? Why don't we enjoy it? We don't enjoy work because we only view it as a means to an end. A necessary evil. We don't enjoy work because we only view it as a means to an end, a necessary evil. And I will confess to you all now that Probably the first half-ish of my working career, I had this view For me, the first the first two um examples of why people work, they they weren't really, they don't really that doesn't resonate with me as much, but the last one does Having possessions or goals precious to me. That's what I was working for. You know what my goals were? They weren't bad. I was saving up for college. So work was a means to that end. I was, as a young man, newly married, I was saving for college and trying to have enough money to eat and have a place to live. Weren't not bad things. But that's all work was. for me. And it came to I it came to a head when I was working for FedEx for a while. In between, uh, we had just been married, it was our first year of marriage. All I wanted to do was work. I wanted to leave home, go to work, come home. That's really all I wanted to do. And FedEx didn't work that way for a while. I was happy for the job, and in fact it was an enjoyable job. I was out, I was driving, it was a lot of fun in that respect. But too often, the slightest, smallest things that would go wrong on a typical delivery route, they would wreck my day Because it meant I wasn't going to be able to get home as soon as I wanted. Or I'd have to go, I'd I'd miss a miss a delivery and I'd have to go back the wrong direction. All these little frustrations And I was so angry. I mean, I was angry. I didn't think that anger, I thought that anger was gone. And God was using that scenario actually to show I was viewing work entirely wrong. All I saw was a means to an end, a necessary evil to accomplish what I wanted to accomplish. Work can merely become for us a way to survive. And just something we must do. Or work becomes a way in which we want to get something else. We have certain goals, and work gets us those goals of happiness or possessions or comfortable living. If this is all we view work as, Is it any surprise that we will be unsatisfied? Disillusioned? Is it any surprise that we would end up living for the weekend and so forth We can end up hating work, just like Solomon did for a time. If the things that we do, the effort we put in, if it doesn't provide the return that we are hoping for, we too can easily begin to despise work in all its forms. But here's the truth. Here's the truth in all of this. According to God, work is an end unto itself. It is good, not evil. It is a gift from Him According to God, work is an end unto itself. We were meant to work. And if God has given you Schoolwork or chores to do around the house, that's God's gift to you. If God has given you a job, a full-time one or a part-time one That is God's gift to you. If you're retired and you don't work any longer, That's from God too. And the work that you have is around your house or your property or whatever it is that God has for you. That's from Him too. Maybe you're in a season where you're not working That's from him too. That's God's gift to you. Husbands, fathers, wives, mothers, the work you do, God has gifted to you, and it is meant to be enjoyed Yes, the curse has made it difficult. Many hard things accompany work. We've talked about that. But the work you do for you, for your family, It is not less honorable just because you don't see some of the results that you want to see. Work in our lives is by God's design. It is Right. So all this put together, let's see some applications that we can take home. If we are working for the purposes of pleasure, accumulating much or obtaining precious Possession slash goals. We here this morning are missing God's intent for work. We are using, in this case, work as a stone to step on to achieve something else This will likely lead us to not giving our best while we work. We won't be working unto the Lord, we will be working just for ourselves. And we will ultimately be dissatisfied when we don't get the results we want out of working. Number two, we must not view work merely as a means to an end. We must not view work merely as a means to an end. Work is an end unto itself, and it is a gift from God. This is the biblical view of work that God requires of us. And thirdly, we ought to be content with the work God has given for us with a grateful heart. We also ought to enjoy the fruit of our work. These are also gifts from Never forget that the work we do is honorable. The work you do for your family is honorable. And this is the work where heavenly benefits come for us to enjoy. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for Through your truth, just helping make sense of so much of life. And Lord, it is true that in some way or another we are all working and you have all you have tasked. Us with various things and various purposes in all various stages of life And we pray, Lord, that you would help us to have a biblical view of it. We know, Lord, that Um there is often we we feel like our work will never end. We feel like um We're just in a mundane rut. We acknowledge that this is how we feel very often. But we are thankful that you promise us rest someday That we who have accepted the gift of salvation, that we know that there is a promise of rest that awaits us. We thank you, Lord, that Jesus took on himself our sins, paid that penalty that we should have paid And now we have Christ's righteousness on us. We are accepted by you, and this perfect rest awaits us. We thank you. Thank you for that, and we thank you that we get to remember that here as well momentarily. May you work these truths in our hearts, Lord. May you help us to enjoy the life that you've given us and the work that you have set before us. They are both gifts from you. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.