This morning John's fifth book of the Bible in the New Testament, Revelation Revelation nineteen. This tonight uh three preachers uh are going to be preaching um ten to fifteen minute messages apiece um and we're going to be preaching on thanking God for his sovereignty and uh We're gonna be looking at God's plan initially uh in the beginning of the of of creation and how God set things forth in Psalm two. Then our preaching is going to be preaching on our response to the the the sovereign nations that God has ordained until Christ returns. And how we're supposed to respond to all of that. And then we're going to be looking at the coming of Christ. And I was tasked with the final that final uh message on the coming of Christ and and the display of God's sovereignty in the coming of Christ and being thankful for all of that. And I began to study this past week and uh I was there it there is just so much rich truth In looking at the coming of Christ, it is mentioned nearly every book in the New Testament on multiple occasions in some cases. That I said, you know, I really just want to preach this. So I said, let's pre let me preach on the coming of Christ this week for Sunday morning, and uh then I can do a little sermon at tonight. Um So we're going to look at tonight, at today, the the coming of Christ in Revelation chapter 19. How many of you all uh have ever used, like in construction, have used a chalk line before? How many of you have used a chalk line? Okay, several of you, many of you have have at one time or another. This past um week on Monday. Monday is my day off where a lot of times we have all kinds my wife and I have all kinds of projects that we do together. um to that we just have to do because we own a home now and there's pluses and minuses to that. But anyway. And one of the things that Elizabeth just did, she painted the whole um the we she repainted the stairway, uh the the the walls around the stairway, and so we had to put the the handrail back up. We wanted to make sure it was nice and strong and so what we did was uh we knew that we needed to try to find a stud for either end and and we need to mark correctly either end. And so if we do that correctly, and you do have to make precise, be very precise about how you measure it while a staircase, You have to measure from the floor up, but make sure that you you do it in the same placement on the stair, on the bottom and on the top. If you do it in the middle of the stair, on the top, and you do it at the bottom, the end of the stair, you're gonna get it you won't be parallel with the stairs. It's actually You think it would be that not that complicated, but I I didn't think it was that complicated. Uh I've done it before, but it really became complicated when we tried to find studs. And I we I got a s my stud sensor out and I started trying to find the studs and I couldn't find any studs. I said, well maybe mine's not very good, so I went out to my dad's shed and got his stud finder And there are and I I'm I I could not find a stud for the life of me. I'm looking all over to try to find a stud on this wall. And I said, uh my dad came down the stairs and he said, What are you doing? I said, I'm trying to find a stud And he said he said I said there are no studs on this wall which is not possible. I'm starting to get a little frustrated here. There's like not a stud anywhere on this wall. I can't find a stud anywhere. We replaced the batteries on the stud finders We did ever he said, let me see that. So he's gone, he's like, No, you're right. There's this he couldn't find any studs on the wall. Come to find out there were for some reason, we don't know why, in an old house all kinds of things happened. They put two layers of drywall on this wall, and so you had like an inch of drywall and it couldn't just detect the studs with the dry the stud finder. All that that was and so uh it was sort of funny. We were started drilling holes in this painted newly painted, freshly painted thing, trying to find studs, couldn't find it. It wasn't until I took the light um uh fix or the uh the light plate for the light switch off and looked in there and saw the two layers that we realized the problem. But if you're going to strike a a chalk line correctly You're going to have to make sure that you have a correct measurement on the two end points. And if you can do that, then you'll have no problem striking a chalk line and getting a correct measurement. It really is that way with drawing a line segment. If you're going to draw a line segment straight, having the two points nailed down is very, very important. And there are two points in Christian doctrine that are absolutely necessary for us to nail down and to be very fixed in our minds. and to understand them and to really rely on them. And that is the first coming of Christ, the first advent of Christ, and the second coming of Christ. Both of those are absolutely fundamental doctrines that we've got to get right. And there are other things in between that we may or may not be able to get But when it comes to those two fundamental doctrines, we've got to establish them and to have them very clearly established in our minds. And there is great significance to anticipating the coming of Christ in the New Testament. As I studied this out, I found nearly every book in the New Testament Paul or some John or whoever mentions the coming of Christ. It is all over the place. And frankly, even in Old Testament prophecy, you have over and over and over again anticipation of the coming of Christ. This is, in God's mind, an absolutely imperative doctrine that we understand, and it has significant implications for us in persevering. Do you ever struggle? That was interesting. Did you guys see that? Oh I could be preaching with no electricity soon. Um do you ever struggle With persevering as a believer. Is your faith ever shaken? Are you do you ever doubt certain things? Well, God established two fixed marks. of doctrine for us. The first coming of Christ, and it's of course the death, resurrection, death, burial, and resurrection when he came. And the second coming of Christ for us to hold on to. So that we can anticipate the bodily return of Christ. And in anticipation of that We can persevere and be encouraged and move forward in the Christian life. And we're going to learn the significance of all that. First, we need to go to the Lord in prayer. Father, as we come to you today, We ask, Lord, that you would help us as we look at this incredibly important doctrine of the second coming of Christ. I pray that this doctrine would be an encouragement to us. I pray that it would encourage us to persevere. I pray that it would keep, it would cause us in our thinking to set our affections on things above, knowing that you will one day return for us. I pray that it would challenge us to live holy, blameless lives before you, knowing that there is a greater goal than our own individual lives. I pray, Lord, that you would encourage and challenge your people this morning with the great doctrine of the coming of Christ. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. In Zechariah chapter 14, one of the many prophecies in the Old Testament, we find that Zechariah prophesies this. He says, verse 1, Behold, the day of the Lord is coming. And your spoil will be divided in your midst. For I will gather all nations to battle against Jerusalem. The city shall be taken, the houses rifled, the woman ravished Half of the city shall go into captivity, but the remnant of the people shall not be cut off from the city. Then the Lord will go forth and fight against those nations. As he fights in the day of battle, and in that day his feet will stand on the Mount of Olives, which faces Jerusalem on the east. And the Mount of Olives shall be split in two from east to west, making very large va a very large valley, half on the mountain shall move toward the north, and half of it the n uh of it toward the south. Then you shall flee through through my mountain valley, for the mountain valley shall reach to Azel. Yes, you shall flee as as you fled from the earthquake in the days of Azaiah the king To Judah. Thus the Lord God will come, and all the saints with you. That was a prophecy and toward the latter end of the um of the the the revelation of scripture in the Old Testament of Zechariah anticipating the coming of the Messiah. And we find later on in in um And we find later on in the book of Matthew that the disciples were still anticipating the coming of Christ many hundreds of years later. We find in Matthew 25, verse 3, it says this. Now, as he sat on the Mount of Olives, the disciples came to him. If you can imagine all the disciples gathered around Christ on the Mount of Olives. And they were probably thinking of the passage in Zechariah fourteen and how the the coming of Christ will be on the Mount of Olives. They were all anticipating the coming of Christ. And they were recognizing his coming, and they asked this question, tell us, when will these things be? And what will be the sign of your coming and of the end of the age? Jesus goes on in Matthew 24 to describe the coming of Christ, and he says, the end is not yet come. There will be many false prophets in the world. There will be much tribulation and many issues. But there will be a time when Christ will come. And he says in Matthew 24, verses 27 through 31, For as the lightning cometh from the east and flashes in the west, so also will the coming of the Son of Man be. For wherever the carcass is, there the eagles will be gathered together Immediately after the tribulation of those days, the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light, the stars will fall from the heaven, and the powers of the heavens will be shaken. Then the sign of the Son of Man will appear in heaven, and then all the tribes of the earth will mourn, and they will see the Son of Man coming in the clouds of heaven with the power and great glory, and he will send his angels with great sound of the trumpet, and they will gather together his elect from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other. Well, this was a prophecy by Christ, and the disciples then began to anticipate that the coming of Christ, that there would be another coming, a second coming of Christ. And they wrote of these things throughout the New Testament. In the Book of Thessalonians, as Paul writes to the church at Thessalonica, who was undergoing great suffering and persecution. He writes of the coming of Christ. This was a church where Paul came and he uh gave them the gospel. And he began to establish them in the gospel, including certainly the coming of Christ, which he and all the apostles, as they went to the different places, included in the in the apostles' doctrine, they certainly uh include the coming of Christ. But Paul had to leave quickly and suddenly, and so he wasn't able to see some of these believers come into maturity. And they had questions about the second second coming of Christ, about when it would actually come to the point where they were actually quitting their jobs and uh because certainly the cr the cr Christ was coming and his his coming was imminent Of course, Paul had to explain to them that that was not the right application to what he was teaching. But as they were being persecuted with very fierce persecution by the Jews in Thessalonica Paul wanted to encourage them to persevere. And so he writes this to them in chapter 2, verse 19. For what is our hope? Our joy, our crown of rejoicing. Is it not even you in the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ at his coming? Similarly, the Apostle Peter in 1 Peter chapter 1 and 2 Peter chapter 3 says this to the men, the men and women in that city, or actually that was scatter in Asia Minor, scattered all over the place. At that time they were they were persecuted as well. Peter says this: Therefore gird up the loins of your mind, be sober, and rest your hope fully upon the grace It is to be brought to you under the revelation or the coming of Jesus Christ. Also in 2 Peter 3, verse 12, he says this: looking for and hastening to the coming of the day of God. Because of the which the heavens will be dissolved, being on fire, and the elements will melt with fervent heat The apostles were teaching the churches that were establishing in that first century to constantly anticipate and be mindful of the coming of Christ, and that is the hope of the believer. And that's why Paul says in Titus 2, verse 13, looking for the blessed hope and the glorious appearing of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ. Titus, as he was serving as pastor, Paul was wanting to encourage him to persevere in the ministry. And so he tells them that as you are serving and as you are ministering, constantly be mindful and aware of the coming of Christ, the glorious appearing of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ. Also, John, in the book of Revelation, was writing to seven churches we find. Several of those churches were either undergoing persecution or were anticipating the possibility of persecution. And so John writes this book of Revelation to encourage them about the fact that Christ would ultimately be victorious. The most important event in the book of Revelation is, in ver chapter 19, the coming of Christ and seeing the absolute victory that will come. after seven years of tribulation in that book. And this was to be an encouragement for the for the church at that time. When you begin to look at the victorious coming of Christ The battles that we face in this life, they tend to become smaller because we may lose some battles, but Christ has already won the war. And you and I, as we anticipate living this life and walking with Christ, and pleasing him, and trying to live blamelessly in a crooked and perverse generation. God desires for us to constantly look ahead to the coming of Christ as the hope of the believer. It is for us to be an encouragement, and it is for us to be challenged by the fact that Christ could come at any moment and at any time. Why is it that this is so much to be a hope of the believer? Well, as we look at the description of the coming of Christ in John 19, in Romans 19, uh the in Revelation 19, we are then going to find in this passage That why exactly the coming of Christ is such a hope for the believer. We find in verses 11 through 13 That reflecting on the coming of Christ gives hope because it displays Christ's character. You see, you and I, as we grow up in church or perhaps are exposed to the Christian faith and the Word of God, There are many characteristics and attributes of God that we come to know. We come to know his holiness and his justice and his sovereignty And his love and all of those various attributes of God that we find in the Bible. But there seems to be something that is particularly helpful about a picture. about something that's tangible, that's more vivid in our minds to help us to grasp the character of God And you could see much of the character of God in the first coming of Christ and also in the second coming of Christ In the first coming of Christ, you see that Christ condescended to us to become man, to demonstrate his love toward us in living a perfect life and dying for the sins of people. He certainly did come, so God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth him should not perish, but have everlasting of life. But we see a tangible representation of the character of Christ, of the character of God and the person of Christ in the second coming of Christ as well. Christ came as the meek and lowly, loving Savior in his first advent. But Christ will come and demonstrate his holy, sovereign character in his second coming. And the value of us looking at the second coming is we get we begin to see in a in a more tangible way in a picture the the execution of both the faithfulness of Christ and the sovereignty of Christ as we look at this text. With that in mind, we can begin in verse 11 of this passage. Verse 11 says this: And I saw heaven opened, and behold, a white horse. And he that sat upon it was faithful and true. In righteousness he doth judge and make war. We begin to see at the outset of this description of the second coming the moral character of Christ. We see that he came on a white horse. That demonstrates for us in a symbol the purity with which Christ came, the purity of motive, the objectivity that only Christ can have. When we think of the judges of this world, when we think of the rulers of history, everyone on some level does not have the objectivity that Christ has. Everyone is tainted by its own opinion. Even when when we are when a judge is supposed to rule justly with objectivity not being swayed by public opinion. We even know, as we have seen in this country in previous Times we've seen even the Supreme Court seem to be swayed by public opinion, which is, of course, not intended by our founding fathers. But the reality is, when you think of judgment in this world, when you think of judgment, everyone, no one is really objective. As soon as you think that you have the angle in objectivity, watch out because you are delusional. The reality is none of us are really objective. Sometimes we get this idea that we have an angle on things and we know we have an understanding of things. We find the book of Proverbs that tells us to be careful about this It says, he that answereth a matter before he hears it, it's folly unto him. We are so quick to jump to conclusions based upon our own presuppositions, based upon our own experiences, rather than really searching out a matter. But Christ has has total objectivity. We're going to find later on that he sees all. And when he comes, he comes as a white horse with purity of mo on a white horse with purity of motive. We find also that his name here is faithful and true. When Christ comes, he comes In faithfulness to the fulfillment of prophecies of the Old Testament, in faithfulness to the fact that he said in Matthew 24, among other places, that he would come. Christ is going to come and he's going to demonstrate in a tangible way his faithfulness to his people. And he is true. Christ hat, he is the truth. He says, I am the way in John 14, and the truth, and the life. He is, Christ is the truth. And when he comes, he will have all truth as he exacts judgment on this world. Then we find in this passage. The fact that he will come in righteousness. Do you see that there? And in righteousness he doth judge and make war. Folks, the reality is we are living in a in a actually all of creation because of the of its fall, because of the effects of the fall. No one can really completely judge in righteousness. And we loathe when we see an unfair judgment. We loathe when we see people that are guilty go free, or people that are innocent indicted for a crime they did not commit. There is something within the human spirit that causes us great anguish when we see injustice in the world. And this is normal and natural and appropriate. But when Christ comes, he will exact justice and he will be true because he is completely righteous and he will be objective. We know that whatever he does is right. Whatever he does is faithful. And we can look forward to the day where Christ will come on this earth. Well he will establish his kingdom. We can look forward to the day where all things will be set. Right. Are you and I not looking forward to that day? We just recently had an election And I will hasten to say to you that no matter how you voted, Donald Trump is not the savior. Christ is the savior. And we need to be careful. There are some people that are loathing and crying and weeping over the election and they're having, you know, coloring books and dogs that are supposed to help them in therapy. And there are I mean it's crazy. And there are other people that are um see I can talk about the election now that it's over. I can't I c anyway. Um And there are other people that are thinking that Donald Trump is just going to fix everything. Let me tell you that there is no man on the face of this earth who is going to be able to fix everything. Christ is our Savior, and we must look to the hope of Christ. Now I want to say that God has chosen. to put Donald Trump as the President of the United States in a few short months. And we ought to respect that as God's choice as an elected official that is ordained by God according to Romans chapter 13. And that is the position of the believer toward toward civil government, and that's what we ought to do. But folks, let us never be delusional in thinking that He is going to be our Savior. Christ is the one who is our Savior He is the one that is righteous. He is the one that is objective. He is the one that is the hope of the believer. And when governments let you down and when leaders falter, don't worry. Christ is the hope of the believer. Then we find in this passage that we turn to a display of the awesome natural character of our God. In Christian theology, we have two general categories of God's character. We have his moral character, which we have already looked at, that is displayed in this passage when Christ comes. But you also have the natural attributes of God. You have the in some people call them the incommunicable attributes of God. Those things that are true of God that will never be true of us And for instance, his power, his omnipotence, his omniscience, his sovereignty, his infinitude, those kinds of things. And what you see in this passage is that Christ, when he comes back, will display certain natural attributes, certain natural characteristics that only he possesses. And we see, we pick up here in verse 12 as we look at these. Verse 12 says, his eyes were as a flame of fire. What does that mean? Well, we look at the fact that we're talking here about his eyes. And we look at the fact that it says it's a flame of fire. They're active. And we find some help with this in 2 Thessalonians 1, verse 7, where it says. And to give you who are troubled rest with us when the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven from his mighty angels. In flaming fire, taking vengeance on those who do not know God and on those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. So when Christ comes, he will be able to see very clearly those who do not follow him and who do not obey him. He will see with omniscience. And so we see the display of the omniscience of God as he looks with a flaming fire. His eyes are a flame of fire. We then see that there's something upon his head. It says in the passage that there are many diadems, or there are many crowns. What is it talking about there when it talks about the many crowns that Christ wears as he comes? Well, in chapter 12, verse 3, we see that there was a dragon with seven crowns. Verse 12, chapter 12, verse 3 in Revelation says, Another sign appeared in heaven. Behold, a great fiery and dragon having seven heads and ten horns and seven diadems on his heads. Then we find that there were ten crowns on the beast in chapter 13, verse 1. Then I stood on the sand of the sea. And I saw a beast rising up of the sea, having seven heads and ten horns, and the horns ten crowns, and his heads a blasphemous name. And very likely in those passages it is talking about the fact that there are various rulers that will be under uh under the l under the leadership of the Antichrist But in this passage, what we see here is Christ has many crowns. You could say it this way, he has innumerable amount of crowns. So many crowns that they cannot be counted. It's not seven or ten. It's many unnumbered amounts of crowns. We're talking here, folks, about the complete sovereignty of God displayed in Christ. Christ will have complete sovereignty when he comes in the second coming of Christ. And we see this verified in 1 Corinthians 15, verses 24 through 25, which says When he c when the come when then comes the end, when he delivers the kingdom of God the Father, when he puts an end to all rule and all authority and power. For he must reign till he has put all enemies under his feet. We see the sovereignty of God displayed in the second coming of Christ. Then we see in the second coming of Christ that it says that his robe is dipped in blood. Chapter 13, verse chapter uh 13 here. Actually, we find here, first of all, it says that his name was written that no man knew but he himself. So let's cover that first. It says, it's going to explain here that there is another name that he has that is disclosed later on in the passage. But first it says here that there is a name that no man knew. If you read the commentaries, you're going to find that there are some people that suggest various names that it's talking about. It says it suggests Yahweh or Jehovah in one instance, and other names in another instance. But folks, I think it's pretty futile to try to identify a particular name when it says that no man knows the name. I think it's kind of ridiculous to even surmise as to what name that is. Wouldn't it be better to simply say that this pictures the mysteriousness of Christ? There is a mystery to the incarnation of Christ. There is a mystery to the first coming of Christ, and there will be a mystery to the second coming of Christ. It requires faith and trust. And to understand that God can become man. There is a mystery to all of this that is displayed in the Old Testament and the New Testament. And that mystery will not be completely unveiled at the second coming of Christ. There will still be a sense of mystery to the second coming of Christ. Now, those who trust in him will fully see. They will fully understand what is going on. But there is still this mysteriousness to the incarnate Christ that he will retain during the second coming of Christ. We then find in verse 13 that it says that he was clothed with a vesture dipped in blood, or a robe that is dipped in blood. And we find in this verse that what what then is it talking about here when it's talking about a robe dipped in blood? Let me just say this about studying the book of Revelation. Most of our understanding of the book of Revelation must come from other passages in the Bible that shed light on these things. If you look at the book of Revelation and you are not constantly looking at prophetic, Old Testament prophetic passages, you will miss the point and you will miss a clear understanding of these texts. And so I'd invite you to take your Bibles and turn to Isaiah 63, if you would. There are several things in Isaiah 63 that will shed light on this text for us. I want you to be aware of. While you are turning there, I will read for you Genesis 49, which says that a scepter shall not depart from Judah. The scepter is like, is also translated in some cases a rod. And it says in that same passage that he who comes in a scepter in verse 11 is washed, has washed his garments in wine. and his clothes in the blood of grapes. Well, what is it talking about here when it says that Christ's robe is dipped in blood? Verse 1 of Isaiah 63 will help us. Who is this who comes from Edom with dyed garments from Basra? This one who is glorious in his apparel, traveling in the greatness of his strength, I who speak in righteousness, mighty to save. Why is your apparel red and your garments like one who treads in the winepress? Is that not the question we're asking? Verse 3. I have trodden the winepress alone. Now keep that in mind. He says, I've done it alone. That's going to become important later on in the passage. And from the peoples no one was with me, for I have trodden them in my anger, and trampled them in my fury. Their blood is sprinkled upon my garments, and I have stained all my robes, for the day of vengeance is in my heart And the years of my redeemed has come. Some would misinterpret this passage in Revelation to be speaking of the blood of Christ when he shed it in his first advent. But that would be a misinterpretation of the passage. As Robert Mountz clearly says in his commentary The blood that stains the robe of the conquering Messiah is not his own, but the blood of the enemy shed he shed in conflict And that's what we find in this passage. This passage tells us that when Christ comes, there will be much blood that is shed. Christ will exact judgment. Christ will be the judge, the righteous judge, the faithful judge, the true judge. that he explains that he is. And so when he comes, his robes are going to be dipped in blood. Now that's not literal. That's that the end the idea of that is that it is symbolic. that he is going to become and he is going to uh make much conquest on the part of the people who have now completely and clearly rebelled against him. Now, I want to mention this. Some of you might say to yourself, well, that doesn't seem like the Christ of the New Testament. This doesn't seem like the Christ that we find in the Gospels. And I need to remind us of this, that Christ has given gives seven years of previous lesser judgments. that there are many, many opportunities that these people are given to come to him. Opportunity after opportunity after opportunity. And really the same is true today. The gospel is spread all over this world, and there are many opportunities for many to believe on him And when there is a rejection of who Christ is, and when there is a rejection of who uh of the coming of Christ, when there is a rejection of those kinds of things, there will be one day in the coming of Christ. Swift, clear judgments. Why? Because Christ is faithful. He is true He is the God who is sovereign, who can exact true judgment after giving every opportunity previous to that for them to be able to repent. Then he says in this passage we find in this passage that it says that the armies which were in heaven followed, verse 14, him upon white horses. Clothed in fine linen, white and clean. It mentions here that there are armies that are going to come with Christ. These armies we find are also found in Revelation 17 verse 14 that will help us to understand who these are In that passage it says, These will make war with the Lamb. The Lamb will overcome them, for he is the Lord of hosts and King of kings, and those who are with him are called chosen and faithful. It seems to be that at the very least these people, these armies that are coming with Christ, when he comes in the second coming of Christ. are the faithful martyrs that are found in the Book of Tri of the Tribulation, in the Book of Revelation. It is possible that these people we would be included in this army of people coming to conquer with Christ. It is possible that we will be rap that we will be rap it is going to be that we will be raptured prior to this event and that we'll be coming down with him. But the point of the passage is this in verse 13. He was clothed with a vesture dipped in blood, it says. But in verse 14 it says, and the armies which were in heaven followed him upon white horses. Clothed, fine linen, white and clean. The point that John is making here is this: although Christ's robes are filled with blood, The armies are not. They are white and clean. This he tells us the exclusive nature of the judgment of Christ and the coming of Christ as he defeats his foe. He alone will have the conquest. He alone will have the victory. It is Christ alone that is the Savior All we will be doing is watching him as he as he goes in and he fights the armies of Satan in this last final judgment. prior to the millennial kingdom, which there will be actually a final judgment after that. But we find here the coming of Christ that that is the case. Now let's think for a moment as to why this was included. Remember the purpose of the book of Revelation. The purpose of the book was to encourage first-century believers who were undergoing persecution for their faith. God wants them in very vivid terms to understand that there's going to be a second coming, that Christ will do battle for them. That Christ will defeat his foe, that Christ will exact judgment and true judgment as only he can do. That Christ is their sole protector, their sole savior. And that is the hope of the believer as well for us. It is Christ alone who will be our Savior. We will not fight the battle. Christ will fight the battle. And there is this great significance in this as we understand it. We do see also in 13, the last part of 13, that he does this with the word of God. This is reminiscent of John chapter 1, which tells us that Jesus is the Word. In the book of John, which we have been studying We find that he is the word, the revealing of God to the world, and that as the word of God, he does the purposes of God. And this passage demonstrates to us that it is by the Word of God that He will conquer. When God created mankind, when God created the whole world, he did it with what? He did it with his word. When God redeemed mankind, what did he do it with? His word. And when he conquers in victory, what will he do it with? His word. It will be Christ's word that demonstrates judgment. If we have the idea that Christ is going to somehow pull out a physical sword and he is going to slash the enemies. in battle on his own. That is not the description that we find here. Christ will con will do his conquest with the word of his mouth. He will have victory by the word of the sword that comes from the Word of God. Then we find we find the same thing found in verse 15. Out of his mouth Goeth a sharp sword, and with it he will smite the nations. That really brings us in verse fifth in chapter fifteen. To reflecting on Christ's coming that gives hope to the previously prophesied work. We find now that Christ, what Christ is actually going to do. He is going to do something as he comes. And we find three figures here in this verse. All of these figures find their basis in Old Testament prophecy. We find the first one is the power of the word of his judgment in the sword. And out of his mouth goeth out a sharp sword. In Isaiah chapter 11, verse 4, it says, But with righteousness he shall judge the poor. and decide with equity for the meek of the earth. He shall strike the earth with the rod of his mouth, and will breathe, and with the breath of his lips. He shall slay the wicked We find the same thing in 2 Thessalonians 2, verse 8. And then the lawless one will be revealed, when the Lord will consume with the breath of his mouth, and destroy with the brightness of his coming. When Christ comes, he will come with his glory. He will come with the word of his mouth. And the word of his mouth and the brightness of his glory will consume those who are not righteous will consume those who are wicked before him, who have rebelled against him. We see here then the purposefulness with which he will come, and will exact his judgment Then we find a second figure that he will rule with a rod of iron. We find this figure uh Here in this text as well, and with it he shall smite the nations, and shall rule them with a rod of iron. In Psalm 2 we find that this is the case. It says in Psalm 2, beginning in verse 7, I will declare the decree, uh the decree, the Lord has said to me, You are my son. Today I've begotten you. Ask of me, and I will give you the nations for your inheritance. the end of the earth for your possession. Ye shall break them with a rod of iron, ye shall dash them to pieces like a potter's vessel. Now therefore be wise, O kings, be instructive, ye judges of the earth. We find then this final figure is the figure of a wine press. Now you and I have already seen this passage in Isaiah 63 verses 3 through 5. We've uh Isaiah 63, but we didn't look at uh verses 3 through 5. Here's what it says there. Verse 4 says this For the day of vengeance is in my heart, and the year of my redeemed has come. I looked, but there was no one to help. I wondered that there was no one to uphold. Therefore my own arm brought salvation to me, and by my fury it sustained me. Verse three is actually the key verse The people, uh the peoples, no one was with me, for I have trodden them in my anger and trampled them in my fury. What we have here is the picture of a wine press. Now, of course, you and I are probably not that familiar with wine press. I don't think most of us in our backyard are having vineyards and we're going and taking large um uh um platforms and placing grapes on top of them and getting taking off our shoes and our socks and making wine or grape juice from the wine presses. I don't think that we usually do that. But there is a vivid picture here. When a person would make wine and stamp out the wine presses He was very thorough as he did it. He would want to make sure that every possible uh all the juice that was possible would be stamped out. And it and there was sort of this grate or sieve that would allow uh the grape juice to flow. And they would take great pains, because you know, this was their livelihood, to make sure that they would be thorough in all of this And this is the kind of judgment that Christ will exact in the second coming. There will be no one that escapes the wrath of Christ in this second coming. He will be very thorough in his judgment. He will be very exact in his omniscient view of of the people. and there will be no one that escapes the word of his mouth. And we see these descriptions in the Old Testament which verify what Christ will do In the second coming. And we see the book of Revelation is written to demonstrate in a very real sense that the second coming will fulfill the prophecies of the Old Testament. And I want to say this at this point. You and I should have no doubt about this. When you look at the Old Testament, you find that with exact detail the first coming of Christ was fulfilled. There are many Old Testament prophecies, for example, that Christ was going to be birth in Bethlehem. In Micah it says that. And there are many other prophecies that are fulfilled and we see exactly Literal fulfillment in the first coming of Christ in the Gospels that are clear fulfillments of the Old Testament and the coming of Christ, in the first coming of Christ. There should be no doubt, just by reflecting on what it says happened with Christ in the first coming, that these kinds of things will happen also in the second coming of Christ. It will happen. Christ will come again. He will exact judgment. It will be faithful. He will be true. And it will be thorough. And we must know that that will be the case. Based upon the fulfillment of prophecy in the first coming of Christ. And folks, reflecting on all of this brings us hope. The faith that we have is not a faith that is in vain. The faith that we have is a faith that will persevere. The faith that we have is not this esoteric spiritual thing. that only only spiritual thing. It will have clear, present, piercing reality in our world. And we must understand this. Our faith is a true faith in the coming Christ, who rose bodily from the grave. Finally, we have a very vivid picture of the victory of Christ. We have this as we see in verses 17 through 21 of this passage. You see, reflecting on Christ's coming gives hope because it displays the future victory over sin and Satan. In verse uh 17 we pick up here. It says, and I saw an angel standing uh in the sun, which indicates that he will not be involved in this in this conquest. He's just observing it. And he cried with a loud voice, saying, In all the fowls that fly in the midst of heaven, Come and gather yourselves together unto the supper of the great God. Verse 18, that ye may eat the flesh of kings, and fle and the flesh of captains, and the flesh of mighty men, and the flesh of horses. and of them that sit on them, and the flesh of the men, both free and bond, both small and great. And I saw a beast, and the king of the earth, and their armies gathered together to make war against him that sat on the horse and against his army. And the beast was taken with him, the false prophet that brought miracles before him, with which he deceived them, that he received the mark of the beast and them that worshipped his image, these both were cast alive into a lake of fire burning with brimstone. And the remnant were slain with the sword of him that sat upon the horse, which sword proceeded out of his mouth, and all the fowls were filled with their flesh. Here we have the picture of vultures that are told by an angel to get ready because they're going to be a great day of feasting. Now, this is a very vivid picture, is it not? It is, in fact, kind of, by our standards, kind of a unsettling picture. If you can imagine if you've driving on the road, you ever seen this before? Driving on the on the side of the road or driving on a highway and you see vultures that are just ready to pounce in and and collect its dead prey after its carcass has been decayed. Maybe some of you have actually seen that. I've seen it on occasion. It's not very fun to watch. What is the point here that Christ is making by this very vivid illustration? When Christ makes this, what Christ is saying here is what God is saying here in this passage is this. The victory that Christ will have when he comes is a victory that is a true Real victory. It's a victory that is not just a spiritual victory that no one will see. It's a victory that finds its basis in reality. It is both a spiritual victory, but it is also a physical victory. When Christ comes before he even a word comes from his mouth. There is going there is a guarantee that his victory will come and that there will be true bloodshed that will occur. There will be an exactment of judgment. This is not a this is not something that will happen only spiritually. This is something that will happen in reality And we know that to be the case because the angel announces to these vultures, get ready for the great supper of God. The other thing that this demonstrates is this. There will be no discrimination when it comes to Christ's exacting of judgment. Christ will not choose favorites. He will not choose some people that will be exempt from this judgment and some people that will not, that will uh that will face the judgment. This will be a final judgment where if you are there, you will be, your blood will be shed. This will occur. It will be the fierce wrath of Christ upon this world. And then he says this in doing so, the beast and the false prophet will be slain. The beast is a picture of the secular power, is an opposition to God's people. There is the world system that is separate from Satan that is a personification, and then what we what we find here is a personification of the secular power. And its opposition to God's people that will be destroyed. And then we find also the false prophet prophet, and that represents the role of false religion. False religion is something that has been in the Antichrist will use to persuade the people of God to reject the truth of Christ. When Christ exacts this judgment on people, the observation of all of this will completely destroy the secular opposition. to the people of God, and will completely destroy the false religion that will be opposition to the people of God. And will set up in very exact measurements the ability for Christ to be able to come. to put away Satan for a time that we'll find in Romans chapter in Revelation chapter 20. We'll put him away. We'll set him aside. Will capture him so that Christ will be able to set up his kingdom where there will be true, real peace in the world that only Christ can give. That, folks, is the hope of the believer. Now, I have a question for you. How does this strike you? What is God's desire for us as His people as we read this passage? Well, I'll tell you what it's not. God's desire for his people as we read this passage is not to fear. It is a very vivid passage It is a passage that demonstrates the just demands of God in what Christ is going to do. There could be some sense of fearfulness as we read this passage. But that is not God's desire at all for his children. His children will be exempt from all of this. His children will not face the wrath to come. His children are going to be on the other side of all of this. This is a great hope of the believer that they will not face this judgment, that God will exact judgment, but we will not face it. This is something that God desires for us to be, first of all, admiring of. Our response should be one of admiration. And that's why it says. In several places in Second Thessalonians, it says verse um uh ch chapter one, verse seven, and to give you who are troubled rest with us that the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven with his mighty angels. In a flaming fire, vengeance on those who do not know God and on those who do not obey the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. These shall be punished with everlasting destruction from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his power When he comes in that day to be glorified in his saints, and to be admired among all those who believe. Because our testimony among you was believed. When we look to the coming of Christ, there is an admiration That God wants us to have, we ought to stand in awe of the character of God as displayed in the coming of Christ when we see this. We ought to view the coming of Christ with great admiration. We also ought to view the coming of Christ with great anticipation. In 1 Corinthians 1, verse 7, it says, so that you come short in no gift. eagerly waiting for the revelation of our Lord Jesus Christ. The same thing is said in Hebrews chapter 9 verse 28. So Christ was offered once to bear the sins of many, to those who eagerly wait for him, he will appear a second time, apart from sin, for salvation. The sentiment in the New Testament that Paul wants us to have and and the writer of the book of Hebrews wants us to have and God wants us to have. is this eagerly waiting in great anticipation of the return of Christ. We, there is a sense in which for us as Christians We see the world. We see the injustice of the world. And we know it's got to be fixed. And Christ will do that. But we will be exempted from that wrath. Why? Because Christ is our Lord and our Savior, and he will be our protector. There is then another response that we need to have. And I want to point this out as we think about this particular response. If you recall in history of the United States, there was this great ship called the Titanic. The Titanic was known to be a ship that would not be able to be uh to be uh to go down. It was not it was named as the unsinkable ship All the people that were on that Titanic and its maiden voyage were occupied with the opulent uh display of the uh of the decor and furnishings and the extravagant activities that were on board. Everybody was focused on the internal work, the internal great things about this ship And it seemed as though people were not paying attention enough to where the ship was going. And as they were occupied with the internal workings of the ship, they ran into an iceberg. Folks, you and I can do the same thing in our lives. Do you realize that? We could so be so preoccupied with our lives. We could be so preoccupied with the rearranging of the chairs, of the furnishings, of our life. We could so be so preoccupied with what's happening in our lives, we forget to look at where our life is going. We forget to see the trajectory of our life. We can forget to observe the direction of our whole lives. And when we look at the coming of Christ. When we view the first coming of Christ and we view the second coming of Christ, we can strike that chalk line correctly. We can see with perspective that God sees We can look at where that ship is going so that we can be going at from from on our on our voyage from the coming of Christ and accepting him as our Savior. to where we are going in the second coming of Christ, anticipating his great return. And that's why it says all over the place in the New Testament that Christ's desire when he comes is to find us blameless. First Thessalonians 3, verse 13 says this, so that he may establish your hearts blameless in holiness before our God and Father at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ with all his saints. First Thessalonians 5, verse 23 says, Now may the God of peace himself sanctify you completely, and may your whole spirit, soul, and body be preserved blameless at the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ And there are many other places in the New Testament where blamelessness is what Christ is looking for. There is a sense in which Christ's coming is imminent. That we don't know when he is coming back. In fact, the Christ says in in Matthew 25 that he doesn't even know when it when he's coming back exactly. Only the Father knows that. And there is a reason that this remain the timing of the coming of Christ remains a mystery for us. It remains a mystery, folks, because we are to anticipate Every day that he may come back. And the Bible says, He that hath his hope, 1 John, purifieth himself, even as he is pure. God desires us to remember every day that at any moment Christ would return for his own in the rapture of the church, which is a segment of his coming. 1 John 2, verse 28, then says this is our final response. And now, little children, abide in him, that when he appears, we may have confidence. And not be ashamed before him at his coming. We return to the theme that we have studied over the last month, and that is that we need to abide in Christ. Why do we need to abide in Christ? Why do we need to stay faithful to him? Why do we re we need to remain in him? That is the way that we will be able to anticipate the coming of Christ. In a way that when he appears, we'll have confidence and not be ashamed before him at his coming. Christian, can I ask you a question this morning? Have you paid much attention lately to where the ship is going? Have you factored in the direction of that ship? Have you considered where your life is headed? Not just what's in your life, not just the the parts that are in the life, the the functions that are in your life of home, of work, of of of school, of family. But where the whole thing is going, God desires for his people to live for the furtherance of his kingdom. And the way that we do that, the way that we make sure that we strike that chalk line correctly, is that we have firmly fixed in our mind the coming of Christ, and we live in anticipation of his coming. It is only then that we will be able to have the right priorities. that God wants us to have. We can look ahead with this great hope that He's coming again. It should encourage us and it should challenge us to live pure, blameless lives before Him. Let's pray. Father, as we come to you, we see the coming of Christ so clearly and so frequently described in your word. It begins in the book of Genesis. It ends in the book of Revelation. And we look forward to the day where you will receive us to yourself. where you will return for your own. And we pray, Lord, that that on that day we will be ready. We pray, Lord, that we would live every day. Recognizing that you could come any day, and that we would keep ourselves blameless before a quick, uh crooked, and perverse generation, anticipating the hope of the believer May you encourage us. May we persevere in this race that you have set before us, looking unto Christ, who is the author and the finisher of our faith. who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is now set down at the right hand of you. Lord, may we live in light of your imminent return. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.