Book of John this morning, chapter sixteen, and I w just want to express my own thankfulness that Roberta is in church today after a a long bout. Don't mean to embarrass her, but I am thrilled to see her here and I know you all are as well. It's just incredible to see the Lord's working and uh in her life, uh just to bring her back to to health. Continue to pray. I don't think I I I think you appreciate continued prayer for for recovery. This is her first time out in public. So we're glad that she chose us to be the first place. So we're thankful, thankful for that. And so just thrilled to see how the Lord is working uh uh and healing uh Roberta. John chapter sixteen and we're going to be looking today at at uh the end of four and in verse fifteen uh through first fifteen I sometimes think that we make the mistake of being fatalistic uh when it comes to the influence of the gospel in our world. Um Fatalism is generally generally referred to as the view that we are powerless to do anything other than what we actually do. Including in that is the that man has no power to influence the future or indeed his own actions. And of course we know that the world is getting worse, and as we observe the world Um we see that sin is more accessible. Sin has always been there. It's always been insidious. It's always been uh uh uh been been there ever since uh the fall. But but obviously it's more accessible. It seems to be more in your face ever more than ever before. There seem we can we can in our country's history look at the hostility toward Christians and we seem to see think we seem to see that that is on the increase, and if we're not careful, we can become very negative or pessimistic about the influence of the gospel in our world Frankly, even I've sometimes talked to older pastors, many years my senior, and sometimes they get into this sort of mode of sort of saying, well, you know, the best thing to do is just sort of hunker down and you know the world's getting so bad we really can't do anything and let's just sort of hunker down and, you know, wait for d death or something. Um and and there is sort of this mentality uh that uh you can sort of get into and that's probably uh you know a little bit of a little bit of of hyperbole there, but w you can sort of get into that mode and and it is true when you just think about how bad the world is and the hostility of the world toward Toward Christ and toward his church and toward the gospel, certainly you can become rather depressed about things. But do you know Christ balances what he has already said about the influence of the world and the suffering and persecution that Christians are going to have to go through and the hostility that we see With the reality that this Holy Spirit is is here. He's going to come. Sorry, the disciples here, he is going to come when Christ ascends. And here we have in this passage this extreme amount of hope and positivity because the Holy Spirit intervenes, it pierces that darkness. And you find in this passage later on in verse 33, for instance, of chapter 16 It says, These things have I spoken unto you, that in ye might have peace, in the world ye have tribulation, but be of good cheer, if I have overcome the world. Explains about this Holy Spirit that He's going to give to them and that's going to intervene on the lives of even unbelievers in the world to convict them. And we see here that the result is going to be that we can be at peace even that there is victory. And we find even joy in verse twenty-two of this chapter that we're going to get to eventually where it says, And now and ye now therefore have sorrow, but I will see you again, and your heart shall rejoice, and your joy And your joy no man taketh from you. There is this joy that can occur in in anticipation of Christ's return, but also realizing that Christ in his Spirit, the Holy Spirit, Christ's Spirit is here. And we've got to remember that. We do not need to have a pessimistic outlook on our influence in the world. And it is true that we look at the world and it's very dark. And it is sort of can be a bit depressing. And we have great cause for concern. But on the other hand, we have great cause for hope and encouragement. Because the Holy Spirit, in a way today, in this age, is working in a way that he didn't work in other in times past. You look at the work of the Holy Spirit in the Old Testament, it was there. He did empower certain individuals for certain times to do things for God's service. But never before is the work of the Holy Spirit so prevalent as it is in the church age. And so Christ is anticipating this, and he's telling his disciples how this is all going to work together. And I'm looking forward to for us to look at all of this, but first let's go to the Lord in prayer and ask his blessing on our time. Father, we come to you and we ask That you would encourage us with the truth from your word this morning about this great uh working of your spirit. Not only in our lives as Christians, but in the world. We are not left to simply struggle on our own and hope uh against hope that somebody will come out of their darkness into the light uh apart from the intervention of the spirit of God. And I pray, Lord, today, that this would be a reminder to us and a challenge for us that as we serve And as we reach out to others with the good news of the gospel, that we have a helper, we have an advocate. We have someone who is there with us, who lives inside of us. And not only does he live inside of us, he is in the world, restraining the world and convicting the world. And I pray, Lord, that you would help us to see that today. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. How can we be encouraged? By Christ's plan for the work of the Holy Spirit in our world. Well, first of all, we need to understand that the advantage of the Holy Spirit to the disciples. Would you notice beginning in verse 4 of chapter 16 it says, But these things have I told you when ye when in uh that when the time shall come, ye may remember that I told you of them. And these things I said, not unto you at the beginning, because I was with you, but now I go my way to him that sent me. And none of you asketh me whither goest thou. But because I have said these things unto you, sorrow has filled your heart Nevertheless I tell you the truth, it is expedient for you that I go away. For if I go not away, the comforter will not come to you. But if I depart, I will send him unto you. Christ begins by explaining in this passage that it is to their advantage that He goes away from them. By this point, he is they're still preoccupied with and overwhelmed with the with the thought that he is going to be leaving them. He says what he says to them in verse 4. He explains that he's saying it to them, not that they would be able to digest everything now. But that one day they would be able to recall what they were told, and that the Holy Spirit is actually going to help them to recall those things and obviously pen them down for us. He indicates here in this passage that in the beginning, though, that they are not able to receive this truth right now. He even points out that they're not able to questi they're not even asking where he is going. He says, none of you have asked where I'm going. That seems to be a contradiction with a passage that we have seen previously. In chapter 13, verse 36, Peter actually says, Lord, where are you going? So, what does it mean here when Christ says, none of you have asked? The answer that has to do with what Christ is actually saying in his intention toward the disciples. When Peter asked before Lord where you are going, this was not a thoughtful, inquisitive statement toward Christ. This was not something where he was really analyzing what was going to happen and the significance of what was going to happen and where he was going. That's not what Peter was doing. Peter what Peter was asking was sort of this knee-jerk reaction He says, I'm leaving you, Peter says, where are you going? Not really wanting to know exactly where he's going and the significance of where he's going and what's going to happen after that, but really just Like, what are you doing? Where are you going? Why are you leaving me? It's a response. Just we can imagine this being the case, all of us uh those of us who have young children or uh uh um uh experienced this or seen this before where you leave your child in the nursery and they might ask where you go. They might ask a child might ask where is the parent going, they're not really wondering whether or not you're going to the sanctuary or to a Sunday school class or to the fellowship hall. They just don't want you to go That's the way the disciples feel toward Christ at this point. In fact, the Bible says that sorrow has filled their hearts. And what Christ says here is that because sorrow has filled their hearts, they are not able to receive the truth, to digest it, to think through it. In a way that they will be able to later on. The implication here for the disciples is that there are sometimes In our lives, that we experience such a great sense of loss, or we anticipate such a great sense of loss. That it impedes our ability to receive truth, to really think through truth, to really meditate on it, and to process it correctly. Have you ever noticed that? Have you ever experienced some extreme loss in your life that caused you to not really be able to process truth? That is a reality when you begin to lose, when you have some sort of loss in the beginning stages of that. You're sort of in shock. You have a hard time being able to process there is even a physical reaction to a sudden sense of loss that happens in the brain, cortisol covers the brain And it and it it it uh diminishes uh it it causes us to react rather than think through things. Sustains a sustained amount of cortisol in the brain over over thirty uh out thirty um days can actually begin to diminish higher brain functions. And so even on a physical level, that is the case. But Christ is noting this for the disciples that the loss that they are anticipating is keeping them from being able to receive truth. And you know, the reality is there is application for us as well. There are times in our lives where we have such great sense of loss. That we are not able to receive truth either. On one hand, it is helpful for us to just understand that. If we think about it this way, that we just are aware that that is a possibility, that when you are hit with a loss when you are hit with something, that you just are aware that you're having a hard time receiving truth right now. I can think back to times where I had great loss. One of the most notable is when I lost my mom cancer. She was forty-eight. There was this great loss there And I remember even reading Scripture and knowing academically what it said, but not being able to receive it in my heart. And there is a difference. And so when you get into that mode, here is what occurs. What occurs is this. The pattern in God's word is clearly that I need to think, then do Then there's an emotional response to that. In other words, I need to think right, then do right, then feel right. But when you feel so badly, sometimes you inadvertently place the feeling up ahead of the thinking. And you begin to feel and then behave off of your feelings. And then perhaps you think about it. And a lot of times what we do when we have it rearranged We feel a certain way, then we behave off of our feelings, and then our thinking becomes making adjustments for what we did. We begin to rationalize what we did based upon what we think is clear thinking, but actually is not. It's based upon our feelings. You follow that? I think anybody who's gone through a sense of loss can kind of identify with that reality. It is easy to get it mixed up in our minds. And so you you know s I mean there's some people that sort of perpetually do this. They live as a victim and they live in a world that they live in the world where they're always the victim and so there's this em there's this emotional basis. They behave based upon emotion, and then their thinking is a they adjust, they constantly adjust their thinking based upon what their behavior is to make them feel better. As uh my pastor growing up said, everybody wants to pillow their head at night and they'll find a way to do it. And so we need to understand this. We need to remember the right pattern, but there is a time for simply when you have a sense of loss, simply just realizing you're just not in the not in the bill not having the ability to receive truth. Now I want you to notice what Christ does here. Christ does not rail on them for not being able to receive truth. He doesn't say, you pitiful, uh, you pitiful excuse for disciples. That's not what he does. He doesn't identify here the fact that they are just Terrible and what do you think you're doing and you at get out of my fa I mean we don't see that there do we? You know what Christ does Christ says this. I'm going, he says this to them in such a caring and patient way, he says, look, I'm going to tell you some things. You can't really process them. I'm going to just tell you the facts. I'm going to tell you what's truth. I'm going to tell you what you need to know. The Holy Spirit is going to come later and help you to process all of this. He's going to help you understand all of this so that you can actually eventually pen down this on a piece of paper. He didn't expect the disciples at this point to say, okay, take a pen and paper, write this down, it's going to be inscription, and you're going to get the New Testament from this That's not how he did it. And I really see here, there's a sense in which we see God's patience in all of this. God's ability to be able to to uh uh uh uh acquiesce to our weakness and the ability to be able to um adjust make adjustments and make allowances for just weaknesses that we have. The reality is if you and I are going through a sense of loss in our lives, the reality is that's not wrong. It's not wrong to feel a sense of loss when loss occurs. I don't see here a critical view of the disciples. He doesn't judge them. He identifies the fact that he says, you know, you you haven't thought, it's clear that you can't think through this. You haven't even asked me where I'm going to really process this. But we also see here This patience from Christ's point of view that says, you know what, Christ, the Holy Spirit's going to come. He's going to help you process these things. And you know, I just think that there is an appropriate application for all of us. When you can't receive truth and you have the Spirit of God living inside of you, It is as though the Spirit of God knows exactly when to illumine the Word of God to you at the right time. He knows when no one else can. He understands this. And of course, we're going to find that he uses the Word of God. The Holy Spirit always uses the Word of God to do these kinds of things. But there is this and have you ever experienced that before? Have you ever experienced a sense of loss where you're you're sort of numb? You're sort of just not able to receive truth. where you're thinking right then behaving then than you're than you're responding in in a in appropriate right emotion. And it's like you're finally reading in s reading a scripture or you're sitting in a service in the pre under the preaching of God's Word or something. And finally, it's like the Spirit of God penetrates all of that and helps you to finally be able to receive truth again. And that's how good God is. He is a good God to be able to give us His Spirit that indwells us if we know Him as our Savior, so that we can. And the Spirit of God knows, in fact, we know this is the way the Spirit of God works because sometimes you ever get to the place where you pray and don't know what to pray And we find in the book of Romans, chapter 8, that he prays with utterances that with with uh with things that can't be uttered. We we we don't we can't pray, but Christ, but the Holy Spirit knows. I think when we have times of loss like this, number one, we need to understand and appreciate the patience of God. But we also need to pray. We need to reach out and just pray to God, say, God, I am having a hard time receiving the truth. If we don't recognize it and we just sort of And we just sort of ignore it or we just stay numb, I think that's a mistake. But if we can just recognize, you know what, I'm really having a hard time receiving truth right now. And we can ask God by the power and the influence of his Spirit to help us to receive truth from His Word. There can be great, you could see direct answers to prayer in that. Next time you and I experience a sense of loss Maybe it would be wise to just realize we're not receiving truth the way God wants us to. And cry out to Him and ask the question as David did in Psalm 42, why art thou cast down, O my soul? Hope thou in God, which then from thence comes my help. Well, the disciples are not able to receive the truth that Christ is going to preach to them But today, by the working of the Holy Spirit, we should be able to receive this truth that is found in verses in this next section of Scripture. And we find here that he says, it is to their advantage that he goes away for a particular purpose because of the intervening work of the world, uh work in the world by the Spirit. And this ought to be great encouragement to us. We pick up here in verses 8 through 11, which says And when he has come, he will reprove the world of sin and of righteousness and of judgment, of sin because they believe not on me Of righteousness, because I go to my Father, and ye see me no more. Of judgment, because the Prince of the World is judged. And I have yet many things to say unto you, but ye cannot bear them now We find in this passage in verse 8, it says that the Holy Spirit is to convict the world of sin and of righteousness and of judgment. Well, what does it mean here when it says that he is there to convict the world? The word means to convince by exposing. For example, in John 3, verse 20, we find this word, for everyone practicing evil hates the light and does not come to the light. lest his deeds should be exposed. It's the same word. We find in Ephesians chapter 5, verse 13. But all things that are exposed are made manifest by the light. For whatever makes manifest is light. So we find here some indication that the Christ when he came, obviously he came as the light. And the light of Christ exposed the darkness of the world. But when Christ leaves, when he goes to the right hand of his father and ascends there, The Holy Spirit, he says, is going to come, and he is going to continue that exposing work to convince men of sin, of righteousness, and of judgment. We see in John chapter 15 verse 26, but then it says this, but when the helper comes Whom I shall send to you from the Father, the Spirit of Truth who proceeds from the Father, he will testify of me. And so the Spirit of God is going to do it continue the work that Christ started when he came to this earth as the light exposing the darkness. The Bible tells us here in John chapter 3, verse 3, most assuredly Christ says, I say unto you, until one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. The world cannot hate you, but it hates me, because I testify of it that its words works are evil. The word testify is something that Christ that the Holy Spirit is going to do. It says that He is the Spirit of truth. The Holy Spirit speaks truth to the world, and it exposes the world in three areas: of sin, of righteousness, and of judgment. Then we find that Christ is going to detail those words out. What does he mean when he says that he exposes the world of sin, of righteousness, and of judgment? We becut we pick up here in verse 9 that gives us some detail. Verse 9 says this: of sin, because they believe not on me. Now, when we're looking in this this idea, of course, most of us are aware of what sin is. The Holy Spirit convinces by exposing people that they are sinful. Now, are you aware that the world does not know immediately that it is sinful? They do not recognize that they are sinful. They're born with sin, but they don't recognize that they are sin. Christ has basically already said this in chapter 16, verse 2. Christ said to the disciples, they shall put you out of the synagogues. Yea, the time cometh that whosoever killeth you will think that he doeth good sir doeth God's service. And when you think of the world, and when you think of the darkness in the world, folks, the reason that they are in darkness is because they think they are doing right but they are doing wrong. They think they are living in the light, but they are living in darkness And what the Spirit of God has to do is expose their sin. Now, here's why they're in darkness. You know why they're in darkness? Because they are living in unbelief. In other words, what this passage is saying is there's one way to take this verse, this verse where it said which would say the sin is the sin of unbelief. But far more likely, folks, what is intended here is to point out That the reason they can't see their sin is because they're living in unbelief. You see, when someone is living in unbelief, they're living in darkness and they're not able to see their sin. And it is incredible to us who know Christ as our Savior to watch somebody else who is blinded by their own sin. Who can't seem to see. Have you ever said to yourself, and I don't mean in a judgmental sense, but have you ever said to yourself, can they not see this? Can't they see their own sin? Even an unsaved person. Can't they see that what they are doing is wrong? Now, the Bible does tell us in the book of Romans that we are all given a conscience, but it can be seared. And so we are living in a world, folks. Do you realize this that apart from the intervention of the Spirit of God, there is a reality in the world that the world is so dark They would never understand their own sin. And that's where light begins. Light begins When a person believes and recognizes that he is sinful, that his behavior and his life is defense against a holy God. And that this is something that he has to understand. And it is something, frankly, that only the Spirit of God can do in the life of a person. If you ever try to tell somebody that they are sinful and living in darkness and the Spirit of God isn't working on their life, what do you suppose you're going to get? You'll get nothing but hostility and opposition. Now the reality is this that the Holy Spirit does this exposing, but the exposing can cause one of two reactions. One response to the exposing is a response of sober humility because I am sinful in offense against God. The other one is a response of rebellion that galvanizes me to continue in the way that I am going. And when the Spirit of God works in the world, there is this possibility of both both possibilities in the life of an individual. Where on one hand, they may be galvanized to continue to sin. But on the other hand, they do have the opportunity to respond in humility to the exposure of their own sin. And then we find here the next verse that tells us not only does the Holy Spirit expose them of sin, but it exposes them of righteousness. Now, what does it mean when it exposes the world of righteousness? Well, we have an indication of what it's talking about here. Christ then says, because I go to my Father And ye see me no more. We find in the Bible that in many places in the New Testament, particularly in the Gospels, that that Christ is described in really all the New Testament. Christ is described as righteousness. If you want to see righteousness in physical form, you must look at Christ. He is righteousness. And when Christ came, as we've already noted, Christ came because he was purely righteous and completely righteous. When he came, his righteousness exposed unrighteousness. Now, I want us to think about this for a minute when we think of Christ's coming in his first advent. What kind of context did he come to? What kind of people did he did he rub up against? Do you remember in John chapter 2 when he went into the temple and he and he cleansed the temple? Do you suppose that prior to the cleansing of that temple, the religious leaders, do you suppose the religious leaders thought they were acting righteously? In fact, we find all over the Gospels that these Pharisees believed that they were living a righteous life. That they were following every letter of the law, they were following over and above the law, and they lived this righteous life, and they lived in righteousness. There was this certain kind of righteousness that they lived out. But Christ says in Matthew chapter 5, when he's speaking to the disciples, he says that your righteousness is going to have to exceed the righteousness of the Pharisees. And what he is talking about then is external righteousness. He is taught, or you could even say, sort of self-righteousness. Is the world self-righteous? Does the world have this, do they espouse to this external righteousness? Do they even exonerate their own conscience by pointing to all of their external righteousness? Have you ever heard somebody say, what I do defines me? Well, actually, that's not true. You are defined by what you are at birth, according to Scripture. What you do does not define you. You are a defined. What you do is a result of who you are. But somebody who is looking to external righteousness says, well, what I do defines me. And so you have the whole world that are saying, well, I am I give to charity. I do I'm good to my family. There are a group, there is a segment of the population that looks to their external righteousness That set and and and they don't ever look inside. They are of that group of people that Christ would call white sepulchres with dead men's bones. We find the same example in Romans chapters 1 through 3. You find there there are those who have given themselves over to a reprobate mind. and giving themselves over to vile unnatural affections. You have those that group of people, but then you have another group of people that they seem to be living righteously And their right, their external righteousness needs to be exposed for what it is. Have you ever tried to expose somebody who's living in external righteousness, but their heart is absolutely sinful? Do you think you can do that on your own? No chance of it. But you know what? The Spirit of God can. Because, like Christ, the Spirit of God is righteousness. He's the Spirit of truth, and He is righteous. And he can penetrate the heart. He can identify sin inside. And he can explain Expose the reality that a person who is living can can live with themselves when they're identifying their own external righteousness. And in order for them to come to Christ, in order for them to be able to receive the gospel, they've got to be willing to understand they are living by external righteousness rather than looking into the heart of the their own heart. And that's why it says in several places in Scripture, but one of which is in Isaiah 64, verses five and six, it says this. Ye meet him who rejoices and does righteous, who remembers you and in your ways. You are indeed angry For we have sinned. In these ways we continue, and we need to be saved, but we are all like an unclean thing, and all our righteousnesses are like filthy rags. We all fade as a leaf, and our iniquities like the wind have taken us away. The righteousness of the ex of the external kind is something that the Spirit of God must expose. in the world. And we can see this all over our world, can't we? I mean, if you it just just turn the news on sometime. Sometimes we're afraid to turn the news on, and sometimes that's probably a reasonable fear. But sometimes we need to we need to look at the protesters that are out there protesting in the streets and realizing, frankly, that there is an external righteousness that they have. Now I'm not saying to you this is not a political discussion, but my point is simply because what we need to do, well the Christian response is to is to f is to res is to honor those who are in authority that God has placed there. That's the Christian response. But you could see this in your w in the world all over the place. And I'll tell you what, there's no right or wrong of this. uh like one side the the the if you uh somebody who who is a political conservative can be as self-righteous as somebody who's a compl political liberal You see it both ways. There is obviously the self-righteousness of the world. And the only way that that is going to be penetrated is the conviction of the Spirit of God, the exposing work. of the Spirit of God. Then we find here, thirdly, the world, he convicts the world of judgment. It says in verse 11, of judgment, because the prince of this world is judged. And we see here in this passage What it says here, beginning in verse 11. And it says here, because the prince of this world is judged. In Genesis chapter 3, verse 15, we know that right after the fall of man, we have this declaration. It is the gospel in its most primitive form in the New Testament. And it says there in the that the that there will be enmity between the serpent or Satan and the woman And between your seed and her seed, he shall bruise your head. Talking about Christ bruising the head of Satan. And you shall bruise his heel. That passage tells us that there is this judicial decree when Christ came and died that pronounced judgment on Satan. Satan stands condemned before God even now. Now, he is still free to work in the world. He is still the prince and power of the air. He is still has great influence over the world. But folks, his day, his days are numbered. There will be a day when Christ comes in the second coming of Christ, which we looked at last Sunday. Where Satan will be judged and will be bound. And then ultimately, after a thousand years, he will be cast into the lake of fire. We know that Satan, the power of Satan is already judged. And and we need to understand this. That the the that that the problem with the world Is that they need to understand the judgment of Satan in a sense. The judgment of this world, in a sense, of the world system. In other words, There is a necessary component to receiving Christ, to understanding that they are going to be judged. Christ is the judge. He's already set the decree for Satan. And those who follow him will have the same demise as Satan. Those who choose to stay in their sin will go to judgment as well. There is great problems with theological liberalism, which will ignore the reality of the judgment to come. And we have to be careful about that. There is this mentality among some who would name the name of Christ, who suggests that this idea of a judgment of sin in the future is not reality. But folks, there is no doubt about this this in the New Testament, but very frankly, those people are being heavily influenced by the world and by Satan. Because the world has got to understand not only that they have sinned, not only that their righteousness are as filthy rags. But they've got to understand that their sin is an offense against a holy God, that there is a judgment for sin And just because God in this age of grace is so patient, sometimes we think to ourselves, do we not, do we not think to ourselves sometimes? Boy, why doesn't God just wipe that guy off the face of the planet? Are we not sometimes Just gripped with the reality of injustice in the world and the problems with people. And then you you know you gotta look at yourself and you realize your own problems as well. Folks, we've in order for the world to be able to genuinely come to Christ, they must understand not only that their sin, but that their sin is offensive against God, and their sin must be judged. If they do not accept Christ as their Lord and Savior, which satisfies the just demands of God. And the whole point that Christ is saying this is this. It's the Spirit of God who does it. Are you not glad? Are you not thankful that it is the Spirit of God that penetrates the heart? That convicts of sin. And he does this for in the world. Now, we then see in verses 12 through 15 That the Spirit of God is going to work in the disciples to bring forth the Word of God. And he's going to explain how he did that. But I don't have time to get through all of that. And so I'd like us just to move on to our final application of this passage. We will look at that next week. I want us to understand a couple of things. Number one, we must not allow the wickedness and darkness of this world to cause us to be fatalistic in our approach. to the furtherance of God's kingdom. So important. I I just would ask you right now When you think of the possibility of someone coming to Christ in this world, what is your outset? What is your mind, what is your thinking? Never gonna happen? Is it not easy to get cynical? I have to fight it myself, I'll tell ya. You rub shoulders with people you know the ministry would be great if it weren't for people. And you gotta fight cynical uh just sort of a cynicism. And if you look theologically at why people are the way they are It's because of the fall. It's because of the world. But if you if we're not careful, that cynicism can begin to cause us To have this pessimistic view where we just hunker down and have this fortress mentality in our lives Where we go and we do our thing, we provide for our family, and we come home, and we just we just try to raise a godly family and, you know, sort of this isolationist mentality. Folks, that is not the mentality that God intended for us to have. You look at the book of Acts, and it is replete with many examples of people going all over the world. Sharing the gospel and people coming to Christ and the Spirit of God working. And you know there is no greater joy than to see the Spirit of God clearly working in the life of an individual to bring him to Christ. And it does happen. And you and I need to understand that. And we need to have the mentality that That we can be used by the Spirit of God to do that in the lives of people. And I would just ask you this question. Is that are you are you willing to be used that way? See, here's the thing. What is clear in the New Testament is that the Spirit of God works in conjunction with the people of God. They're always inseparably linked. What you find in the New Testament is three different things. You've got the Spirit of God, the people of God, and the Word of God. And you need all three of those components for the Spirit of God to do its work in the world. Clearly, what he's talking about here is the Word of God, which we're going to look at next week. But you need all three of those components. And frankly, there are many times in our lives where we have a wrong mentality when it comes to sharing our faith. And by the way, I'm not suggesting that we cram this stuff down people's throats. Sometimes it's just a matter of saying, hey, have you ever thought about reading the Bible? I appreciated Lisa's testimony a few weeks ago in baptism where her brother just said, Hey, have you ever thought about looking at the scriptures and seeing what it says? It's all he said. And when the Spirit of God, God can use us in those ways, because very frankly, it's not us that does the work, it's the Spirit of God that does the work through us, which reminds us of what? That we need to abide in Christ as a branch. And when we do, then fruit will come. Fruit will result from that. May we understand that. May we be optimistic that the Holy Spirit will work until Christ comes to convict the world of sin and of righteousness and of judgment. We must Be mindful and remain hopeful that the Holy Spirit is exposing people in the world to truth And we must rely on God's divine plan to bring forth His Word for the Holy Spirit to do his work in the world. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and thank you for your word that sets forth this divine plan. We see what your word tells us, and we know that the Spirit of God indwells those of us who know you as our Lord and Savior. We thank you that you've given us this Spirit, that it is to our advantage that Christ went away. We thank you, Lord, for your patience in our lives, that there are times in our lives where we are less receptive to receiving truth, usually because of some loss or anticipation of loss. We thank you that the Spirit of God works in us to know how and when it can illuminate us to understand your truth from your word. We thank you, dear Father, Lord, for that. And I pray that as we go throughout our lives and our world, that we would have a mentality that you are at work. That your Spirit of God is still present and is still convicting the world of sin and of righteousness of judgment. It's still doing it. And I pray, Lord, that you would help us to live that way until you return. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.