I think so, yeah. Yeah. Alright. Good to see everyone out this morning. We read our scripture reading today will be from Psalm twenty Twenty-four. Psalm twenty-four. You go stand with me if you will Reading of scriptures. The earth is the Lord's and all its fullness, the world and those who dwell therein, for he has founded it upon the seas, and established it upon the waters. Who may ascend into the hill of the Lord, or who may stand in his holy place, he who has clean hands and a pure heart, who has not lifted up his soul to an idol, nor sworn deceitfully He shall receive blessing from the Lord and righteousness from the God of his salvation. This is Jacob, the generation of those who seek him, who seek your Lift up your heads, O you gates, and be lifted up, you everlasting doors. And the King of Glory shall come in. Who is the King of Glory? The Lord. Strong and mighty, the Lord mighty in battle. Lift up your heads, O you gates, lift up you everlasting doors. For the King of glory shall come in. Who is the King of Glory? The Lord significantly late this morning. Um but um interesting things happen from time to time. So anyway we we're we're talking about this is probably the last time I should preach on the sovereignty of God for a while because Because this is an illustration of it. He's in control, and we're definitely not. Alright, so let's go ahead and open with a prayer. Father, we thank you for the privilege of gathering this morning. And we thank you for your sovereignty. And we're reminded today in Living Color that we are we could do everything possible to try to have things work right, but sometimes they don't. And we know that we're it it shows us our own finiteness, it shows us our own uh humanity, it shows us our own flaw just being flawed. And yet we're thankful in times like that that we know that you are in control, that you are sovereign over all things. And even something like delays and not being able to get the streaming down and all that kind of thing. All of that can ultimately be for your purposes, will be ultimately for your purposes. And you can use it in our lives. And we don't sometimes even know how you're using it and why you're doing what you're doing. Usually we don't In the midst of it. But we can look back and we can say, there's reasons. And so we thank you, Lord, for that. We thank you for just the fact that we can rely upon you, that we cannot rely on ourselves. And we have this inclination to want to do that, but we cannot do that. We must learn to rely upon you. And an example is today And we pray, Lord, that you would help us as we worship you to get worship you and honor you this morning, that you would be pleased with it, Lord, and uh that when we when we look at your word this morning that you would that um you would be pleased and that we would uh in our minds and our hearts be receptive to it and we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. We see it. And we'll do that. So they're up in room. Uh results. All right, please take your Bibles and turn to Exodus this morning. Exodus chapter ten. We do walk by faith and not by sight. I do want to say and just encourage you to keep Zach Roth in your prayers. He is is headed out to down to BJ probably right after the service I would imagine, something close to that. And uh I just want to say how much um I appreciate even in in him finding ways to serve here. He was doing our our blog for us and and uh we need to be in prayer for him. I it it this is a hard year for anybody that's graduate. this year. And he graduated with his bachelor of arts, right? He graduated for with his four year degree. And that is significant. And it unfortunately is not very e uh he you know it's not like there's a graduation and there's or there's a party or those kinds of things that that because of what's happened that's all been uh either delayed or not or canceled, I'm not sure which but Um uh we do we do recognize that achievement, uh Zach, and we're thankful that the Lord is working in your life to to bring you to the place where he's uh you gonna use you and and And now to next steps, he's going to be going to seminary. And um also he's going to be uh uh teaching speech classes. There's nothing nothing more fun than freshman speech. And so I think he'll have And uh so I'm just really grateful, uh, but I also just really want to to pray for him. So we're gonna do that now actually. We're gonna just take a few minutes. And pray for him and uh congratulate him on his achievement. Uh it's uh we should have mentioned this several weeks ago. It's he's been graduated for quite a while, actually. But um we're uh We're thrilled for him uh that that he has and there's others as well uh that um in high school and other others that have graduated and stuff. But um let's Just pray for him as he's headed out to college. And we'll also just pray that the Lord blesses our time as we go to his word. Father, we do come to you and we thank you for Zach. Thank you for his desire to serve you and to follow after you. And uh we thank you for the achievement that he has uh accomplished and in uh of uh getting his four year degree from BJ Lord and um that's no small task. A lot of work and um a lot of perseverance Lord and uh Certainly I know he's thankful for his parents who've been so supportive in that as well. And uh Lord, we thank you for him and we pray, Lord, as he goes out now to heads back down to to BJ earlier than most other folks are heading to college because of um because of the uh uh his his responsibilities with teaching. I pray Lord that you just give him a great semester and here that you'd give him wisdom as there's all kinds of procedures that are gonna have to be followed now with with uh covet and everything down there and uh trying to teach speech while la while various uh procedures have to be followed. There's a whole new layer of uh adjustment there for everybody going down. And so I pray Lord that you would just be with uh him and uh that he would be able to gr uh grasp well uh grasp the ways of teaching well and teach well and be a uh ministry to the to the kids I pray that it would really uh be something that would be helpful and and uh uh a way that He can serve you. Just be with him as far as just church ministry down there. I know that I thank you for his faithfulness in uh in ministering and serving in in a local church while he's been down there. I pray that that would continue and that you'd find it Find him find uh opportunities for him to be able to serve. And um so we just pray that you'd really use him and give him a good semester. Lord, we thank also now of your word. And uh just the privilege of being able to gather and to and to look at it and to study it and to hopefully understand it and apply it to our lives. And we pray now that in the midst of all of the um i in in the midst of all of the less than ideal situations that have that we've been in uh the in the morning so thus far, Lord, that you'd settle our hearts and our minds and just give us the ability to be able to uh to open up your word, uh to preach it, to receive it, and to live But and we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, we are really in the midst uh in Exodus chapter ten of um of this whole story of God and Moses dealing with Pharaoh and it's been one plague after another after another after another. Has anybody, as we gone through these plagues, has anybody said, why so many plagues? Why nine different plagues Has everybody thought that? Many of us, you know, maybe not because we're so used to the story, we've grown up with a story, but I mean one after another after another. Has anybody thought about the fact that Pharaoh at this point is looking Pretty foolish. Like he just looks dumb. Like his whole country's going down the tubes, his whole the whole ne I'm I mean they're not the cattle's being destroyed and and uh and livestock and uh plants are being destroyed and uh uh people People are getting sick and people are dying and all kinds of things are happening. And you know, if you're just reading this narrative for the first time, you're reading through and I would think you'd be thinking, we'd we'd all be thinking, um, why doesn't he give it up? Like You know, by plague three, maybe plague four, but he doesn't. He keeps going and going. He keeps hardening his heart, as the passage says. And really, actually, what we find in this passage is that there's a reason for that. The reason that he keeps going, even though it's foolish. is because God is actually hardening his heart. And what you're going to see beginning in chapter 10, you've we've seen how God has hardened his heart in the past. Mostly what we've seen so So far is Pharaoh hardening his own heart. And occasionally we've seen God hardening his heart, but now it's really gonna going to focus in on him And I want you to notice actually in chapter 9, verse 34, we'll pick up here. And I know and just notice how this phrasing is. Actually just look at verse 35. Pick up a verse 35. It says, and the heart of actually it does have to be 34, sorry. And when Pharaoh saw that the rain and the hail and the thu and the thunders were ceased He sinned yet more and hardened his heart, he and his servants. And the heart of Pharaoh was hardened Neither would he let the children of Israel go, as the Lord had spoken. And the Lord said unto Moses, chapter 10, verse 1: Go in unto Pharaoh, for I have hardened his heart and the heart of his servants. Now I might show these my my signs before them. So you have three different times it talks about the hardening of the heart. The first time it says Pharaoh hard his own heart. Then you have another time where it says that Pharaoh's heart is just hard. That's the status of his heart. That's the state of his heart. It's just hard. And then you have the next time it says it talks about his heart. It says that God hardened Pharaoh's heart. And what we're actually going to see is the working of God's sovereignty in this passage. Now you then might ask the question. What is sovereignty? Sovereignty has three components. You ready? Sovereignty is authority, that God has all authority. That God is always and fully in control. God has all control and God is completely able. Authority, control, and ability. Those are the components of sovereignty. God is completely sovereign in that He is fully at full authority. He is completely in control. and he has full ability to do whatever he wants. That's sovereignty. And we really then begin to see in chapters 10 and 11 The justice of God is actually working out His sovereignty. It's showing, it's displaying His sovereignty. Why is it so important for God to display Why is God so intent on this? In fact, you find throughout the Old Testament, He's very, very focused on displaying His sovereignty. The fact that He is in full authority, the fact that He is in control. And the fact that he has full ability. And I'll tell you the reason. The reason is because we are we we are so inclined to depend on ourselves. We are so inclined to think that we have the ability. We are s we are we just are bent to do it ourselves. Uh this can this you'll see at a very young age with your kids. Is there anything Like mine. Sorry, kids. And really it's just everyone. It's not just my kids. It's everybody's kids. Well, they come out entirely dependent upon their parents. But it's not long, maybe two or three, that they begin to they begin to think that they don't need their parents as much. And and they begin to say things like, I'll do it myself. I remember one of my children w that was very, very common at like two years old. I'll do it myself. Didn't want her clothes to be put on by her parents, didn't want to be I'll do it myself. I'll do it myself. Very, very strong. To the point where we had to we had to discipline her. And uh and it was it it was Well the truth is all of us are we have this in in ourselves we have this this inclination to do it ourselves, to go our own way, to to try to control. And God over and over and over again in the Old Testament, and particularly in this passage. Says, you're not in control, Pharaoh's not in control, I am in control. Now there's a reason, and we're going to get to the reason why he's not just doing that in order to be sort of lording over us. There's a reason that he's doing that. We'll get to that in a a little in a little while. But understand that initially we've got to we've got to really grasp the fact that we we want to be con control and go our own way undo our own thing and God over and over in his word is telling uh telling us we're not in control. And not only that, that he is in control, and and the truth is as we think of our own lives and we look at our lives and we view them And the times that we actually see that God is in control, that God is sovereign, and we recognize that, do you know that's really God's mercy on us? It is his mercy when he shows that to us. So when we look at this passage, we're seeing the sovereignty of God displayed in this passage. The fact that he's in control, the fact that he has authority has authority, the fact that he has ability. So how is it that this his justice works To show his sovereignty. Well, we begin by seeing that the sovereign justice of God works in the human heart for his purposes. And we see that in the passage we've read. That the sovereignty of God works in the human heart And and you'll notice, first of all, I want to point this out to you, and you'll see this in verse two. Why? It actually tells us why. What is the purpose? Look at verse 2. Actually, pick up in verse 1. Now the Lord said to Moses, Go in Pharaoh, for I have hardened His heart and the hearts of his servants. Why? That I may show these signs of mine before him. I may show these signs of mine before him. And then look at verse 2. And that you may tell, Moses, you may tell in the hearing of your son and your son's son the mighty things I have done in Egypt And my signs which I have done among them, that you may know that I am the Lord. Why has God hardened Pharaoh's heart? Why has God continued this whole these many, many plagues, it is so that Israel, so that God's people have this indelible mark on their minds about God being in control, God being sovereign. Nine different pledges. One after another after another after another. And God keeps hardening Pharaoh's heart as his pawn, frankly. To show that Pharaoh, the most powerful man in all of the known world, is simply a pawn in the hands of God. And they want, and God wants Israel to remember this. We are really good forgitters, don't we? That's like what we're best at is forgetting. God will teach us something. He'll teach us that he's in control and we're not in control. He'll teach us that. And then, you know, like two weeks we forget it and we're back in control. And God has to teach us again. You're not in control. And two weeks later, we're not, or whatever it is, or that we're we're and God said, I want to show you in my word, and I'm going to use multiple chapters to demonstrate you're not in control, I'm in control. And that's what we see in this passage. Psalm one oh six verse seven says, Our fathers understood not by wonders in Egypt, they remembered not the multitudes of thy mercies, but provoked him in it in the Sea, even the Red Sea, nevertheless, he saved them for his sake that he might make his mighty power to be known. God is really intent on this, that his power is known. Now the question then becomes why? Why is that? Why does God want us to know his power? Why is it so even why is it so important? For us to realize we're not in control. Why is all that so important? Is God just this sort of person with a club ready to pounce on us and submit and I'm going to beat you into the ground. I mean, is that God? Well let's let's back up for a minute and ask this question. Why is it that we rebel? Why do we rebel against God, against his wives? Why is an individual, and all of us are guilty of it, every one of us is guilty of rebelling, one time or another, the whole world actually is. Why is it that we we rebel? I'll tell you the reason. It's really simple. You're probably thinking way ahead of what I'm thinking. We want to. We want to do what we want to do when we want to do What we want to do. We don't want to do what God wants us to do, we want to do what we want to do. That's why we rebel, right? Okay, let's go one step further. Why do we want to do what we want to do? Why? Why is it that we want to do what we want to do? Anyone know? Well, let's think about this for a minute. Let me illustrate it for you. Suppose um suppose uh I I don't even like roller coasters, so this is a little bit hard on illustration for me, but uh So suppose you love you love amusement park rides. And you go to you know one of these music music parks, uh like Hershey Park or somewhere. And the only rides you've ever ridden, you're just thrilled by them. You're thrilled by the um the merry-go-round. You just love the merry-gound It's just awesome. Every time you go on the merry-ground, you just get this thrill. You love the merry-go-round. And so every time you go to the amusement park, you go on the merry-go-round. And other people may you may see other people going to other rides, but you're like, nah, I'm going to my ride. That's my ride, it's the merry-go-round. And every single time you're going to the circle. Like that getting thrills from this merry-go-round. Well the owner of the place sees you time after time go to this merry-go-round. And he just installed this the state-of-the-art uh roller coaster. It it has everything you want a roller coaster to have have and he's ri he rides it himself. It's so great. He rides it himself like every day. It's just it's just such a great experience. It has even like it's like beautiful. Like you go to the peaks of this roller coaster and you You see these great scenes that you come down. I mean, it is just like a roller coaster you have never imagined before in your life. And he comes to you. And he says, hey, look, you're riding your wheel of force, you know, you're riding your thing. And he comes to you and he says, hey, I just built a brand new roller coaster. It's awesome. I ex- I ride it myself all the time, and you're going, okay. Hey, if you will follow these directions, I'm going to give you directions. If you do this, this, this, this, this, take it right here, turn, turn left here, right here, you'll code this roller coaster, and I'm paying for it, and you could ride it from free. And you say, I I I got what I got. I love what I have. I'm I'm I'm ex I I I this is what I want. And they say, but you don't understand. The owner says, you don't understand. I've got this incredible roller coaster for you that you can have that you can ride. It's a great experience. And you're so focused on that merry-go-round. I mean you're just focused so much on the joy you get from that merry merry-gound, you don't really trust this guy telling you the the this roller coaster is way better. You just don't trust him. And he keeps telling you. And you keep saying, uh so one day he says, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, and he's I'm gonna make sure he he sees He's this. He's the owner of the place. He shuts that thing off. He shuts the wheel of wheel the the what do I have a problem problem with this? Is Mary go round? I'll say that that often, I guess. Okay. He shuts the merry-go-round off. Just shuts it off. And he says, would you look? Just look at that thing. You can see the peaks of it. You can see the ability it has. Do you see all of those people that are having a great time? Would you stop and look at this? And of course because he stopped the w the the the what is my problem with this, the thing. Because he stopped that thing, okay. Married go round, then then he he's you have to look. Now that that is a very, very you know, not a not a perfect illustration, but it hopefully will help us understand. Do you know what God has? He has this experience called fellowship. It's the Father has this fellowship, this glory with his son. And the Son has this fellowship, this glory with the Holy Spirit. There's this glorious fellowship that they've experienced. And they and God really wants people who have been created to join in with this To stop going their own way and doing their own little things in order to experience this joy they have that He has for them. And so sometimes he'll stop that merry-go-round in your life. And he'll say, would you look at this? I'm in control. Look at what it what I have what I can do. Look at the ability that I have. You can't do anything. I can do everything. And if you'll follow me and stop going your own way, you can experience the joy and the glory that I experienced with my own, with with with the Trinity. See, the sovereignty of God, showing God showing that you're in control, He's in control, ultimately for his people he wants to show them something he stops to show them because why we are so inclined to go our own way But the reality is this, he will not, there is like, it's really like you're never going to be able to understand the sovereignty of God completely Right? Um how does the will of man work with the sovereignty of God? They've been trying to figure that out for you know hundreds, not thousands of years, and we're not gonna be able to figure it out here. But there what here Here's one thing we just know by by experience, that there is an element of personal responsibility so that if a person chooses If a person chooses not to take on his responsibility, God will confirm that choice. And that's what we see here. in Pharaoh's life. You have, you have now, and God's ultimate sovereignty, God had the whole thing planned, even Pharaoh's heart in his own heart. the whole thing planned. But what you see here is in this passage. And we need to understand this that God in his working, there's two options for us. In his sovereign work. He wants to show us by the lives of others and by the working of our circumstances, he wants to show us that he can and we cannot. in life. What's the thing that he can and we cannot? I'll tell you what it is. It's joy. It's joy in fellowship and glory See, you know why? You know why you rebel? You rebel and I rebel because we want to do what we want to do. You know why we do what we want to do? Because we believe We believe that we can bring ourselves joy by doing what we want to do more than God can bring us joy by doing what He wants us to do. That's why. And God is constantly showing us I'm in control, I have the ability And you don't, that if you'll turn to me, I'll show you I can do what you cannot do. Now We don't have to, we don't, we have personal responsibility in this. And anytime you think of the sovereignty of God, the one thing that you want to think of is that if you think that God is so sovereign that there's no personal responsibility, then you've gone you've gone off the rails. Okay? You d y you you don't it's like if you could take just sort of put it this way that the two rails of this is that personal responsibility is one of the rails and the other rail is God being in control. You've got these two rails. And if you go off the rails and you say that God is so sovereign, I have no personal responsibility, then you've just lost it. You don't have you don't have the sovereignty of God right And we don't have to understand all that and how that all works, but here's what we do need to understand that if you choose to go your own way, here's what we need to know. If you choose to go your own way, that God in his sovereignty will do that. He'll confirm that choice too. And he'll use it. See, in Pharaoh's life, God in his sovereignty is using Pharaoh's choice and he's confirming it. And then Pharaoh's declining more and he's confirming it. And Pharaoh's declining more and he's confirming it. And God will do that in your Life two li And either way, God's going to use you the way he wants to use you. But the one way is that he's going to use you as an example of his sovereignty for somebody else who says, okay, well, but well, they're going the wrong way, and God's going to God's doing what he's doing. I'm going to go the right way because God is sovereign. God will use that. He's using Pharaoh as an example. He'll use us as an example. Let me explain how this works. So you see these three, you you see these three things here, these three methods. You've got you've got um the Pharaoh hard his own heart. And then you've got Pharaoh's heart was hardened. That's sort of a plateau. That's the like, okay, it sort of settled in there. And then you have Pharaoh harden, or God hardens Pharaoh's heart. It's kinda like uh it's kinda like losing losing weight going on a diet. Um so so when you're losing weight, you'll sort of go on a di study to climb. And then you'll hit a plateau. Our body really likes to stay at the same weight. Okay? It really likes to it's called homeostasis, so that's not important. But anyway, it likes to stay at the same weight. Okay. And and it will it will it will do a lot of things to kind of keep you there. And you have to force your body to keep going down and it'll plateau. Okay, and you're like, oh I'm plateauing again and I gotta figure out a way to keep declining and it'll plateau. Y'all experience this? It goes by the way, it goes the other way too Right. You can incline and it'll plateau and you're like, Oh I'm fine, I'm good, I can eat more. I could I can that's I'm good and it'll go up again. Alright. So this is the way it works with God's will in your life. The decline if you decline, if you fall, if you turn away from God, Then he will confirm you in that choice. And then he'll continue to go down that way. You say, uh, is that biblical? Let me show you. Take your Bibles and look at look at Romans 1. You're gonna see it. Romans chapter 1. And look at verse 24. You have this decline going on, and we won't take a look the time to look at all of this. Well, I've got to pick up Verse 21 it says, because although they knew God, they did not glorify him as God, nor were thankful. But became futile in their thoughts, their foolish hearts were what? They were darkened. Professing to be wise, they became fools and changed. They wanted their own way. They're going to do their own thing. They're wise. and change the glory of the incorruptible God into an image made like incorruptible man, and birds and four-footed animals and creeping things Therefore, God gave them up to uncleanness in the lusts of their heart to dishonor their bodies among themselves. who exchanged the truth of God for a lie and worshiped and served the creature rather than the creator. You have this sort of decline, and then God gave them up. You see it again, verse twenty-six. For this reason God gave them up to the passion the violent passions. You've got this decline, then God gives them up. Decline, and then God gives them up. Now that's expressly with the unsaves Person, especially with someone who doesn't know the Lord. But there is a sense in which, folks, that that will happen even to the believer. Now the whole goal of the believer is different. The whole goal of the believer is to bring back to himself. That's the whole goal. But there are times where there's decline and plateau there as well. And the point is this that God will use, He is sovereign. And whatever side of this you're on, God's going to use all of it for his purposes. The question really is, what side do you want to be on of this? I mean that that really is what it where it all boils down to. Proverbs chapter 29, verse 1 says, He that being often reputed reproved, hardens his neck and shall suddenly be destroyed, and that without remedy. There is a kind of judgment that God says, okay, you're going to go your own way, you're done. And you know what I'm going to do? I'm going to use that in somebody else's life to show them my sovereignty so that they can go the right way. And so they can follow me. And they can have that joy that I promise to anybody who will follow me and fellowship with me and glory in me and join me. The question is what direction do you want to go? So what is the response? How do we go the right way? How do we know we're going the right way? Well we actually see it here in the passage. 10 verse 3. Exodus. So Moses and Aaron came in to Pharaoh and said to him, Thus says the Lord God of the Hebrews: How long will you refuse to humble yourself? Did you catch that? The issue is humility. How long will you refuse to humble yourself? Let my people go, that they may serve me, or else if you refuse to let my people go, behold, tomorrow I will bring locusts into your territory. The one thing, folks, the one thing that we need To respond to the sovereignty of God, it requires a humble response. A humble response. This word humility sometimes is translated to oppress. Sometimes it's translated to to uh uh afflict or to silence. But it's interesting that this word is used in Exodus Talking about uh it's used actually translated afflicted twice before. In chapter one verse eleven, you remember that passage? It says, Therefore they did not set them over The taskmasters to afflict them with their burdens. And they built for Pharaoh treasure cities, Pitham and Ram Ramses. And but the more they afflicted them, talking about the name of The more they afflicted them, the more they multiplied and grew, and they were grieved because the children of Israel. They were afflicted. Did you catch that? Do you see what's going on here? Pharaoh was afflicting. He was attempting to humble the Israelites. There's a sense in which he was setting himself up as God. And he did, by the way, that was Egyptian culture. And now God in his justice, we've talked about his justice before, now God in his justice is saying, Pharaoh, you must humble yourself. You must must be humble. Why? How long is it going to take for you to humble yourself before me? And the truth of the matter is, humility is the response that all of us need. Humility is the response that all of us need to be able to have that joy, to have that fellowship, to have that glory, to glorify God. Humility is the key. Now, it says this in James chapter 4, verse 10: humble yourself in the sight of God, and he will lift you up. 1 Peter chapter 5, verse 5. Likewise, the younger submit yourselves unto the elder. Yea, all of you be subject one to another and be clothed with humility. For God resists the proud and gives grace to the humble. Well, how here's what happens with us. You know what here's what happens with us happens. As we're trying to go our own way, do we can we not can we not identify can we not all identify with that in our lives that we are constantly trying. You look back on your life and you're gonna find you're trying to go in your own way, you're doing your own thing So we're all trying to go our own way, go the direction that we want to go. We believe that we have joy, we can have more joy by doing what we want to do rather than what God wants us to do. And we begin, God's sovereign God begins to work in our lives, we see his sovereignty, we see he's in control, we realize we're not And we sort of like half-humble ourselves. We sort of go, you know, okay, I've got to concede. I don't really know what I'm doing here. Maybe I need to trust God In this one area. You know what? On that, I'm really not, I'm really not what I ought to be, or I can't do what I ought to need to do. So I'm going to trust God. in that area. And we begin to negotiate with God. Well, Lord, I know I need to give this over to you. I need to give this over to you. I need to give this over to you. And do you know, in a sense, that's exactly what Pharaoh does? Notice what the passage says, picking up in verse 7. Remember I said before that Pharaoh is looking like really foolish at this point? He's really not looking too bright. Well apparently his own servants Think that as well. They say verse seven Then Pharaoh's servant said to him, How long shall this man be a snare to us? Let the men go that they may serve the Lord their God. Do you not yet know that Egypt was destroyed? Then it says this in this passage. You've got negotiating going on. They say Let the men go. And so Pharaoh goes to, trying to make this short, Pharaoh goes to to um to Moses, actually calls Moses in. He says, Moses, okay, let's let's talk. Let's negotiate. Uh who are the ones going? Moses says, everyone's going. I'm paraphrasing, that's my paraphrase, but that's basically what he's saying. And Pharaoh says to him, Not so, verse 10, not so, verse eleven, actually, not so. Go now, you who are men, and serve the Lord, for that is what you desired, and they were driven out for the presence of God F Ferriss says, no, it's men only. You've got to leave everybody else here, leave your cattle, leave everything here. It's men only, go, bye. Like no negotiation, like done. So what happens? God says, I'm not done. And God, immediately at that point, God is now going to inflict his his judgment on them. And we have this next plague with no warning. By the way, the next two plagues, you're not going to have a warning. No warning anymore. God is just sovereignly doing what God is going to do. You've had warnings before, Ferris had warning after warning. Now God's just gonna like, okay, if you don't do what I want, uh what I'm saying here to do and he And this is what he does. And the locusts come. Now verse fourteen tells us the locusts went up over all the land of Egypt and rested on all the territory of Egypt. They were very severe. uh previously there had been no such locust as they, nor shall there be such after them, for they covered the face of the whole earth so that the land was darkened, and they ate every herb of the land and all the fruit of the tree. Trees which the hail had left, so there remained nothing green in the trees or on the plants of the field throughout all the land of Egypt. Talk about severe. It's all gone. They have no plants left now. Everything is eaten a lot. Everything is just gone. In fact the locust is so thick that it darkness comes over. That's how bad. I mean I I don't even like a bug Okay. And I mean I I have I li I'm in a basement in my o office and it's it's a little buggy. Okay. And I don't even I don't like that. I I I borrowed my dad my dad has this he has all kinds of weird stuff. Uh he has this fly shooter thing. So he's so I was down the other day, I was studying, and I knew there were some flies in my office. I was studying and I had I had the thing cocked and I'm studying the flies on a grab. You know what? It doesn't work very well. It was not killing the flies. But anyway. So like this is thick, thick locusts everywhere, darkness everything. And you know what Pharaoh wants to do? Pharaoh, we get to the next one and we won't take the time to look at it, but we get to the next next plague, and Pharaoh wants to negotiate again. He again says, hey, hey, uh, you know what? Um you can take your men, you can take your women, you can take your children, but don't but leave the cat and livestock here. He keeps trying to negotiate You know what real humility does? You know what real humility is? It's not saying, okay, God, I need to give this over to you. It's saying, I need to give this over to you. I need to give it all to you. It's yours to do with the way you want and your sovereign will. I'm all yours. So God's sovereign justice requires complete compliance. It's all yours. We know we're humble when we say, Lord, I give up on trying to make my own way and do my own thing. And get my own joy. I give up. Lord, I'm following you. Just let me follow you. No holds barred. Everything is at your disposal. disposable disposable. It's your plans, it's not mine. You do th I I'll do things your way So there are three things we need to learn about this, just in wrapping everything up. Number one, the sovereignty of God shows us not only that God is dependable, but that we must Not only that God is that we are dependable, that God is dependable, but that we must depend on him. It's not like okay, God's dependable, I have a choice, and if I do That'll be better. No, we must depend on Him for lasting joy in our lives. Number two, depending on self rather than God will result in ultimate destruction Um number three, God wants you, actually these are inverted, God wants you to know that all the only way to lasting joy is to be fully and humbly depending on Him. them and not self. You can just add a third one and just the two and three are in I inverted at the last minute that's probably my fault. God wants you to know, focus on that second one. God wants you to know that the only way to lasting joy is fully and humbly depending on Him and not self. Now that first step to that is depend upon him for your for your life. So that you can have eternal life. The Bible says that he that believeth on the Son hath Life. He that believeth not the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abides on him Maybe you're here today and you're saying to yourself, or maybe you're watching by streaming or whatever, and you've you you're a good person? You know you're not a person See, the Bible says full compliance is needed, and we can't fully comply. That's why we need Jesus. Jesus lived a perfect life, took our sin on himself on the cross, offers to us his righteousness. And if we'll accept that by faith and give our lives to him, not just a little part, but give our lives to him, we'll be saved. He that hath the son hath life, he that hath not the sun will not see life, but the wrath of God abides on him. If you need to know more about that, please contact me or come I'd be glad to help you make sure that you have a right relationship with God, that you are on right standing with God, so that you You can have the peace and the joy. It only comes as you are doing what God created you to do, to live in the glory of God and to and to have faith a relationship with him. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you this morning and we thank you for this time. And Lord, we pray that as we think about this passage, I ask, Lord, that you would help us and teach us. We admit before you that we are so inclined to go our own way, to do our own thing. I pray, Lord, that you would teach us what it means to humbly submit. There is no No other way. Lord, may we do that in our lives And Lord, may we find and know the joy that comes from simply remaining in humble submission. to you. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. We are going to take just a minute now. uh few minutes now and partake of communion together. And we've rearranged things so that we're now at the end. And um hopefully as you came in, um you took out one of these um cup things and on the top of it there is a wafer and if you know the Lord is your savior have been baptized by immersion and um And uh a member of a good local church doesn't have to be this one, um, then you are you are uh welcome to partake with us. Um there's a cellophane part, and there's another part as well. well. And so if you take the cellophane, the w sorry I have to give so many directions here, but basically this is the first part and you'll want to go ahead and take that out out now. And what I'll do is I'll read the passage and then we'll we'll partake together all at one time. So Christ said this, for I am Have received of the Lord that which I also delivered unto you. The Lord Jesus, the same night in which he was betrayed, took bread. And when he had given thanks, he broke it and said, Take Eat, this is my body which is broken for you. This do in remembrance of me. Let's all partake together. Verse 25 then says, after the same manner also, he took the cup. When he had supped saying, This cup is the New Testament in my blood. This do ye as oft as ye drink it in remembrance of me. For as often I'm sorry, as often as ye eat this bread and drink this cup, you do show the Lord's death till he comes. Let's partake together. I want to actually read the rest of this passage just in in thinking and reflecting. Reflecting on this, it says, Wherefore whoever shall eat this bread and drink this cup of the Lord unworldly shall be guilty of the body and blood of the Lord. Let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of this bread and drink of this cup. For he the e and and then it says later on in the passage this, it says this. But when we are judged, we are chastened of the Lord, and when we should not be condemned with the Lord. Wherefore, my brethren, verse 33, when When ye come together to eat, tarry one for another. When you come together to eat, tarry one for another. There is this there is this joy Of fellowship one with another that's supposed to be happening as we as we join in together in unity, as we partake of the Lord's Supper together. today. And may we know that. Let's pray and thank the Lord for this, and then I'm going to have Enrique come up and he'll lead us in some songs. songs uh a couple things um after he le he finished the last song you're dismissed. You do not we will not be dismissed be dismissing by Rose anymore. Feel free to fellowship indoors. keep your masks on while you're fellowshipping. Or if you want to go outdoors and fellowship with your mask on, that's okay too. But I want to give you we we we don't want to do the dismiss bar thing anymore basically. Um there is not that we're if you're visiting here we're not in any way uh um any way uh wanting uh w wanting an offering from you we're just Thankful you're here. Um but there is a bo an offering box that's actually mounted now on this side over over that. And I'm just letting you know because it's a change from what we're what it was before. So if you go down Through there and you make a right, you're going to see the m the offering box right there. Or a kind of a U-turn. Then you'll see the offering box right there. Let's pray together. Father, we just thank you for the sacrifice that Christ made on the cross in shedding his blood for us, which paid the price for our sin. And breaking his body for us so that we um we We would know He would He suffered for us so that we could have eternal life. And Lord, I pray that as We uh as we have partaken together today, that there would be a unity among us at in our church. That there are many different backgrounds and there different opinions and the different kinds of things and issues and all that, but our unity we can find in that we all believe in the person and And we thank you for that, Father. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. Enrique, if you believe this. All right. Let's unite our voices together and start our uh song part of our service with Praise to the Lord the Almighty, let's stand together as we sing. Praise to the Lord, the Almighty, the King of Creation All my soul praise him for he is thy health and salvation Now to his temple, draw near, join me in glad and all rain Praise to the Lord who o'er all things so wondrously raised Shelters be under his wings, say so gently sustain. Not see how thy desires have been presented in what he ordered Praise to the Lord who with marvelous wisdom has made Texte without and with my Spreading his wings for to shake thee, praise to the Lord, O let all that is in me are told. For him all that have life and breath come now with praises people For him, let me amen sound from his people again, gladly for I we are told. Now we will sing my Jesus Fair. We'll be singing the first two verses, then the chorus, the next two verses, then the chorus. My Jesus bear was feared by thorns, by horns from the wall, thus he who gave the curse was put To an curse for all, my Jesus means was born by man By men in blasphemy, honor for give their senseless sin, we pray for them for me Oh, Ringleigh. My Jesus I was born by name, I nails and full of death, also God in my wretched sin, thy Jesus your God, all my God is judgment The father creep yet turns his rod, one Christmas, all the last grace And God will die for him with joy for grief. I live my grace for coming all my sins. My Jesus strong shall come to reign To reign in majesty, the Lamb of Rose and death is slavery for come in victory Although they wine all magnet race, they cover him with no dream I live my grace for. For our final song. Talk about God's sovereignty, his guidance, his care. This is my father's world. All nature sees that from me brings God to All walks and sweet dogs and sweet pleas and Let's go ahead and pray. Father, we thank you for all that you've done for us today. And we thank you that we uh we can rest in you because you truly are And we rest in that thought. And Lord, as we go through our day-to-day and you bring us back to Together, may we have this as an ever present reality on our minds that uh while so off does seem wrong, you are With the three, you can't do it.