Bibles and turn if you would to the book of John, John eighteen Occasionally, I think it's helpful to remind us what the Bible is about and what it's not about. The Bible is not about you. And the Bible is not about me. The Bible's not about you, and the Bible is not about me. Sometimes, if we're not careful, we can look to the Bible and we can say, well, what is in it for me? The Bible is about Christ. The subject of the Bible, from Genesis to Revelation, in veiled form in the Old Testament, in revealed form in the New Testament, is about Christ. And it is about God. It is the revelation of God. It is, if you will, a biography of God, in a sense. What we are going to learn from the trials today really is a lot about Christ, who he is. And who killed him? Who put him on the cross? John in this passage uses a lot of something called irony. You familiar with irony? He uses it a lot in John. We've seen this many times before. He uses it again here. You ever said, boy, that is really ironic. Such and such thing happens. I looked at a couple definitions of what irony is. Irony is the expression of one's meaning by using language that normally signifies the opposite, typically for humorous or emphatic effect. We're going to see this in this passage. When, for example, when Pilate puts this crown of thorns on Christ's head, that is irony. He is mocking him. When he says he is the king of the Jews. But in fact, he is the king of the Jews. Another definition said it's a literary technique originally used in Greek tragedy. by which the full significance of a character's words or actions are clear to the audience or reader, although unknown to the character. For example, when Caiaphas said that there needs to be one man that dies for the sins or dies for the nation. That is an example of irony. I remember when I was a kid uh um seeing uh hearing one particular story that has a sort of a kind of an irony to it, and I've never forgotten it And it's the story of the uh of the Emperor's New Clothes. How many of you all know that story? You remember that story? I have ne I heard it one time and I've never forgotten that story. It is just one of those stories that sticks in your mind And for those of you who know the story, there was a king who loved clothing. He just loves clothing. And he would get a new suit of clothes every day, and he would go out and sport these clothes all over the place. He just Obviously he was a very vain man and he just absolutely loved clothing. Well one day there were some there was a couple of tailors uh and weavers who came to him and said that they have re they said to the this, they said, um, uh, we have After many years of research, we have invented an extraordinary method to weave clothes so light and fine that it is almost invisible. In fact, it cannot be seen by anyone who is too stupid to appreciate its quality. Well then the emperor said, Well, we I've got to have these clothes. These are amazing clothes. That That he said, I can kill two birds with one stone. I can get a nice pair of clothes and I can see who's stupid in my kingdom as well. And so th these weavers make these clothes and the minister who is the assistant to the to the emperor goes and inspects the work and they're making these clothes and they're there's making them they're they're weaving this and this is fine linen look at how wonderful this and the minister can't see anything But he's too embarrassed to admit that he can't see anything, so he says, Oh yeah, very, very fine threads, very, very nice clothing. So the clothes are finally made and the emperor is told to take off his clothes while the men's dress him, and he's looking and he's obviously uh can't see anything but he's too embarrassed to admit that he himself is too stupid to see these fine clothes. And so he parades out into the street without clothing because he thinks that he has clothes and everybody applauds this great fine clothing. Because nobody wants to admit that they can't see these clothes. And in fact, this spreads throughout the land and people come in to buy more of these clothes and these weavers make a killing. Because they don't even need any material to buy non clothes. In fact the irony is that they are they are removing removing people's c clothes rather than clothing and there's all kinds of lessons in there The bottom line is if you don't see something, maybe you ain't there. And and there's too, you know, we're too prideful sometimes to admit when we're when we you know, to be honest. And so anyway, there's lots of lessons in there. Well that's an example of irony and what you're gonna see throughout this is more of that kind of I mean much more um Much more serious actually when we get into the trials of trials of Christ, but you're going to see irony in this passage as we go through it. Where something is going to be said And they have no clue what they're saying, but in fact, there is great significance and meaning is in what they are saying that they are not themselves aware of. Well, there are different personalities in this in this group of people. You remember from last week, Annis, he's the patriarchal high priest, if you will. And then you have Caiaphas, he's the reigning high priest that was set up by the Roman government. Then you have the Sanhedrin, they're the elite uh elite of Jewish law that they're kind of like the Supreme Court for the J nation of Israel. Then there's Pontius Pilate, who is a Roman pure pure procurator, a governor. He's going to be in play here. You've got Herod Antipas, who is an Idomean king. You have the false witnesses. You have screaming crowds crying for the blood of Christ. And you have the Roman soldiers. You have all of these different characters in this whole plot to put Christ to death. Probably the most important of all these characters to really understand is this man Pilate. To really understand John chapters, Jack chapter 18, picking up in verse 28 through 19, all the way through verse 16. You've got to understand some background about this man Pilate. Pilate had both the author, the judicial authority and the military authority that was necessary. From Caesar himself to govern the people of this area that were in Jerusalem. But as he began his governorship of this area, he made some very, very unpopular decisions. As he came into the area, in fact, he had a flag, and on this flag was a bust of Caesar. It was met a metal carving or a metal mold of Caesar and Caesar was the emperor, of course, but he was known as a lowercase g god. That meant that this bust of Caesar as he came in and paraded into the area was a graven image. And this is, of course very offensive to the Jews. The Jews went to him and asked him to please take this thing down and these things down and to get rid of them. Pilate absolutely refused to do so. And in fact, what Pilate Pilate went back to Caesarea, which was where his headquarters was, and the Jews followed him there. They said, You've got to take this stuff down. He was unwilling to do so, so much to the point that he went into the an amphitheater, brought his Roman soldiers with him, and called the Jews to him and said, Hey, come over to this amphitheater, we'll discuss this. Among all these Roman soldiers, he says, you need to stop this, or I'm going to cut your heads off. I'm going to kill you immediately. The Jews said, Fine, cut our heads off. We're not leaving. They called his bluff. Even Pilate was not so he was a pretty he was a pretty ruthless man, but he was not so ruthless to cut off the heads of many, many people. There would have obviously been a revolt or an uprising of that. They called his bluff, and he basically had to take take down uh the busts of Caesar. Another time, Pilate determined that he needed to build a new aqueduct for that area. Where was he going to get the money? He was going to get the money from the temple coffers. He stole from the riches of the temple from the sa sacrifices that were offered, and he in order to pay for this new aqueduct. That was not very popular either for the nation of Israel. And the Jews were starting to get this word of these kind of treatment was starting to get back to Caesar. about what he was doing. Finally, the final s sort of real thing that caused a lot of problems was that uh Emperor Tiberius, who was the Emperor of the time, was uh uh was uh lifted up on he was inscribed in some uh material and sort of lifted up as another God basically. He did the same thing over again as he did before. It didn't work out too well for him. This was never not required by Caesar in order to do this. This was something that he chose to do for himself, probably because he was trying to get over on the Jews again. He was trying to sort of have power over them and show that he had power over them They actually did report this to Caesar, and Caesar sent word said, take this stuff down and stop it. That's my wording, obviously. So he was really on thin ice when it came both to Caesar, to the Roman government, and he was on thin ice when it came to the nation of Israel. He was Before he ever got into this situation with the trials of Christ, he was caught in a very bad situation already. So that's the setting that we come to when we come to John chapter 18, and we pick up on the Roman trial here, the first Roman trial trial, first of three in verse 28. Something else I should probably mention as well. There are a total of six trials. Anis was the first trial that's mentioned only in John. The second trial was the trial under Caiaphas, and it's mentioned, we're going to refer to that later on. You'll see that in a moment. But the second trial was the second trial, which was kind of the main Jewish trial under Caiaphas. And there was a trial under the Sanhedrin that sort of ratified what Caiaphas had come up with as an accusation against Christ. So there are three Jewish trials. Now we come to this trial. This is one of three Roman trials. We will cover the first one for this morning, and we'll cover the third and uh the fourth and fifth, I'm sorry, the fifth and sixth, getting confused here, the fifth and sixth trials uh tonight uh so that we will be able to cover all of the trials of Christ uh between last week and and this week. And I should mention that this will not be a comprehensive covering of all the trials. We won't be looking at all of the different passages But I do think that as we go through this, you'll get a good idea of the trials that Christ went through. This was not an easy, clean thing that the nation of Israel thought was going to happen. When they arrested Christ, they had authorization to do so from Pilate. They expected that when they took it to Pilate, it would be done. He would just rubber stamp it They had no idea that Pilate, in his own conscience, would need to actually put them through his own trials. And so that's the setting that we have. Let's go to the Lord in prayer and ask his blessing on our time as we understand all this. And then we'll get into the text and beginning in verse 28. Father, we pray, Lord, that you would teach us what you want us to know, to understand these truths about who Christ is. And how you even sovereignly used opposition against Christ for your purposes. We thank you that no matter what we are going through in life, no matter the opposition that we ever face. Opposition against your name, against your purposes, and against Christ, we can have the confidence of knowing that you are in control. That it's your world ultimately. And things will happen according to your decree, for your purposes, and for your glory. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Verse twenty eight, picking up here in John eighteen, it says, Then led they Jesus from Caiaphas under the hall of judgment. That's the the uh uh uh uh the facility where pri uh the where Pilate was, uh then into the hall of judgment, and it was early. And they themselves went not into the judgment hall uh lest they should be defiled, but that they might eat the Passover. So this group of Jewish leaders, these chief priests, after trying Jesus and after the decree from the Sanhedrin had Then that he should be put to death, brought him to Pilate, but they couldn't go into what was called the praetorium. They couldn't go into that place, or at least they said they couldn't go into it. John mentions this for this reason. This was extreme hypocrisy. They said that they couldn't go into this Gentile praetorium because they wanted to To go through the Passover, and they said that going into this praetorium would cause defilement. The problem is that there's nowhere in the Jewish law that says that going into a Gentile house would actually caught just by being in there would cause defilement. And if they participated in certain things, it would. But nothing in the Jewish law says that that would be the case. This actually came from rabbinical writing writings from the Mishnah. And the Mishnah said that, uh, which is a codification of the Jewish law, the Mishnah said that dwelling, the dwelling place of the Gentiles are unclean. And they took from that an application that they wouldn't be able to go in there or they would be defiled and wouldn't practice the Passover. In other words, this was something that was very unclear. It wasn't from the Mosaic law. This wasn't something that God said. This was something that was sort of extrapolated. From the rabbinical writings and from what the chief priests and the Pharisees had said. Of course, you remember, the Pharisees were always adding to the law. This is not uncommon at all. They were constantly adding to what God had actually said. And that is the case here as well. Now, here's what's really crazy about this. The Jewish people, the Jewish leaders here had been violating the law by having this Jewish trial in the first place. The first trial that they had was at 2 a. m. in the morning. That was illegal by Jewish law, by Mosaic law, they were not supposed to have trials at night. So something that was, they violated something that was clearly unlawful, but they were careful about doing something that wasn't unlawful. And there is nothing but hypocrisy in all of this. This is nothing but hypocrisy, self-righteous hypocrisy. And the truth is many times opposition to Christ finds its source in self-righteous hypocrisy. It is not always those who are obviously evil or those who clearly and overtly reject the claims of Christ That are in opposition to Christ. Sometimes it's those who think that they are actually for Christ, but they are self-righteous, they are hypocritical. And they are actually in opposition to Christ. It's interesting that John makes very clear that really the people that were that put him to death were the Jewish leaders. There is no way of getting around that. There's not this sound anti-Semitic as some people have suggested. John himself is a Jew. But the reality is, this is the case. Now, now, the Romans were involved The Roman Empire was involved, but as you'll see these trials played out, Pilate was trying everything he could to get out of this It was clearly the Jewish leaders that were pushing this and that were really almost forcing this to occur. Something that's important for us to understand when it comes to this issue of self-righteous hypocrisy. You know, those two things always go together: self-righteousness and hypocrisy. Self-righteousness has to go along with hypocrisy because no one is righteous in and of himself. In other words, if somebody says that I am righteous in and of himself, well then he has to be hypocritical. He has to change the definition of what is truly righteous. in order to say he's self-righteous. The Bible says internally that we are all, the heart is deceitful and desperately wicked. All our righteousnesses are as filthy rags. For us to say anything except that we are sinful is a delusion. And the delusion comes by focusing on those things that you can control, to the exclusion of those things that you can't control. You can, to some degree, though not perfectly, control externals. You cannot control what is in your heart And so these religious leaders focused on the externals of what they could control. They were self-righteous, and frankly, it caused, you'll see this as you go through this passage. It caused evil to just well up inside of them. Rebellion continues to fester. Evil continues to work its Way into the hearts of these religious leaders and actually into the Jewish people as a whole. Why? Because they are deluded by their own self-righteous external. actions. Now it is interesting here to mention as well that Can you imagine, since this wasn't even a lawful thing, the hostility, the racial hostility that this would have caused between the nation of Israel and the Gentiles? You can't even go into a Gentiles home at all. The racial tension had to be very thick here. And and And in spite of all of this, Pilate is going to appease them. So what does Pilate do in verse 29 Pilate then went out unto them and said, What accusation bring ye against this man? He says, he goes out to them. And by the way, this is going to be important in the whole setting. We need to understand that this is going to occur. He's going to go into the praetorium where Christ is. And he's going to meet with them him alone, maybe with other Romans there. Then he's going to go outside and talk to the Jewish leaders. Then he's going to come back into the praetorium because they won't go in there. And so we need to understand this setting as this occurs. So, verse 29, Pilate goes out to them and he asks a very important question. He says, What accusation bring ye against this man? What is the accusation that you would bring against me, he says? He says a very important question here, doesn't he? What are you accusing him of? Now by doing this, he is opening up an official trial. He is pointing out that I am going to try this man and you're going to have to bring a witness against him. You're going to have to bring an accusation against him, what accusation might that be? Here is how they respond, verse 31. Then said Pilate unto them, I'm sorry, verse uh thirty They answered and said unto him, If he were not a a malfactor, we would not have delivered him up unto thee. Now this word malfactor could mean thief or other things, but the bottom line is It just means he's a troublemaker, a bad person. It's a very general term. He's basically saying, if he wasn't a bad person, we wouldn't have brought it to you. What's the accusation? The accusation is. . Well, there is no overt accusation. It's just we wouldn't have brought him to you had we not thought he was bad Now you can imagine this caused some struggle for Pilate, right? Can you do better than this? He's bad? I mean it's got to be something more than he's bad. There's got to be a legitimate specific accusation. Well, let's go back here into history a little bit and think about the various accusations that have been leveled against him during the Jewish trial. So we're going to sort of go back in our minds now and ask the question, what was some of the accusations? Many of them are found in either the Matthew account or the Mark account. I'm going to actually have you turn to Matthew 26 and we're going to look at that account. Of the Jewish trial. This is the second Jewish trial. I maybe I ought to do this just to make sure that we're not getting confused about this. How many Jewish trials were there? Nobody wants to say. Three. Right. There are three journal. How many Roman trials were there? Last week, which trial did we cover? The first Jewish trial, right? Okay? What we're looking at here is the second Jewish trial. This is where all the accusations came up, and we find many of the accusations in this passage and we're going to pick up here Matthew 26 verse 57 is where we're going to pick up. This is the second Jewish trial. Now, before we get into this, let me just list the trials for you, the accusation. If you look at all the different accounts, there are going to be seven various accusations against Christ. Only six of them, six out of the seven. Have witnesses and nobody can agree on anything. And you'll see this in this passage, but I'm going to just preface this. I'll just list them for you. He was threatened to destroy the temple in Matthew 26. We'll see that He is generally just an evildoer, which we already saw in John eighteen thirty. He perverted the nations, Luke twenty three says. He's prohibiting the payment of taxes to Caesar, according to Luke twenty three, which of course is not true. He said render unto C Caesar the thing. It doesn't make any sense at all. He stirred up the people. There's a good specific accusation for you. Um he presented himself as king, Luke 23, which he never actually did. He rode on a donkey into the None of these make any sense. The only thing that stuck as a clear accusation we're going to find at the end of this passage, so I'll save it for you as we go through this passage. Would you then pick up at verse 47? And we're just going to read through this. I may make a couple of comments, but I just want to see want you to see how this plays out And they that had laid hold on Jesus led him away to Caiaphas the High Priest, where the scribes and elders were assembled. But Peter followed him afar off onto the high priest's palace, and went in and sat with the servants to see the end. Now the chief priests and elders and all the council sought false witness against Jesus to put him to death, but found none. They couldn't find any two witnesses that would agree on anything. Yea, they they thought yea, though many false witnesses came, yet found they none. At the last came two false witnesses and said, The fellow said, I am able to destroy the temple of God and to build it in three days. Of course, we know from John 2 that he said that. And the he and the high priest arose and said unto him, Answerest thou nothing. So Christ didn't answer. What is it which thou these witness against thee? But Jesus held his peace. Now, let's just pause for a minute. Remember over in John 2 when all this happened? What temple was Christ talking about? He was actually talking about himself. He's saying that if you destroy this temple in three days, I'll raise it up again. We know that John gives us that understanding in John chapter 2. Why does he not say anything here? Because he did say what he said there, didn't he? But what he meant by it is something different than what they're meaning by it. He was not threatening to destroy the temple. So basically what he just does on this is he stays silent on this. Verse 23. But Jesus held his peace, and the high priest answered and said to him, I adjure thee by the living God that thou tellest whether thou be the Christ, the Son of God. He cuts through all his witnesses. The witnesses aren't working, nothing's working here. The witnesses aren't working, nothing's adding up. And he says this, verse twenty sixty-four. Jesus saith unto him, Thou hast said, Nevertheless, I say unto you Hereafter shall ye see the Son of Man sitting on the right hand of power and coming in the clouds of heaven. Now why would he say that? Christ says, yes, I am who you say I am. I am the Son of God. He claims to be that here, clearly. But he says, you will see me coming in the clouds. With power. Jesus says that because what the Jewish people, and in part, not completely, but in part, he says that because what the Jewish people are trying to find is some kind of legal accusation that they can pin on him that the Romans will kill him for. But when he says that That's not a military, I'm going to take over kind of a thing. This is something otherworldly. This is kingdom. This is a kingdom kind of a thing here, he's talking about. This is a spiritual kingdom kind of a thing, though there's physical connection. This is not something that Christ is going to come in and take over where the Romans would be concerned. So he says it this way But the high priest is livid at this point. He is angry. He is self-righteous. And he says this. He rents his clothes, saying. He has spoken blasphemy. What further need have we of witnesses? Behold, now we have heard his blasphemy. What think ye? They that answered and said, He is guilty of death. Then did they spit on his face and buffeted him, and others smote him uh with the with the palms of the of their hands. By the way, that was all not sanctioned correctly. It wasn't like this was if he was guilty of death, this was mob rule taking over here where they're just smoothing him now and beating him. This is not something that was legal in any sense. This was very illegal. Saying, Prophesy unto us thou Christ, who is he that smote thee? So you have this smothing going on. Now we don't see the whipping going on until later on. We'll see that in the book of John here in a few moments. Now, with so the only thing that worked, the only accusation that stuck was what? Blasphemy. Well, Jesus is God, isn't it? Is that not ironic that the only thing that they could speak against him was something that was true of him And Christ intended it to be that way. He was absolutely innocent. He was absolutely perfect on every level. Nobody could agree on any kind of other accusation. except that he simply is the Son of God. Well when you come to John 18 and Pilate says, what accusation, you know why they don't they probably don't say exactly what accusation at first they're going to they're going to later More than likely it's because they know the Romans don't really care. Romans have many gods. Claiming to be the Son of God is no big deal for the Romans. So they don't even want to they they're they don't even want to give any kind of ac mention their accusation at this point because they're sort of like now he's a bad man just trust us and kill him So with all of that in mind, go ahead and turn back to John chapter 18. I will also mention for you if you want to see another account of the second trial. You could also go to Mark 14, you might want to write that down, Mark 14, verses 55 through 64. So we need to get back to John here. And we're in John eighteen, and we pick up here in verse thirty-one. He has a very interesting reply to this, Pilate does. He says, Then said Pilate unto them, Take ye him and judge him according to your law. The Jews therefore said unto him, It is not lawful for us to put any man to death. So he says that, well look, if this is if you're not going to give me any more specific accusation, then he's a bad man. Go and judge him according to your law. Do what you want to do. And they say to him, their rebuttal to him is, we cannot put he he is deserving of death. Now, probably Pilate did not think he was deserving of death at this point. In fact, later on we see that he he does not want to put Christ to death. So he says to these these people, go take care of this yourself. And they say we can't. Well, that is true. Now this is interesting. Just stay with me if you would. These are details, but they they they tell us something very, very, very, very important point here. So it is true that they were not allowed to put people to death. As of this point. In fact, we know from the Jewish Talmud that 30, let's see, um 40 years prior to the destruction of the temple, so the temple was in 70 AD it was destroyed. 40 years prior to that is what? Not great at math today. 30, 30, right? It's okay. I'm I'm joking a little bit. 30. Okay. So 30 AD, right around what time there? When was Christ born? Around 4 A. D. I mean 4, yeah, no, 4 BC. Anyway, it's right around that time, bottom line. Okay? So prior to, I mean, while Christ was growing up, they were allowed to use the death penalty. But at this point, like right before this They were no longer able to exact the death penalty on people. Now it's interesting. The Jewish the Jewish leaders aren't. Now it's interesting that later on you're going to go into the book of Acts and what do they do with Stephen? Doesn't seem to stop him there. They still stone him. So this is all sort of complicated. This is but these details go to a particular point. This was, why did this all occur this way? I mean, why did God make it so the Jewish people couldn't just go and take care of him and stone him? Why didn't God do it that way? Well, if the Jewish people went and stoned him, then there's a lot of prophecy that wouldn't have been fulfilled. And that's what we find here in verse 32. That the saying of Jesus might be what? Fulfilled, which he spake, signifying what death he should die. Do you see this? This is incredible here. Do you remember what Christ said in John 3? He said, As Moses lifted up the silk serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up. In John 8. 28 it says, Then said Jesus unto them, When ye have lifted up the Son of Man, then shall ye know that I am he, and that I do nothing of myself. But as my father hath taught me, I speak these things. John twelve thirty-two And if I be lifted up from the earth, I will draw all men unto myself This he said, signifying what death he should die. Now that tells us exactly why all this occurred the way that the Romans' way of execution was to lift up on a cross. The Jewish method of execution was to cast down and to stone someone. Christ said, I will be lifted up. And there is this divine irony in this. Why did Christ want to be lifted up? Here they wanted to put him down. The Jewish people wanted to put him down. They wanted to get rid of him. He wanted to be lifted, he was going to be lifted up by their putting him down. They lifted him up. Why did they lift him up? So that he could do what? Draw all men to himself. It's incredible what Christ did here. You think Christ is not control in control? You think he doesn't know he he takes these these guys think they're in control. The Jewish leaders at this point think they got him. We got him where he want him. We got Pilate where he wants him. We got this accusation against him and they think they got him This is all in God's plan. Look, it's like God, I don't know how this is not, this is a trite way of saying it. I just don't know how else to put it in terms that we can grasp. It's like this chess board and everybody all the chess pieces think they're doing what they're doing because they know best. And God's above going, this is you're just pawns. You're my pawns. And you think you know what you're doing, and I'm just moving you the way I want you to go. It is incredible to look at all this. Now look, this should be comforting and encouraging all at the same time. Why? Because God's in control. You and I think we know what we're doing. We think we've got it figured out. We think that if we do this and we do that, then we'll get this outcome. And God says, no, actually, if you do what I want, if you do whatever you do, it'll actually end up being my outcome. Isn't it wonderful to know that God not God uses Christians and can use Christians because we love him? But God uses everyone in spite of whether they love him or not. And this is what you find in this passage. You have this divine irony. Christ, in this symbolic representation of what he was doing on the cross. was calling all men to himself. He was li he says, if I be lifted up, I will draw all men to myself. I am being lifted up for this reason. He didn't want to be cast down because it's the wrong symbol He wanted to be lifted up so that people would know that he offers salvation to all who will put their trust in him. Now, then we move on to to the next point of this, which he then moved, which we see picking up here in verse 33. So Pilate now goes back into the praetorium where Jesus is. He says, then Pilate entered into the judgment hall again and called Jesus and said unto him, Art thou the King of the Jews? Jesus answered him, Saest thou this thing of thyself, or did others tell it thee of me? So Peter's uh Pilate says, well the main point here as far as I can grasp is are you the king of the Jews or not? Now we know from other parallel passages. that they said to him. What they actually accused him of was not blasphemy. What they actually accused him of in his first Roman trial was treason. being sent uh lifting himself up as the king of the true Jews. Even though, if you remember back in Matthew, they couldn't get witnesses to line up on that. So he asks them, ask Christ, and Christ says, Well Are you seeing this? Have you seen this in me? Or have are you asking me on the behalf of others? Have other people telling you this? Now, when Christ is saying this, he is not being a smart elic here. It kind of looks like that, but that's not what he's doing. What he is doing here is he is asking basically a simple question. Do you want my answer? From a Jewish perspective or from a Roman perspective? That's really what he's asking. From a Jewish perspective, is Christ the King of the Jews? Yes. From a Roman perspective, is Christ at this point the King of the Jews? No Was was was it Christ's intention to overthrow the Roman government in order you know to overthrow the authorities that were there in order to set up his kingdom? And what we find in this passage is he clearly says no, that wasn't his intention. And we see it here. Would you notice with me? Pilate first of all says, Am I a Jew? Pilate answered, Am I a Jew? Thine own nation, and the chief priests have delivered thee unto me. What hast thou done? He says, He says, No, I it's not me. So based on that He now is going to give him the Jewish perspective of his answer. And he says this, but he's Jesus is very specific in his wording here. He says My kingdom is not of this world. That and of itself. Let me just set this straight here. My kingdom is not of this world. In other words, you have nothing to be worried about as far as treason is concerned. My kingdom is another another world here, is of another world. If my kingdom were of this world, he gives an argument. This is a really amazing argument, but we shouldn't expect, we wouldn't expect any less from Christ. My kingdom, if my kingdom were of this world, then would my servants fight? That I should not be delivered to the Jews. But now my now is my kingdom not from hence. Do you remember when he was in the garden and Peter tried to draw his sword? What did he say? He said, put away your sword. Why did he do that? Because he wanted to make a and he and he really kind of put his disciples away. He didn't mention his disciples in that first trial. Why? He was not trying to cause a revolt. That's not what he was doing. And so he says here, look, by my actions you should know I'm not trying to cause revolt. If I did, my service would be trying to get me to a trying to uh free me from all of this Pilate therefore said unto him, Well, he said, Art thou a king then? Okay, if you're not the king of the Jews, are you a king? Since you said you're a king of another world, are you a king then? Jesus answered, Thou sayest that I am. He said, well, in your words, since you're using that word, I am. Thou sayest that I am. To this end was I born. And for this cause came I into the world that I should bear witness unto the truth. Every one that is of the truth heareth my voice. He says this. He says I come into the world because I am a king of a different kingdom. And the subjects of my kingdom are those who recognize me as king. And he says, everyone that is of the truth hears my voice. In other words, when those those who know who can recognize truth Will recognize me as their king. The prerequisite to recognizing Jesus as king was that you had to be able to recognize truth when you see it. Is that not true today? Same thing that is true today. How is it that people come to Christ? They come to Christ when they're able to recognize the truth of who Christ is when it's right in front of them. It is a matter of truth. That's why Christ would later say, or actually previously say in John 14: I am the way, the truth, and the life, and no man comes to the Father but by me. The issue is why people, who are the subjects of this great kingdom that Christ is building, and he's still building it? Those who can accept follow him because they see the truth. And folks, that is essentially the problem with why people do not come to Christ, it's because they do not recognize the truth. And Pilate says it says it as a perfect example of the world. He says, verse 38, Pilate says unto him, What is truth? He says, What is truth Now, have you ever heard something like that before in our world, in our culture? There's no absolutes. What is truth? Your truth is your truth. My truth is my truth. Truth is truth in what you ever you think truth is. And Pilate says it so succinctly, huh? What's truth? This is in contrast to the To the Jewish leaders who thought they had the truth but didn't. The Jewish leaders, if you'd asked that question to the Jewish leaders, they would have gone on to try to explain the truth to you, except they didn't see the truth. Why were they blinded? Because they thought they had the truth already. Now we have the exact opposite problem. Opposition in Christ sometimes comes through simple blind ignorance. The problem with Pilate here is not that he rejects Christ, but he doesn't accept him either. It's blind ignorance. And so he just simply says, what is truth? And that is the exact problem. We see more of that problem in our world today than perhaps the other. There are more people in our world that used to be in our culture, in our country. That there were more people that said, Well, I am of this religion or I'm of that religion. They may not know the truth, but they think they know the truth. But now we have secularism in our culture. Which basically asks what is truth, or basically says there is really no absolute truth We have this relativistic secularism, and everybody is simply saying there's no way to know, or agnosticism, if you will, there's really no way to know what truth really is. I really can't tell. Now, let me just mention this. What does Pilate, after this final, in his final trial, we're speed fast-forwarding ahead here quite a bit, but what does Pilate ultimately do? He puts Christ to death, doesn't he? Because blind ignorance ultimately does end in rejection of Christ. That's why John said in John 3 verse 36, he that believeth on the Son hath life. He that believeth not the Son shall not see life. because the wrath of God abides on him. There's no middle ground. What we find here in the life of Pilate is he's trying to play the middle ground here. He's trying to go say, but you know, I'm not rejecting you, but I'm not accepting you either. I don't really know what truth is, and they want to stay right here. And that will end up leading him to rejecting Christ. And that's the exact same thing that's happening in our world today. Did you know that? All of this, I don't want to say what truth is, will ultimately cause people to reject the truth. Make no bones about it. The agnostic is not saved. The secularist, just because he says he wants to stay neutral, does not, that's not acceptable. He will fail in the judgment of Christ. And so we need to understand that opposition is not always from those who are self-righteous. Sometimes opposition are those who are just simply blind in their ignorance and they cannot see the truth. That's why he asks, what is truth? By the way, Romans 1, this when I was studying this, what rung to me very clearly is in Romans 1. 25. It says, who changed the truth of God into a lie. And you find that there is no middle ground in Romans 1 when it comes to this, because what happens is is when the truth of the Word of God is spoken to the ear of the unsaved person, they when they don't accept it as truth, they're changing it into a lie, aren't they? There's no middle ground. When somebody receives truth, when somebody doesn't receive truth and they hear it, they are then saying, by the fact that it's not truth, it's a lie. And so there is clearly no middle ground when it comes to this. Now, he his decree in his first judgment here in this first trial we find that his decree is what he says I find no fault in him Verse, after all of this, he says, end of verse 38, I find no fault in him at all. He cannot find fault with Christ. And so he is now going to send him over. to his next trial to Herod, and we're going to see that tonight, and we'll we'll also finish up in this final trial. Let me just end this way. Number one, just by way of application, if we desire to be used by God because we love Him, we must be careful of the danger of self-righteous hypocrisy. You know, God will use us regardless of whether or not we love him. God will even use our sin for his purposes. But there is a special use that God designates for his children alone. And that special use is to be used of God because we love Him. And that's the place we want to be. And if we're going to be in that place, we've got to be careful of the danger of self-righteous hypocrisy. Number two, we can take great comfort in John's repeated emphasis. God is sovereign and will use all things for his purposes to fulfill his word. And number three. The ability to identify the truth is absolutely essential to living under Christ's rule. Do you know why we don't live under Christ's rule sometimes? Even as Christians, there's an application here. Because we have somehow twisted the truth in our lives. There's something in our hearts, in our lives, that is twisted. We're not seeing the truth. And that causes us to actually stop or withhold from following Christ, even as a Christian Folks, it is so important that we absolutely have our minds constantly corrected by the truth of the word of God in our lives. We've got to constantly, our hearts are deceitful and desperately wicked, and we must allow the Word of God to correct our hearts with the truth. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for the time that we could look at these trials. And as we now go into a time of communion, we pray, Lord, that you would You would cause our hearts to continue to just in our minds continue the thought of the trial of Christ to what will take place in the crucifixion. And all of the suffering and all the things that he went through, he did for you and for me, for all of us, Lord. And I pray, Lord, that you would help us to recognize that this morning. And as we go to communion, Lord, I pray that we would just do this in remembrance of Christ and all that He has done for us. We thank you in Christ's name. Amen.