Quests later on here. Okay, um so we're looking at Christology Night. We looked at s homartyology last week or a couple weeks ago actually, um, which is the doctrine of sin. And so now we're sort of dealing with the very center of the basis of of that, of of of the how to deal with sin, the problem of sin. And so let's go ahead and uh look at a couple of things. There are going to be two parts to this study of who Christ is. So you you may have noticed by now we looked at the who the Father is. Now we're looking at who Christ is, and the other and that's called Christology, theology proper, which is looking at the Father. Christology, and now you have pneumatology, which is the study of the Holy Spirit, which we'll get to after our study on Christ. We've got four lessons on Christology. The first two are going to be on the person of Christ. And the next two are going to be on the work of Christ. Now when you think of the person of Christ, let's just sort of Let's just sort of ask the question. When you think of who Jesus is, the person of Christ, that somebody asks you who Jesus is, what are some maybe one or two word names of things that you would say are are Uh including the person of Christ. Kim? God and man. God and man, right? Okay, you've nailed both of them. Um hi He is God, uh completely God, and he is completely man. What else? Any other thing you think of, somebody says, Who is who is Christ? Who is the person of Christ particularly? Those two those two do encompass everything. In fact, that's exactly what Wayne Grudem says. He's he is one person With two natures, Scripture teaches us that Jesus Christ was fully God and fully man in one person and will be so forever. That is a really good summary statement of who Jesus is: fully God, fully man, in one person, and will be so forever. So let me ask you this question. I want to be make sure that we are practical in this study. Sometimes we can get so academic and I I think there's a place for that. But I want to make sure we're practical as well. By the way, when we're studying God's Word, we ought to just as a pattern, we ought to look at God's Word, see how that Word reveals God, see what it reveals about God, and then how I should how m how I should adjust to that is the practical application of it. So let me ask you. Um the fact that Jesus is both fully God and fully man, how does that how is that how can that be practical in your day-to-day experience? Any ideas? How does knowing that help you, or how is that something that can be practically applied? Kim? From a man's standpoint, you can't do that. Okay. Good. Very good example. So from a human standpoint, we do not have uh a high priest that can't be touched with the feeling of our infirmities, but we we are We he is at all points tempted like we are yet without sin. So God knows this Jesus knows what we're going through because he lived a a human life And so, right, so he can empathize. So that that's significant. When you pray on a daily level, you are praying to God, to a God who knows experientially what you are going through. He is not a God that is just s just sort so transcendent that he cannot be act he's not actively involved in his creation. Christ is God, and yet man, and so when you pray, he knows what you're going through as you pray to him. You ever heard um You you ever go back to adolescence and you think of times where you th thought you couldn't tell your parents something 'cause you did didn't think they really knew what you were going through. Well, you you can never think that about God. He knows what you're going through. So great, great application. What else? Other applications of the fact that Jesus is God and that he is human. I'm doing this on the uh on the outset of purpose to help us to Jeff. Actually a question about what you were just saying. Yeah. Uh I mean but Christ never sinned, so like the guilt of sinning and things something that God would never experience. So it's kind of different there. Okay, so we're going to get into the doctrines of these things in just a minute. So we're going to start applicationally, because I just want to make sure we're getting but that's a good question and we'll we'll we'll get there. Yes. Even from the God perspective, Jesus did experience the guilt, like anybody ever will. Because he paid the price and he understood Um what what um Jeff is referring to is and we would all we'll likely agree with this is called the impeccability of Christ. It means that That Christ couldn't sin because he's God, but he can be tempted because he's human. So all right. Um let's go uh a couple other practical things. Who is the who maintains creation? The answer is Jesus Christ. The fact that he is God and maintains creation means that on a practical level, here is one who knows what I'm going through. He keeps everything going in creation. And when I pray to him, I'm praying to a God who is keeping everything going and knows who I'm going through. What I'm going through. That is, he is the God man in that way. How about this? How do we secure salvation? What is the basis of our salvation? Well, it's the person of Christ. You take away the person of Christ, you have no salvation anymore. It's not based upon what we do, it's based upon what Christ, it's based upon who Jesus is and what he did. And that's very practical. Some of the some of the reasons we we if we ever question whether or not we really know him as our Savior. The question we need to ask is: are we depending on ourselves or are we depending on Christ? If we're depending on ourselves, yeah, we're going to be real shaky. If we're depending on Christ, he's dependable why? Because he's God. Christ's dependability is because he's God. So there are practical things with this. And I just want to make sure we understand that. Let's begin then and look at the deity of Christ first. And as systematic theology, what it always does is it looks at It looks at uh what it teaches in the Old T what is being taught in the Old Testament and in the New Testament. And so we'll look particularly at the Old Testament first. And we'll see, first of all, that in many places in Scripture it says that, well, it's not many places actually. It's only one place in the Old Testament that we know of There are a couple other places that are possible in Isaiah, but the Son of Man is a term that we see in the Old Testament, and we see it also, Christ actually uses that term a lot. Uh in fact it's his favorite um self uh self-description. He describes himself as the Son of Man. In Daniel chapter seven, you could take your Bibles and turn there if you'd like. Daniel chapter seven Looking particularly at verse 13, it says, I was watching in the night visions, behold, one like the Son of Man coming with the clouds of heaven. He came to the ancient of days and brought him near before him. Then to him was given dominion and glory and a kingdom that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion which shall not pass away, and his kingdom the one which shall not be destroyed So it says this one like the son of man, and it says all of these these different these different things about uh this this person titled the son of man. So what are some things that you see in that passage, Daniel 7, 13 through 14, that we can, when we hear the term son of man, we're now going to understand that this is what this means This is really the key passage in understanding this. Do you see any terms that stand out there? Any words, any descriptions of Christ in that passage? Yes, Karen. Dominion, okay? What is dominion? Has to do with rule, right? If somebody is ruled. They are uh if somebody has rule over someone else, that's dominion or over a sovereign nation or something. So Jesus has the Son of Man, whoever the Son of Man is, is one who has dominion. Okay? And glory, and the kingdom, actually, it says there as well. And all peoples and nations and languages shall serve him. And what kind of dominion does he have? This is repeated several times. What kind of dominion does he have here? It's an everlasting dominion. So this tells us something. When you see this term son of man, we're talking about Jesus who is king, he's ruler, he has an everlasting dominion. When Jesus was saying on earth, in many places actually, that he is the Son of Man, Matthew 25, 31 is one place. When he says he is the Son of Man, he is saying, I am the one who rightfully has dominion over all things. And that dominion is going to is eternal. In Matthew 25, verse 31 it says, this is when you remember when when um the disciples well that's not that passage, that's another passage. But in Matthew 25, 31 it says When the Son of Man comes in his glory, and all the ho holy angels with him, he will sit on the throne of his glory. All the nations will be gathered before him, and he will separate them from one another as a shepherd divides his sheep from the goats. So Matthew 25, verse 32, quotes Daniel 7, at least parts of it. And so it demonstrates Jesus says he is the Son of Man of Daniel 7. Then we see also the other major term. Uh let me see if I can well you might be able to look at the handout if those of you got it. What is the other Old Testament term that we We see in the Old Testament that is a description, particularly in the Old Testament, of Jesus. Yes. Okay, that's true. Um Uh the angel of the Lord i uh often not always but uh sometimes is is a reference to the pre incarnate Christ that he he re appeared. So that's true, yeah. Okay? Messiah is is something, yeah. There's a particular phrase in the Old Testament though that we see a lot. It's the son of David. So we have the son of man, we also have the son of David, and that's from several different places, most notably probably is in 2 Samuel 7, verse 13, and he shall build a house for my name. And I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. Um and and it's going to be David, Jesus is the son of David, because he's and he and that's important. Because he's going to sit on David's throne. I'm not going to take a long time to talk about these different things because we actually did a lot of this in our advent in our Christmas messages over the last four to five weeks Um I'll just mention Psalm well, I re we'll read Psalm seventy two because it's so descriptive of who Jesus is in the Old Testament It says verse 11, Psalm 72, Yes, all kings shall fall down before him, all nations shall serve him, for he will deliver the needy when he cries, the poor also, and him who has no helper. He will spare the poor and needy and will save the souls of the needy. He will redeem their life from oppression and violence And precious shall be their blood in his sight. He shall live, and the gold of Sheba will be given to him. Prayer also will be made for him continually, and daily he shall be praised. There will be an abundance of grain in the earth. On the top of the mountains, its fruits Fruit shall wave like Lebanon, and those of the city shall flourish like the grass of the earth. His name shall endure forever, his name shall continue as long as the sun The men shall be blessed in him. All nations shall call him blessed. Blessed be the Lord God, the God of Israel, who only does wondrous things. And blessed be the glorious name forever, and let the whole earth be filled with his glory. So you see there, this is a uh a description of all of what it means to be the Son of David. It's very descriptive of that. Yes. Um good question. Son of David. It is it is in Matthew one. Uh we know I can so so the answer is yes because we have the genealogies in Matthew and it starts off with the genealogy of David. At least it is conceptually. I don't r I can't think of a a a time, but it may I might be wrong about I had to look that up to be to be sure. But um But it probably is. Son of man is all over the place in the New Testament. It p it probably is a couple of places, I would guess. But I'm not I'm not a hundred percent sure. So that's the deity of Christ in the Old Testament. Now let's then look at the deity of Christ in the New Testament. And the deity of Christ in the New Testament in the New Testament is explicitly and extremely spelled out. It is unmistakable in the different ways that it describes that Jesus is God. Now, let's pause for a minute and ask the question: why would this be important in our in our understanding of the faith? Why is it important that we really clearly establish that Jesus is God? Any ideas? Does everybody believe that? Of course not. Does every does every I mean everybody here hopefully does, but I mean everybody in the world uh does does not believe that. Um does does everyone uh does everyone in the world um Who who who what what religions might not believe this? Yes, yeah. Yeah, both of them. Yeah. Uh the most most common probably is the Ho Jehovah's Witnesses. They don't believe in the deity of Christ. They will say that Jesus is a God, but they will not say that Jesus is the one and only true God. And they argue it from all different kinds of kinds of points. How can you have one and three is their main argument. And we have to answer, we don't know, but we just have to believe what the Bible says. The only answer we can give on that. All right. Very important that we just clearly establish this. By the way, this is sort of something that we have in common with Roman Catholicism. So so oh yeah. So so they believe in the deity of Christ too. And uh it's something that actually one of the main one of the pri one of the doctrines that actually remained intact in Roman Catholicism. A lot of other things didn't. Uh but this this doctrine did. Um they had no reason to mess with it, I guess. Um they messed with a lot of other things, but not this. All right, let's go ahead number one. Jesus Christ is called God and Lord. So um Let me uh let's look at here a couple couple uh places. John 1 1 says in the beginning was the word. The word was with God, the word was God Romans 9:5, Christ, who is God over all, blessed forever. Titus 2. 13 calls him our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ. Philippians 2. 11 confesses Jesus Christ is Lord of the glory of God the Father. Uh he um in Philippians two eleven he's quoting Isaiah fift forty-five twenty-three nearly word for word. So actually Isaiah forty five 23 uh verifies this. So lots of places where we see that. Number two, Jesus Christ claimed to be God. So he is described as God, but he himself also claimed to be God. He says in John, well, rather than me oh I got it up there anyway. John eight fifty eight is one place. Do you remember what they said what he said in John eight fifty eight? Anybody remember? Before Abraham was what? I am. Okay? So he there says that he is God, essentially. And then later in John 10, 30, he says, if we this couldn't be clearer, I and my father are one, he says. Now, in John 8, it says, uh, before Abraham was born, I am. Uh and actually I think in both places. Do you know do you know what happens when when Jesus declares this? Yeah, the Jewish people want to stone him because they know exactly what he is claiming to be. He's claiming to be God. That's significant because you talk to a Jehovah's Witness, for example, about these passages, and they'll say, well, it's not that he's not actually claiming to be God. He's claiming to be one in spirit with the Father. He's not really claiming to be God uh ontologically or essentially. He is claiming to be one in spirit. Well then why would they want to stone him? Yeah. The one where it says that I and the Father are one, and the Jehovah Witness took me to another place where it says that we will be one, that the Father also. Right, and John seventeen it says that. We are we become one. Right. Right. So in John seventeen it actually says that they may be one as we are one. And in that context it's talking about fellowship, not talking about actually being one. But obviously the Jews understood what he was saying here as being uh one. Now, you know what I I talked to Jehovah's Witness one time about this, and you know what their their reply was when I showed him this? I said, Look The Jews, they were right there and they understood what Jesus meant when he said this. You know what the reply the guy said? They said that the Jews misinterpreted what Jesus said. I said, let me get this right. That you can interpret Two thousand years later you can interpret what Jesus is saying from this passage better than the people that were right there. He didn't have much to say at that point, but but um it was interesting that he actually said the Jews misinterpreted it There's definitely some deception there going on. Jesus Christ is presented as the as the object of the believer's faith and trust. It's really all over the place that that's the case. Jesus is the object of our faith. John 14. 1 says, you believe in God, believe also in me. 1 Thessalonians 1:5 is the steadfastness of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ. John 17, 3. It is life eternal to know Jesus. So clearly Jesus is presented as the object of the believers, faith, and trust. That's the thing. You mess with the person of Christ. You don't have the gospel anymore. You literally destroy the gospel if you do not, particularly the deity of Christ, if you do not believe in the deity of Christ, or if you if you in any way compromise the deity of Christ. You have no gospel anymore, and that'll become even clearer as we go. Jesus is presented as the object of the believers' worship, in fact. It's not just faith, but it's also worship as well. John 5, 23 says that all should honor the Son, just as they honor the Father. He who does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent him. We clearly see the same honor, the same worship that is given to the Father as also to be given to the Son. John 5. 23. Isaiah 48, 11 says, For my own sake, for my own sake I will do it, for how shall my name be profaned? I will not give my glory to another. Did you catch that? So God says in Isaiah, I won't give my glory to another. Well, then how is Jesus able to receive the same glory that the Father does? Because he's not another because he is he is he is a different person, but he is one in essence with the Father. Yes. Um that is John five twenty-three. Oh, Isaiah forty eight eleven is the is the Old Testament passage. Yes. because there's a lot of passages, a few passages where there's angels. I think in uh in uh Revelation, you know, there's an angel and John calls Down to worship him, he says, No, you know, stand up, don't worship me. Yep. And it's very clear in scripture that you like to indicate it you won't God is the only object of worship. Yeah, and that would have been much clearer and much more profound to the Old Testament b uh s um uh person you know Jewish person. This was constant. You there's no other God before me. There is no one to be worshipped except God. He is one Lord and one God. So to come for Jesus to come on the scene and say, Look, if you don't honor me, you don't honor the Father. I mean that is that is either blasphemy or it's reality that He is God. Um Yeah, good good point. Jesus Christ is described as both being God and performing the very works of God. So he is described that way. Hebrews 1, uh John 1 as well. I won't take the time to look at that, but it's definitely the c we see him As creator in Hebrews 1, we also see him as one who is Savior in that passage as well. Number six, Jesus is assumed to have been pre-existent as the eternal Son of God prior to his incarnation. Philippians chapter 2, verses 6 through 7 explains that, that he being in the form of God did not consider robber to be equal with God. So prior to all creation he was pre existent with God. Second Timothy chapter one verses nine through ten Who has saved us and called us for the holy calling, not according to the works our works, but according to his own purpose and grace, which was given to us in Christ Jesus before the time began. But has now been revealed by the appearing of our Savior Jesus Christ, who has abolished death and brought life and immortality to light through the gospel Now there's a little on your handout, there's a little uh acronym called HANDS that will help you to understand the significant truths in Scripture that equate Jesus with God. So Jesus Christ shares honor with God. He gets H hand honor with Jesus Christ shares attributes of God. He's the same attributes, holy, righteous, all-powerful. He shares the same names of God, Lord, God, Alpha, Omega. He shares the same deeds of God, forgives sin, raises the dead, creates the world. And he share the name seats, uh, shares the seat of God's throne. So honors, attributes, names, deeds, and seats spells hand. So those are all ways that Jesus shares in deity. He is God. Now the question then becomes: why is this important? And we want to look at why this is so important for us to understand, the beauty of Christ's deity. First of all, the deity of Christ matters because of revelation, or for revelation. Let me illustrate it this way. Suppose uh you get a knock on the door one day and somebody s comes and you open the door and somebody has a message from the president. Okay, that's one that's significant, right? I don't get messages from the president. I don't think you do either. So that's pretty significant. But imagine you open the door and The president is standing in front of you. Okay? Like literally standing there. All right. Um some so so do you see the difference? So the fact that we have the Word of God is significant. That's a message from God. But the fact that Jesus came to earth, it's stood on the world's doorstep, if you would, and became a man and was here. He is a full revelation of who God is. That's why it says in Hebrews chapter 1, long ago and many times in many ways, God spoke to our fathers by the prophets, but in these last days has spoken to us by his Son. We see the same kind of thing in John chapter 118. No one has ever seen God but but you know the God by the you know the Father by the Son. And then the deity of Christ matters for salvation. Why does the deity of Christ matter for salvation? Anybody know? If I ask you yes, Harry? Okay, he's sinless. Yes. Okay. Okay. Okay. So then turn on and eternal areas, you know, past and future Okay. Part of it is this. The simple answer is in Jonah chapter 2 verse 9, which actually says that salvation belongs to God. So the simple answer is that God was is the only one who can actually secure salvation for us. On a practic on a more You know, thinking through that there is if God creates a person that's that that is perfect What he can't do, because it's not consistent with his character, is he can't create a person who is from Adam, who is a uh who is uh from the loins of Adam. What's that? I I I'm just making more out of the past me, but God, I mean like like the Mormons believed that Jesus was the brother of Michael or one. Right, right, right, right. And they believe that he is the Savior of the world. Right. Okay. But he's not God. Right. So God could have given birth to a Except that uh so biblically he couldn't and this is the this is where it breaks. Right, but what I'm saying is that he couldn't i if the Mormon if the Mormons were right, which of course they're not, but if they were right, then he actually couldn't die as our representative. So he he he can die as a representative because he comes from he is human. That's the other side of it. So he's both God and human. What's that? Mm, I'm not sure. Okay, but I mean don't we're gonna born, right? I guess what I'm trying to get at is I've always tried to come to terms with Why and I believe that it's because Jesus is God. Yeah. So we're saved. But I could never really find a place that could fully explain Yeah. But that is why is that why is that necessary? Okay. Well I I think I think well let's let's look at a couple of passages with that. So Jonah two nine is is a significant one. Another one is um is is um Colossians chapter one verses nineteen through twenty. It says, For it pleased the Father that in him all fullness should dwell. So in him, in in God in Christ, all fullness dwells, and by him to reconcile all things to himself, whether kingdom whether things on earth or things in heaven, having made peace through the blood of his cross. So God's ultimate plan is actually to restore all things to himself. So it's not, it's it, so we're actually just part of it. So technically, he's going to restore the world, he's going to restore everything back to himself. So in order for for him to be able to do that, he had to be God. to to to be the redeemer of all things he had to be God. So um that's part of the answer I think in in Colossians chapter chapter one. Does that make sense? Yeah. Um and um and then in first Peter chapter three verse eighteen, which kinda helps with that a little bit, is the it's It explains, but this y this doesn't help your point. It says the righteous for the unrighteous that he might bring us to God. So he obviously has to be righteous, we know that. But the fact that God Christ had to redeem all things meant that he had to be God in order to be able to do that. Does that make sense? So I think that's really the answer to the Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, that's a fair question. I thought of that myself. I wondered wondered that myself. And I think that's really the answer is what does salvation actually encompass, how much it encompasses. But finally, the deity of Christ matters for the Christian life. Okay, let's think about this for a minute. How does the deity of Christ matter for the Christian life? Yes? It goes back to where Jesus shares the throne with the throne world with God and he is also making intercession before. Alright. Okay, good. So he's interceding on our behalf. He is the only one who is qualified to do that. Okay. What else? So the to the deity of Christ matters, let me put it this way. Um in the Old Testament You have, I mean just picture before Christ, you have God, and and the thing that the Israelites know about God is Either from Moses or from different scriptures that have been passed down through the prophets. But when God says, be holy, as I am holy, in the book of Leviticus, Can you I mean just imagine being an Old Testament Israelite and hearing that. Be holy, for I am holy. How could you ever relate to that? I mean just think about it. If you could sort of imagine that, hearing that from God, maybe you're hearing it as a voice from God. You wouldn't, but let's just think that you would. Okay. How can you relate to that? Like what are you actually supposed to do? And we all, of course, we have the commandments in the Old Testament, but obviously those were not sufficient to help us to be holy because obviously none of us were through that. So, what did Jesus provide as God? Well, Jesus provided as God an example. What does a holy person look like? Before Jesus, we didn't have it. We had no idea what a holy person looks like. And yet when Jesus, who is God, comes to earth, we now know without a question what that looks like. And so we read in the Gospels in Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, and we see the kind of life that Jesus lived, and that can be a much more tangible A tangible example for us than just this hard to relate to God of the Old Testament. Now I'm not saying I'm not diminishing God, the God of the Old Testament. God is God. But before Christ, you have to admit that God is a bit hard to relate to for us. Does that make sense? And so the advantage of the Christian life is that I have an example of what day to day Holiness and love and all of those different qualities of who God is look like on a practical level by simply reading what Jesus did and what he taught and and those kinds of things. Yes. I think also the deity of Christ matters because that means he's fully trustworthy. Yes. Absolutely. Trust everyone who's said and done in his own message about um his purpose the purpose in my life as Christian because Yep. Good. I absolutely agree with that. There is a reliability to to uh Jesus to the Christian life actually because Jesus is God. You don't have to question about whether or not he is qualified to secure salvation for you. I'm not qualified to search and I would be questioning myself all the time if I thought that salvation was based upon my my obtaining salvation. But it's not. It's based upon Christ and what he did. But he was qualified because he's God. And there's just it's just It's just impossible to see otherwise. Um Just by way of sort of concluding these things, uh let's go ahead then and just point this out. Um the way our just a practical application of this is that we we ought to the more we know Jesus, the more we know God. And the more we know God The more we love God. John Owen says it this way, you love him not because you know him not. If somebody doesn't love God, it's because he doesn't know him. Well, how do you know God? Well the gr the the the the most vivid revelation of God is Jesus. Jesus said he he is the word. In the beginning was the word and the word was with God and the word was God. Jesus is the revelation of God. And is God, and therefore when we know Christ, the more we know him, uh, the more we will learn to love him. Um 2 Corinthians chapter 4, verse 6 says, Knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. So knowing knowing who Jesus is helps us to know the glory of God and who and who the Father is. Um any other questions about so with Next week what we're looking at is the humanity of Christ. Now, we'll probably get it more into Jeff's initial question next week when it comes to, okay, Jesus, because he is God, cannot sin. That's clear. But Jesus, because he's human, can be tempted, but then could he really experience what we experienced If he hadn't he did not have the potential of sinning. I think that's what your I think that's essentially your question, right? So we will we'll look at that next week um a little bit more along with the rest of the humanity of Christ. The humanity of Christ is an extremely important doctrine as well. The Gnostics in the first century got this wrong. uh and and try to separate the humanity of Christ from the deity of Christ. And again you have a you total you have a total breakdown of the gospel uh when you try to do that