And I had to sort of regroup and say, okay, well he's still saying wise things. And they they said that this is your your theological definition isn't coming coming up the same as I what I Googled. He says this. Let's honestly compare ourselves and the society we currently inhabit in previous generations who did not benefit from modern technologies easy everywhere. Now, in the youth setting, yeah, we want to train them, right? What are some preventable measures that we in our own houses can take for protection? We are designed for a rhythm of work and rest. I think uh GPS is a pretty good example of that. that a lot of older people would follow this trap and that's using words and picking a word that you like and then redefining it to mean what you want to The Timex Sinclair system and then the two eighty six with MS DOS and that's how I started learning computers Well I'm gonna go look up the buffalo bits. Uh but but I don't I don't think I think if we're I I understand what you're saying, I totally agree, uh in the sense that um One of the kids decided to be very nasty and stick something in front of a kid's face. in in the corner of the home where it's not the center. And so I wanted to read these just in preparation for our discussion tonight on the Techwise family. It's just the way they did it basically the way it was written. And some of the things he says is really wise. trying to do in it than spending time even if you can assume meditating on God's word this morning. m you know, my grandfat parents generation they were preaching against going to the movie theater. So those are some of the ways that we just talked about. You know, from the wheel to the plow to the book, all of those things are tools to help us do various things. And riding in an airplane which takes no skill. where it's gotten so computerized and so advanced that, you know, it didn't used to be that airplanes were that way. It's a tool for him, hopefully. thing being uh something being everywhere is the internet itself. Who doesn't like microwaves and fridges because they're simple. No. actually but but uh I think it'll help us help us through this. what you have already started to learn. and trying to find the easiest road there is, which is our nature, then are we really building character? And it's not somewhere you go, it's like air, it's everywhere. A world in which technological dream of easy everywhere has come true. That family forms in us. I mean, you ever known n knew what you should do, but didn't have the motivation or the courage to do what you should do And to draw out our deepest capacities for wisdom and courage. Or technology is bad. So if a GPS helps you become more courageous, well then have at it, right? to make their lives better. But anyway I did the best I could. With understanding and he he he kind of hones in on wisdom and and courage. Brakes. I I don't think you should say, Well, I'm not gonna go look up the bubble bill s score score because what if I see something bad? Uh I don't think there's certain things I ever want to pop up. They need to know because at some point they are most likely going to be confronted with it, even if it's with a friend or someone who's not a friend that knows, you know, hey you're a Christian person, I'm gonna stick with their history, how to know what to look for without opening it up themselves. obviously we want to be ministering to others as well. I think that that you have to limit that friendship. with them so the kid doesn't go, ah, this is what my final do this. bow this a little bit because on certain we'll say sports sites okay there's inappropriate or inmodest women that pop up. the greatest quick facts in the world, right? ourselves from actually going to places that will allow problems. can be used and it's amongst everybody in the house. left alone or undependent on the tool. Uh first of all my kids don't have phones and they're not going to for a long time. And so when he's saying this, he we see very little about things popping up in what he's so far, what I've read. We want to create more than than we So here's what he says. things human beings were made to do. in ways to serve our shared human needs and give glory to God. But let your heart keep my commands. Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and lean not to your own understanding. Do not be wise in your own eyes. For her proceeds are better than the profits of silver, and her gain than fine gold. Um I've been going lately in in family devotions through uh the Book of Proverbs and it still continues to be the best source of wisdom available Honor the Lord with your possess possessions, and with the first fruits of all your increase. She is a tree of life to those who take hold of her, and happy are all who retain her. Do not be afraid of sudden terror nor of trouble of the wicked when it comes. It's going to be your strength. By his knowledge the depths were broken up, and clouds dropped down the dew. The tech wise family needs to make and he's going to flesh these decisions out. You don't have to drive somewhere anymore. And when we when it's distracting us from meditating on God's word, uh focusing on it too much, you can make you not good things. I'm just a key word in the Google search and I'll find it so I don't really have to memorize it per se because I know where to go to get it where it uh not a lot of accountability online. Obviously the number three is the Lord the Lord cease. Okay. And this technology, as its most beguiling, requires almost no effort or learning at all. Now that's a good point. And you I would write a research paper and I would have to go to the library, that's that place with a wall with walls and books. And we have angles who will get the assignment to the end of the handle. I want to place a little word of warning here. refrigerators and furnaces and all these kinds of things as as examples as well. to me and giving it to people as such. And you know, everything in your house, the light switch is technology because if it turns on light for you you no longer have to go hit your old floodstone to get a little light to your house. Be careful when you take words like I don't like when they redefine words in in books. technology to somebody they're not thinking of his definition of technology. Fine. learned or I have studied in scripture. And that is going to be his point. It is in its early stages the internet was more like a tool. We're also able to become, to grow in, and that's this word capacity is an important word, to grow in capacities that are only potentially present within us at first. We all have been there, right? Okay. is very easy to come by. Life is difficult, and in fact, if you do life property with wisdom, life does get more difficult as you go. to come to life as it is, which is difficult. And in our deepest friendships with others, the way of wisdom has been clear. To actually commit and keep faith and hope has sometimes asked more of us than we can imagine giving. But it is very unlikely you will have a deep enough understanding of yourself and your complex calling to actually become either wise or courageous. Jesus, after all, said some pretty harsh things about ordinary biological family. But in the very rare friendship that is extensive enough, intimate enough, and above all long lasting and committed enough to re r uh to really uncover our deepest foolishness and cowardice The first family for everyone who wants wisdom and courage in the way of Jesus is the church. The church is and can be family for everyone in a way that biological families cannot. He also says if our family, if our churches are to be all they are meant to be, they'll have to become more like a family, household-like context of daily life where we are all nurtured and developed into the persons we are meant to be and can become. Not patience and kind. There's value to that and and that's just one of many examples of that. Now he's not saying it's wrong by saying that, but it is true that anything that offers anything everywhere, it's not going to develop my character the point he's going to make is technology in the way that he's talking about it is not going to develop my character. Will this help me become less foolish or more wise is one of the questions that we need to ask ourselves when we're using technology. And uh in those two have uh waste. with and spend God with money now you can double shoot it yourself with Hellfunk or something. any clear that our children are going to get into, they're going to have to technology. careful and I know if he's trying to be balanced, but like I think we need to be careful he balances this because they're gonna have to use it. it will happen at some point. And they do need to know I mean their parts and technology, he has to work on people's computers where these people have intentionally gone to bad places and he has to know how to research discretion with maybe who we associate with. idle time. All of this is how do we handle this in a way that is the wisest way possible. So shaping our space is basically is creating now what he does here is he is not on the defense when it comes to this stuff. Well technology in the way that he is using it doesn't necessarily lend to creating. The heart of your home, the place where you spend the most time together, with the things that reward creativity, relationship, and engagement Push technology and cheap drills to the edge edges. The most visible things are like the hearth are more like a hearth or more like a furnace. Uh that it's not I mean might might be warm, but it wouldn't be very very pleasant. So one hour a day, one day a week, and one and this kind of goes to what one of the questions that Josh was sort of ra raising. And work requires courage, because even work at its best involves risk and effort. Work also requires wisdom and courage because we always work t together. Oh, because they're doing all these things. So that's his point in here. And developing them with them the way that you want them to be developed and having godly character and and coming to the kind of potential and capacity that you want them to come to. Because of course it's God's word. Who is saying basically, here is how here are the benefits of wisdom. you may desire cannot compare with her. And really, how technology has the possibility of hindering that if we're not careful So they will be life to your soul and grace to your neck. no by no means infallible. Um and I was sort of like how how many of you read the how many of you have uh started reading this? You know, I he his writing is um is very flowery, those of you r uh have read uh some of it, so it's sort of that we're going to choose character as a primary goal for our families and that we're not going to allow Your hard drive, even if you erase the history, if somebody wants to check that hard drive, they can. Yeah, good point. where you have almost uh alternate reality. Tools weren't everywhere, they're in one place, you had to go to that place to get the tool, versus technology, which is he's saying everywhere. There's a lot of overlap with both of these, but anyway, just generally, uh he makes some good points here. quite an a s uh uh an ordeal to get an airplane and go somewhere. Increasingly, our lives have been colonized, his wording is interesting, colonized by things that don't just help us accomplish a task, but do the task for us It's doing it for me. that no longer matches the content of technology of every individual around us. leading you and pulling you towards the media media technology is really what he's going for. Um I I don't think any of this is a matter of right or wrong at all. He he he he's gonna say a f let me give you an example this way, okay, to help you. is used to be in the center of the house because it was actually aesthetically pleasing and those kinds of things. Character is applying that information on a consistent basis when when it becomes difficult to apply that information, when it becomes difficult that character is then produced. Saul had untried character. But it's not like science at all. But the recipient of technology doesn't have to do anything to get it other than maybe pay for it. Well now it's you you've got a tablet and you're just pushing buttons and everything's cop popping up and I mean it doesn't take much to to learn now technology like it used to to. uh is is w i i it it is easy and it is everywhere. So he says that one of the reasons for families is to develop a person, to go from having the potential to to having the capacity to be able to fulfill that potential. Does that make sense? Can. Two great things happen in families, at least families at its best. No matter how big your house, it's not big enough to hide your foolishness from people who live with you after uh live with you day after day. It is. By the way, these are two things that ought to be happening in the church as well. And the two things that ought that oughta happen is, yes, we realize we're all foolish, and number two, we forgive each other for it. But you can't search for wisdom. before. We need people who know us and the complexities and difficulties of our lives really well, so well that we can't even hide the complexity and difficulty from them. would divide children from parents and brothers and sisters, and it did so uh and it did in his day and sometimes still does in ours. schools of wisdom and courage, they will have to become more like the church. However, he says, this is this is what he says, he says it it has to help us become the persons we're meant to be before in uh better informed about many aspects of the world in certain respects more productive and thanks to GPS and Google Maps certainly less lost. Are we more patient, kind, forgiving, fearless, committed, creative than we were? And so we're so used to being able to get things with instant access. And then we'll have to make hard choices, sometimes radical choices, to use technology in a very different way from people around us. 46% says if it makes them happy. Which is not going which is going to be diametrically opposed to them developing character. then you can be both happy and have character and develop in character. we can it can actually go work against what really what we want it to to work against. things that come up in a Google search or you might have other things that come up on the Gauntle front page or whatever it might be that then distracts you and you go off to Neverland or So we have to have our checks and balances in place, yes, to be able to act appropriately if there is a pop-up. That much more struggle than the adult. is not a matter, I'll remind our us, it's a matter of not a moral matter of morality, it's a matter of wisdom. But it also can really hurt you. purposeful, how are we going to do this in the best way we can, uh the wisest way. We're scared of technology. So we fill the center of our home with things that reward skill and active engagement. You're not creating anything, right? I think that's good wisdom, right? And a a place where there was there was camaraderie and talking back and forth. is he says make sure that the devices are turned off and plugged out and plugged in away, their way, an hour before you go to bed. We can uh partake of. and discernment that we need to have technology in its proper place so that we're just careful uh about the development of our families. And this particular chapter is a chapter that is written from a father to a son It's sometimes it's a little impor imprecise, sometimes I don't know exactly what he's talking about. technology to get in the way of character. Can you can you think of examples of that? Okay. He says a furnace is very necessary and very everybody has them and and they need them. Let's use it the term let's use the term the biblical term virtue. By having to do difficult things and persevering through those difficult things, and as a result of persevering through those difficult things, you gain experience and you gain character. And he says, what is family for? Uh it can hinder wisdom and courage. Blue letter Bibles. The real family, the real community are all about. a sense of value to it when you've accomplished, when you keep moving forward in in working at things and doing well at a musical instrument, not because it's easy, because it's hard work We can't possibly be more patient than we used to be. Okay? But I'm not going to develop it's not going to help me develop character. Number one, we need to we need to develop uh godly character and we need to ask ourselves the question, is technology helping us or hurting us and how it is how is it? Some that may not be. We don't want our kids to be afraid of technology or not know how to use it. I think that's a fair thing. then you're gonna get all kinds of stuff. If you're using it as a tool versus okay, I'm just gonna kinda float around online, those are two very different ways of handling it. and I I just want to check on the score. is able to do what they're able to do. Why? Where do most people spend most of their time? That those areas. Entertainment room, out okay, but so he he says take the room that you spend the most time in and make sure that it's a room this is just principle. ideas. Place them in the center of your home or where you're spending time. And so he he goes into quite quite about a bit of detail about the difference between leisure and rest. which I know many of you do, spend time uh just hugging your kids, do spend time doing those kinds of things rather than having the technology there. have started to implement in our family and and are are pl planning on impl implementing more. For her proceeds, this is her personified as wisdom. So there and it continues actually on with more more when it comes to this concept of wisdom. And so what we're looking tonight at is how to be wise when it comes to the issues of handling technology. And particularly, he is going to talk tonight about in the book, as we're going to look at excerpts from the book, he's going to talk particularly about So throughout history we've had different tools that have developed to make things to to that to help us do various tasks tasks. You had to learn to use tools. We drive so much we don't think of it as a skill anymore. His point is, remember the chapter, he wants to develop character. The trial pr builds the character. He did not, he failed. we become we we start asking questions like what is easier? But in one central respect, we are living a life that even our grandparents never imagined and could fully understand. Being a person is a gift, like life itself. And you the the the closer you grow, the more you see people, the more you rub shoulders with other believers in the body of Christ, particularly the local church, you begin to see strengths and weaknesses and foolish behavior and all kinds of things. Boy, that's I know that's exciting to hear. We have to be and he's gonna say you think you might realize where he's going with this, we need to be prepare preparing on our families people to to You need courage to do them. If you don't have people in your life who know you and love you in that radical way, it is very, very unlikely you will develop either wisdom or courage. Such people can be friends, to be sure. And so God looked at his creation in Genesis and he said it's very good. I I feel there there is a mentality of just being able to get immediate access. Um I was trying to explain this to my girls when it comes to mu learning musical instruments. Fifty-four percent said that if it is good for developing the children's character. Now, here's the thing. That saves me I know that's saving saving me a lot. The idea of fearful or using discretion in where you're going. Yeah. But we do need to handle it. So I felt really good about it now anyway. Just spend time with the Lord. where they have time where they know that there is no ability to get to technology and that they're getting the rest that they need. And they have a lot of statistics on this, where kids are staying up very late to play video games and very late to search the internet and do all kinds of texts and do all the kind of things that they're and they're just getting less rest. making changes as well and that we would just follow you and be as wise as we can with these things. Let not mercy and truth forsake you. the role of the family and what the family is supposed to do, just sort of naturally supposed to do it as God's intended it to do joined up with several other people in the same building and um and uh they all shared one bank account. So just know that. Yeah. when it comes to family, what the focus should be within within a family setting and within the home. So let's define character for a minute. He says even if we consider high technology, we can progress more like tool like uh to per to perfectly technology like. that take love and faithfulness, the wisest things, are often the things that are scariest and hardest and most painful to do, and have a level of danger to them, which is why you not only need wisdom, but you need Make sense? As a Christian, I actually don't believe the biological family is the main place we are meant to be known and loved in a way that leads us to wisdom and courage. And and also the same amount want to make sure that they're doing things that make their kids happy. I went to YouTube. Um and they don't have limited unlimited access to those either actually. Because even of morally mm you know amoral things that we're looking at, but what are we losing here? said their family room slash living room. So that's his that's basically when it comes to creating spaces, that's his I his his concept of that. Um as technology has filled our lives with more and more ease easy everywhere, we do less and less of the two two things, human thing, the two That goes something like this. I'm not checking to see what's going on and those kind of things. So we have discussed, by way of introduction, a lot of different things, but we are going to really jump in now to the three key decisions that he says Technology could, not that it has to, but could get in the way of developing godly character. No, you can't. Technology makes things easier. Families should be helping their kids learn both wisdom and courage. has character because that courage, he develops that courage as trials and difficulties come. So he says that's one thing. Do you know what he's talking about there? No matter whether you have a spouse or children or siblings or cousins, you have a family in the church. We will have to teach our children from early on that we are not here as parents to make their lives easier, but to make them better. And 33% said if it is fine if it makes financial sense for us. And you learn to enjoy doing those tasks and accomplishing things that are difficult. I think we need to be really careful in saying, okay, well I need to know what to do with it when it does come up. But but you can reduce the likelihood, not that it's never going to happen, but you're going to reduce the frequency of when it's going to happen by how you approach the technology in the first place. But what he says is, in order if we're going to develop character, we need to we need to be more concerned about we want to create more than we consume. So here's a simple test for whether your home is tech-wise space. So develop character, create spaces, and structure time. And he uh and I would add this, I think the same thing needs to go for in my life per personally. Work. than than looking at a screen in your hoom on your phone. Well, I don't uh and I think I think what we want to be to do is see where this is all going 'cause this is just the first two pages of the chapter. No, very different. We can we if we become consumed with technology to an unhealthy level, w his point is that He says but technology is only oh he says oh I was reading a different screen than you guys, I think. Does he make the uh some of that is really good, isn't it? So turn the technology off is basically what he's saying. Um yeah, PowerPoint probably. Because these are areas of wisdom, not morality, unless they become areas of morality. nor detest his correction, for whom the Lord loves, he corrects. And you're still and you're you know, you're you're developing the skill in the beginning. He just had to say Google was wrong. And so if if our kids are f have lots of technology, then I want to make my kid happy, which is going to require me to give them instant gratification I don't think there's anybody here that would question that we need to know we need we need to know what to do if something pops up. He says gathering so as far as gathering spaces, he says in polling people, this is Barnes um research. So did you get that? And so I pray, Lord, that you would just uh help us with this. No. Just ask your family member. He said hit that his um he said that he had a student that questioned his definition because he Googled it. They're things that you have to deal with as you go through life. the concept that when you work for something you value it more because you can get it so fast. careful in what they say around us. Technology, the way that he is using it, is is in contrast to a tool, and then he'll continue to use that contrast as we go through. Are you born with character? Wisdom is the skill to apply truth. Courage is the ability to carry out that that that application in difficult circumstances. It doesn't have to, but it can if we don't if it doesn't have its proper place. And so and so this some of this is true in a family and true in a church. I might get knowledge from from it. We will tell them and show them that nothing matters more to our family than creating a home where all of us will be known, loved, and called to grow. And so we can do that. There is a difference between leisure, he says, and rest. Uh yeah. So he he gives these contrasts. It could be in a friend's home or it could be somewhere else where they're exposed to it. Because then you have accountability. It takes a lot less work. So he says he can you guys see that up there? He says about half of the people want want their child make decisions based upon what will be good for the children's character. Especially if you add technology to the to the mix. And it is a tool. He says a furnace in his in his definition is technology and a fireplace is not. Yes. I mean there are people out there like that. I'm just all I'm saying before deviating, but all I'm trying to say is we need to equip our children and ourselves with skills to know how to avoid certain things. Any other ways that it can be there's there's lots of ways, but yes. And then and then there is a deceptive nature to this, to to to to this. I'm not having trouble wondering it. It's only recently that in a small corner of the world that family was primarily meant a father, mother, and their biological children living together in a single-family home. Yeah. But he said it's only good or very good. And if I'm not using the tools the right way, my idle time will get me in trouble. How do you get character? For technology, with all its gifts, poses one of the greatest threats ever conceived by human society to the formation of wise, courageous persons. Will the So then now he he sort of moves and says, okay, there's a better life. So it's not that you keep yourself completely from ever doing this because of what if, but like I want to teach my kids here's how to handle it when you are confronted with this. I don't have to look it up. Uh yeah, I think. You're more fearless with a GPS, okay. Yeah. And make sure that it's a room that it's fostering um it's fostering uh care creativity rather than consump consumption. Learning learning well depending on how you're defining learning, but learning is is gaining information. Okay. You you learn character by being tested. So if you take those two together, what would it equal? What's that? But for the rest of us we're just we're just uh we're just passengers. Tell them about Google Maps. He's saying, hey, there's a better environment. He said sixty five percent that's the majority of the time. Technology can keep us from working if we're not careful. It's going to be your well-being. In fact there's one thing I read this week that I thought was really weird. It can be that quick. That's why he's defining the difference between a tool and and in his terms technology. I mean if you need to figure out why you have a uh a sensor malfunction engaged on your own. I think we need that. Better means character and character actually means harder. Yeah. So all of this is things that we we need to think about and we will come back to in the end of August actually. I I found the book to be helpful. Well going back to Google Maps, Google Maps will also lead you down the path to commerce so that when you're uh if you want to go somewhere. I think it might be wise um for us if we're gonna use the technology. What is character? Oh sure. Yeah. Another thing he says, and yet a second amazing thing happens in families at their best. We're supposed to work and we're supposed to rest. Yeah, good. Yes. So wisdom and courage are the two things that he says should be occurring, and what he's going to basically say is that technology Oh hold on a second. Not to go on technology because we're bored. Okay. Family helps us into persons who have acquired two things. I can go online with blue letter bottles. There's more if you actually think about it, there's more than you I anytime you go online you ought to realize, especially uh all of us need to realize anytime you go online, number one If nothing else, just know it can happen. Almost too easy. Josh, I'm not saying I I'm letting my kids be around these people. Good job, Billie. Let's uh let's illustrate it this way. He he did not have character. Science is hard, technology is easy. At least not online. Um how do you make decisions about what family what your family does, activities, projects, and commitments? And um those that's another thing that we need to be wise about. And I'm going to be turning off my devices when I go when I go this w uh next uh not this coming week but the when I go to the vacation. So he starts off in this chapter by talking about the difference between tools and technology. You know, the the amount of research when I was in college used to have to research things This resonates with me almost immediately. Does that make sense? Maybe I'm not going to because I could that to me sounds more like fear. It's just like fire. Or is there a certain cutoff where the tool goes back in the shed and we're not using it past a certain point because there really is no need to be Makes sense? Fear the Lord and depart from evil. But you're right, it's there there is not the amount of co accountability. I mean that's everywhere. A person of character gets under pressure and he succeeds through the pressure. Technology is a brilliant expression of human capacity, but anything that offers easy everywhere does nothing to actually form human capacities. And there needs to be respect for what what's what's there. Father, we thank you for the time that we could spend together looking at these things, and I pray that you would help us give us the wisdom that we need to There are many ways to hide reviewing online and back to those kind of And here's an example. If you're precise in in in making in uh using it as a tool So one hour a day, one day a week, and one week a year, we turn off our devices and worship, feast, play, and rest together Use an actual Bible with pages. So if we're thinking about the difference between a tool and technology, a tool helps us do a task, and he's saying technology does it for us But there is a there you are missing something in the research process. Um and what he's doing here is dangerous in the sense that I remember it happening a lot back when I was younger. So I mean it's not the trial that necessarily build characters because I already have a premise of maybe a right and wrong that that I have a Okay? Anyway. It's only recently then in a small then a a small corner now this I r I really appreciate this There are kids and I'm thinking from some experience there was a situation in our co-op, our home school co-op was a very conservative Christian co-op where one You're only consuming. Um Happy is the man who finds wisdom and and the man who gains understanding. It's true. Yeah, that's why big technology like the virus I needed to figure out how to inspect my trailer basically Okay. For length of days and long life and peace they will add to you. If you go into use the Google Maps, it'll it'll reroute you with when when when there's traffic. Um let's ask this question, how do you get character? I'm I'm always diagnosing things on YouTube with cars between my dad and technology. So you do have to build some wisdom. So I think that it's even more important for us as parents to really limit and monitor how much our youth If we're not careful, technology and this is something to think about, technology can keep us from actually having rest. Now let me ask you, whether you or not you have read the book, let me ask you, how do you think perhaps Here's how he puts it. In adolescents, in particular, our friends may play an important role in helping us develop wisdom and courage. But is it wise for me to go there? Um and and that the hearth was a place that actually heated the home, but it also was a place of warmth and beauty as well. Josh? I've met people that they go to work, you know, to work every weekday. No. How did this come up? Yeah let me let me mention a couple of things that our family does just as i ideas, it's not like right or wrong it's not this is not right or wrong. I I think it's not I think it's a good idea actually. Length of days is in her right hand, in her left hand riches and honor. It can take you to bad places. However, technology in the way he he's going to define it here, and he's defining his own terms so that he can then use them the way he wants to use them, and he says that, so that's fine. But the trial is what illuminates that character, whether or not you apply it in your life. I might get entertainment from it. You actually have two things there basically. It becomes this an escape mechanism and it becomes a distraction. And technology is, to some degree, contributing to that if we don't realize it and put it in its proper place, which is his point. So those are just two things that we've done. Right? In other words, if you're using technology and you're doing open searches for all kinds of stuff He says, number one, tools, they weren't everywhere, and they were only in specific places. But remember when you first started driving? Unless you're using it as a tool, which is what I'm doing. But my point is simply this, let's just take it very basically at this point. But Lord willing, they'll know our position and they'll almost be Bind them around your neck, write them on the table of your heart, and so find favor and esteem in the sight of God and man. So then now when somebody, one of us or anybody who reads this book, is going to go out and talk about evil. But imagining why in a certain number of these cases it's wrong to say Can you get character by reading books? How how do you get character? Uh tablets they do have right now, but they have to use them only at the dining room table and they're only going to be used about a half an hour a day and they have to be asked for they have to ask us first Uh where where in your home do you spend the most time as a family is the question. You think of the vast majority of the history of civilization, various tools. But look back at your life, is that not true? Based upon this. So keep keep it from them, sure. So he says, fill the center of your life, the literal center Most some su some peop some houses have both a family room and their living room or a den and a living room. So um he's basically he's saying take things like like instruments and art and books and and those kinds of things. Yeah. We need to guide them in how to use it properly. I went to this website. And if there are changes we need to make, I know that there are several changes that I And in Proverbs chapter 3, we see some benefits to wisdom. Um so yeah. Doesn't take any skill to jump in an airplane and sit there. That is weird. Give it the flood of search results for almost any word or phrase you can imagine. There's sort of a positive, more positive environment that we can create in our homes And I can and I can just imagine a father saying these things to his son. Um yes, the so I we I think we really just need to keep going through this. That's what wisdom is. Yeah, blue letter Bibles g it gives you all you need. And I think that's the key. I do not agree with everything in the book, I will tell you right now. To a large extent he's right about that, right? If we learn to be happy in the journey of difficulty, like as you are accomplishing difficult tasks, Or do. And the things like phones and tablets and computers and and and um televisions put toward the outside of your home or some Then you will walk safely in your way, and your foot will not stumble. Yeah. We have the charts we used to find that button. Because they're technology. He had he was had ability, he had knowledge, he had charisma, he had all those kinds of things, but he did not when he when it came under when he got under pressure in 1 Samuel In fact, he says in the book, he says this, technology can be very good in the sense that God's creation created it Which is why it's important for us it to have its proper place. The Lord will be your confidence and will keep your foot from being caught. I tend to agree with them on this, I I I will I will tell you, but I'm not some of the details I'm not sure I agree. He said technology is also very good as it is an innovation of God's creation. So it I I and they never have, um for me. I I had to really try to explain personification to my kids during devotions was a little bit interesting, saying explaining that her is referring to wisdom. Um literally with data and and satellites and everything, it it is everywhere. Um he's actually going to say technology is useful, even in the way he he's defining it. If you look at Saul versus David, now David obviously had his failings, but People would go online. I mean it it takes no skill anymore. We are born as human beings, made in the image of God, but while in one sense a person is simply what we are as human beings, So what do you think? We um a few years ago you had to take it to the shop to deal with it needs to be dealt with Fire can be used appropriately with great benefit. Find the place that is its emotional center, the place where your family spends the most time and the most energy, and take an inventory of what you see there. Not all technology, you know, leave the lights on, that'd be helpful. I'm just curious. And if we're not careful, as in families and even churches and things, And the friendships that do make it to the level of honest uh of honesty and commitment end up feeling an awful lot like family. And that's okay. Now it's so easy uh to do that it's just jumping on and going, uh all except for the pilot hopefully. And it's as rare and precious as ever, maybe given how complex our lives have become, rarer and more precious than before. This happened, so we can't pretend that we can keep our kids safe from this. Now, it doesn't mean it's wrong to consume. Move deeper and more lasting things to the core. Some some homes are like they all spend time in the kitchen a lot. It's like i by by by by having to go through hard things. He says, family is about the forming of persons. You know, as we grow closer as a body of believers, you get to see everybody else's warts more. So technology causes us to want instant gratification. He says one hour a day, one day a week, and one week a year. If we're not careful. And I think we need to give the same kind of guidance, I just would suggest that we give the same at all suggestions, the same kind of guidance for our kids The first one is that is choosing character. So he's actually pretty consistent in how I I agree he's he's important to us to remember that tomorrow we'll be talking about That's true. Um and so anyway, th there are th I think the point is this, it it may even look different based upon each family, but you need to think about it. What is character? Life does not get easier. But technology is only very good if it can't help us become the persons we were meant to be. And we've got to teach our kids, no, actually the things that are most valuable are the things that you are really working for. You can't just say, oh well I'm just going to be really careful and this is never going to happen to me. This is his principle. Okay, I I don't have time to go to the right through this. But it really will help us in in in discussing a very, very important area. So anyway, all that to say, yes. She can tell by telling my voice what I I'm looking for. Um we need to real our children need to realize that we're not here to make their lives easier. In all your ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct your paths. But the r but he's still saying good, wise things, and so we will continue to uh to to pay attention to what he's saying. Now that's a little different than saving time so that you can do more things and that's a little different. We misunderstand each other, we misunderstand ourselves, and we certainly misunderstand God I think so no we're not more patient than we used to be. We've kind of talked about it already. So what if we said I'm going to use this technology as a tool? They need to have some wisdom to look for the I don't think there would be anybody that qu would question that Do we have a central point where there's only one place that this technology He points out that technology is the product of hard work. This is this is interesting what he says. So they need to know how to handle it when it comes. Work requires wisdom, understanding something about the world, its limitations, and its possibilities. One is um it it's lack of account it's not you can't I guess we have uh Boris look, yeah, I remember. 37% says if it is good for the children's achievements in life. Yeah. Yeah, it becomes a shortcut to memorizing and meditating on God's word, which has its own reward that we don't see. Well I don't know how to do that. Yeah. Households where we are actively formed into something more than our culture would ask us to be Now, I think he gets into it later. We are designed for rhythm of work and rest. My son, let not depart from your eyes. Okay, some of you have started. That hearth has now been replaced with a furnace, which you is ugly and you put in the basement you don't look at a I can you can't imagine you know a whole family sitting around a furnace. Um and he sa so he he says, think in those terms. It will be health to your flesh and strength to your bones. Because almost all the time the most faithful and most loving and wisest thing to do is scary, hard, and painful, even in some ways dangerous. Um Yeah. So he's saying that the the parents he polled, that was one of their main concerns. This is a father, the Son, in whom he delights. Number two, that even it there's other things that can be seen more than you realize Um so anyway, um His point is what he's going to do is try to get us to think in terms of where the focus should be and he's going to lead us toward a fan Umledge these days is very e so here's what he says. Yeah. And so I have to be using discretion with where I'm going, which will say my Okay. They are allowed, they do have compute personal, they have computers, but computers I can walk by and see what they're doing all the time. I pray that there will be others as well that would um consider There are ways to do it, number one. He says all at all the moments of greatest conflict in our marriage. It takes work. And we pray that we pray, Lord, that you would keep us from judgment of others when it comes to these things as well. Well and fridges and microwaves fall into those categories as well. Let's just define character for a moment. Um other than that, it's just it's just it'd be it's easy. Life is difficult. I might save time through it. And some of this goes to the next point, and he's going to talk now about shaping our space. We talk about he talks about that in the old days in the middle of the home you usually had a fireplace. Okay. Um and it's quickly take you it you know, it used to be years ago that you had to drive somewhere. Technology is anything a human develops to do something. But they put them in the basement where they're not the focus, is what he says. What is virtue? The the things that are the the the things that Um and I think, you know, there's some things that it is that way, and that's that's fine. I'm saying you're in a situation where you cannot help being these people. Work is the fruitful transformation of the world through human effort and skill Are we allowing our kids to have the enough rest? And I pray that you'd help us to realize that as well. So your barns will be filled with plenty, and your vats will overflow with new wine. What else? It takes work and that kind of thing. Yes, because you're a linguist, that's true. What is character? Wisdom is so absolutely important. It was someplace you had to go. The community of disciples who are looking to Jesus to reshape their understanding and their character. Well it can be a matter of morality. So you know, with that point, right, I mean maybe we we could at some point talk about Watching television, for example, may allow leisure, but it doesn't allow for actual rest. A fireplace is a tool. What is courage? We are not developing patience and non-common. But then doing that maybe it's not the best approach because you might have other Shelter them from it to the point, or even give them the feeling that there's some inherent evil. If you have both wisdom, just think about this for a minute, then if you have both wisdom, which is this, what is wisdom? And uh Wikipedia. And technology can keep us from resting. Please, please pay attention. He said in the book that he some point in his Christian history he had No, he's not. He said that his way of wisdom and courage They need to be comfortable with it. To the point is are using the tool appropriately Think of how hard it is for the adult versus the youth, and the youth is going to buy So this is all all of everything that's been said I think that's a that's a very prime example Okay? He his point is good in this sense. It's coming true before our eyes. Stay committed, stay faithful, stay hopeful. And if we associate and I want to be careful because obviously But the one thing I just sort of picked out in there was Like you know there's nothing wrong with checking on that score. We want to create more than we consume. Well that's a whole lot more accountability. And he says, an airplane is, and his way of looking at this, is an illustration of technology Airplanes used to be where it was really Increasingly, but obviously the most ex the most um the number one and number one, the most obvious of No? It can uh There's a better way, he says. He says family shapes shapes us in countless ways, but I want to focus in this book on two critical quality, two crucial qualities. But as it stands now, the way that technology is, if we're not careful, if it doesn't have its proper place, But they're not serving it on purpose because they know your character. She is more precious than rubies, and all things Um one of the things, and we're not going to get into this too much tonight, one of the deceptive things is that you can sort of begin to sort of create your own reality. All those kinds of things and it can become very harmful uh in that sense. Okay, let's def let's let's contrast it a little bit. Yes. Even computers back when I first started learning on Our foolish is seen and forgiven, and is also seen and loved. Will this help me become less fearful or more courageous? Anything else we want to cover as far as far as this is concerned? You you basically equal character. And we show love to each other for it Yeah. I think our focus should be more of what am I gonna do when something bad does come up there? And just spend time, this is just me personally, just spend time with the Lord and have everything shut off so that I can't be reached He says even though tools made human work easier, they weren't necessarily easy to use. I'd do the go and I would have to really do the research to find what I needed to discover what I needed. Yes. He uses the difference between a furnace and a fireplace. How does somebody get character? But you know it's not like you're sinning if you don't. Can you get character by learning information? Does that make sense? Alright. And it is fallen, in the fallen world, work is not often at its best. Um watch out for that paragraph that will throw you a little bit But right now we have touch two buttons in the fact that we didn't. He says, for one, we discover what fools we are. Life gets more difficult. Um you know you know my How can we become the kind of people who have wisdom and courage? No matter whether your parents are still living or whether they are they were ever loving. Uh yeah. Because I I'll give the context and I mean uh if he actually uses things like And um and so we may not all agree with all this, but we could kind of think through this and and and see where it goes. There's no way around it. Now, the thing that I noticed about these statistics is these two. So he says Right. But so far, it's not about things popping up, it's okay, well, what are we losing Now, why is he saying this? It's this is a matter of wisdom, not a matter of morality. Yeah. Don't you think that the character is actually what helped build Technology emerges from the amazing success of modern science, the hard work of scientists. I got it. So he's not saying getting rid of them. Yeah, sure. Apply applying wisdom is not always easy, is it? There are more challenges, there are things you have not come up against What are good and proper uses of tech of technology versus It can, but it doesn't lend it that way. Any ideas? What's that? I do think rest is something that is that is are and by the way, he shows statistics on this. The Lord by wisdom founded the earth, by understanding established the heavens Um as I read through it. Even driving a car takes a certain skill, doesn't it? I mean think about it. So here's the complicated, wonderful truth, he says. He he points out this is what he one of the things he points out is is something Okay. It's like I'm I'm in it. Okay, it's right here. And I also think there's wisdom in saying that use discretion He says, wisdom and courage. In fact, if you li if you do life properly with wisdom, life gets more difficult as you go. Um So verse 1 says this, my son, do not forget my law. Her ways are are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace And so it isn't as though I it isn't as though we don't it isn't as though we fear technology. So And it was finicky, slow, and complicated. I have I have a a seminary professor friend who put online recently on Facebook There's no you uh you just don't develop character from things being easy. But but things like devices and those kinds of things. And one of the ways we need to make sure that we're we're one of the things he says, for example, as far as time Okay And the really most valuable we're almost losing And I do, and believe me, I use technology all over all all all the time. They need to use it well. I do need to know what to do with it, but if I'm using it correctly, it's less likely that something's gonna come up. I mean if you're dwelling on the thing that's popping up then it becomes a matter of morality. And he explains in the book that we need to make a decision Mentor. That character is built by going through difficult things and persevering. This afternoon I was going. Okay. So we'll come back to them. When you lie down you will not be afraid, and when you lie down, your sleep will be sweet. If you learn that joy, Now we're going on the technology I need to get up in the morning and not have technology for the first hour. They don't know how to get to work. I had to I had to do a screenshot on that to get that Because our nature wants to bring us to trouble. It was all really kind of there was one one one paragraph in there that was really strange. And often I said to myself, well, technology is just really a tool. I I don't mind I might be buzzing, you might see me go pfft through the through these things because I'm going to explain it instead of read it this time. I mean all I have to do is like click a button now and I can ask my phone anything. We pray these things in Christ's name. Now Is that true? Are we are we working and resting? By the way, if I ha didn't have the dad with the technology I might be in trouble, but anyway, yeah. Happy is the man who finds wisdom, and a man who gains understanding. Keep sound wisdom and discretion And what he means by technology is really Easy and everywhere are is what he's saying. His theological definition of a word that he Without a doubt, compared to human beings, just one century ago we were more globally connected. But there is a there is a value to there is a Does that make sense? But more importantly, to prevent our How could net technology, Josh? Your Wikipedia is not uh and he s he said uh he said um No, I'm going to I'm going to actually hit that a little bit because I actually kind of And 65% Others And the two things that God said to do at the very beginning is work and rest. Okay. Do you see any conflict there? So I Lord so far, by God's grace. So Which is what you call the tools. Please make sure that you make wise decisions and do wise things. Um he actually illustrates the contrast between driving a car which takes skill And so um so he goes he goes in this. This is something that this is Um I partially agree with you, but I don't know what I don't completely. Well, I'm going to get ahead of myself by answer to answer your question, but I'll I'll do it this way. You know, back in the day they used a lot, right? He's just saying where is our focus? So we have a little time. It's going to be your life. And and You went to YouTube. He's saying he's going to say it's useful. A person who has both wisdom and consistent courage, It's just might might be a good idea. An hour before your kids go to bed. Please get a hold of wisdom. As does he says as well. Whereas a fireplace is something that that You may become smart. Let's pray together and uh then we've got some food that we can That is true. It lends itself to consuming. Yeah. So he that a bunch of parents were po polled on this. Um And I Because they know what your and I But if you're always asking well this easier, what's easier, what's easier I mean yes, you choose your friends by True. Now it just works. Sure. Yeah, be careful. Is character knowledge are they the same thing? Now it could have I have to go away and and rest. Amen. Um so now he's gonna switch gears. If our families are to be all that they are meant to be, And what to do when facing We have come to the conclusion that when it comes to tablets and phones He's kind of on the hey he in other words he's not just saying Sure. How am I gonna handle it They they use a GPS What do you think? My son, do not despise the chastening of the Lord Actually this will cover some of this and we'll see this uh tonight. And now we all have this concept of technology Right. It's really nice to not be lost. Because even So it's So like oftentimes if I'm bored, maybe I say Okay. I think there would be a difference between I'm gonna move on here. And I mean Knowledge these days The only way to do this is with other people. This is this is wisdom. We're here Technology in the sense that he's talking about We actually have a fireplace in the middle of our home. Talking there about the nuclear family. That's good. You might become even become successful. Um And then people are going to be like, oh that's a weirdo I mean we s This is tool versus technology Hopefully he's Yeah, exactly. Uh you would have If you're watching a movie, for example Spend time reading with your kids. He said Yes. Does that make sense? So he's not saying technology is evil. So let me ask let me open up uh uh up with But You don't have to do this. Then he says structuring time. Teenagers are not getting the rest that they need anymore. Is that is that fair Agree or disagree? Enrique? This is just And then there are other things that Get wisdom. Well why is wisdom a her? Now you just Google it. There needs to be a conscious But Most of the history. Um