Alright, take your Bibles if you would and turn to John chapter nineteen. That was a pretty Southern gospely. I don't know if it was I the only one that knows that? I don't think so. I wanted to get my bottle out and start blowing something or spoons or something anyway. Alright. Alright, John nineteen uh Seventeen through through thirty is what we're going to be looking at this morning. If you look at the Bible as a nonfiction story where the conflict starts with sin in the first three chapters, And then you go through the Bible and you realize all of the attempts to deal with the conflict of sin, to deal with sin. and to and all the failed attempts to do so by various means. And all of those failed attempts actually point point more and more and more to the need for Christ to come. Then this then the message that we're going to be looking at today is the climax of the whole thing. The climax of the Word of God is the cross. It is the crucifixion. It is the death of Christ and it's his resurrection as well, which will be in chapter twenty of this passage And what's really neat about this text is that we have here in John's writing of this text, of course, the Spirit of God uh taking John's pen and there's an inspiration of the Word of God going on here, but it is not distinct from John's the reality of John being there. He is an eyewitness to Christ's crucifixion. He is probably the only disciple. The of the twelve, the only apostles, uh uh uh uh one of the only apostles that were there uh when Christ died. And there is this great view that he gives us in this passage, because not only that, but John very well may be may have been the closest, closest of Christ's apostles. You have the inner circle of Christ's disciples, which were Peter, James, and John, but of those three, it is very likely that John was closest to Christ. It was said of one commentator, he said it this way, it is almost certain that none had apprehended his love so deeply as had John. So as we look at this passage of Scripture and John's description of the crucifixion, we have this intimate relationship that John has with Christ. We have this eyewitness account that John has. And we also have the fact that John has is probably aware of Two, if not all three, of the other gospel accounts when he writes this. This is the last of the gospels to be written. Now, with all of this in mind, we need to ask ourselves the question: what is John including that the other gospels are leaving out, and why is this significant? What I want to do today is really hone in on John's perspective of the crucifixion. In our own time, we can look at all of the accounts and see how they all work together. But particularly today, I want to look at John's depiction of the crucifixion. I want to mention it this I want to explain and set it up this way. In the gospel, the power of God that leads to salvation, you have two basic categories. You have The work of Christ and you have the person of Christ. And sometimes we are very Good at explaining the work of Christ. When you think of various presentations of the gospel, they detail well the work of Christ. But they don't develop well the person of Christ. And frankly, without the person of Christ, you don't have the work of Christ. The difference between John's account and the other accounts, I believe, has to do with in the work of Christ that he displays We see more of the person of Christ than perhaps the other gospels depict. We see the deity of Christ described throughout the book of John. But as we come to this passage, John is going to actually display the humanity of Christ. We see from this passage That everything in the book of John actually leads up to this point. For example, We see five different illustrations of the death of Christ in the book of John. We see the slaying of a lamb in John 1. 29. Then we see the destroying of a temple in John 2. 19. In 3. 14, we have the lifting up of the prophet and the reference to the serpent that was lifted up in the wilderness. In John 10, 11, we have the shepherd laying down his life for the sheep. And then in John 12, we have the planting of a seed into the ground. All of these are different illustrations, different unveilings, if you will, of this pinnacle moment when Christ is placed on the cross. And he dies for the sins of the world. And in John's eyes, he sees this cross as the exaltation of Christ. John's mind and some people's thinking, the exaltation of Christ starts at the resurrection, moves into the ascension, and then when he is sitting on the right hand of Christ. But in uh right hand of his father. But John begins the whole exaltation when Christ goes up on that cross. And we're going to see that in this passage as well in the description. There are four different, there are four additions to John's writing uh of this passage uh four additional things that we see that aren't in the other synoptic gospels, at least not as developed quite as well We have this inscription controversy where the this plaque is written and uh and we'll see that in a minute uh uh in a few minutes. We have the fulfillment of the quotation of some Old Testament quotations. That needed to be fulfilled. We have the care of Jesus' mother. We're going to see really a lot there in the care of Christ's mother when he delegates care for her to John himself. And then we have this last cry, it is finished, that we will look at. Now with all of this in mind We just want to get the most out of it that we possibly can. What God what John wants us to see is Christ today and to know Christ and to know God In John chapter 17, verse 3, it says, And this is life eternal, that they might know the only true God, and Jesus Christ. whom thou hast sent. And we see and we get to know Christ in a intimate way from this passage as he is up on that cross. Let's go to the Lord's The Lord today and ask his blessing and help as we look at this passage. Father, we stand in awe at that old rugged cross. Father, I pray today that we would be as though we are sitting at the foot of it. And noticing things perhaps that we've never noticed before, or perhaps that we've not ri not thought of in a long time. May we see in the work of Christ, the person of Christ. May you help us to see. The additional things that John writes here that helps us to get a fuller picture of the gospel And may we walk away with a renewed, fresh appreciation, certainly for the work of Christ on the cross. But also for the person of Christ. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. We pick up here and we see the situation in verse in chapter 19, verse 16. Of course, verse the first part it says, Then they delivered him up, therefore, unto them to be crucified, and they took Jesus and led him away. Another uh way of rendering this would be they took charge of Jesus. And we find here that he was led away. And in verse 17 it says this. And he bearing his cross went forward into a place called Gaugotha. The passage reminds us, John reminds us, that he bore his own cross. John does not mention that he's going to have a helper later on to help him with this cross. He wants to put that, it's not really important to John's message at this point. His point is that when Christ went, He gave, He went to the cross, he carried the full weight of the suffering and the burden and the sin on himself. He carried his own cross. Of course, we know historically that that was the more than likely the cross member of the cross. He did not carry the whole thing on his back. But even at this point, he has been whipped by the Romans, he has been been beaten by the Jewish people. He is weak and weary. And yet he still bears his own cross. And there is this humiliation that John wants us to see from this. Then we see that he is led up to a place called Galgatha, the place of the skull. Probably it is named that because as you look at it from a distance it looks it looks very much like a skull. It is very close to the current uh place of the Holy Sepulchre, which is not necessarily holy. It's a Catholic shrine that's built there basically. And it's not far from that area. Where he was more than likely crucified, the the place of the skull, Golgotha. John also mentions in this passage in verse 18 where they crucified him, that there were two others with him, one on either side and Jesus in the midst. This also has some significance in symbolism for us. Of course, there are two thieves, and we know from other gospel accounts that one of the thieves Is a hardened sinner. He is one who mocks Christ. But the other one we know from the other gospel accounts is one who is a repentant sinner. Christ is in the center of them, and there it represents two options that people have as they come to as they view the crucifixion. On one hand, they can view Christ sympathetically and they can see what he has done and they can see the significance of the cross and they can repent before him. Or they could see the significance of the cross, or they could they can choose not to see the significance of the cross, and this is a mere mortal man, perhaps a good man and a good teacher, but ultimately he dies. The death of an execution. So we see this here in this passage as well. Christ is in the center, and we have two choices One to receive him, or the other to reject him, and there is no middle ground. We see also in this passage a controversy that John brings up. Of this whole issue of the inscription that was given him, Jesus of Nazareth, King of the Jews, we pick up here in verse 19. And Pilate wrote a title and put it on the cross, and the writing was Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews. This title, when read uh then read many of the Jews, uh, for the place where Jesus was crucified was nigh to the city. And it was written in Hebrew and Greek and Latin. Then said the chief priests of the Jews to Pilate, Write not the king of the Jews. But that he said, I am King of the Jews. Pilate answered, What I have written, I have written. John actually takes quite a few verses here to describe this controversy. It was customary that the sentence of death that was placed upon the person would be inscribed in some sort of plaque that he could carry on his way to Galgotha to the place of the skull where he was going to be executed. That was a customary thing. And in that The plaque was placed on the top of the cross to display to anyone who would try to thwart the Roman government that they would be also ha they would also the same uh experience the same fate. But it's interesting in this case That although others would have been crucified for sedition, for rebellion against the Roman government, Pilate writes on that inscription that he is Jesus Christ of Nazareth, the King of the Jews This is interesting for a couple of reasons. John mentions it because it is, there is sort of an irony here. Pilate's purpose in doing this is probably one of malice. He is playing being has great pressure against him to To decree Christ as guilty and to send him to his crucifixion. We saw that last week The Jewish leaders were placing great political pressure on him to do so. And in his mind, this is sort of one last jab, if you will, at these Jewish leaders. But God has another purpose in mind. Sometimes malice serves God's purposes. And in this case, that is the case. Because what goes up on that cross is actually a true statement, is it not? Jesus is the King of the Jews. And Jesus had explained to Pilate that his kingdom is of another world. His kingdom is not of this world. When Pilate says that Jesus is the King of the truth, he speaks truth. And the Jews did not want to accept this truth. The Jews did not want this displayed up on this cross that he is the king. And yet he is the king. And though Christ is separated from his Father for hours, this is the beginning of Christ's exaltation. This is the beginning of Christ's work that will one day display him to the whole world as the king. Jesus is exalted as he is made low. John has already described this exaltation in his gospel already. In John chapter 2, verse 4, for example, it says, Jesus said unto her, Woman, what have I to do with thee? Mine hour is not come. John explains, we see this throughout the book of John several times. Mine hour is not come. Mine hour is not come. This was a phrase that was said frequently by Christ during his ministry. But by the time we get to John 12, verse 23, Jesus says, My hour is come, that the Son of Man should be Glorified. When Christ went to that cross, he knew he was going to his own glorification. And in John 17, in that high priestly prayer, that intercessory prayer, On the part of Christ toward his Father. Verse 1 says, These words spake Jesus and lifted up his eyes to heaven and said, Father, the hour is come. Glorify thy Son. That thy son also may glorify thee. This was the exaltation of Christ. Then we find Some another picture here in this passage, as we pick up in verse 23, it says, then the soldiers When they had crucified Jesus, took his garments and made four parts, and every soldier a part. So there were how many soldiers? There were four soldiers. And also his coat. Now the coat was without seam woven from the top throughout. They said therefore among themselves, let us not rend it, but cast lots for it, whose it shall be. that the scripture might be fulfilled, which saith, They parted by raiment among them, and for my vesture they did cast lots. These things therefore the soldiers did. Now of all the things that John could have described, why does John spend a couple of verses here, significant significant amount of time actually, talking about this vesture, this cloth? Apparently there were two claws. The outer cloth they decided was not going to be they did not want to rip it between the three of them because it was far more valuable if it was not ripped four ways. Instead they decided to cast lots and gambling for who would get out of the four soldiers who would get his crown or get his his uh his garment It was customary in that day that as a price for the executioner of of doing all the work of executing somebody, he would get the clothing Clothing in that day was far, far more valuable than it is today. The kind of clothing that you wore would tell you the status of someone It would be like driving a fancy car today, a Rolls-Royce or something, and people would know that person has money de bain depending on the kind of car that he drives So if you drive a 2005 suburban, you know what kind of money he makes. So that would be the the equivalent. But when you think in terms, I have a car that's a little later than that too, by the way. You know that already. It's 2011. So that makes me a little richer. But when it comes to the clothing that Christ wore here, there is some symbolism going on What is the symbolism? And then we always have to be careful with symbolism because sometimes we can read into the passage far more than it's supposed to be there. But in this case we have some help because John has already mentioned some robes and coverings in the previous passage, and I do think that there is a connection here. Would you take your Bibles for a moment and we want to recover this in John 13? This is just a few chapters back. John 13, and we're going to pick up here in the beginning of the upper room discourse. Where Christ is kneeling down to wash the disciples' feet. You remember that passage? The primary purpose for that passage is to describe the servanthood of Christ. That he came as a servant. We know that, of course, from Philippians chapter 2, which we're going to look at as well in a moment. But in this passage, and I want you to notice the direct reference to the crucifixion in this passage, which will help substantiate What this sym symbolism really is. Would you notice in verse 7 what it says? Jesus answered and said unto him What I do, thou knowest not now, but thou shalt know hereafter. What is the hereafter referring to? Well, it's after the cross. It's after the crucifixion. What I am doing here, he says, you don't really understand now. But hereafter, or after the crucifixion, which they didn't understand as well, even though he warned them about, after that, then they would understand what he was doing here. So there's a clear connection between the two. In this connection, of course, Christ is displaying his servanthood, that what he is about to do is is he is stooping, he is humbling himself to a place of great servanthood. And if you recall from that passage as we Mentioned he was it was he was getting down to the dirty, grimy, filthy feet of the disciples, and he was going to cleanse them. A picture of humiliation and picture of servanthood. But he did something in verse 4 and later on in verse 12 that we ought to recover here. He riseth from supper, and John is careful to say he laid aside something. Do you see what he says? He laid aside. He laid aside his garments. He says the same thing. He's careful to say this in verse 12. So after he washed their feet, he had taken his garments and was set down again. Now, uh it was customary for them to dis to to uh not have all the their garments when they were going to get dirty like this. That wasn't unusual But it is a little unusual for John to just to to to make a point of mentioning this in the few words that he has in writing his gospel that he would point this out and sort of uh start the whole passage and end the whole passage this way in John 13. And so I think it's safe to say here that the garments are representative of something that he laid aside. In demonstrating his servanthood. Well, what is that? Well, to find that out, will you take your Bibles and turn to Philippians? Philippians chapter 2, and we'll see it there. I will tell you, as you turn to Philippians chapter 2, in one phrase, that what Christ laid aside was his glory. He laid aside his glory. That he would then be able to take up his glory again. And so we see this in Philippians chapter 2, verse 1: if there therefore be any consolation in Christ. If any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any bows and mercies, fulfill ye my joy, that ye be like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind. Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory, but in lowliness of mind let each esteem other better than themselves. Look not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of others, which we're going to see Christ does this by the way. He's on that cross and he's going to look on the things of others. Hang on to that verse for verse, because we're going to get we're going to see that picture. Look not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of others. Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus who being in the form of God thought it not robbery or was not something to be grasped to be equal with God, but made himself of what? of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a servant, and was laid made in the likeness of man But it didn't stop there. His humiliation did not stop with becoming God, having being God, being God, not becoming, become being God, and taking on human form. It didn't stop there. He says, being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself further. How far did he humble himself? He became obedient to death. What kind of death? The worst kind of death imaginable. The greatest amount of humiliation possible. The death of what? The cross. Did you know that not everyone that was executed by the Romans were at was executed by crucifixion? They would have other means, other more civilized means of execution. It was really only when they wanted to really humiliate somebody. To make a public example of them, that they would use this method of crucifixion. This was the most humble way possible. For someone to be executed. And Christ was executed this way. But as Christ was executed this way, he was not cast down. He was lifted up to fulfill prophecy that all men may see him and come to him and receive him. So, because of this great humiliation, we find in verse 9 that God hath what? highly exalted him, and given him a name which is above every name. That is the name of Jesus Every knee shall bow of things in heaven and things in earth and things under the earth, and every tongue shall confess that Jesus is Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Jesus in his glory with his father before the world began Humbled himself by coming and becoming a man, dying on that cross, so that he would get, if you will, in a very trite way, a net gain in glory. That he would have greater glory, and his father would have greater glory because he went to that cross. And do you know how they have greater glory? Because they get to save you and me. Because you and I have the chance to receive Christ. And you and I, as individuals, are able to glorify the Father and glorify his son. Otherwise, we could not. Only because of what Christ did were we able to glorify them both. And so because of what Christ did, he ended up receiving greater This is what John wants us to understand. He received the greatest amount of humiliation possible. To receive the greatest amount of glory and exaltation possible. And you and I are saved as a result of all this. And we are tasked with the responsibility of giving Christ and his Father this great glory. Now with all of this in mind, I'd like you to turn back to John 19 if you're not already there. And I want you to see now with this great picture that we see from John. We're now going to zoom in. I mean, we're really going to zoom in. If you can imagine sitting or standing at the foot of this cross. Maybe you're just a few meters away or yards away. You're not you're really not that far. And there are among you there four callous soldiers, but in addition to those four callous soldiers, And there's plenty of other people. There's Jewish people. There's all kinds of people seeing this crucifixion. Romans, all kinds of mixture of huge amounts of people The reason that this would have been inscribed in Hebrew and Aramaic in these three different languages here was because Uh it was something where everybody would see what was going on as a result of all of this and it was put up high on on Golgotha as a result But if you can imagine being there, just sort of picturing yourself there, you've got these hardened, callous soldiers, but on the other hand, you have these tender, loving women here. Look at verse 25. Now there stood by the cross of Jesus his mother and his mother's sister, Mary, and The wife of Cleopus and Mary Magdalene. Now it's interesting how that's worded. It's debatable. It's somewhat in debate as to whether we're talking about two, three, or four people here. Uh you don't have punctuation in the Greek and so it's a little bit hard to tell uh what w what it is. But I think the general consensus is we're actually talking about four women here. I think it's Two are unnamed and two are named as Mary. So we're talking about four women that are here. These are women that love Jesus. These are women that care about him. These are tender-hearted women. And among these women, there is one particular woman that is of great concern and care for Christ. It is his mother. Jesus, while he is up on that cross cares for his own mother, and we see this great picture of Christ's humanity. Notice, if you will, verse 26. Then Jesus therefore saw his mother and the disciples standing by, whom he loved. So John, that's John. John's there. He saith unto his mother, Woman, Behold thy son. Then saith he to the disciple, Behold thy mother. And from that hour the disciple took her unto his own home. So why does John describe this? Of all the things that he could describe, why does he describe Jesus as hanging on that cross And seeing that his own mother needs help and care, and seeing his closest disciple there, the only disciple there And asking or delegating responsibility from Mary to John. Well, a couple of things we need to understand about this. This was not customary. Customarily, uh, the responsibility for Mary would have gone to one of Jesus' half-brothers. We find that he does have half half brothers, contrary to what the Roman Catholics say he does, clearly in Matthew 13, verses 55 through 58 we find that there is that that he has brothers there. But these brothers and sisters were offended and estranged by Christ's message. They did not believe in Christ, and they were estranged by him. Now we know that that's going to change later on, doesn't it? We know James is a half-brother of Christ, and he will come to Christ and say that he is a servant of Christ in his own uh his own epistle. And we know Jude comes to Christ. There are others that do eventually come to Christ, but at this point They are not they are not with cr uh they are not in a good relationship with Christ. But Mary's m but Mary is, the mother of Christ certainly is. But you have to understand the kind of relationship that Christ had with his disciples. John describes this relationship in John 15, 15. Henceforth I call you not servants, for the servant knoweth not what his Lord doeth, but I have called you friends. For all things I have heard of my father I have made known unto you. He says The disciples are his friends. Well, by this point all the other friends have gone. They have not stuck around. And we can give all kinds of reasons why they haven't, but they have fled. There is only one friend left. And that friend who is John, who is his closest friend. Jesus in this in the in this intimate relationship that he has with his son and this care for his own mother links the two. We also see here the humanity of Christ because even as he was fulfilling this great prophetic um uh climax of of history in the crucifixion He didn't lose his humanity in the process. There are some very errant doc uh false doctrine that has suggested that Christ sort of switched from being human to being divine. That he moved from one to the other in his earthly ministry. That there was a spirit, his spirit was divine as Physical was is humanity was was not of course that is not true. That is absolute heresy What we find here in this passage is that Christ exhibits something that Romans 1. 31 and 2 Timothy 3. 3 call natural affection. Jesus has a natural affection for his mother. This is normal. Now, in those passages, actually, there is a possibility of somebody leaving their natural affection. Or they don't have the natural affections that people sort of are born with. Sin is that bad. Sin is that insidious that it can actually remove the natural affections from somebody so that they are no longer Exhibiting what is normal as far as their affections. But not Jesus. Jesus exhibits true humanity by having this affection for his mother. Now, I want to set it up this way for us to get the full effect of the full extent of this affection. What are you like when you're going through intense suffering? When you're gr when you're when you if you think of the most the greatest amount of suffering that you've ever gone through in your life How do you handle it? Well take that and multiply it by, I don't know how many, ten times or more. What would you be like if you were being literally tortured? I know for me when I go through really difficult s times of suffering. I don't know if this is like everybody else I don't know if I'm like everybody else or not. Probably not, I'm kinda weird, but um may maybe maybe this is the same. I don't know. When I go through times like let's say I'm I'm anticipating surgery or something. What I do is I sort of like I have this sort of grin and bear it attitude. I'm just gonna sort of get through this. And I'm going to sort of maybe if I could shut my emotions down and sort of not think about this on an emotional emotional level at all, the less emotions I can think about, I can just sort of grin and bear it And shut everything down and just sort of plow through this thing and think about the other side. How many of you all would do the same thing when you're going through suffering or torture? I'm just curious how many of you say. Okay. I think yeah, okay, we got a we got a slim majority. Some of you are like, I don't answer your questions. Uh okay. There's always that s But but in this case, just think about this. This intense amount of torture And Jesus somehow has this, he's not selfish even at this point. I mean, if there's any time you think he could think about himself a little bit, it would be when he's on this cross under torture. But Jesus in this kind of circumstances still has this human affection for caring for his mother. None of us would have thought to ourselves, you know, that Jesus was sort of not, none of us, had this not been this passage, had we not known about this, have thought to ourselves, you know, Jesus really should have taken care of his mother Right? I mean we wouldn't have thought that way. And most of us, if we're going through torture, would have thought, ah, they'll figure it out. You know, you know, they'll get it, yeah, my mom needs to be taken care of they'll figure it out. Not Christ. Christ has this kind of affection. One writer said it this way. Who's done an extensive amount of study? Arthur Pink says, and I by no means agreement with Arthur Pink on a lot of things, but he does say this really well. He says, this is one of the greatest wonders of his person. The blending of the most perfect human affection with his divine glory. The very gospel, which most of us all show him to be God, is here careful to prove he was man. The word made flesh engaged as he was in a divine transaction, making atonement for all the sins of all his people, grappling with the powers of darkness, yet amid it all He has still the same human tenderness, which shows the perfection of the man Jesus Christ. Jesus showed this human affection at the time of his great work on the cross. But we also see the humanity of Christ. We're going to continue to see this picture as we pick up in verse 28 through 29. We find that the crucifixion of Christ displays this great intentionality along with his humanity. We see sort of a transition here. In one of the statements. Now one of the things I haven't mentioned yet is there are seven different they're called words of Christ as he was up on that cross John speaks only three of John mentions only three of them. And so it is significant to note which ones he mentions. The second one he mentions is in verse 28. After this, Jesus knowing that all things were now accomplished. That the scripture might be fulfilled, saith, what does he say? I thirst. Now, this is no just ordinary complaint Nor is it just stating the obvious. Of course, he was thirsty. But Christ says this because he actually wants to fulfill prophecy. Christ has been on the cross at this point for about six hours, three of which he has been separated from his father. Of course he's thirsty. But Christ is actually so self-aware. I mean, you would think he would not be aware at this point. But Christ is so self-aware that He he says the statement To clearly demonstrate that he was both aware of what was going on and a sense in control of what was going on, and certainly what he was doing was absolutely voluntary. We see the fulfillment of this prophecy in John and Psalm 22, verses 14 through 15, which say, After this Jesus, knowing that all things were now accomplished, the scripture might be fulfilled, saith, I thirst. I am poured out like water. All my bones are out of joint. My heart is like wax. It is melted with within me. My strength is dried up like a potured. And my tongue clings to my jaws. You have brought me to the dust of death. It says in Psalm 69, 3, I am weary of my crying, my throat is dried, mine eyes fail, while I wait for my God. He was both Thirsty and apart from his God at this point. He was separated from his father. Verse 29 or 21 of Psalm 69, they gave me poison for food. and for my thirst they gave me sour wine to drink. So he was fully aware of what was going on as he a as he died on this cross, as he was being crucified. And I want us to notice then finally that it says verse thirty twenty-nine now there was a set of uh vessel f uh full of vinegar and they filled a sponge with vinegar and put it upon hyssop and po and put it uh to his mouth. Verse thirty, then Jesus therefore had received the vinegar, he said, what does he say? It is finished. Now there is a lot that he's saying here. I just want us to remember here that we learned from John 17 and his high priest priestly prayer that this plan of redemption occurred, the plan started when? If you go back to Abraham, are you going back far enough? You're not. If you go back to Noah, are you going back far enough? You are not. If you go back to creation, are you going back far enough? You are not. As God planned to create the world and to create mankind, he also planned for the redemption of mankind. The whole story of the Bible is depicting the creation and the fall, and then this process by which point all points to Christ. And we see the climax, the pinnacle of the whole plan here in this passage. And we see the suffering, and we see the separation from God, we see from his father, we see uh the unparalleled humiliation, we see all of this culminating in this great final term when Christ says it is finished This was a statement that not only referenced the fact that he was indicted for a crime he didn't commit. And place on that cross. This is a statement that includes going back to the history of before time began. Where all of this was planned out, and Jesus declares, it is finished. And by saying this, he is saying also this that he has now fulfilled the just demands of God. First John chapter two verse two and he is the propitiation for our sins and not for ours only But also for the sins of the whole world. Propitiation means to satisfy the just demands of God. Jesus is saying, it is now satisfied. It's done. It's finished. It's complete. And only then would he voluntarily at this point It says he gave up the ghost. He was it was finished with the work that he had to do, and he now voluntarily dies. He doesn't die by their will. He dies by his own will Galatians chapter 2, verse 19 says, For I through the law am dead to the law, that I might live unto God. I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless I live yet not I, but Christ lives in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live it by the faith of the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself For me. He did it voluntarily. He gave himself for us, and he died for us, and he did it all of his own will, his own choosing. Mark 10, verse 45, For even the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many. But I want us to realize finally with this word it has finished, this gives a level of security for the believer as well. Christ has satisfied the just demands of God because you can't. It's that simple. You can try and try and try, but you cannot satisfy the just demands of God because his demands are perfection, are holiness. That's why Christ died. Christ satisfied these just demands, and so that we are secure in Christ. And so that John can say in his first epistle These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may know that ye have eternal life, and that ye may believe on the name of the Son of God. We have security in Christ. We know we are his, not by our works, not by our self-effort, but solely based upon the finished work of Christ. So how do we apply this? Number one, Christ's exaltation happened as he humbled himself. Now, the application ought to be very clear here. How much moral we ought to humble ourselves? Christ, from our account, would not deserve, well, well from his, he didn't deserve any of this humbling. And yet he humbled himself for us. Christ displayed amazing affection in his darkest time of suffering. You and I in various times in our life go through suffering and trials and difficulties. You know, the only way to be able to look on others and to love others during the difficult times of suffering is to have the mind of Christ. is to be walking with him and to be influenced by his spirit. And we have the perfect example in Christ. And Christ's death satisfied the just demands of God once and for all. Now I know that the majority of people in this room, or I say I know, I believe that the majority of the people in this room already know Christ. But if today you are listening by some means and you don't know him, or you have had had in any way relying on your own self-effort. To do what Christ only Christ can do for you. Would you not turn to him today and look at the display of Christ's work and say, He did it for me? You know, that is the difference between somebody missing by an intellectual scent or accepting in his heart. It's the difference between Christ died as a historical fact. That's not enough. Or Christ died for the world, that is still not enough. It is only when we come to the reality that Christ died for me. When I realize that, then I can embrace it not just with my head, but with my heart, and I can accept it. As John 1 12 says, But as many as received him, to them gave he the power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. Let's pray together.