And good singing today, great music today. I I that it these are great songs, I'll tell you. John chapter twenty John chapter twenty, they really reflect the the spirit of of the message this morning as we get into this passage again that we looked at last uh Sunday, but directed the emphasis toward the issue of what true belief is. There is so much in this passage that as I was studying not last week, but the week before, I began to realize that I wanted to focus on this area of of belief and what true biblical belief is But in the process I started saying, well, I can't include that and I can't include this and I can't include that and I don't have time for this and I said, wait a minute, I'm making another message. And so that's really what what today is, which is why it's going to kind of look like we're skipping around a little bit, but um but it's because We have already covered this passage some last Sunday. I want us to begin by just imagining, if you would, that you're on a cruise. And you're headed out to the uh let's say you're on a specific uh cruise and you're headed out and this huge boat with thousands of people. And it isn't long before you end up finding yourselves marooned on a island. You said I I didn't like I don't like where this is going. I like this where this this is the beginning of this. Um marooned on an island where there are tons of people with you and the the the cruise liner that you are have been a part of is is absolutely irreparable. And so you have no word way to get to any um uh get there's no ability to be able to communicate which is kind of hard to believe in our day and age so you have to go back about fifty years. Um and you're stuck on this island and month after month uh takes place. You know, the the silly thing is the only thing that comes to my mind is like that Gilligan's Island show from from years ago. Uh I I uh you all yeah, you all apparently were thinking the same thing. Um I I never even watched a whole episode of that show. I don't think I've ever watched a complete episode and The only thing I remember I remember it being a little objectionable was that one goofy lady that goofy's being kind, she was a little Creepy. Anyway, um but um the movie star lady. Anyway. Yeah. Oh you guys know her name? Okay. Anyway, so uh so all that's to say that you know this is not that's not the story at all. So you're you're got thousands of people on this island and um And and you know, six months have gone by and people begin to settle in and realize that this maybe is gonna have to be their new home. And one day you're walking on along the coast of the island. Most of people have gone inward on this island maybe twenty or thirty miles. You're on the coast and you're walking along the water and you're sitting down and you're saying, you know, am I ever going to get off this island? And as you are contemplating your existence on this island, somebody, a man comes up to you and he says to you, would you please come with me? And you get up and you go with him and he shows you this massive uh opulent cruise liner. He's brought it to shore and he says, Would you please walk through this c cruise liner with me? And you say, Well, of course I will. And you walk through the cruise liner and there is all kind there's a beautiful large uh luxury uh kind of cruise liner with all kinds of elaborate uh um uh amenities and things to do on this great cruise liner and and it it is certainly ample for all the people on the island. And he says, I want you to understand this is absolutely free. You can come on this and just I uh you walk through it, you've seen it's real, you can come and you just and we'll take and you're you're you're saved and really everybody on the island can come too. He says there's only really one thing I want you to do. He said, I tried to get word to these people on this island But they're not take they're not listening. He said, in fact I th this man with his great cru cruise liner said in fact I o ordered several prop planes to go over to the people And and with with um with those banners saying, please come to our free cruise clo cruise liner and you'll be saved off of this island and it's not working. He said, Would you please go as an eyewitness that it's here? I walked you through it. You've seen how wonderful it is. You've seen it's your answer to be coming off of this island. Would you please go and and and Go to these people and as an eyewitness would you explain what's here? You say, Oh absolutely, I'd be glad to do that. So you start on your journey and it's about there everybody else is about twenty miles inland. And on your on your way to the this group of people that you're going to, you begin to, you know, like 10 miles in, you start thinking to yourself Ah, is this really real? Was it uh you start having doubts of maybe th maybe it really wasn't free. Maybe it really Maybe it really wasn't what it ought to be. You know, I really don't deserve to go on that cruise line or I I y I'm not sure there really is a guarantee there, or maybe I was a mirage. Maybe I need to go back and see it again. You start questioning yourself that uh oh they're gonna think I'm crazy if I tell them about this cruise liner. They're just gonna think it's stupid. They're not gonna listen to me at all. And you never actually make it to tell all these people because you yourself are just sort of stalemated by this all of these doubts and fears in your own life about the reality of this cruise line or yourself. Now, this is not a particularly creative illustration. You know exactly where all this is going. When Christ came and appeared to the disciples, he wanted them to experience the resurrected Christ. And John chapter 20 Is really there, all of these different appearances and and all these different things that Christ showed Mary Magdalene and showed the disciples and showed Thomas and all these things that he showed them. And the appearances that he made were for a very specific reason. It was so that they could experience Christ And then they could go and they could tell as an eyewitness of the experience that they had with Christ, the resurrected Christ, and then they could go and tell others And those people would experience the resurrected Christ not by seeing, as he tells Thomas, plus are those who see and who believe without seeing. But by believing the eyewitness of the account of the people that have experienced Christ, this is this new program, if you will. Of how God wants to get out the word of the redeemed Christ who died and rose from the grave for the sins of people. If you think about the history of our of the Bible, in the Old Testament, God intended for the nation of Israel to be a light to the Gentiles. To demonstrate God to the world, to reflect who He was and the answer of relating to the Father through the coming provision of Christ. That was why God made the nation, God formed the nation of Israel the way he did. But they failed. And so there's this new system, this new program, this new plan whereby people can experience Christ through the resurrection, starting with the original disciples. And when you experience it, then you have this ability to be able to witness it on a completely different level than the nation of Israel perhaps did in the Old Testament, or at least More vivid, more real. But the question is, how many of us get sidelined? How many of us get preoccupied or occupied with other kinds of things? And there just seems to be some times where we need to sort of get back to this whole reality of our responsibility to witness Christ to others. And sometimes there is great emphasis on the importance of witnessing to others, but there is this lack of background in how we're supposed to do it. We ought not divorce our experience of the resurrection with our accounting of the resurrection to others. And the truth of the matter is, if we're honest with ourselves, sometimes we don't think even in the presentation of the gospel to others and living out the gospel in front of others, we don't even think in terms of the resurrection. We're so focused on the death of Christ that we forget that the glory of The gospel is certainly the death of Christ, but it doesn't stop there. It's that we serve a risen Savior who's in the world today. And you ask me how I know He lives, He lives within my heart. That's how I know. I've experienced him. And because I've experienced him, I want to tell you about him. Now, with that in mind, we need to go to the Lord in prayer, and I want us to see the results of the resurrection that John brings out here as Christ appears to these original disciples. And I pray, our prayer, my prayer is that it would propel us to understanding our role in presenting the risen Christ to others. Let's go to him in prayer. Father, we come to you and we pray that you would help us as we look at this passage and we see how Christ presented himself first to Mary Magdalene, then to the disciples. And how and the results of the resurrection that they experience in their own lives and the clear Responsibility that Christ left them with. I pray that we would see the same in our lives. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, we'll pick up here in chapter 20 and verse 17. And if you'll recall from last week, Mary Magdalene was approached by Christ in this chapter. She is latched on to him and he has said, please do not cling to me. Instead, in verse 17, she gives him her something, he gives her something to do. Verse 17 it says, Jesus saith unto her, touch me not. And what he's he's not saying, don't touch me at all. He's saying, don't Don't you you have to let go of me. I know you don't want to, but she's sort of grasping onto him in an emotional sense and don't I don't want to let you go again uh kind of an approach and and he's saying, Touch me not. He says, For I have not yet ascended to my father. He said, I'm I'm not going to my I'm going to ascend my father, but that is not happening yet But go to my brethren and say unto them, I ascend unto my father and your father, and to my God and your God. Now that last phrase where he says, I go to my brethren and I will ascend of my Father and your Father and my God and your father and your is and your God is an incredible truth, is it not? Previously in the book of John, we have discovered that Jesus has called his disciples not only servants, but friends In John chapter 15, verse 15, it says, Henceforth I call you not servants, but a servant knoweth not what the Lord doeth, but I have called you friends. For all things that I have heard of my Father, I have made known unto you. In that conversation with his disciples, he elevates them to saying that you are not just my servants, you know what I am doing, you know my plan. And so I have called you friends. Now he refers to his own disciples, his own friends, if we as you will, as brethren. He says, You are my brothers. This is an incredible thing that we who are sinners Who are worthy of nothing, who are born into sin, born on our way to hell, born undeserving of anything. By Christ's death and resurrection are elevated to the point of being Christ's brethren It's unfathomable when you really think about it. And yet this is the case, according to what Christ said and according to what the apostles later on elaborated on. I'd like you to ask you to take your Bibles and turn to Hebrews chapter 2, if you would. You're going to see this in verse 10 very clearly. And as you're turning there, I'm going to just uh just mention a couple of other passages where this is mentioned. For example. Romans chapter 8 it says, For as many as are led by the Spirit, they are the sons of God For ye have not received the spirit of bondage again unto fear, but ye have received the spirit of adoption whereby we cry Abba Father The Spirit itself beareth witness with our Spirit that we are the children of God. And if children, then heirs, heirs of God, joint heirs with Christ. If so be that we suffer with him, that we may also be glorified together. In that passage in Romans chapter 8, it explains that we will have suffering in this life. And the suffering that we have is going to be part of that role that we play in participating in the suffering of Christ, but knowing one day we will be glorified with Christ. In Ephesians chapter 1, verse 5, it says, having predestinated us unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ to himself, according to the good pleasure of his will. But this is clearly described in Hebrews chapter 10. It says, For it became him of whom are all things And by whom are all things, in bringing many sons to glory, to make the captain of our their salvation perfect or complete, if you will, through sufferings. For both he that sanctifieth, so who is it he that sanctifieth? Who's that? That's Christ. And they who are sanctified, who are they? Us, those who know Christ, are all of what? Of one. Well that's exactly what he said over in John 17 would happen, didn't it? John Christ prayed that to his father in John 17, that we all by our sanctification would be one. He says, for which cause he is not ashamed to call them what? Brethren. This is unbelievable that we are his brethren. We have that kind of intimacy. We have that kind of security. We have that kind of closeness. We have that kind of unity, that kind of oneness, that we are his brethren, or if you will, sister-in, that we are his siblings. We have the same father saying, I will declare thy name unto my brethren. In the midst of the children will I sing praise unto them, and again I will put my trust in him Again, behold, I and the children which God hath given me. My father is your father. My God, he says, is your God. Now let me ask you this question. When are you and I ever going to be content with the great relationship that we have with Christ? When I was young, I received some very, before I was married, I received some very good counsel. about this whole dating stuff. I don't know whether they call it courting or dating. I just believe in marriage. However you get there, just make sure you're biblical. But I was told this, I was given this advice: be content with your relationship with Christ. Learn to love your Lord. And God will bring around bring about the right person in his time. If you are not content with Christ, you will never be content with the person that God has for you That was very good advice, was it not? You know, the truth of the matter is, if you're not content with your relationship with Christ, you will never be content with any other relationship. Because there is no better relationship than your relationship with Christ. Christ will never let you down. Christ will never leave you or forsake you. Christ will never, there is never any barrier that has to be there between you and Christ. There is never any insecurity with Christ. Christ is always there, and there is a contentment that we can learn to have in Christ. Paul said, in whatsoever state I am, therewith I have learned to be content. Christ is that friend, that brother, that you and I have got to learn to find our security in, to find our contentment in. To find our fulfillment in, then you and I have got to learn, no matter what other relationships we do or don't have, we've got to learn that our contentment must be in Christ. Christ as he appears to Mary Magdalene. I mean, just imagine the life of Mary Magdalene. A woman, to our knowledge, she wasn't married. To our knowledge, she had a very sordid past, in fact. And Christ appears to her first and says to her, Go tell my brethren, my God. And he says, Your God is my God, your father is my father. Why? Because Christ wanted Mary Magdalene and really the disciples and really all of us to understand the depth and the intimacy and the security of the relationship that you and I have with Christ. Why? Because we serve a risen Savior. The Bible says in the book of Hebrews and elsewhere It says that we have not a high priest that cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities. Why? Because he lived this life. He went through suffering. He went through pain. He went through struggles. He went through difficulties. And if you have Christ, and if you and I can learn to be content with Christ, then we'll be content with whatever else God gives us. There are times in life where Christ says, you're gonna have to go with uh you're gonna have to you're gonna be able to abound. And there are other times where you're gonna be abased. Paul said, I have learned both to be abase and to abound, to be hungry and to suffer need, or to experience wealth. He said, Whatever state I am in, I have learned to be with be content. And do you know why? I'll just say it this way. I really believe that one of the reasons that you and I struggle with our relationship with others and telling the lost about Christ is because we're not content with Christ We're not joying in him. We're not glad about him. We're not loving him. You know, when somebody is in love, they tell everybody. They can't like help it. I mean every time I see a an engagement uh announcement on Facebook, I mean you see all these big smiles and all this great stuff going on and and uh and I mean uh y you can't w hide that kind of stuff And I have to tell you that I think that part of the problem with us, I'm not saying you individu individu I just struggle that we have as Christians is if we're not content in Christ, we're not going to be compelled to tell others about him. If we're not joying in who He is, we won't, we'll miss opportunities to share others with Christ, to share Christ with others. We've got to understand this, and I think this really becomes the foundation that that we know who we are We are subtle about that. And then it causes us and propels us to be able to share others, share Christ with others. Then what I want you to notice here is as we move then to the account where Christ is going to appear with his disciples. In verse 19, you'll remember from last week they were in a room behind locked doors. They were fearing the Jewish people. And Christ comes to them and he says, Peace be unto you. And there is great, there is a lot that goes on here. I want to actually move to verse 22 for a moment, and I think we have good reason to do that. Because you'll notice in the first verse of verse 22 it says, And when he had said, that tells us that all of the accounting of all of this was sort of all simultaneous. Everything that happened here was simultaneous. And I think it would be helpful for us to understand verse 22, which is actually a very difficult verse to understand. And then we'll backtrack and we'll see how all of this works together. Verse 22 is a hang-up for a lot of people. It doesn't really need to be. And it actually tells us of some very important truth that we need to be reminded of. Verse 22 says, And when he had said this, he breathed on them and said unto them, Receive ye the Holy Ghost. Well, what was he saying here when it says that he breathed on him? These two phrases were symbolic of something. When Christ appeared to him He wanted to get across a lot of different things to the disciples in this first meeting. And he it when he says he breathed on him, on them, there was a symbolic meaning to this. There's no other really way to take this except a symbolic meaning. Do you remember in the Old Testament where someone breathed on someone In fact, that you would go to the very first three chapters of Genesis. And in Genesis chapter 2, verse 7, it says this: that the Lord God formed man out of the dust of the ground. and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living soul. In creation, We have this account that God gave man life through his own breath. We have the only creation made in the image of God because of this. Now we have the second Adam. He has come on the scene. He has been born. He has lived the perfect life He's died and he's risen from the grave and he now appears as the second Adam for the first time to his disciples, and he breathes on them. The point is now something different. The point is that Christ brings a rebirth, a recreation, if you will. Would you take your Bibles for a moment and turn to this prophecy? This is all prophesied in Ezekiel chapter 37. I'd like you to take your Bibles for just a few just a moment here and turn there and you'll see this. Go to the Old Testament, Ezekiel 37, and we'll pick up here in verse 1 of this passage. We find in this passage a lot is being prophesied. And what we have here is a reminder of a partial fulfillment of this. Verse 1 of Ezekiel 37 says, The hand of the Lord was upon me and carried me out in the spirit of the Lord, and set me down in the midst of the valley, which was full of bones. And caused me to pass by them round about. Behold, there were very many in the open valley. And lo, they were very dry. This was going to be what was to be symbolic of something. Verse 3. And he said unto me, Son of Man, can these bones live? And I answered, O Lord God, thou knowest. Again he said unto me, Prophesy upon these bones, and say unto them, O ye dry bones, hear the word of the Lord. Thus saith the Lord God unto these bones. Behold, I will cause you see there, what does it say? I will cause breath. To enter into you, and ye shall live. And I will lay sin-nows upon you and bring up breath upon you. And enter unto you, and ye shall live. And I will l uh uh verse six and I will lay uh verse go to verse seven. So I prophesied As I was commanded, and as I prophesied, there was a noise, and behold a shaking, and the bones came together, bone bone to his bone And when I beheld, lo the sinners of the flesh came upon them, and a skin covered up covered them above, and there was no breath in them. Then said he unto unto me, Prophesy unto the wind, Prophesy, son of man, and say to the wind, Thus saith the Lord God, Come from the four winds, O Bre O breath, and breathe upon these slain, that they may live. So I prophesied, and as he commanded me, and the breath came to them And they lived and stood upon their feet an exceeding great army. Then they said unto me, Son of Man, these bones are the whole, the house. What are the bones? Behold the house of Israel. Behold, they say, our bones are dried, and our hope is lost. We are cut off. For our parts. Therefore prophesy and say unto them, Thus saith the Lord God, Behold, O my people, I will open your graves and cause you to come out of your own graves. And bring you into the land of Israel, and ye shall know that I am the Lord, and I have opened your graves, O my people, and brought you up out of your graves and shall put my spirit in you, and ye shall live, and I shall place you in your own land. Then shall ye know that the Lord uh I that I the Lord have spoken it and performed it un uh saith the Lord. Now here is a passage where the you have the illustration of all these dry bones that God brought Ezekiel to, and the dry bones are representative of the nation of Israel. In this prophecy, God promises that one day he will cause these dry bones of the nation of Israel to live And of course, one day we know that Christ will come again, and he will set up his kingdom, and the nation of Israel will be as God intended it to be. What Christ is doing here is he is, this is a partial fulfillment of Ezekiel 37, where he is basically saying, because of he is now resurrected. That he is going to cause people to live. He is going to give them recreation. Now the truth of the matter is, isn't it true that we are all born dead? We're born spiritually dead. And the Bible tells us that we are made alive through the Spirit of God. We are recreated in Christ. I want you to notice something else, and this is all going to come together later on. But notice the second phrase in our in our in John. You can turn back there to John. And you'll see in the book of John here, you'll see the second phrase, receive the Holy Spirit. He commands them at this point to receive the Holy Spirit. There's been a lot of conjecture as to what this means. What in the world does it mean? Isn't it true that that's going to happen not going to happen to the day of Pentecost? Why is he telling them now to receive the Holy Spirit? in this first initial appearance. Well, we know uh that in John chapter uh uh we we know that in um Earlier in the in John chapter I believe it's John chapter thirteen, maybe it's fourteen, somewhere in there it tells us I'm sorry, John chapter sixteen, verse seven, it says, Nevertheless, I tell you the truth, it is to your advantage that I go away, for if I go not away, the helper will not come to you. But if I depart, I will send him to you. So we know that the indwelling of the Spirit of God will not come until Christ ascends. This verse cannot be talking then when it says receive the Holy Spirit about the indwelling work of the Holy Spirit that will not come until Acts chapter two at Pentecost. And actually there's no reason to believe that they received the Holy, the the permanent indwelling of the Holy Spirit here. You'll realize he says receive the Spirit of God. That is actually a command. He's not saying that they actually do receive the Spirit of God. He's saying that you need to receive the Spirit of God. And when you read it that way, he is essentially saying that one day the Spirit of God will come, and at that point you'll be able to receive the Spirit of God. He's saying, You need to do this or you will do it. It's sort of looking ahead to the indwelling Spirit of God that will come in Acts chapter 2. Now the whole point of all of this is that we are made, they were made at this point, and we are made new creation. in Christ. And we see another sort of difficult verse in verse 23 that we need to just work through, make sure we understand as well. Verse 23 says Whosoever sins ye remit, they are remitted unto them. Or ye forgive, ye forgive, they are forgiven them. Or whosoever sins ye retain, they are retained. Now here's what this verse is not saying. This verse is not giving the apostles some special power to forgive sins. That is clear here for this reason. The second phrase where it says, they are remitted unto them is in the passive voice. In other words, the disciples are not the active agents of the forgiving. They're not the ones forgiving. This second phrase does not have this doer of the action in it. We don't need it to have that, do we? Because who is the one that forgives? Christ is the one that forgives. This is not at all saying that the disciples will have the power to forgive. This is saying that the disciples have the ministry of presenting forgiveness to others, and those to whom receive it will receive it. And those to whom won't will not. But the point that he's making here in ver is very, very important, verse 23. He is saying to them, it's your job to go and to present forgiveness to others. It's your responsibility It is within this is the program. This is my plan. Now, folks, this is absolutely important for us to understand. I was thinking about this and meditating on this a little bit. Do you realize, I began to think about all the other possible ways that God could have set it up for people to come to him, for people to know about the resurrection of Christ, for people to know about the gospel. He could have put flashed big things in the sky. He could have you know, there's he could have just decided to come and appear to everybody or There's different I mean he could have done all kinds of things to get people to realize who he is. But he didn't choose that method. Let me ask you this question. Why do you suppose God choose the method he chose? Just to be clear on it, he chose the method that those who experienced the resurrection would tell others of their experience. So that they would then be able to experience the resurrection themselves, so that they would then be able to tell others of their experience. That's God's program. Why did God choose that way? I think the answer to that question is found in this text when he speaks to Thomas. He says to Thomas, Blessed are those. He says, you believe because you've seen. Blessed are they who have not seen and yet believe. And of course, we know from Hebrews chapter 11. That believing, that true faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. God in his program wanted to give people an eyewitness or experience witness, if you will. uh account of the resurrection, this first eyewitness, and then it turned to experience witness, if you will, of the resurrection, because he wanted people to understand how real it is But on the other hand, they needed to believe without seeing in order for it to be true faith, true belief. And that's why Christ emphasizes you've got to believe without seeing. Now, folks, this ought to remind us of some very important things here. Did you know, if you think about the eyewitness account of the resurrection, the commission of the disciples, did you know that the main thing that they witnessed of in the book of Acts, in the beginning stages of the books of Acts, was the resurrection? For example, in Acts chapter 1, verse 21 and 22, it says, beginning from baptism of John, unto the same day that he was taken up from us. Must one be ordained to be witness with us of his resurrection. When they're deciding who was going to replace Judas, they they needed somebody who was going to be a witness of the resurrection. In Acts chapter 4, verse 31, it says, And when they had prayed, that they the place was shaken, uh, where they were assembled together, and they were filled with the Holy Ghost, and they spake the word of the God with boldness. And the multitude of them believed were of one heart and of one soul. Neither said any of them that they ought uh that that aught of the things which he possessed was his own But they had all things common. And with great power gave the apostles witness of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus. And great grace was upon them all. Folks, God wants us to be a witness of the resurrection. He wants us to experience the risen Savior ourselves. How do we experience it? Well, he gives us new life in Christ. The Bible tells us in 2 Corinthians chapter 5. Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things have passed away. Behold, all things are become new. Now, all things are of God, who hath reconciled us to himself through Jesus Christ, and has given us the ministry of reconciliation. God's plan for us is to is to us for us to experience the reconciling work of the living Christ, and then for us to be able to have that ministry of reconciliation. with others. Now, let me just illustrate this for us. I think this is just in my own life. I just think it's so important for us to go back to this from time to time. I remember days in as a teenager that 15, 16 years old, four maybe starting 14, 15, 16 years old. old. And during my summers, I spent ever I I spent every day just about teaching five day clubs Good news clubs and backyards, basically just preaching the gospel to kids every single day during the summer. And I have to tell you that that was one of the things that was instrumental for me to go into the ministry. I got the chance to give the gospel to tons of people. All summer long. And I basically for several summers. And I basically said, This is what I want to do with my life. I want to give the gospel to people. I want to be able to preach the gospel. And you know, sometimes in the midst of administration and planning, preparation and problem solving and damage control and all the things that the pastor has to do, sometimes it's good just to sit back and say, you know what? God's called me to preach the gospel. Sometimes in churches we get so caught up in plans and programs and different things. And we've got to remember that what God has really called us to do is to witness of the resurrection of Christ, to be preachers of the gospel. God intended in the book of Romans, we we're going to see this later on. That that was his plan for that to occur in our lives. And sometimes we get things so complicated in our lives, so confusing in our lives. And it is because sometimes we need to go back to what's simple. And what's simple is that God put me on this earth to glorify Him. He saved me to glorify Him. And one of the best ways I can glorify him is to tell others about him. That's really simple, isn't it? It's very, very simple. Now let me mention this as well. I'm very grateful. For I just in this past week, and I just, you know, I I don't know if God does it. I I'm sure He does do this with you all. Does it ever seem as though God like brings different themes into your life to teach you different things at different times? Maybe God works on your heart about prayer that you need to work in you need to you need to work on your prayer life. You need to pray more and and understand what God wants you to do with that. different things in your life that God wants you. Maybe it's about studying the word more in depth or whatever those things are. Lately personally he's really emphasized in my heart just a desire to give the gospel to people, to unsaved people. And the need to do that. And I just think personally when we come when it comes to just this very basic application I am grateful for a church where I do hear of many of you of saying, Would you play pray for so-and-so, a neighbor or a friend? or a loved one or uh I hear many thoughts of that from from you all from time to time, asking me to pray and uh for unsaved people and I think there's some great things that have happened over the last couple of weeks in in that and I just want to encourage you this way. Don't lose that and keep fostering that heart for loving the lost Um I had opportunity this past week to um, or maybe it was, yeah, I think it was this past week, to talk with a man, a godly man, doesn't go to our church. He's in his I think late sixties probably. And we had just had coffee together, fellowship together. He had tea, I think I had coffee and Um just talked for a little for a little while and and discussed different things and I was just he you know, I appreciated his humility. He he raised a godly family. Uh they homeschooled And uh they were very concerned about making sure that their kids were not um were not influenced by the world and those kinds of things. But he said something to me that was really striking for me, and I think it was a reminder for me personally. And I think it needs to be a reminder for all of us, which is why I'm relaying the information. Uh he he said that he said, you know, I think in looking back, he said I was very good about um uh uh raising my kids and I was good about you know w focusing on homeschooling and making sure they had a good education and making sure that they were taken care of and He said, but I think I missed a lot of opportunities in my in my own neighborhood to just to present people to Christ. Uh to present Christ to people, rather. He said, I just I just really I missed I he said I I I think I wasted a lot of time. Now in saying that he wasn't saying that he wasted time on his kids. He just was reflecting on the fact that we we so easily can get so so preoccupied in good things that we miss other good things that we need to also be occupied with. And it reminded me of the fact that what I really want to do in my own heart and life and family is I want to raise my kids the best way I know how and I want them to be well educated and I want them to serve the Lord. But I can involve them in this. I can involve them in reaching out to neighbors. I can involve them in reaching out to unsaved and praying for them. Hey, let's pray for so and so. It isn't though we have to do one or the other. What we ought to be doing is both. Our tr our family, the Ganam family ought to be a family team. to be a witness to the people that were around, to pray for the unsaved people that we know. We've got to be a team in this. And that is the kind of culture that we need to have in our families. It's the kind of culture that we need to have in our church. The kind of culture that says, yes, we want to revel in the tr rich, deep truths of the Word of God. But they're not just supposed to stay there with us. We're supposed that's supposed to stimulate us and motivate us in telling others about Christ. Now, this passage then teaches us exactly how to do that, how it's all supposed to work. And I'd like you to refer you back to verse 21, and we'll pick up there. Verse 21, Christ has already said once, peace be with you. Uh then he's gonna say actually you need to pick up in verse twenty. He says, peace be with you in verse nineteen and nineteen, and then he says verse twenty And when he had said, so said, he showed unto them his hands and his side, then his disciples, then were his disciples what? They were glad when they saw the Lord. Then in verse 21, then said Jesus unto them, Peace be with you. As my Father hath sent me, what does it say next? Even so send I you. The resurrection results in our very important responsibility. Christ, when he comes, says he brings peace. The Bible says that the world is in conflict. In fact, in Psalm 2. 2, it says the kings of the earth set themselves And the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed. There is great conflict in the world. There is great evil in the world. There is Lack of peace in the world. The world wants world peace and will never gain it. Christ comes and he says that he comes with peace. In fact, If you recall from John 14, 27, he said before he died on the cross to his disciples, Peace I leave with you. My peace I give to you. Not as the world gives do I give to you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. He says to his disciples before he goes to the cross, I am going to the cross to give peace to you, and not this external, superficial, hypocritical peace. that the world has, I'm going to give you an otherworldly kind of peace, an internal spiritual peace. And do you know why we can have that kind of peace? It is because what Christ does for us is He sets us at peace with God. We find in Romans chapter 5, verse 1, therefore, being justified by faith. We have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. We are at peace with our position in Christ. with who we are in Christ. We are settled about that. And no matter what else is going on in the world, what else conflict and struggles and suffering and difficulties. There is this inner peace that that we can experience because of a state or a position of peace that we have in our lives. And folks, that is to propel us to a place of joy. Joy, true, lasting, satisfying joy. comes when we have internal peace in our hearts. And when we have that kind of peace External joy, gladness is a result, as we see in this passage. They saw Christ, and when they experienced Christ, there was great joy in their hearts. And when this joy was expressed, they were prepared to hear the words of Christ: So send you. What are we sent out to do? We're sent out to give peace to the world in the context. The context is that when Christ came, he came to bring inner peace to the world. And you and I are ambassadors of that peace. And we have peace with God because of our Lord Jesus Christ. And that peace gives us joy, which propels us to this great responsibility that we have in Christ. To commission us to be sent out to give others the gospel. Now let me ask you this question. I would wonder, just in our own hearts for the Lord, do you ever, is it ever possible That are negligence. And I'm not I'm not here to give us a guilt trip because I think I really I'm very encouraged by some of you that really have a heart to see people come to Christ and Many of you that may not have expressed it have the same kind of heart. So this is not a guilt trip at all, but I do think that sometimes our witness is not effective. Because we have inner turmoil in our hearts. There's conflicts in our spirit. We are at peace with God through Christ. But our lives aren't really reflecting that. W our hearts are not really we're are not really showing that. And so because we have inner turmoil in our lives We're not at we're not experiencing the peace that God has given us. We don't have that external joy that God gives us. And because we don't have the external joy that God gives us We're not really effective at witnessing to the experience of of the uh of of what we've experienced in the resurrection of Christ. I would illustrate it this way. We go back to our illustration of being Maroon on an island. Imagine going to the middle of the island and saying, there's this boat out here. It'll save us. Let me get through this, okay? Let me tell you about this. Okay, we got this boat. It it has this capacity. It has these amount of seats, it has this amount, has this kind of horsepower in the engine, it's got all these different components in this boat. Come on, let's go. No, I don't think that would be that compelling, would it? Now that's a silly illustration. But the point is simply this We are not effective witnesses for Christ if we're doing it out of duty and we're going, Oh, by the way, I got this Jesus I need to tell you about because I'm supposed to do this, I'm commanded to do this, and so Let me go ahead and do this. Let me get it out of the way. Okay. Fifteen minutes. Let me get my thing through and I'm okay. Okay. Okay. I got that done now. I'm, you know, I tr check you off the list. Now we can just have a friendship and we don't have to worry. Now, folks, that is not the approach, the approach that God ever intended. We see that clearly from this passage. The Bible tells us in Romans 10, verses 13 through 14, and whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. How then shall they call on him in whom they have not believed? And how shall they believe in whom they have not heard? And how shall they hear without a preacher? The Bible is very clear in the book of John. We see this throughout the book of John. That no one comes to God unless God draws him. There isn't any way around it. There is no other possibility. The Bible tells us that none seeks after God. No one uh is has the even ability to look for God. We are all turned away from God, and the Spirit of God must draw us But folks, let us not go so far into that kind of thought that we forget that we are an essential part of the program. You can't get away from it. The way that the New Testament is laid out, it tells us in this sort of rhetorical sense: how is anybody going to hear without a preacher? God does the drawing. The Spirit of God does the working. But there must be truth relayed. And it must be relayed in a compelling way. And that compelling way is through a life that's experienced it and is able to present it to those who are lost. This is the responsibility of the believer who has experienced the resurrection of Christ. And so I would just sum all this up by in saying this. Number one, you and I must live find life's true fulfillment. In our elevated relationship with Jesus, we must find life's true fulfillment in being the sibling of Christ. That's there is no greater relationship. There is more, no cl no better relationship than that. And when we experience that kind of contentment in Christ, we are able to then share that with others. Number two, you and I are new. If we know Christ our Savior, we are new creatures in Christ God has given us the ministry of bringing others to that place of recreation as well. He has reconciled them to himself, and he's given us the ministry of reconciliation. God has done it this way on purpose, and we must understand our role. How does this all occur? Let's remember this. True inner peace results in joy, and joy results in witness. We must identify short circuits in this process quickly. If inner peace results in external joy, and joy results in witness, If we're not witnessing, and I by the way, let me just I'll just mention this. It doesn't mean that you've got a notch in your belt like you've got, okay, well I've led five people to cry. It's not what I'm talking about here at all. Talking about living a life of witnessing to others. And I'll just say it this way: if you reflect on your life and you look at things and you say, okay, if this is the case You know, a good soul searching question is, where have things short circuited in my life? Where is there a short circuit somewhere? Is there something that has been cut off? Am I having inner peace without expressing outward joy? Why? Or maybe I'm struggling with inner peace because I'm struggling with my relationship with God. What's going on there? We need to identify this short-circuited process in our lives so that we are effective witnesses for Christ. And we need to be vigilant about this in our lives. It's not simply a matter of preaching a wrote gospel Message to somebody. It's a life, it's a lifestyle of witness to those that are around us of the resurrection of Christ and experiencing that in our lives. That is the prime responsibility of every believer, to be soul and light in the world in this way. Let's ask, let's pray together. Ask his help with this. Father, I believe in my heart that many people that are here Would would um have these truths resonating in their hearts as it has mine I pray, Lord, that it would continue. That we would do the reflection that we need to do, to ask the questions. That we need to ask. Of why what what what is happening in our lives that what might keep us From being the witness that God that you want us to be. Father, I am grateful for those in our midst, Lord, that have been faithful and and And are demonstrating a witness for you, a lifestyle of witness. I would admit before you that this is an area that seems to constantly be something that I have to work at. It seems to have ebb and flow to it. Probably shouldn't be that way. I pray, dear Father, that all of us would do some self-reflecting, that we would have the kind of lifestyle that God wants us to have. In witnessing for you. May we experience the resurrection for ourselves of fresh and anew so that we can go to others In a compelling way, loving them and desiring that they experience that same resurrection. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.