Galatians chapter 3. Galatians chapter 3. Several years ago I entered the world of smartphones. And I don't know if I'm better for it or not. But I there's a lot of really cool things you can do with smartphones. I got an iPhone several years ago and Um decided that I'd try out the Macs on the iPhone. Now you non Mac people will like this story. Because it didn't go so well. I try out these maps and I would I would enter in a person's address and one time I was in Pasadena and I don't remember what house I was going to. I entered a person's address and that thing put me in circles. I c I kept seeing the same thing go by ever several times. I said, what is wrong with these maps? I tried it again. I I didn't want to give up the first time. I thought well maybe this is a fluke. So I tried it again and something similar happened again and I finally decided that that app was absolute this Apple app is absolutely useless And I went to Google. You can you know you can g download Google. Everybody criticizes uh Apple. Uh you can download Google stuff on an Apple uh iPhone. So anyway Uh so I downloaded the Google I Google Maps on an iPhone and uh and then and that corrected the problem. I was overall they've been reliable. It's really frustrating when something's not reliable, isn't it? You get in the car and you expect the thing to start. You hit maps on your iPhone and you expect it to get you to where you're going instead of circles. What Paul is dealing with here has to do with what is really reliable, what we really should be depending on. Versus what is not reliable. And to summarize it, he is going to tell us in this passage that the law is not reliable. But the cross is reliable. He is going to go on and explain that to rely on the law is to demonstrate that you do not fully rely on the cross. That when you fully rely on the cross, then you're no longer relying on the law. You might say to yourself, well, I don't know what law I'm under. The Bible, we're going to learn from this passage, teaches us that we are all born under the law. The law that tells us we are sinful. And some people attempt to Balance it out and do better and to do good and to try to for their out good to outweigh their bad, their righteousness to outweigh their evil God says that is an entirely unreliable and actually vain, empty, futile way of attempting to try to have eternal life. And we're going to learn exactly why in this passage. And by the way, we're also going to learn some extremely important principles on how we as Christians Can the truth is, we as Christians, if we're not careful, can place ourselves back, as it were, under the curse of the law. Instead of living under the freedom of the cross. Let's go, Lord, in prayer, and we'll get into this text. Father, as we come to you this morning, I pray That you would help us to understand what is truly reliable, that the cross of Christ is reliable. It is something that we must depend on. It's something we must not just depend on for our justification, but also to depend upon every day of our lives May we understand the danger and the problem of following our own selves, of depending on our own behavior. Of going our own way, may we understand the privilege we have to follow after the cross. To depend upon the cross. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. We pick up here in verse 10 where it says this, the Apostle Paul is speaking. For as many as are of the works of the law are under the curse. When the Jewish readers of the day would have heard Paul write these things, when they would have read this, they would have understood exactly what he meant by a curse. When we think of curse, we might think of a couple of different choice words that we should not be thinking about, so don't think about those things. But that's not what he's talking about here. He's talking about something else entirely. He's talking about a curse that is depicted on several several times in the Old Testament. And for us to really grasp what the Apostle Paul is saying here, we need to understand what this curse is all about. When you think of the term curse, what do you think of if you have eliminated the idea of various expletives? There is, we ought to first, our minds ought to go back to the book of Genesis. Do you remember when Adam and Eve, they had sinned against God, and the result was that there was a curse that came upon them. This curse was a curse where it is described in chapter 3, verses 14 through 17 as a curse of the serpent a curse of Adam and Eve, a curse of the very land that they're walking on, he says in verse 14. So the Lord call Lord God said to the servant, Because you have done this, you are cursed more than any more than all cattle, and more than any every beast of the field. On your belly you shall go, and you shall eat dust all the days of your life. And I will put enmity between you and the woman, between your seed and her seed. He shall bruise your head and you shall bruise his heel. To the woman he said I will greatly multiply your sorrow and your conception. In pain you will bring forth children. Your desire shall be for your husband, and he shall rule over you. Then to Adam he said, Because you have heeded the voice of your wife and have and have eaten from the tree that which I have commanded, saying, You shall not eat of it. Cursed is the ground for your sake, and toil you shall eat of it. all the days of your life. There was a curse that was pronounced on this world, a curse that was pronounced on Adam, a curse that was pronounced on Eve, a curse that was pronounced on Serpent There was great curse upon the world because of sin. We don't go much farther. In fact, we go to Genesis chapter 4 and we find the next example of a curse. Do you remember the story of Adam and Eve? I'm sorry, I just said that. Do you remember the story of Cain and Abel? You remember when Cain actually murders his brother Abel? What does God do to Cain? He places a curse on him. Says he no longer can till the land. He says he has to go to a place far off and places this curse on him. The Bible is actually full of God's placement of cursing on people. Now you might say to yourself, well, I don't like that kind of guy. I don't really like that My I like the idea of God being up in the clouds, sitting on a on a nice you know seat and with a long beard, kind of a Father Christmas, kind of a benevolently giving off gifts as he sees sees his desire to do so. That's not the God of the Bible. The God of the Bible must, because of his own justice, place a curse on sin and a curse on those who sin. And we see here in this passage that that's exactly what's the case. You say, well, that's only in the New Testament. Well the New Testament has something to say about it as well Verse 7, Hebrews chapter 6, for the earth which drinks in the rain that often comes upon it and bears herbs useful for those whom is cultivated, receives blessing from God. But if it bears thorns and briars is rejected and near to being a cur being curse, whose end is to be burned. Now You and I are not farmers. We are not reminded of the curse every day of our lives as we till the ground and deal with all of the thorns and the thistles. But if you go to work every day, you see every day of your life the fact that this world is cursed. If you deal with precious little two-year-olds, You are aware every day of your life that this world is cursed. We are constantly reminded of the thorns and the thistles of life, if it were, as it were. That we are living and we are born under a curse. First Peter chapter 2, verse 14 says Verse uh we'll just go to verse uh verse fourteen it says, or to governors as those who are sent to him for the punishment of evildoers and for the praise of those who are good For this is the will of God, that by doing good you may be put to silence the ignorance of foolish men as free Yet not using liberty as a cloak for vice, but as bondservants of God. There is in James chapter 3 as well this contrast between blessing and cursing. Live one way and you will be blessed. Live another way and you will be cursed. One of the greatest descriptions of cursing is found. Of someone uh of people being cursed is found in Deuteronomy twenty-eight. Will you take your Bibles and turn there to Deuteronomy twenty-eight and you're gonna see this? Deuteronomy twenty-eight. It says this Cursed is the one who does not confirm all the words of this law by observing them. And all the people shall say Amen. Would you skip down to verse 58 of Deuteronomy 28 for a minute? Look at the description to the nation of Israel of those who do not follow the law, the kind of curse that is brought. It says, verse 58, if you do not carefully observe all the words of this law that are written in this book, that you may fear this glorious and awesome name, the Lord your God. Then the Lord will bring upon you and your descendants extraordinary plagues, great and prolonged plagues, and serious and prolonged sicknesses Moreover, he will bring back on you all the diseases of Egypt, of which you were afraid, and they shall cling to you. Also, every sickness and every plague which is not written in the book of the law will the Lord bring upon you until you are destroyed. In fact, we know that this is still yet to take place for the nation of Israel. And during the tribulation period after the rapture, the plagues of Egypt will be brought back as a curse. and a punishment for the disobedience of the nation of Israel. Now, why is this important for a Christian? I came across my daily dose, well, hopefully it's not all that often, but my daily dose of heresy when I went on Facebook. And um and I I saw this quote. Worship begins when we forget about our failures and remember his goodness. Wrong. Worship does not begin when we forget about our failures. Worship begins when we remember our sin. And realize God's grace. That's when worship begins. See, if we forget how much the fact that we were born under the curse, if we forget what sin has done to us, if we forget our own sinfulness. Then we can never worship God the way that He wants us to. But when we look at our own sin and we realize the curse that we are under, That we were under before we're saved, and we realize the grace of God to forgive us and to redeem us from that, it is then we can truly worship God. Don't forget about your sin. Just remember God's grace. The result of guilt and grace Is gratitude. When we remember our guilt and remember God's grace, the result is gratitude. Worship is the proper response of seeing God's grace in our lives. undeserved, and we respond to him with praise and adoration and thanksgiving. Folks, don't forget your sin. But just remember God's grace. He says here, the problem in the Church of Gala of Galatians was that they were actually trying after realizing the grace of God in their life. They're actually trying to put themselves back under the curse of the law. To Paul, this is preposterous This is crazy for anybody to want to go back under the curse of law. And he reminds them, look, if you want to follow the Mosaic Law, the diets and the days If you want to follow the circumcision and all of that, remember that the law brings the curse And he explains with three different arguments, three reasons why we ought not go back to the law. We ought not continue to place ourselves in the law. And I intended for that to be one at a time. Let's put them let's put it up at the very end. Just just wait until t till we go all through through all of them. Argument number one That's not your fault, by the way. That's my fault. But argument number one. It is impossible to keep every point of the law. Look at chapter, look at verse 10, the second part of verse 10. Cursed is every one that continueth not in all things which are written in the book of the law to do them. Did you catch all that? Cursed is what? Everyone who doesn't do what All things. You know what Paul is saying here? Paul is saying, look, you can't pick and choose which law you want to follow and which one you don't. And that's actually what they were trying to do. The Judaizers were trying to say circumcision you need to follow. You need to follow some of the dietary laws, but these over here you don't really need to follow. Those are those it's picking and they're picking and choosing. And Paul says, no, you can't do that with the law. Remember Deuteronomy 28, that if you don't fulfill all of it, Then you are guilty and you have the curse upon you. All is very important in this verse. You've got to fulfill all of it. And that really brings a problem, doesn't it? Because the Bible is very clear that none of us can fulfill all the law. The Bible says in James that if you fulfill the if you fulfill Uh keep the law in all points except for one, you're guilty of all. Miss the law in one point You think of the Ten Commandments and all the different laws, thou shalt not bear false witness, don't lie and uh don't have other gods before you, don't commit adultery. You think all the Look, if you miss it in one point, the Bible says you're guilty of all. And the Apostle Paul is saying, why would you go back under that? Why would you continue under the curse of the law? I want us to understand something though. I want us to understand that we as Christians do this as well. We, as it were, put ourselves under the law again, and we do this in several different ways. Have you ever um felt as though you were under the gun with something? Maybe you were maybe you were you you went into a situation and you had tons of rules that were just Overwhelming. Maybe your first day on a job and you read the policy manual before you go in and you see all the things that you've got to follow, and it's just absolutely overwhelming. I remember the my first day in college. And for those of you who know what college I went to, you know what I'm talking about. Thankfully, over the last fifteen plus years, they've they've but laxed up a little bit. But back then Man alive, I mean some of the rules they had you couldn't go to dinner without a suit coat. You couldn't you could uh you could not leave your dorm room without I mean it was you ever you You uh for example, once a I think it was once a quarter, literally, this I am not this literally, we would go we would have to go outside on our halls Put our hands over our head on the walls and we would get the back of our neckline checked to make sure that our our that our uh our hair was short enough that we that that happened every single I think it was quarterly. When I was first there, I thought to myself, you know what, I can I read the whole rule book and I said, you know what, I think I'm gonna try to get no demerits in a semester. Zero demerits. And I started off and s several days went by and I was so stressed out. trying to keep every single rule and trying to make sure that I didn't get any demerits. You know there's a reason they give you 150 By the end by my senior year, you know, you sort of don't you just think of them in terms of how much you can spend. But freshman year you don't realize all that, so so you're sorta trying to make sure that you don't and and like two Like uh it was it was it wasn't long before actually I got it wasn't even my fault. I got blamed for somebody else not getting the room job done. And I got two demerits. And I I went to the floor lady and said, look, this wasn't my fault. He says, it's two D's. What are you t what are you worried about? I said, I didn't have any of these before. Now I got two two demerits. I'm going to go argue this in student court. He said, you're going to argue two demerits in student court. I said, well, I said, I did anyway, I was he said, look, let me give you some advice You you gotta calm down. You gotta lighten up. If you're if you're gonna get through all four years of college here, you you can't keep doing this to yourself. And certain and uh you know what actually I did? I I I sort of resolved that I'd just do the best I could and I only ever got thirty-four demerits in one semester. I always tried to stay under fifty because you get a letter from sent to your parents it was fifty, but My point in saying all that is it is a bit stressful when you are under that many rules. And thankfully they're they've let up on the on some of those rules. They are going liberal, man. You don't even have to wear a tie to go to dinner anymore It's what is happening over there? I don't know anyway. But but the the law is something that is oppressive. There is an oppressiveness to the law, trying to follow every every bit of everything. I couldn't even there's not even a six hundred and thirty thirteen commandments in the rule book. There are si six hundred and thirteen commandments in the Old Testament Try following every jot and tittle of all of those. That's Paul's point. It can't be done. That's why Christ came to fulfill the law for us. Because we could not fulfill the law ourselves. And the entire point of the law is to demonstrate our failure, that we cannot do it ourselves. And the Apostle Paul is pointing out here that we need to be very careful about this, that we do not put ourselves back under the law. Then we find here in verse 11, argument number two. He actually says in verse 11, but that no man is justified by the law in the sight of God, it is evident. The just shall live by faith. He says, not only is it impossible to keep every point of the law, number one, but number two, no one's ever done it. No one in the history of mankind besides Christ has ever fulfilled all of the law. No one's been justified or declared righteous by the law. It's never happened before. And instead he says this, rather, even in the Old Testament, he gives a scriptural basis for this. He says, even the Old Testament people did not, were not justified by the law. Now, by the way, this is important. Don't forget that. I think I mentioned that last week. The Old Testament people were justified by faith, the same as the New Testament. And so he says that here. He quotes Habakkuk 2, verse 4. The just shall live by faith. What does it mean that the just shall live by faith? Back in the early 1500s, that's I I've been using a lot of illustrations in the life of Martin Luther. It's just been on my mind because I've been reading about him as well as the 500th year of the Protestant Reformation this in October. This past October. But Martin Luther was plagued by this verse. He had been doing A lot of study in the book of Romans. He came across Romans chapter 1, verse 17, which also quotes Habakkuk chapter 1, Habakkuk 2. 4. The just shall live by faith. And he couldn't seem to grasp what in the world this what does this mean? The just shall live by faith. What does this mean? He really had a hard time understanding what that means. In fact, he became sick. He thought he was under the wrath of God. And he had this going over and over his mind, the just shall live by faith. What does this mean? Well, he eventually recovered. He still didn't understand what this verse means. And he decided to take a pilgrimage to Rome. And there were a particular 25 set of set of 25 stairs that were at Saint John the Lateran Cathedral there in Rome. And the Pope had said that if you will climb these stairs on your knees, then you will have one year's absolution of all your sin. Martin Luther wanted to know what it would feel like. Just what would it feel like to have all of his sin for one year absolved? And so he goes up these stairs. These stairs were allegedly the stairs where Pontius Pilate's uh decreed that Christ would go to the cross. That's alleged the Cat Catholic Church came up with all kinds of things during the medieval period. Who knows whether it was Accurate or not. So he climbs up these stairs on his knees. He gets to the top of the stairs. And he realizes just as in his own spirit that he is no different than what than before he climbed those stairs. But one thing stood clear to him. The just will not live by these things. The just will live by faith alone. That was actually at the top of those stairs, more than likely, Martin Luther's conversion. Morton likely likely because he had tried everything he po possibly could of his own efforts to follow after Christ. When he got to the top of those stairs, he realized it cannot be done. Why? Because it was never intended to be done. It was always God's intention for us to live by faith. I mean if you think about it for a minute, what does it mean to live by something? You ever met somebody who says, well I just live by they like a product so well. They just say, you know, I just live by that cleaning product. Well they really don't live by that cleaning product. They like the cleaning product. But to live by something is to place all of your dependency. all of your reliance on something. And that's what this means. It means to place all of your reliance on something so that you end up living by it God desires for us not just to accept him by faith. He wants us to live by faith. And there are some people that they have actually succumbed to what would be called easy believism. They have sort of made some profession of faith, but they're not living by faith. You cannot live by your own effort. It won't work unless you do it perfectly. And you can't. The Bible says that the just shall live by faith alone. Then he says in verse 12, And the law is not of faith, but the but the man that doeth them shall live in them. He says, the law is not of faith. In other words, Following the law doesn't produce faith. Following the law is not done by faith. The law and faith are mutually exclusive. You know what he's implying here? He's implying that an attempt to follow the law is an attempt to put your dependency on self. To place your faith in self, to do what you can do for yourself And he says here in verse 12, and the law is not of faith, that men the men that do it them shall live in them. That's actually a quote from Leviticus 18, verse 5, where it says that those who follow the law will live by the law. It's sort of interesting that that same verse was quoted in Luke chapter 10, when a lawyer came to Christ. And that lawyer, if you'll recall, it's the sort story of the Good Samaritan. The lawyer comes to Christ and he says, What should I do to gain eternal life? And Christ says, Well, what does it say in your law? You're a lawyer, aren't you? You know the law, don't you? And he says, love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, and mind, and uh and love your neighbor as yourself. And Christ says, yes, if you do this Then you will have fulfilled all the law. That will gain you eternal life. What was Christ saying there? What Christ was doing, and he does this actually kind of quite often with people, he was giving them an impossible hypothetical. Hypothetically, if you kept every point of the law for your entire life Hypothetically, then that law would justify you. But it's only hypothetical, because it's never happened and never will happen. You can't do it And the lawyer knew that, and it says in the passage that the lawyer, seeking to justify himself, asks another question, as lawyers do: who's my neighbor? And then you have the story of the Good Samaritan. The lawyer understood that he couldn't follow that all the way, that he couldn't follow every point of that. And that was Christ's point. See, if you try to follow every point of the law, you can't. And the whole point that the Apostle Paul is making here, and you'll see all three arguments, you could put them up there. It is impossible to keep every point of the law, number one. No one has ever done that, and so no one's ever been justified the law And the law is not associated with faith at all. The point that is being made here is simply the fact That we should not attempt to rely on ourselves by following after the law. Folks, this is very important. It's important for the Christian to understand this. Christian, you may not like try to follow after the law, but when you depend on yourself, that's exactly what you're doing. We some of you are tempted to say, well, I so many people have let me down in my life. This person has let me down, that person has let me down, this little person let me down. And I just needed to depend on myself. You are under the law if you try to do that. If you feel that the only person you can depend on is yourself, then you are placing yourself under the law. You say, well, I'm not trying to follow the Mosaic law. The Bible says in Romans chapter 2 that there is a law in every Gentile that's written in the heart. This is not just the Mosaic law now he's talking about. He's saying everybody's under it. And if we try to depend upon ourselves in our life, then we are going to end up, we're placing ourselves under the law. And Paul says a law brings a curse. Those who try to depend upon themselves for their life and for their well-being, those who try to do that will end up In anxiety and depression and discouragement and frustration, that is the way of one who is attempting to depend upon himself. There is an inseparable link between attempting to depend upon yourself And all of these anxieties and depression and all these things. God did not intend for us as human beings, and certainly not as Christians, to depend upon ourselves. He is intended for us to depend upon him. He wants us to live dependently upon him. Trying to live for ourselves and trying to follow under the law to do what we can do for ourselves is something that's going to end up in complete emptiness. Martin Luther said this. Trying to be justified by the law is like counting money out of an empty purse. Eating and drinking from an empty dish and cup, looking for strength and riches where there is nothing but weakness and poverty, laying a burden on someone who is already oppressed to the point of collapse Trying to spend hundred a hundred gold pieces and not even having a penance. The attempt to try to rely on yourself is only going to end up in failure. and disappointment and struggle and despondency and depression and anxiety and discouragement And if you have those things in your life, brothers and sisters in Christ, it's a strong indication that you are living, you are trying to rely on yourself I remember what Marty Collier, uh not Marty Collier, uh Ken Collier said several years ago of Wilde's fame. Not that Wilde is that famous, but for us we know we're talking about. He said the only way there's only two choices on the shelf Living for God or living for self. Let's change that. There's only two choices on the shelf. Relying on God or relying on self. Brothers and sisters in Christ, who are you relying on? Who are you relying on for your own spiritual growth? Who are you relying on for your marriage? Who are you relying on for your kids and your family? Who are you relying on? If you want a life of anxiety and struggle and problems, try relying on yourself Christ said, Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me, for my yoke is easy, and my burden is light, and you'll find rest for your souls. If we're having those kinds of difficulties, often it is because we are attempting to depend upon ourselves rather than learning to depend upon Christ. So how do we depend upon Christ? And folks, the answer is in verse 13. Verse 13 says this: Christ hath redeemed us from what? From the curse of the law, being made a curse for us. For it is written, Cursed is everyone that hangeth on the tree. Christ, the Bible says, redeemed us from the curse of the law. The word redemption means to be bought back. That's what the word means. The illustration immediately that the recipients of this book would have picked up on. Was the redemption of God toward the nation of Israel and coming out of Egypt? That was always the picture of redemption. They were enslaved to Egypt. And the and at the past time of the Passover, God redeemed them. He bought them back. They were his before they went into Egypt. They went into Egypt, they'd slayed by Egypt. And now he bought them back. It says in 1 Corinthians 5, verse 7, For indeed Christ, our Passover, was sacrificed for us. It actually calls Christ our Passover in that passage. When Christ died for us, he did so to pay the price. To redeem us back from the bondage of sin and from the curse of the law. Christ did that for us. And do you know how Christ did that for us? This is incredible. Don't miss this. Christ did that by taking upon the curse of on himself. It says Verse 13, Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made, do you see that? Being made a curse for us. It's very likely that the Apostle Paul, prior to his conversion, looked at the crucifixion of Christ and said that there is no way that God ever intended for the Messiah to be crucified, Jesus Christ could not be the Messiah. But Paul now understood these words. The key words here are he was being made a curse, what? For us. Now you think about all of the curse of the law in the Old Testament as was mentioned. You think about all of the plagues of Egypt that were mentioned that would be a curse of those who do not follow the law. You think of the Old Testament and the book of Genesis and the curse there. You think of Cain and the curse there. You think of all of these illustrations of curses, and Christ took them living a absolutely perfect life. He took all of these curses, the curse of sin, and he placed it on himself. He became a curse for us. The passage quotes then, Paul quotes, Cursed is everyone that hangeth on a tree. And you might immediately think to yourself, well, that's the cross. And in a sense, you would be right, but there's more there that we need to understand. There is no question. That this is talking about the cross, but there's also no question that this is a reference to an Old Testament truth. The Old Testament truth is found in Deuteronomy 21, verse 23, which says, His body shall not remain overnight on the tree, but you shall surely bury him that day. So that you do not defile the land which the Lord your God is giving you as an inheritance. For he who hanged is accursed of God. The standard procedure for execution in the Old Testament was not crucifixion. That didn't come until later under the Roman Empire. The standard procedure for execution was stoning. Usually how they uh they put people to death. There were actually four different methods of execution in the Old Testament, but that was the main one. The point of hanging on a tree was not to execute. The point of hanging on a tree was to make a public example of one who was cursed. So that everyone would know, his family, society, all the nation of Israel would know that this man violated the law. He was put to death because of it. He was hung on a tree, publicly demonstrated the curse. Now, folks, the reality is we don't think of the cross that way. We have nice little necklaces that have the cross on them. Or pictures with beautiful pictures of the cross. I'm not saying those things are wrong, folks, because they could remind us of Christ. But folks, let's not forget that the cross was public humiliation of a curse that all mankind could see Christ took on that for us. Apostle Paul's point is, why would you ever go back under it? It ought to cause us to respond by saying, and I can't help but think of the hymn that says, What wondrous love is this, oh my soul! That Christ would do this for me, would take upon the curse of sin upon the cross, would be publicly humiliated as he were. To redeem us, to buy us back, to free us from the bondage of sin. And the Apostle Paul is saying here: do not continue to go back under the law. You've been freed from it. Instead, follow after Christ. Live by faith in Christ rather than under the curse of the law. And we see in verse 14 then The two purpose statements for why Christ did this. This is incredible. Verse 14 says that the blessing of Abraham, do you remember that blessing that we mentioned last Sunday? In Genesis chapter 12, where it says, In thee all the families of the earth will be blessed. Well, we see what that is and who that was for. That the blessing of Abraham might come on through who? On to who? The Gentiles through Christ. We are able to receive the blessing of Abraham because of what Christ did for us. Christ intended that to happen when he went to the cross. And what is that promise? What is the blessing of Abraham? We know that in part the blessing of Abraham was the land. Says that in the Abrahamic covenant. But something far more important and far more valuable is included in that blessing. And the main point of the blessing we find in the last part of verse 14 that we might receive what? The promise of the Spirit through faith. Now we're going to learn a whole lot more about what the Holy Spirit is and how the Holy Spirit works in the life of the believer. In fact, when we get to Galatians chapter 5, we're going to learn how it's going to say walk in the Spirit. We're going to learn how to apply what has been given to us. But, folks, what has been given to us because of the death of Christ is the Spirit of God living inside of us. The very Spirit of God, who causes us to be able to trust Him, to live by faith, and to not live for self. This is mentioned in Isaiah 44, verse 3, which says, For I will pour out, pour water on him who is thirsty. and floods on the dry ground, I will pour my spirit on your descendants and my blessing on your offspring. In Ezekiel chapter thirty-six, which is a description of and part of the new covenant, he says, I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit within you. I will take the heart of stone out of your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. I will put my spirit within you and cause you to walk in my statutes, and you will keep my judgments and do them. Then you shall dwell in the land that I gave you to your fathers, and you shall be my people, and I will be your God, and I will deliver you from all your uncleanness. I will call for the grain and multiply it. I will bring fam bring no famine upon you. We will see the fulfillment of the new covenant. When Christ comes back and establishes the nation of Israel on this earth again. But folks, we are part of the fulfillment, the spiritual part of the fulfillment of the new covenant, because we have been given the Spirit of God That's why in the book of Acts you see all of these physical manifestations of the Spirit of God in people speaking in tongues and all these things. It was to demonstrate that the Spirit of God was truly here. It was truly given not only to Jews, but also to Gentiles when they believed in Christ. That the the manifestation is no longer necessary. The tongues are no longer necessary to demonstrate that But folks, we all, when we come to Christ, receive the very Spirit of God in our lives. That's what we need to rely on. Not our flesh, not ourself, not our own intelligence, not our own willpower We ought not rely on those things, folks. We ought to rely on the Spirit of God working the will of God in our lives. We ought to rely on the Word of God as it energizes the Spirit of God. Those are the things we must rely on. We must learn this. It's vitally important for us to do so. We conclude by understanding these three things. Number one Folks, it is healthy to remember the curse that we were on the curse of sin that we were under, and the grace that redeemed us from it. Sometimes we get this, we get, we take grace for granted. Sometimes it becomes commonplace to us. We no longer value the cross. We no longer value what's really taken place, the sacrifice that Christ made. for us. And folks, in those times we need to- the problem is we are not thinking about who we really are without him. The problem, folks, is that we are not remembering that we were under the curse before Christ. Secondly, reliance on the law is a reliance on self, and self is not reliable. Reliance on the law is a reliance on self, and self is not reliable. And number three, Christ bought us out of our bondage to sin. Why would we ever go back? Christ bought us out of our bondage to sin. Why would we ever go back? Let's pray. Father, we admit before you We're so prone to trust the very person that has let us down the most ourselves. And we so easily stray from the one who has never let us down, Christ. Lord, I pray that if there is anybody here that has not ever truly received Christ as their Lord and Savior, that today would be a day that they would accept the redemption of Christ for themselves. And for those of us who know Christ, dear Father, I pray, Lord, that we would learn, and we'll learn from this book. Book of Galatians, that we would learn how to depend upon your spirit rather than depending upon ourselves, which brings a curse. Lord, we want to know the blessing of the Spirit of God in our lives, rather than the curse of the law and of sin. Teach us how to know that blessing, Father. Help us to worship you because of the gratefulness of our redemption. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.