Chapter three, that will be where we will be preaching from. First we will read through the first eleven verses of Acts chapter three. We have the healing here of the lame man. Now Peter and John went up together to the temple at the hour of prayer, the ninth A certain man lame from his f mother's womb was carried, who they laid daily at the gate of the temple, which is called beautiful, to ask alms from those who entered the temple. Temple, who seeing Peter and John about to go into the temple, asked for alms. And fixing his eyes on him with John, Peter said Peter said, Look at us. So he gave them his attention, expecting to receive something from them. Then Peter said, Silver and gold I do not have. But what I do have I give to you. In the name of the Lord of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, rise up and walk. And he took him by the right hand and lifted up him lifted him up, and immediately his feet and ankle bone uh ankle bones reached received strength. So he leaping up stood and walked and entered the temple with them, walking, leaping, and praising God. And all the people saw him walking and Pla and praising God. Then they knew that it was he who sat begging alms at the beautiful gate of the temple, and they were filled with wonder and amazement at what had happened to him. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Ask his blessing on his word. Lord, we thank you for your word. We thank you that we can trust it. When nothing else seems to be stable enough for us to trust, we can trust your immutable word. Because it comes from you who is unchanging. There's only an unchanging God who could speak forth unchanging words. Lord, I pray that our faith would be based upon your word. It wouldn't be based upon our feelings or our circumstances or our experiences, but it would be firmly planted on your word. As we look at your word this morning and we see your working, Christ's working in his church to build his church his way. I pray, Lord, that you would help us to see how we can be a part of that work and we can walk with that work rather than up against it or in opposition to it. I pray, Lord, that you would help us to see a little more of who you are this morning and what you are doing and how you desire to work with us and be reminded. of some of the truths that we may know, but we need to know afresh and anew. I pray, Lord, that again, if there's anybody that doesn't know you as their Savior, today would be a day that they would come to Christ. We pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. This morning I'd like to read a passage of just a verse to you, and I'd like you to think about this verse and see how it strikes you. This verse, Isaiah 48, 11, it says, For my own sake, for my own sake, it said twice, I will do it. For how should my name be profaned? And I will not give my glory to another. How does that verse strike you or other verses like it? Has it ever has God's passion for his own glory ever Ever cause you to think, well, is God somehow self-centered? It seems awful self-centered to constantly be preoccupied with your own glory. Of course, we would never want to overtly say that. We would never actually say, yeah, I think this is the case. But I would imagine at some point or another in our minds there's this sort of question occasionally about that. And the answer, of course, is no, he is not self-centered in the way that we would think of it. Obviously, he is worthy of all centrality, if you will. But very much so he is not because self-centeredness the way we think of it doesn't include any idea of love. If somebody is entirely self-centered, they are one who has sort of the absence of one who is loving. And God, of course, is loving. And he loves you and he loves me with an everlasting love, and he has demonstrated that on the cross. So the answer to that question really is no. Let me illustrate it this way. How many of you would say to yourself, as you as you've gotten let me say maybe father this would be apply to fathers and mothers really, but I think as a father I can really attest to How many of you have the older you get, the more you would rather give a gift than receive a gift? I remember I know at Christmas time, I would just much rather give my kids gifts And I enjoy when they when they I enjoy their joy when they give something something back to me. But but uh as a whole I just really would rather uh you know, the older gate I understand the passage you You know where it says that a how could a father give give a son a stone um who desires to give benevolent gifts to his children? That that passage. I I I I understand that as a father Fathers, you understand that. You love to give to your kids. So when you give to your kids and you enjoy doing it, who are you doing it for? You or them? You say that's a strange question. Well, what is the answer to the question? The answer to the question is both. You are, if you enjoy giving them something You're doing it for your joy and for them. And it's not self-centered unless you're what you're doing for them is not good for them, right? If you're doing something for them that's not good for them and you're doing it just to get immediate joy with an it and with a result that's going to be bad for them, then that would be self-centered. Of course, God never does this for us, does He? God never gives something to us, or does something to us or allows something in our lives that ultimately will be for our harm. God's passion is for his glory because of this one thing. Because he knows that he has created us to be most satisfied. When he is most glorified. God is understands, and we must understand, that we are genuinely most satisfied when God is most glorified. That may be hard to believe Because some of the ways that God chooses to glorify Himself are different than what we would choose. And in some times it almost seems a little bit harmful, as we'll see in the passage. But as we look at this passage, we need to understand why God is doing things the way He is doing in healing this lame man. And as we look at the passage, I want us to notice a couple of things about it. Just in the previous chapter, as we learned last week, in verse 43 of the passage, You'll notice that it says that then fear came upon every soul, and many wonders and signs were done through the apostles. So there were many miracles and wonders and signs going on during the time of the first century while the apostles were validating the message of the gospel to the Jewish people. There were these miracles going on. Why were they going on? They were going on to show the Jewish people that Jesus is who he said he was. That they actually put the Son of God on a cross to die for them. That they needed to understand that Jesus is their Messiah and needs to be their Lord. And you'll notice also in verse 47 of chapter 2 that as all of this was going on and as normal Christian church experience was happening, The worship of God, the study of his word, the fellowship of believers. As those things were happening, verse 47 says that the Lord was adding to the church daily those who were being saved. In other words, what was happening was Jesus was accomplishing exactly what he said he would accomplish. In Matthew 16, 18, he said, I will build my church, and the gates of hell will not prevail against it. And we see that the book of Acts is a carrying out of that promise that Christ will in his way build his church. And we're seeing this unfold. We saw the birth of the church occur in chapter 2. And now we are going to begin to see the building of God's church. of Christ's church in this chapter. And although Christ is not physically there, he is intricately and actively involved in displaying his power through the apostles, and we're going to see that in this passage. Really, to understand this passage of the lame man and how he was healed and why, we need to ask this question. Why was this particular story Mentioned and given such prominence. If all these miracles were done, why is it that this particular miracle We're was given eleven verses out of out of Luke's Luke's uh writings here. Why is that the case? And if we understand that, then we'll be beginning to understand the significance of this passage. And as we go into this, we're going to be able to, that's the question we need to ask ourselves. In other words, what we're going to do here, folks, is we're going to work through this passage inductively. The question is Why was this miracle given such attention when there were many other miracles done? And if we ask that question as we go through this passage, we'll really begin to see the significance of the passage, and we'll see how the passage really glorifies God. So let's begin by understanding first of all that the setting of this passage in verses 1 through 2 is the miracle displays God's power. The setting of the miracle displays God's power. Verse 1 says this Now Peter and John went up together in the temple at the hour of prayer, the ninth hour. There are a lot of things in these two verses that demonstrate that this was a a place of prominence And we see, first of all, that they're going during a time of prayer. It was a prominent place, and they were going during a very prominent time. It says that they were going in the temple here. Now to really understand this passage and the significance of it, we need to understand just exactly what they're referring to when they're talking about the temple. In this time in verse 1, they're talking about the temple in a broader sense. In chapter 3, verse 8, we're going to see. that that this layman is going to walk into the temple proper. But at this point, the layman is somewhere, and we're going to discuss where that is, but the layman is somewhere outside of the temple proper. And so the temple was a huge complex. It was a mop massive complex. It was four football fields in size. Just think of four Official football fields and size. It was massive. We think of temple, we don't want to think of small, we want to think of very a very large expansive property Not only that, but but the structures of the temple were built in beautiful marble. And much of the walls of the temple were and gates and things were overlaid with silver and gold. It was really quite a magnificent m magnificent site. And although it's recorded that Solomon's temple was was even more beautiful than Herod's temple Which is what's here in the passage, Herod's temple was certainly a very beautiful structure, and it was larger than any of the other temples before it. It was an extremely large place And the apostles were going during the most prominent time. They were going at 3 o'clock in the afternoon during one of the major sacrifices, the burnt offerings that were offered daily at this place. And we see here that the two of those them went together. It's interesting in the passage that you have Peter and John. Peter does all the speaking. John says nothing the entire time, as far as we know. But they say we mention it he's mentioned John is mentioned here as almost a silent participant in this passage Why is it that Luke mentions John at all? I mean, Peter's doing all the talking. Why is that? Well, Luke is going to begin to establish a pattern in the book of Acts of people going in pairs. You'll see that as we go through the book of Acts. If there is a team concept that you find throughout throughout the book of Acts It really originated with Christ Himself as He sent out His 12 Apostles. He did so two by two in Mark 6, 7, and Luke 10, 1. And there are many places in the Book of Acts we won't take the time to turn all of those, but if you'll recall just as you've read through the Book of Acts in your own reading or other other lessons or messages you've heard, you could think of Paul and Silas and Paul and Barnabas and Paul and Timothy, a lot of Paul. Uh and and Peter and and actually even when Peter went to Cornelius he brought He brought six other brothers with him, brothers in Christ with him. There was always seen to be a team concept in ministry That's something of just of a lesson for us and as we see that uh we'll mention it further on as we go on, but but very frankly just as a way of brief application because it really doesn't isn't too germane to the passage. Just understand this, folks, that God wants us to work cooperatively together as a team for the cause of Christ. It's not to be a one-man show. It's not to be a a uh some sort of uh pro lifting up of one man. There is to be a team that does the work of God. Now, as we see here in this passage, we're going to see now a prominent time, which we've already mentioned. The prominent place is the temple, but the prominent time is in this passage as well at 3 o'clock. In Exodus 29, 20-39. And in Numbers 2830, you have a mandate in Scripture to offer burnt offerings during these two times, during one in the morning and one in the afternoon. And these were done regularly by the Levites. Even up to this point, they were done extremely regularly. Nothing interrupted them, no matter what. In fact, in 63 BC, when Pompey besieged the Temple Mount, laid siege to all of it, and were sort was surrounded on every side. These burnt offerings kept going. They did not stop for any reason whatsoever. And the reason that the that that probably God in his sovereignty, I'm not sure, really, I'm not sure that Peter and John knew that they were going to perform this miracle at all. But God certainly did, and Christ certainly orchestrated things the way that He did. He did this as this emerges, we begin to see that there that the maximum amount of people possible were going to be at 3 o'clock in the temple where this lay man was going to be. And we begin to see now why this may have why this was a more prominent a more prominent miracle that Luke records. But then we'll see this. Notice the prominent character in the passage. Verse uh two says, and a certain man lame from when? Well, from his mother's womb was carried from birth, he was lame whom they laid daily, this is every day he's there, daily at the gate of the temple, which is called beautiful, to ask alms from those who entered the temple. Now just think of it. You've got a man who probably is around in his forties at this point. And here is a man who is being brought to the temple. How often? Every day. And Jewish people that are going regularly to observe the burnt offerings and to pray and do other things at the temple are going to no doubt see this man coming daily and lame and begging for alms every single day. This is clearly a part of why this is prominent as well. You have a man who for forty uh he's estimated he was around forty years of age age age and he could never walk. He was lame from his birth He cannot walk. And we find that this is the kind of man, by the way, that was very prominent in the miracles that Christ performed in the Gospels. A lot of times you see Christ healing lame men. Luke chapter 5 is an example for that. And that's another reason why this is a prominent miracle in this passage. Then we find also that each day was laid daily at the gate, which we mentioned already. And he is found then at this prominent location. In verse 2, certain man lame from his mother's womb was carried, whom they laid daily at the gate of the temple, which is called beautiful, to ask To ask alms from whom who entered the temple. You have the he's at this gate beautiful Well, where is this gate? Where is the gate beautiful? It's interesting that this is the only time that the word gate beautiful beautiful gate or gate beautiful is mentioned in the Bible. And so there is some discrepancy as to what people believe this date i this the place is. There's a couple of different options. One option is the Nicanor date the can the can the Nicanor gate Also called the Corinthian gate. And that's between, you'll remember there are three courts for the temple. There is the Gentile court, that's the large court that you saw in the picture. Then you see the court of the women. That's the smaller court, and then you see the court of the Jews. All people were allowed in that large court courtyard Only wim Jewish women were allowed and men, Jewish men and women were allowed in the smaller one. And in the in the smallest one, only Jewish men of a certain kind of status were allowed in that gate. So where was this gate? By the way, that was not let me just mention this. That is not to to demonstrate the status of men and women. Um so I'll just say that much because we've got to move on, but I'll just mention that So there was a role that men played, okay, but not a value. Men and women are equal in value, different in roles, and I'll just leave it there for now. Now, what is this gate beautiful? Where is this? Very likely this was on the on the entrance between the the Gentile courtyard, which was the m where all the major, all the the public uh fair went on and all those kinds of things And then the gate that goes into the court of the women. In other words, folks, it was the most common place to be seen. Why, in other words, it was very, very prominent. The location was extremely prominent. Now, with all of that in mind, I have a question for you. We want to delve deep into this and we want to ask the question why? Why is it that this layman had to be here? Just put yourself in the from the perspective of the layman for a moment. This layman from birth has been there and he's had to be there for forty years. Why did God allow for a layman to be lame for forty years without healing him prior to that? Why couldn't it have been 20? Why couldn't it have been 30? Or why couldn't it have been 35? I mean something, 40 years, that's a long time. You say, well, that is sounds like a where did you get that question from? Well, the answer to that is that sometimes that's the way we think when it comes to our lives. When we look at our lives and we ask the question, God, why are you doing what we're doing? That's the kind of question we we w question we think. We don't think all the time. Praise the Lord, the lame man's healed. I mean that's what we would see in the passage. But for us, going through the trial, we don't see the We don't see that God will one day glorify himself. We're wondering how could God be doing what he is doing to us? John Piper says it this way He said he has har heard many people say this. This hurts, and you can't be loving if you are going to uh if you're going to subject me to this for the rest of my life. Prayers or to pray this way or just God cannot really be loving if He is going to subject certain things to me for the rest of my life. He can't really be loving. You ever struggled with some of the ways that God acts and what God does and what God allows, some of the suffering that you see Well, Paul, the Apostle Paul had a different perspective on this. Do you remember the thorn in the flesh that the Apostle Paul had? Do you recall that that thorn in the flesh, Paul prayed three times that that thing would go away, that God would remove that, and God, what was God's answer? The answer was no. God had to bring the Apostle Paul to a place where he said, therefore, most gladly Will I boast in my infirmities, in my weaknesses? Why? I'll boast in my weaknesses, that the power of Christ may rest upon me. This lame man every single day for years, many, many years, decades in fact Went to this temple, and the reason, folks, that all of this occurred was that there could be a prominent outpouring, a public prominent outpouring of the power of Christ on his life that everyone could witness. And it demonstrates how God can use suffering, he can use difficult circumstances to ultimately bring his glory about. For us, in our attitude, we've got to look at it this way. John Piper said it this way. He said, Oh, how we need to see that Christ not comfort, is our all-satisfying and everlasting treasure. So I conclude that magnifying the supremacy of God in all things and being willing to suffer patiently to help people see and savor this supremacy is the essence of love. It's the essence of God's love. And it's the essence of our love for people because the supremacy of God's glory is the source and sum of all full and lasting joy. Now that's a mouthful, isn't it? But folks, we've got to understand that God's perspective is different than our perspective To put it in, to frame it in a way that will help us to understand it, God says that the sufferings of this life are not worthy to be compared to the glory that will be revealed in the next life. That as we we are in, when we enter the next life and the glory that's revealed in the next life, we'll but look back and we'll say, now I understand why that suffering took place. And now I understand how it brought God glory. If there is a condition to that to some degree, there's a uh some conditions of that. God will bring gl God will glorify us. God God will glorify himself through us in spite of us. But if we want to be involved in it and we want to w run congruently with it Then we need to understand that God wants us to submit to it and to realize that the things that we go through is for His glory. Well, we see the prominent position that that this miracle founded that this miracle was placed in. But we also want to see that the manner of the miracle displays Christ's power as well. Notice in verses four and five this this uh this altercation if you will or this this um uh conversation between Peter and the lame man Verse 3. Who seeing Peter and John about to go to the temple asked for alms, and fixing his eyes on him with John, Peter said, Look at us. So he gave them his attention, expecting to receive something from them. Then Peter said, Silver and gold I do not have. But what I do have, I'll give you in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ of Nazareth. Rise up and walk. We have the lame man soliciting alms, which was totally acceptable. In fact, the Old Testament really suggested that they should people should give alms to the poor. And it was very strongly suggested in uh in the um it was very strongly suggested in the rabbinical writings. But notice what he s he says here. Peter gets his attention. You have this ide he says he he says, look at me, take a look at me. Now that's not usually what you would imagine somebody Have you ever had somebody beg and and and want alms from or not they don't call alms a day, but want some money from you and you just sort of you're busy or you have your kids with you, you're a little afraid of protection or those kind of things and you really try not to make eye contact. I mean I I won't do a show of hands, but I'm sure that many of you have have been in that that position. Well, we see here in this passage that that Peter directs uh directly addresses him and says, pay attention to what I'm about to do. He wants to get this man attention. And he says positive he says, first of all, first of all I want you to understand that no silver and gold, I don't have any of that. I can't give that to you. He's expecting a handout and probably upon those words he's a bit disappointed. Uh he thought he knew what he wants and he thought he knew what he needed, probably And that's not what God gives him. That's not what Peter is going to give him. But what I have, he says, I give to you. And then and then Peter says this. He says This, what I'm about to do, is in the name of Jesus of Nazareth, the Messiah. Now, why is he spoke so specific to say Jesus of Nazareth? The reason is because Peter wants to be very clear who is really performing this miracle. It's not the Apostle Peter that has the power to perform the miracle. It's Jesus who performs the miracle through Peter. When Jesus was on earth, Jesus performed miracles and displayed his own power directly to people. But now he's going to do it through the apostles, and he wants to demonstrate that to all who are involved in this passage. And he says Rise up and walk. Or he he says he says walk. Now, just to be clear, this is not intended to be some sort of magical practice He doesn't say in the name of Jesus that that's supposed to be some sort of mythical or mystical or magical kind of idea that if you say in the name of Jesus, then this will happen. I've heard people preach that before, by the way And certainly there are certain places that will really you gotta say the name of Jesus. If you do that, then that's not what Peter's doing here. Peter is simply identifying who should receive all of the glory for this miracle. That's what he's doing here. And he is really, folks, he's really deflecting. He does not want to receive any glory for himself. Notice what it says in verse 12 of this passage. He's going to say emphatically. So when Peter saw it, he responded, Men of Israel, why do you marvel at this? Or why look so intently at us as though by our own power or godliness we had made this man walk? The God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the God of our fathers, glorified his servant Jesus, whom you delivered up, and he's the one that did this. See, he's very clear. He wants to be very clear here. You know, that's a little different From back, you remember back when Jesus was alive? And all of the disciples are arguing over who is going to be the greatest in the kingdom of heaven? You see a major change here. Peter doesn't want the glory at all. He wants Christ to receive all of the glory. He does not want himself to receive the glory, only that Christ would receive the glory. And there is for us a great lesson here for us. What made the difference in Peter's life? What is it that caused Peter to go from wondering if he would be the greatest in the kingdom of heaven? in Luke 22, 24, for example, to now really wanting to uh to to give Christ all the glory, to make sure that Christ receives all of the glory. What is it that causes this difference? Well, let me illustrate it this way, and I think it'll help us to understand a little bit more of of what's going on here and why why Peter Peter feels this way. All of us, as I mentioned before, we love to give gifts to our kids. And one of the things when we give gifts to our kids, we try to teach our kids is to be grateful, right? I mean we write we try to teach our children to be grateful for what they're receiving. Usually we try to teach our kids to say what It's not hard guys, it's really not hard. Thank you, right? Okay. Thank you. Sometimes it's a little hard. But but um but we just teach our ch we try to teach our children to say thank you and be grateful for what they're giving or for what they're receiving That's really important, and that's the first step. But when a child goes from goes from just learning to express gratefulness, To understanding that what he has been given requires him to express his gratefulness in action. There is a great step of maturity there. In other words, if someone realized once a child realizes That he wants to retake what he has been given and realizes, you know what, I've been given a lot To as much has been given, much will be required. I have responsibility because of what I have been given. You are that child has taken great strides in in maturity. We would not all agree with that. Huge strides of maturity. Now, folks, it is the same way in the Christian life. When someone first comes to Christ, they are overwhelmed by what God gives them. When someone genuinely is saved, they are overwhelmed by the grace that God gives them. They are overwhelmed by the status that they have in Christ, who they are in Christ. God's provision. They don't look at themselves anymore as someone deser deserving. They realize how undeserving they are. And all the things that God gives them They're now grateful for. And you'll hear people, and this is good, that we all should be praising God for the things that God gives us. And and when some and and you'll find brand new Christians doing this. The lame man is going to do this. He's going to praise the Lord for the things that God gives him. But it's a whole nother step of maturity. When if if I could say it this way, and it's a little deep, but if I could say it this way It's a whole other step of maturity when we realize that that God has given us what He has given us So that we are equipped to glorify Him. And that when we glorify Him, we then are more satisfied than just recognizing what He has given us and being satisfied by that. Do you follow that? It's a little bit a little bit deep, but but if you can grasp it, it's really important for us to understand because we will take great Strides in spiritual maturity, if we understand that the grace that God has given us, that the provision that God has given us That all of the things that God has given us, yes, praise the Lord. He's given us to him. We ought to be grateful. We ought to express our gratefulness. We ought to tell others about how good God's been to us. But folks, God has given all that he has given us, all of it, to glorify himself. But that's not self-centered on God's part, because when God is most glorified, we are most satisfied. In other words, we can be satisfied by the blessings of God. But we'll be even more satisfied when we take the blessings of God and we glorify Him with those blessings, the satisfaction is even greater. And God will do anything to get us to that place He will even create suffering, or allow, I shouldn't say create, I should say allow suffering to happen in our lives. In order for us to get to that place of maturity. Do you remember Lazarus during the time of Christ? And do you remember that Lazarus was sick, and word came to Christ that Lazarus was sick? And the Bible says that Christ remained there for a few days. Why did he remain there? He remained there so Lazarus could go ahead and die. How cruel. No. Because what did Christ then do? He displayed his glory in a way to the disciples and to the other people there that he never had before up to that point. He raised Lazarus from the dead. He demonstrated his power even greater. You see the same thing here with this layman. God has orchestrated everything the way he has wanted to orchestrate it to demonstrate his power in an even greater way in this situation. Folks, how is it by way of application do we get to this point? And the answer is simply we've got to trust God with our circumstances. We've got to get to the place where we simply trust the Lord that ultimately the things that He is putting us through, the things that He has given us, all of this will be, if we will be submissive to Him, all of this will be for His glory. That's not separate from our satisfaction, though, for his greatest glory and our greatest satisfaction. And folks, when we come to that place as Christians, we begin to really see great maturity. Here's the question that I'd like to pose to us. Do I feel more loved by God because he makes much of me, or because at great cost to himself, he frees me to enjoy making much of him? Forever. Did you catch that? Do I feel more loved by God because He makes much of me? And when you first come to Christ, that's really what you're experiencing. He makes much of us But eventually we realize that to great cost of himself, he died for us, he frees me to enjoy making much of him. There's a greater purpose in mine. to what God did for us in giving us all that He gave to us. And with all of that in mind, folks, then we're now going to see this miracle performed. Notice verse 7. And he took him by the right hand and lifted him up, and immediately his feet and ankle bones received strength. So he leaped up, stood, and walked, and entered the temple with them, walking, leaping, and praising God. And all the people saw him walking and praising God. This the way that this is described, Luke doesn't want any anything to be misunderstood Peter gives him a first assist. After that, he is up on his own, and he is literally leaping in the air in the temple. He is jumping. He is demonstrating that he has been completely healed. And not only that, folks, now he is going to enter into the proper temple. And the significance of that, folks, is that laymen, lean lame people were not, according to uh according to Old Testament law, were not allowed to do that And now Christ has demonstrated his power in such a way to heal this man so that now he can go into the temple proper. He can have the full status of a healed man. There is more symbolism there that we'll look at next week when it comes to that. But understand this, folks, at this point, that this was a definitive work of God to demonstrate to a lot of people, probably thousands of people. And by word of mouth, tens of thousands of people or more that maybe hundreds I don't know, maybe hundreds of thousands of people. That this Christ is going to be powerful and work powerfully through the apostles to build his church, to establish his church. That's what God has in mind here. That's the significance of this passage. And I want us to notice then the response of the people. Notice all of the superlatives, all of the ways that are mentioned in this passage. That they respond. Notice what it says verse 9. And all the people saw him walking and praising God. Then they knew that it was he who sat begging alms at the beautiful gate of the temple, and they were filled with wonder. And amazement that had happened to him. They were filled with wonder and amazement. Verse 11. Now as the sick lame man was uh who was healed held on Peter and John, and all the people ran together to them to the porch at Solomon's porch. Which is called Solomon's greatly amazed. They're amazed. You see these words? They're wonder. There's wonder. There's amazement. Then there's great amazement. There's this first word, this first word is the word That means to be amazed, to be emotionally impacted, this wonder, it's this the Greek word thumbbos And then you have this word, and you'll, and I'm mentioning this word on purpose, this amazement word is the word extasoes. That's harder to say than I thought. You know, when I read this stuff, it's not hard when I actually try to say it. But we get our word ecstasy from it, which is why I mention it Okay? The word ecstasy. They are ecstatic over what has happened. And then this thambas word is used again, but there's a preposition on it to just say that these people were overwhelmed by what was happening here. Now, folks, what is the last time we have seen this? Have we seen this kind of ecstatic amazement over what God has done in the book of Acts? Well, we certainly have. We've seen this in Acts chapter 2. Notice in Acts chapter 2, if you want to flip back there, you could see this in verse 6, for example. And when this was done, remember all the tongues and the different people were speaking, the the apostles were speaking in different tongues, and everybody was hearing it in their own tongues and There was this great noise, and there was this fire, I mean all this fire there on their heads, and all this all this amazing things that were happening, and it says in the passage in verse 6, now when this was noised abroad, the multitude came together and were confounded. Because every man heard them speak in his own language, and they were all amazed and marveled, saying one to another, Behold, are not all these which speak Galileans. And folks, what you have here is you have you have a pattern that's beginning to develop. We saw in Acts chapter 2, first of all, you have a miracle performed. And then you have people are amazed. And then you have the word is preached. And then you have people converted. And then you have normal church life. And you know what you're going to see in that in chapter three? The same exact pattern. A miracle is going to be performed. People are going to be amazed Peter then is going to preach. The word is going to be preached. People are going to be converted. We'll find that. And then there's going to be normal church life. for extended periods of time. So in other words, folks, sometimes God chooses to break into the normal the normal function of a church or the normal practices of a church, the the the normal biblical right practices of a church to really Show himself strong. Folks, that is something that only God can do. Sometimes we are looking for the miraculous When God simply wants us one step at a time to simply follow Him, as we talked about last week, to live a normal Christian life, to live a life of faithfulness to Him. We're looking for the miraculous, and perhaps we could we've we looked at times where God has truly demonstrated himself to us in in ways that are unmistakably Him. But folks, I don't know about you, but that doesn't happen every day to me. My life personally, I can tell you that the Lord walks with us, and we know I know he does because his word tells me. Sometimes God chooses to pierce all of the world and demonstrate clearly in our lives his power. But folks that should never be intended to be manufactured. And what some one some of the denominations do wrong here is they take this kind of miracle and they they instead of looking the whole of Scripture and all of what the book of Acts says and all of how we see normal church life after this, what instead of seeing all of that, they emphasize The miraculous, and they say this is what needs to happen on a regular basis in our lives if we're truly saved. Folks, that is not the pattern that we see in the book of Acts at all But what we see here is that God, in his wisdom and his power, and his ability, he demonstrates his glory to these people in this way. In the first Great Awakening, one of the most prominent figures of the Great Awakening was Jonathan Edwards. If you remember the preaching of Jonathan Edwards, it was not known to be great, bombastic, lively preaching. Jonathan Edwards, though though not always monotone, as some have suggested, Jonathan Edwards really felt as though he did not want to He did not want to get his own personality in the way of the truth of Scripture. And he kept himself contained so that the power of the word could go forward. And you find in the first Great Awakening God doing converting work in amazing ways through Jonathan Edwards and George Whitfield and others like him. People that depended on the truth of the word of God to do the work of God. But folks, I'm just going to suggest to you that the second great awakening was not that way at all. One of the most prominent figures of the second wa w Great Awakening was Charles Finney. Charles Finney was a man who manufactured conversions, who was convinced that he had the ability to coerce people. I mentioned him before. And this kind of coercion spread throughout that area up in northern New York and into New into New England and other places. And folks, what we find historically now is a spiritually cold area in New England. Do you know why? Very likely, this is my opinion, but very likely. It is because they tried to manufacture in the second Great Awakening what God did, what God did divinely in the first Great Awakening. That tells us, folks, that we ought to recognize God's working in our lives in miraculous ways or in very unusual ways when it happens. But we ought not get too used to that. We ought not expect that. I can think of our lives as Chr uh in our church, at Bethel Baptist Church. I mean, really the fact that we are sitting here in this building is something that God did. And I think all of us can just attest to the fact that we can look back and we would not be here if I I I tell you personally, I know we would not be here if God did not want us here. There were too many hurdles That God just brought us through. There were times I recall emailing the deacons, I said, I think we're done here. I I really think we're just done. I pray, but outside of some real Divine intervention. You guys remember that, Deacons? Some some sort of divine intervention. We're not gonna we're not this probably isn't gonna happen, but we need to pray. And the next day I I get an email and I'd be like it was the problem solved. I'm going, what So God does work that way sometimes. But folks, should we expect that all the time? Should we expect that every day is going to be this great epic day? No. Let God be God. Let God choose to do what God wants to do in the midst of his people. If he wants to convert souls, he will. If God wants to see See growth, he will. Let God do what God does, and we ought to be faithful to do what God has called us to do. And that is normal, expository understanding and preaching of the Word of God and normal obedience to the Word of God and fellowship to one another and all those things that we find in Acts 2. 42. Let us remember, folks, our responsibility and be ready for God to do what He wants to do in our lives. And identify when God does it. But be willing to just be faithful with what God gives us. And I want to begin, I want to simply just wrap things up this way. Number one. Christ will glorify himself in his church in meaningful ways. Understand that in God's timing, in his ways, God will do that. He will glorify himself through his church in meaningful ways. But number two, we must understand that God will use death Suffering, physical problems, to bring to play bring us to a place where we see His power in our lives. So important for us to understand that all the things that God does, whether they in our perception are positive or whether the things in our perception are negative, will ultimately be for His Greatest glory, and our greatest satisfaction, there's one exception to our satisfaction, if we resist them or if we rebel against them. See, if we choose to respond negatively to the things that are happening in our lives, to go against what God is doing, to go to then we will not receive the satisfaction that God wants us to have in him glorifying himself. Folks, that does not mean that any of it is easy It's not to say that you can live on cloud nine and totally forget everything. God's glorified and uh and I and it's not s saying that you won't be sad or you won't be grieved or you won't go through hard times or you won't go through the the the the the roller coaster of life. That might be the best description of life, the roller coaster. Folks, there is this there is this constant Trust that ultimately all that God does in our lives will be for our good Will be for his glory. And those two things aren't separate from each other. Those two things go together. And what we need to do as Christians is to realize that. We must understand, number three. We must believe. And really, it has to do with belief. It has to do with trust. We must believe that we will be most satisfied when Christ is most. Glorified. Now you may be listening to all this, and this has been a lot to take in. But you have never really had, we've been talking here really about a relationship with God, why God saves us Why God gives us grace and does what he does so that we can glorify him and be most satisfied in him. You know you can you you you can do all kinds of things in your life and never receive satisfaction. The world is constantly looking for satisfaction. And they are looking in all kinds of places. To try to satisfy this inner longing, this need in their hearts. And you could see it, you can see the restlessness. You could see, watch a commercial. Like any commercial, and you can see the restlessness in people in in the in and and the commercials prey on the restlessness of people, the discontentment of people, the dissatisfaction of people. If you want to be truly spiritually satisfied, I don't mean your problems will go away. They won't. They may get worse. But if you want to be truly satisfied, folks, and if you if you have never come to a place where you understand your sin, you are understand that your your need of a savior, that Jesus Christ died to pay the punishment for your sin. That if you will come to Christ and trust in what Jesus did to die, to pay the punishment of your sin and rise from the grave three days later, if you will come to Christ and believe in that He will make you his child, he will give you his grace, he will give you a new life in him, and that life will not be easy, but that life can have a satisfaction and ultimately when we go to be with him we will be completely satisfied in him. And maybe you've observed a friend or somebody here that you have noticed that there's a difference in their life. You've noticed that there is a sense of contentment in their life that you don't have, or a sense of satisfaction in their life that you don't have. Can I encourage you to talk with them? And ha ask them more about that. Help them to understand, and they'll help you understand how you can know for sure that you can spend eternity with God. And that you can live a life that glorifies God, which will satisfy you ultimately. Let's go, Lord, in prayer. Father, as we come to you, I pray that you would help us to really believe That the things that you do in our lives, good or bad, pleasant or unpleasant, positive or from our perception negative. Will be for your greatest glory, but will also be for our greatest satisfaction. Lord, we admit before you that our faith is small in this area sometimes. We can identify with the The man in the book of Mark who says, Lord, I believe, help my unbelief. I pray, Lord, that you'd help us to believe that. Help us to see it. Help us to experience it. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen.