Please take your Bibles and turn to the book of Ruth, chapter eleven this morning, chapter three this morning, verse ten and through eighteen. Ruth chapter three. And I want to begin by saying a couple of things. I first of all want to recognize the fact that we are uh on Tuesday celebrating uh Independence Day, the birth of our nation. I appreciated uh Kim's prayer in the opening prayer and uh agreed with it uh entirely that we as a nation um There is a real sense in which to call ourselves a Christian nation at this point is probably not accurate. However, we can be thankful that we can be thankful for the freedoms that we still enjoy. And we are commanded in God's word to pray for our country, that we may live a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty. And um I really also appreciated what Kim prayed with regard to the ability to be able to send out missionaries. This is for free and it's not it's an opinion, but The kind of freedom that we enjoy in this nation is something that is really unprecedented in the history of civilization. It is a a grand experiment when the Founding Fathers um uh began and formed the our uh constitution and bill of rights and all that. And uh I do wonder and am to some degree of the opinion that the reason that the Lord has kept us free so long is because we have sent out missionaries all over the world. Uh it if you think historically from uh the time of of Christ, of course, uh the gospel has sort of moved uh the directions direction it has moved west and And and God has used this nation to continue that movement and also back the other direction as well. And so I I I think that perhaps that's why the Lord has spared us to this point. And that's just an opinion. I'm not preaching from the I'm not saying that as a as a statement of of preaching. But But all that to say that we need to pray that God continues to protect our freedoms so that and we need to be faithful in giving out the gospel for as long as we can. And giving out the gospel to and sending out missionaries to the world as we have done so far. So that's all just my reflection of Of uh just the the time of year where we are celebrating the birth of this nation. Um And we ought to pray that that God works in our leaders of this nation to make decisions that are based on biblical principles. I'd love to see people saved. In the leadership in our nation. I I don't know this for any fact, but I would guess there is less and less that really genuinely know Christ that are leading this nation. And so we need to pray for them. All right. My message is not on our nation, it's on God's Word, which is better. Ruth chapter 3, and we're going to pick up here in verse 10. And I want to start this way. Have you ever And I'm sure you have ever noticed that there are some Christians that seem to be exemplary in their character. They seem to be living a consistent walk with the Lord. Certainly not perfect. There's no one this side of heaven that is. But there is just this consistency about their walk with the Lord. And have you ever noticed other Christians that seem to not have that same consistency? You ever wondered what makes the difference between the two? And I would suggest to you that one of the major differences has to do with a person's view of God. and whether or not they are responding correctly to that view. It has been said if you only have one, if you only have, I'm sorry, if the only tool you have is a hammer You tend to see every problem as a nail. And let that sink in for a moment. If the only tool you have is a hammer, you tend to look at every problem as a nail Well, I think sometimes we focus on one particular attribute of God, perhaps it's his mercy and his grace, to the exclusion of his justice and his holiness. Or perhaps it's this justice and his holiness to the exclusion of his grace and his mercy And because we are focusing and narrowing our view of God to something that is not all-encompassing of who God really is. We get a tainted view of God that causes us to behave in a way that is inconsistent Maybe we're we waffle back and forth between God being righteous and just or God being merciful and loving and benevolence, and we keep going back and forth, and based upon our view of God, we tend to behave and think a certain way, and it causes an instability in the way we behave. I would suggest to you that that is probably one of the major things for us that causes us to really become have an instability in our thinking and an instability in our behavior. In this passage, we are now turning our attention to this man Boaz. In the first Nine verses of this of Ruth chapter 3. Ruth has approached Boaz in a way that we as really in our 21st century mentality is a bit hard to understand. In this culture, there is no cultural comparison to what happened there. But what we can say, according to verse 9, is that there was a marriage proposal. And lest you question whether or not that was what was taking place, if you'll notice in verse 16, did you notice, as Kim read this this morning, did you notice what question was asked? of Ruth when she came back and reported to Naomi. Verse 16, and when she came to her mother-in-law, she said Who art thou, my daughter? She asks, he she asks, who are you? Well what is she asking? Are you his wife or not, is basically what she is asking. So the entire intention of Ruth was to go and to make herself available to be a wife for Boaz. That was her intention. And we do not need to read any kind of immorality into this passage. There is, that shouldn't, that is not appropriate for us to understand, for us to read into. It is interesting that she it says in verse um in verse 10 when or verse nine it says uh And he said, Who art thou? And she said, I am Ruth, thine handmaid. She refers to him, to herself, as a handmaid for Boaz. And interestingly enough, in chapter 2, verse 12, in his prayer for her, he mentions her as a handmaid. And so there's a connection there. I want us also to realize as we look at this passage that Boaz is really the initiator in the whole scheme of things. What I mean by that is that Boaz from the very beginning, all Ruth did was go and by, and from her perspective, by accident Go and glean on the fields of Boaz. Of course it was God's providence, but her but she didn't realize what she was doing when she did it And Boaz really identified her and started providing for her and and and initiated her a dialogue with her. Now, this was a clear definitive response to his provision, to his unusual provision. But I think it's important for us to understand that there is a sense in which Boaz was, can I say it this way, drawing Ruth. Before Ruth ever came to respond with a definitive, can you marry me essentially? Can you marry your handmaid? Now, that's important for us to understand in this whole thing. And now we're really going to turn our attention for not only this chapter, but Really, in chapter 4, we're going to turn our turn our attention to this man Boaz. Now let's cover a couple of things about this man Boaz. Boaz was a man of exemplary character. He is a man who, in the beginnings, views of him in this book is respectful to others, even his own servants. In Ruth chapter 2, verse 3, it says, And she left and went and gleaned the field of the reapers, and she happened to come to the part of the field belonging to Boaz, who was in the family of Elimelech. Now behold, Boaz came to Bethlehem and said to the reapers, The Lord be with you. And they answered, The Lord bless you. Then Boaz said to the servant who had was charged of the reapers, who is the young woman? So the very opening statements about Boaz in this narrative are that he was blessing his servants and his servants were blessing him. We have a man who is respectful of others. We have a man who genuinely genuinely desired to be used of God to be a refuge and a provision for others as well. In Ruth chapter 2, verses 11 through 12, we see that he says to Ruth, when she asks, Why are you being so kind to me? Why are you benevolently providing for me? His response is Chapter 2 verse 11 It has been fully reported to me all that you have done for your mother-in-law since the death of your husband, and how you have left your father and your mother and uh and the land of your birth, and have come to people whom you did not know before. And the Lord repay your work and and a full reward be given to you by the Lord God of Israel, under the under whose wings you have come for refuge. So she he was a man who wanted to be used of God as a refuge and as a as uh a provision. I'm not really ready for that point yet, uh Sam. Sorry. Then also he was a des he desired to care and to provide. He desired to care and to provide for her. And we find this benevolent provision of her continued provision where he invites Ruth to his own table. So we we the point here is we have a man here of exemplary character But I want you to notice that there's more to Boaz in God's intention of lifting this man up as a man of great character. There's more to Boaz than just a great example of virtue for us. And I want you to notice this from verse 11 of chapter 3. He notices himself as As the man who is, or verse uh verse 12, and now it is true he says that I am thy near kinsman, or can I put it this way? I am your kinsman redeemer. That exact word is used in many places in the Old Testament. Very prominently, it is used throughout several chapters in Isaiah. And we find that it is a reference to Christ in Isaiah, chapter 4, verse 14, for example. Fear not, thou worm Jacob. And ye men of Israel, I will help thee, saith the Lord, and thy Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel. 43. 1 of Isaiah says, But now thus saith the Lord that created thee, O Jacob, and he that formed thee, O Israel. Fear not, for I have, redeem thee, I have called thee by thy name, thou art mine And if you know anything about the book of Isaiah, you know that it has great prophetic value when looking forward to the coming of Christ. Christ is our kinsman redeemer. And so in Boaz, the Boaz's own admission of him being a kinsman-redeemer, Combined with the prophecy of Christ being the kinsman redeemer in Isaiah, demonstrates that Boaz really is a picture of Christ. We think in pictures, don't we? I was reminded of that in vacation Bible school as I taught kids. I really had to sort of switch gears and think in terms of how can I Teach the gospel in a way that they would grasp quickly. And of course the concepts are more easily and readily glas grasped. When when a picture is is some sort of illustration or picture is demonstrated, it's just much easier to grasp when that's the case. But the truth is there is a sense in which studies have shown that we all kind of think in pictures. God is spirit. the Bible says. He is essentially spirit. And we must worship him in spirit and in truth. But God has chosen in the Old Testament and in the New Testament to give us pictures of himself. And it is right to say, as we look at Boaz and how he handles the situation with Ruth, that what we are really seeing here is a picture of Christ and how Christ Relates to us. And what we're going to see here in chapter 3, verses 10 through 18, is not only how Christ Relates to Ruth and Christ relates to us, but also in Ruth's example, how Ruth responds to Boaz and how we ought to respond to Christ. Now with that in mind, we'll pick up here in verse 10, it says, And he said, Blessed be thou the Lord, my daughter, for thou hast showed more kindness in the latter end than at the beginning. Inasmuch as thou followest not young men, whether poor or rich. Ruth has gone to the threshing floor She has approached Boaz. She has laid at Boaz's feet, as we noted a couple of weeks ago. Boaz at some time during the night realized that there was a woman laying at his feet. He said, who are you? Obviously very startled by her appearance there. Didn't know who this was. And Boaz could have very easily easily taken this wrong. We know culturally that The threshing floor was a place away from home. It was a place that was away from normal family and the accountability that comes with that And so it was of that day the possibility that someone could have come out, uh a harlot as they would have called it back then. would have come out and could have solicited wrong, immoral things from Boaz during a time of there was actually accountability. There were probably other men on that threshing floor, by the way. But still this kind of thing happened. But Boaz doesn't take it this way, does he? Boaz, in his approach to Ruth, looks at the very best possible answer to why Ruth is doing this. In Boaz's response, he looks and he says, Ruth, in doing this, Ruth has basically said, would you, would you be under my wing Uh uh can I be under your wings, will you say basically? Would you would you be can I be your wife? Essentially is what she she's asking. And he says to her, you have shown more kindness in this. Than when you originally showed kindness to your mother Naomi. Boaz not only realized that this was a marriage proposal, but that this was an There's a sense in which there was a great deal of unselfishness to this marriage proposal. This was consistent with the purpose of Ruth from the very beginning. Consistent with her adopting Naomi's God as her own God, and with her purpose as taking care of Naomi. In other words, it Ruth knew that in her in her in in um in Boaz taking on Ruth as a dependent He would also be taking on Naomi as a dependent. Ruth knew this when he approached when she approached him. And Boaz takes it this way. He says, you could have had a young man, you could have gone after your own fleshly desires or even your own emotional desires. But instead of this, you chose the better path of God's purposes, your purposes with God. You chose Stay consistent with your original purposes of serving the Lord. And we're going to look more at this later on. But understand that Boaz takes this in the very best light possible. And do you know what you call that? You call that true love. Not this mushy, over-dramatized junk that you see all over the movies and the television screen and on romantic uh books and that kind of stuff. I'm going to tell you that that a lot of that is just nonsense. And I want you to understand this, folks, that we need to be careful about the amount of diet that we have of that, and we somehow think that that's how life works. Now, I'm not saying that romance isn't good. We have a whole book on that called The Song of Solomon. I'm not suggesting that there isn't within marriage romance that is helpful and necessary. But folks, this dramatic over-the-top kind of romances that you see so prolifically in our culture is something of a fantasy And we need to be careful about that. What Boaz saw in Ruth is that Ruth was living in reality. And Ruth had responsibilities. To her God. And Boaz was consistent with that fulfilling that responsibility. And we're going to find later that Boaz felt the same way about marrying Ruth. But we see this great love. This loving view of Boaz toward Ruth. And that's what love, biblical love is. 1 Corinthians 13 says this in verse 5. That love does not behave itself rudely, does not seek its own, is not provoked, it thinks no evil Does not rejoice in iniquity, but rejoices in the truth, bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things. Boaz could have thought evil of Ruth And Ruth was risking a lot by coming there. But Boaz, out of love for Ruth, thought the very, very best of Ruth in all this. And of course, Ruth, her motives were pure in all of this. And he thought no evil. And I think there is a lesson for us in this. Do you sometimes feel as though God is somehow somehow against you? Sometimes I think we feel as though somehow God is ready to pounce on us or that his disposition toward us is not favorable. And folks, that is a lie of Satan. If you know Christ as your Lord and Savior, God's disposition toward you is very favorable. He has loved you with an everlasting love. That's what the Bible says. And there is this immediate blessing that Boaz gives to Ruth. Blessed are you. I view you the way that you really are, and I view you with with a a purity and a love for you. Then we see here as well that There are these assuring words. Notice what it says in verse 11. And now, my daughter, fear not, I will do to thee all that thou requires. For all the city of my people doth know that thou art a virtuous woman. He says Fear not. Don't be afraid. I see what you're doing. I respect what you're doing I'm seeing you in the best light possible, and I don't want you to fear. Do you think Ruth was afraid at this point? I think she was. I think she was human just like every one of uh one of the rest of us are human. Somebody could be taking them wrong taking taking her wrong and that I I think it's just very normal for us to fear that Boaz responds with these assuring rear words, do not fear. You know God says the same thing to us Many, many times in the Bible he says, fear not. Do not fear. One clear example of this, Isaiah 41. 10, fear not, for I am with you. Be not dismayed, for I am your God. I will strengthen you. Yea, I will help you. I will uphold you with the right with my righteous right hand, with the right hand of my righteousness. You know, do we see God as this reassuring Heavenly Father who loves us? And who has put many words of assuring encouragement in his book, the Bible, for us to know that he loves us. with an everlasting love? Or somehow do we believe the lie sometimes that God is against us? How does God assure us? 1 John 3, verses 19 through 20 says, and by this we know that we are of the truth, and shall assure our hearts before Him. For if our heart condemn us condemneth us, God is greater than our heart and knoweth all things. I love the song, one we must remind ourselves of. Be still, my soul. The Lord is on thy side. Bear patiently the cross of grief or pain. Leave to thy God to order and provide. In every change he faithful will remain. Be still my soul, thy best, thy heavenly friend Through thorny ways leads to a joyful end. God's love for you is great His assuring words should bring comfort and encouragement to our souls. Don't forget whatever you're going through, whatever fear you're facing. Whatever steps of faith that you must take, God, if you know Christ is your Savior, is on your side. And let him bear for you what you cannot bear for yourself. We see then also Boaz that gives us another view of God. We see, first of all, he notes that in verse 11, the end of it, that Ruth is a virtuous woman. He then says in verse 12, and now it is true that I am thy near kinsman, howbeit there is a kinsman nearer than I. Now just by way of commentary, more than likely he was doing a little research. More than likely he had had his eye on Ruth. He knew that he was cl he was at least in the same clan of a a limelec as she was uh Naomi was and and uh he was certainly providing for and he was kind of watching and keeping an eye on Ruth and what was happening And and more than likely, he he he either was just aware of it, or maybe he did a little research to find out who was closest of kin and should be providing for them. And perhaps in his research he found that there was someone much closer. And in this closeness, and and and in this time of opportunity We find a man who is not going to take advantage of the of the situation and just marry without very much first doing his due diligence to make sure that things are done justly. There is a closer kinsman and he has to uh he has to give Boaz permission to to move forward as the kinsman redeemer. And so there is this justness, he says in verse three, thir, uh he says in verse 12, It is true I'm how how there is however there is another, and then he has a plan verse thirteen. Tarry this night, and it shall be in the morning that if he will perform unto thee the part of the kinsman well well, let him do the kinsman part But if you will not do the part of the kinsman to thee, then will I do the part of the kinsman to thee. And the Lord liveth, lie down until morning. Now ain't what how how's that for a romantic response to proposal? You know, it is traditional and I think appropriate, in my opinion, for the man to propose. And if I proposed to my wife and she went, well there is someone that's a little bit more suited that would be a serious disappointment. I would be like, what? But obviously, Boaz was going to do right and not just do the emotional thing, or not just do the thing that felt right. He was going to do justly. He was going to do what was right. And although we have a loving God, there is a, he is also a God of justice. The Bible says, well let me just mention this. Are you not glad that God is just? I mean, just think about it for a minute. Sometimes we sort of emotionally shudder at the justness of God, which in some in some senses, I'm not sure is all bad, but we sort of just sort of shudder at that. That's not, we don't, it's a whole lot more, I would much rather think of the assuring love of God than the justice of God. But it is the justice of God that we learn of his stability. God is not swayed by his emotions. Does he have emotions? Yes. But is God swayed by these emotions? Is he somehow turned in his his his uh approach based upon what he feels, what we are so oftentimes? No, God is a just God. And we find in Deuteronomy 32. 4 it says, He is the rock. His work is perfect. For all his ways are justice, a God of truth, and without injustice Righteous and upright is He. We ought to thank the Lord that He is upright, that He is just because It brings for us this rock of stability in our lives. We can think about God in the right way and behave in the right way. When we have all of this in balance, that we understand that God is not loving to the exclusion of his justice But God is not just to the exclusion of his mercy and his love. That God is, yes, both just and merciful and loving. He is all of that. And we must view God in the way that he reveals himself in his word. Then we find in verse 13 that there is this committed promise. Boaz is not afraid of commitment. He says in verse 13, I will do the part of the kinsman to thee, and then it says, As the Lord liveth That's important, isn't it? You know what he's doing? Boy, I've been thinking about contracts too much. He's got a contingent covenant here. He basically says uh he says, I am covenanting that I will be that kinsman for you contended upon The closer kinsman being out of it. Man. Anyway. But that's actually what's happening here. See, Bo has has this statement of commitment to Ruth. And that as well Tells us about the kind of commitment that Christ has to us. Did you know that that God doesn't ask us to commit ourselves to Him? Without a commitment from him. He actually first commits himself to us. The Bible says, I will never leave you nor forsake you, for example. That's a commitment. The Bible says that even in times of doubt and distrust in our lives, the Bible tells us that he remains faithful to us. That God cannot deny himself and his own character. This is the kind of God that we serve. He is a God of commitment. And there are times were and covenant and you can read throughout scripture and you can see that God is a covenant making God and God is a c covenant keeping God and if we'll determine scripture uh read scripture correctly and said it correctly We can see, particularly in the New Testament, that there are many times that God makes covenants and commitments to his people, and we can find this great stability and strength in those commitment words to us. God is a loving God. He is the sh He assures with His words. He is a just God and He commits in His promises to us. And those this This understanding of God can then cause us to have the right ability with which to respond to Him in the right way, which we're going to look at in a few moments. But before we do, I want us to see something about Boaz here as Boaz begins to formulate a practical plan. Would you notice that in this situation that Boaz is going to display great wisdom? Notice what it says. He says, Lie down until morning, last part of verse 13. And she lay at his feet into the morning, and she rose up before one could know another. And he said, let it not be known that a woman came into the floor. So what is he doing here? You know what he's doing? Boaz is being wise. Now, we've already established this. Is there any immorality going on here? There's no immorality going on. So Boaz and Ruth could have just said, you know what, there's no immorality going on. We don't need to be careful. We could just sort of do whatever we want. You know, we know we're right. You know, that's all that matters. I know I'm right. And I I know I'm moral and and we didn't do anything wrong, so let's just go ahead and walk out like we did something, even though we know we didn't do anything. No, Balaz is wiser than that. Balaz looks at the situation and he says, he says, even though we are being, there's no immorality here, I'm being moral. He says there could be an appearance of evil here if I'm not careful. If we're not careful, we could send people the wrong signal by how we're doing what we're doing. Boaz demonstrates great wisdom here. The Bible actually tells us in 1 Thessalonians 5. 22, abstain from all appearance of evil. Now, the question becomes, what's the appearance of evil? And you know the truth of that is? It's really up to the conscience of the person. It requires wisdom. It requires wisdom to know what is the appearance of evil versus what is what people shouldn't be Thinking is evil. It really requires great wisdom to know the difference. But folks, we need to understand that there is a difference between morality and wisdom, and we need to know the difference And then we need to want both. Sometimes in our reaction to legalism We swing the pendulum too far the other direction, and we pass over the reality of the need for wisdom. And the only question we're asking is, is it moral or not? Folks, that's a good place to start, but it's not a good place to end. We should ask ourselves, is it moral or not? And we and and that should be a divide, a clear point Where we say, if it's moral, I can do it. If it's immoral, I won't do it. And the Bible defines it. And folks, we ought to be very, very careful about making judgments toward other people when the Bible is unclear. Our defining judgments ought to be entirely based upon the explicit word of God If somebody does something or says something or has an action or a behavior that is not explicitly defined in Scripture, we ought to love and give the benefit of the doubt. Now we can show love and concern. There's nothing wrong with that. We can de but to identify it as something that is judgment that where we're going to identify a wisdom issue And make it a moral issue is something where we have gone too far and we've gone beyond beyond what Scripture says we have the ability to do But folks, there is another side to this. If we are not careful, we can begin to ignore wisdom altogether. The Bible tells us in Proverbs 4. 5 and 4. 7 and 16. 16 and 17. 16 that we need to get wisdom. That is the skill to be able to navigate life and to apply the principles of the Word of God correctly. Not everything is a matter of a more moral issue. Some things that may be morally acceptable are simply unwise. And we need to learn to know the difference. It takes wisdom. I want to give you an example of this. And I'm really over. Anyway, um I want to give you an example of this. Take country music, for example. Okay. You know you guys are probably gonna listen to that some of that on in July you know fourth sometime, fireworks or something maybe. Country where I think this is about the safest example I can come up with. Okay. So so it Would there be some Christians that would say that country music is categorically wrong? There were some that would. Is there anywhere in the Bible that says that country music is categorically wrong? There's nowhere in the Bible that says that can we all agree on that? There's nowhere in the Bible that says country music is categorically wrong. It's not an issue of morality. Okay, country music as a category. Now are there certain country songs that are immoral? Yeah, you better believe it. And there are certain country songs that none of us ought to be listening to because they're immoral. Let's take those out of the equation for a minute and let's just say, are there certain country songs that certain people it would be better for them not to listen to? We're now narrowing it a little bit. Do you suppose that there are certain country songs that that a married person could listen to and it would be fine, and an unmarried person would listen to, and though it wouldn't be immoral, it might not be wise A song talking about how much they love the other person and just, oh I love you, and I love you and I want you, I want you to be with me all the time. Would would there be some wisdom in my nine-year-old not listening to that all the time? Or 16-year-old, maybe. My point is simply this. Just because it's moral doesn't mean it's wise. And we've got to know the difference. It takes wisdom to know the difference. And we ought to be very careful about judging judging people on wisdom issues. But we also ought to be very careful to realize that wisdom issues are real issues. And we learn this from Boaz. Boaz, they did nothing morally wrong, but he's wise enough to say, you know, this could be the appearance of evil. And so I want you to stay here and wait until a time where we're where things are going to get Things will be in a better place where you can leave without there being people suspect you of wrongdoing. It's just a wise approach that Boaz is taking. Proverbs 4. 5 says, get wisdom, get understanding, forget it not, neither decline from the word. Now I am out of time. And I thought this was going to be a short message. And so what I want to do is I just want to move to the conclusion and I want to mention two points here. And probably for your your uh home groups tonight, the l the very the third point probably not going to be uh some uh the third question you're probably gonna be able to you could you could you probably figure it out anyway after Actually. Um I'm sure you can't. But uh we'll have to come back to that. Number one, I want us to remember that we must have a v a clear view of God's character and interaction with us as we seek to follow him. Folks, look, we've got to know God. And we've got to think in terms of God being revealed the way that the Word reveals him. Not that we isolate certain attributes that we like to the exclusion of others. Or isolate other attributes because we fear to the exclusion of others. We've got to view God as He wants to be viewed. And the way we know He wants to be viewed is only by this book. And we need to get the whole mind of God on what is revealed in this book about him. And number two, we must remember. That the best is often sacrificed when wisdom is forfeited In fact, that is basically the point. When it says that wisdom is the principal thing, therefore get wisdom, one translation says wisdom is the superior thing. That if we're not careful, we will sacrifice the best Because we have forfeited wisdom. Do you want God's best in your life? It's like Paul said when he prayed for the church at Philippi. He said that, he said, um He said that your love would abound in all knowledge and judgment and discernment, and that you would approve those things which are excellent. That ye may be perfect and sincere to the day of Christ. There was this understanding that the things which are best are determined by the things that are by wisdom. And although we ought not judge others on wisdom issues, although we can be concerned lovingly, we should not judge them on them We ought to be very concerned in our own lives that we want God's best and that only is acquired through wisdom. And how do you get wisdom? Well, James 1 is very clear about this. We ask God for it. Now, we are in the middle of a message that was intended to conclude a very different way. What we are going to do, though, is just go to the Lord in prayer, and we'll begin to prepare our hearts for communion. Father, we come to you and we're just grateful, Lord. That you love us. That you give us many, many assurances in your word. Promises in your word. And Lord, we want to thank you for your just justice too. That you are a just God. And as we come to this communion time, we realize that Christ And his work on the cross is the satisfaction of both your love and your justice. Your just demands required a punishment. And your love required a sacrifice of yourself. That you willingly, that Christ willingly went to the cross on our behalf. And as we celebrate and remember Christ, we pray, Lord, that you would help us in our worship of you this morning, just to be thankful for the sacrifice that Christ made for us. And we pray these things in Christ's name, Amen