Take your Bibles and turn to the book of Acts this morning, Acts chapter nine. Acts chapter nine. And I think we're going to start by going to the Lord in prayer this morning. Father, we are encouraged by just the music this morning already. We're encouraged by the truth that you are nearer, still nearer to us. We don't deserve it. And it's not because the merits of our own behavior But it is because of the merits of Christ alone, as he shed his blood on the cross to pay the punishment for our sin. And we thank you that it is still the cross. And we thank you for your word that teaches us. Lord, as we come to it now, and we have sung of the truth of the gospel, and we've sung of your character, your eminence, your nearness. We pray, Lord, that we would now desire to respond by asking the question, what would you have us to do? As Paul did in this text, or Saul did in this text. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Sort of to introduce this text to you, I was trying to think of a an illustration to kind of frame it. We're in the middle of the conversion of of Saul and now his the earliest part of his ministry in Acts chapter nine. And I thought of a of a cup with that's full of ice. How many have ever been to a restaurant before, perhaps, and and you ask for a glass of water and they fill the thing with ice so much that When they when you took a drink, you like you drank it and it was gone and then you all all the rest of it was ice. How many of you ever had that problem before? Some of us probably have them I drink a lot. water, but I drank a lot and um anyway. Some of you got it. Now others even got it. This is good. Anyway, um But uh and so so like I want a lot of water when I'm drink when I'm when I'm um uh eating. Not going also anyway. But uh so but anyway, so so but if it's all ice, it's not very helpful. You could have a glass that's full, but if it's all ice, you're not going to be able to quench your thirst with it. And then you might have another glass that looks really nice, it's a beautiful crystal glass, it has nothing in it. And that's not going to be helpful either. Have you ever met someone that that really likes to talk about the Bible? And they like to talk about different aspects of theology and they'll they're they enjoy discussing different things, different knowledge, but but it never moves to something that's more it never moves to the practical There never are questions about a a uh what do I do with my Christian life, what do I do with my family, what do I do in discipleship, what do I do to follow Christ? It's never about that It's only about these sort of esoteric theological academic kinds of things You ever met somebody like that? Well that uh and by the way, I have no one in our church in mind. I can honestly tell you that. There's no I think I've but uh uh other people, but not in our church, so keep it in mind here. On the other hand There are other people and and and that's like the person that's like full of ice. You can't do anything with it. It's not it's just a a a cup that's full of ice. There's other people that I've y perhaps you've met or thought about, or maybe we're the maybe you're this way, or maybe we have been this way, where it's all activity. It's w d even doing good things. Serving and doing and doing and doing and doing, and it's all about doing, but there's no depth. There seems to be no desire to serve to think about who God is. Why we are doing what we're doing does not come from a love and a knowledge of God. It's just doing for doing sake. And that's like the empty cup that's full of nothing. It just looks nice. It's it's it's you know nice to look at, but it doesn't have any depth to it. And we can be one of those two things. In the passage in Acts chapter 9, what we actually find is when Saul is converted, he asks two questions. Would you notice in 9:5, he asks, he says, Who are you, Lord? That's his first question, right out of the gate. Lord, who are you? And his second question in Acts 9. 6 is, what do you want me to do? And as we embark in our discipleship and our Christian life, those two questions are extremely helpful questions for us to ask ourselves. Who are you, Lord? And what do you want me to do? To ask, who are you, Lord, and to stop there and to not ask, what do you want me to do? Is going to cause us to be like that glass that's full of ice. But to ask, Lord, what do you want me to do without asking who you are? Is going to provide something that is simply shallow and trite, and frankly, will not be long lasting, as Jeff already described in motivation. You've got to know him, and to know him is to love him, and to love him is to serve him. And what we find in Acts chapter 9 is this Saul starts out with both of these questions. And as we get into the text, we want to see what God has for us in looking at Saul's not just his conversion now, but his very early ministry. To help us to understand this text, I want to point out a couple of things. Look at Acts 9. 31, would you, if you that would be the last verse we look at today, but I want to just highlight this. Notice what it says about the churches that are in Judea, in Galat Galilee, and in Samaria. He says they had peace and were edified. So they had peace And were edified, and walking in the fear of the Lord, and in comfort of the Holy Spirit, and they were multiplied. Did you catch that? Five things there They had peace. They were edified. They were built up in the faith. They were walking in the fear of the Lord. They were comforted by the Spirit of God. And they were multiplied. And do you know what you call that? You call that a healthy church. If you have those components, would you not agree with me? If you have those components, now there's other books about nine marks of a healthy church, which is actually a very good book. And there's other there's other books on church health, but if you have those those components in a church that is that is that is the culture of the church, that is the atmosphere in the church you are going to really have a very healthy atmosphere. Well, how did that get to that point? What was contributing to this kind of health in the body of Christ and its very earliest stages of development. We're going to see that here. But we obviously are going to see the life and ministry of the apot of the Apostle Saul now. He's not called Paul till later. And I forgive me if I just start using them interchangeably, you know what I'm talking about. In Acts chapter 9, verse 25, you'll see this as we're kind of putting together, getting our bearings here on this chapter, on this passage It says, then the disciples took him by night, and he helped them escape from impending persecution. And in Acts chapter 9, verse 30, it says the brethren found out and they brought him. So there's There's this work of the of different members of the body of Christ in helping Saul. We've got two men in the name, Ananias and Barnabas in this passage. And so what we want to see here is that in Saul's early ministry, how is it that it that what we end up is with a church that is both edifying and multiplying? It is a healthy church of peace. And encouragement, walking in the fear of the Lord and the comfort of the Spirit of God. What caused that to happen in this passage? And I want to begin this way by looking at the preparation of Saul. And to realize that the preparation of the believer edifies and multiplies Christ's church. And we have already noted that Saul is obedient. He's obedient to what he has been called to do. And we pick up here and we see here that another man is being obedient. That is this man Ananias. And we noted last week that here is a man that the Lord appears to To ask him to do something that would obviously cause alarm to go to a man who had been previously persecuting the churches. And he went, he obeyed, and he went. And we pick up in verse 17, and we'll see that. Verse 17 of Acts chapter 9, and Ananias went his way and entered the house. And laying his hands on him, he said, Brother Saul, the Lord Jesus, who appeared to you on the road as you came, has sent me, and you may rejo receive your sight. and be filled with the Holy Spirit. Did you catch what Anaiah said, his first opening statement to Saul? He comes in, of course he has been Commissioned by the Lord to do this and informed by the Lord as to what has happened to Saul, and he says, brother, Saul. He immediately identifies Saul as a brother, a brother in Christ. That must have taken a lot of faith. That must have taken a reliance upon God's word to do that. Ananias does this. He begins to help integrate Saul into the body of Christ now and assimilate him by affirming that he is indeed a brother. So Saul then receives this recognition. Ananias says, Jesus has appeared to you. And then he says that you may receive your sight and be filled with the Holy Spirit. Now we've talked a lot about the filling of the Holy Spirit in the book of Acts. The use of this word filled in this particular case has to do with the indwelling of the Spirit, although that is not always the case when we look at various parts of the New Testament. For example, in Ephesians chapter 5, it's not talking about the indwelling of the Spirit. It's talking about the about the ongoing influence of the Spirit of God in the person's life. But here we see now that this that Saul is going to receive the Holy Spirit Annias is sort of that agent that authenticates what's going on here. And of course, folks, the reason that this is happening this way, which is not again the norm in the New Testament is to demonstrate that Saul truly is authentically who God wants him to be, or who God says he is, who ultimately is an apostle. One thing I didn't note last week that I will note now is that in Acts chapter 1, if you'll recall, in order to be qualified to be an apostle, you had to have seen Christ, had seen the risen Lord. And that was a qualification. And of course, we know that when all the disciples were on this earth, they saw the risen Christ, and there are accounts of that throughout throughout the Gospels. And we know that Matthias was was also voted in because he saw Christ. But Paul, in order to genuinely be an apostle also had to see Christ. And that's why you have some of the things that are going on here that wouldn't be typical in a conversion experience for someone. Here we're seeing these things And it's demonstrating, yes, he saw the risen Christ, and he Christ objectively appeared to him. Not some subjective experience, but he actually appeared to Saul. And that's the way this is laid out here, that he appeared objectively to him. And also that he received the Holy Spirit for empowerment, well for indwelling, and also potential empowerment. And we see in verse 18, immediately there fell from his eyes something like scales. It's very precise. Luke is precise. He says something like scales. He's a doctor. And it wasn't exactly scales. We would probably think of it in terms of scabs, actually, which is kind of gross, but that's what the text is talking about, probably And he received his sight, it says, at once, and he arose and was baptized. So the question then would be, why would God use Ananias to do all of this? I mean couldn't God do all of this himself? Well, baptizing yourself is pretty difficult. Although I heard recently of a of a of a uh somebody that tried to do that and say that that was an actual baptism. They baptized themselves I guess they took swimming lessons or something like that and they thought that was a baptism that they're they're joining a church and that's what they said and that was interesting. You can't baptize yourself folks, just to let you know that doesn't doesn't work that way. Other than that, though, why was God using Ananias? Because God intends to use his people collectively for the furtherance of the gospel, and he's using Ananias this way. And we see first he receives his sight. We see also that he was baptized. The way it's written there, it's in the passive voice, it indicates that Anaias is the one that does it. He's implies Ananias is the one that baptizes Saul. Notice. Also, by the way, just sort of interesting, Ananias is not an apostle. He's a believer. He's a mature believer, no doubt, that was in Damascus and came to Christ and grew very quickly spiritually, and now he is he is being used of God in this way. And we really need to understand that God's intention, and we as we look at verse 19, we'll see this. is there's sort of implied here a refreshment of Saul before he goes out and begins to serve almost immediately. Verse 19. So when he had received food, he was strengthened. That's a physical strengthening. Then Saul spent, it says, some days with the disciples at Damascus. He began to fellowship with them. He spent some time with them. It indicates here that because of how things worked and God using Ananias and the life of Saul, that they they received him, they accepted him. And we're going to see how that plays out here in a few moments. Understand just at the very outset that as God prepares believers for service, he is going to use not just necessarily one believer, but all of us to prepare each other for the work of Christ. And for the furtherance of his kingdom. So Saul now was prepared. He was given the Spirit of God. And by the way, if you think, if you just think broad a little more broadly Even pre-conversion, Saul was was being prepared by God providentially, was he not? You have a man who was taught at the feet of Gameliel. A man who knew the law well. He was an expert in the law, actually. A man who had had uh who was obviously going after these these uh true believers, these the church. And in doing so, we would then make the very safe assumption that he understood the doctrine of these two new believers. He probably, I'm sure that he thoroughly studied the doctrine of these new believers and understood what they believed. So it shouldn't surprise us folks that when he comes to Christ, he is almost immediately grounded. He just moves his his faith from where it stands to Christ and all of this that mentally under he understands it. And of course we know he's in He's in Damascus for at least some time. He spends three days just praying, uh blind praying without food, pr probably processing what's happening. And then we see very soon after his conversion, verse 20, he does something immediately. He goes out and does something, verse 20. Immediately it says he preached the Christ in the synagogues and that he is the Son of God. Now this is a total change, isn't it? But notice it says that he immediately does this. The word preach there, we've talked about the different words in the book of Acts. This is the word keruso, this is the more formal kind of preaching. versus youangalizemai, which is just sort of a general kind of preaching. He is essentially formally preaching in the synagogues and naming who Christ is. And how do the people respond in verse 21? They are amazed. The word amazed there means astonished to the point of confusion. You have the two words, the two terms there, astonishment and confusion, and that's really what you have in this word amazed. They are amazed. They're astonished. Why are they astonished? Well the text tells us. The text tells us that they are astonished because this is the man who was destroying them. Verse 21, then all who were uh who had who heard were amazed and said, Is this not He who destroyed those who called on this name in in Jerusalem and has come here for the for that purpose, so that he might bring them bound to the chief priests. Verse 22: But Saul increased all the more in strength and confounded the Jews who were dwelt in Damascus, proving that this Jesus is the Christ. So they're astonished and amazed and perplexed and confused by what they're hearing, by what they're seeing. This man who has taken its entire about face, he's going In completely the other direction. We know from other passages in the book of Acts that he was causing havoc in the churches and The word had spread about this, and so obviously he's very confused about what is, or they're very confused about what is going on in this passage. With that in mind, then we notice he is destroy- uh he we understand uh by by Saul's own description in Galatians chapter 1, what he says here. You remember he book wrote to the book of Galatians. We just prior to the book of Acts went through the book of Galatians. And in Galatians chapter 1, verse 13, it says, For you have heard of my former conduct in Judaism How I persecuted the church of God beyond measure and tried to destroy it. Paul says this in his own words. Verse 23 of Galatians 1, but they were hearing only, for who formally preached, uh who formally persecuted us now preaches the faith. Which he once tried to destroy. They un they are hearing and trying to put all this together And we see in the passage clearly that that he is um that that he is preaching the word faithfully. Now, it says in verse twenty-one as well, it says, Now after many days. Or I'm sorry, verse 23 it says, now after many days. Now that's an important thing for us to note. A couple of things about this. Verse 22 tells us that he is given strength or ability. And there's a simple, simple conclusion that we can make from that, that as he served, as he preached the word, he grew in his ability to do so. Now I'll just make this very quick application. Some people say, well, you know, I'm just not ready to do this or that. I'm not ready to serve the Lord here. I'm not ready to serve the Lord. And that is possibly valid. It's possible that you would look ahead of something and say, you know, I'm not really ready to do this. But it's also entirely possible that God wants us to serve sometimes, and as we serve, we grow. There is only one way, I know from preaching experience and preaching, there's only one way to really learn how to preach, and that's to preach. Uh you can learn only so much from homiletics classes and those kind of things. The rest of it is really just experience, it's doing it. But it's not just preaching, it's really every kind of serving. Serving the Lord, it's it's it's um It's a matter of serving from experience. I was talking uh with Jeff this week a little bit about about different things with regard to And he's been talking, we've been going over a lot of things with regard to the what has happened and um with the funeral and all of that. And I you know, I reflect on just how much I don't really use from seminary when it comes to funerals. I mean I learned the basics from college and seminary, but most of how I interact with people and how we go about doing things, most of it actually just comes from experience. Most of it comes from having a loved one that passed away and knowing a little more about how that works. So it really it really is something where we ought to serve and as we serve we grow. We ought not wait always to start serving until we've grown to a certain point. There's some wisdom in all that, but Saul obviously is growing in his ability. The word strength there is is the idea of ability In fact, there's a manuscript in the fifth century that would that included, really as a side note, grew stronger in the word. He was growing in his ability to communicate God's word in this passage. Now, then we come to verse 23, and we see it says, now after many days pass, and that is actually a loaded phrase because During this, now many after many days passed, something actually occurred. It was a three-year thing that happened where Saul went to preach in Arabia. We know this from Galatians chapter 1, verse 17. In Galatians chapter 1, he is talking to the church at Galatia, and his point actually in chapter 1 is to demonstrate that he is not he is not required to be sanctioned by the other apostles because he himself is an apostle. He doesn't have to gain their approval, although he he did gain their approval. He didn't doesn't have to. because he began in and he said he didn't go immediately up to Jerusalem. He went and he preached in Arabia. Uh Acts seven Galatians 117 Nor did I go up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before me, but I went to Arabia and returned again to Damascus. So he went to this place of Arabia that was south of Syria. Damascus is in Syria, it was south of Syria. And doesn't really say specifically where he went. We know that it was in the uh Nabatian uh kingdom Uh King Eretas the fourth was the king. We know that actually from 2 Corinthians chapter 11. In that passage it says, in Damascus the governor under Eretas the king was guarding the city of the of the of the Damassenes with a garrison desiring to arrest me. But I was let let down in a basket through a window in the wall and escaped from from his hands. So what this indicates to us was that actually the king of Arabia, essentially, was was wanting because of his preaching to to him to to be uh punished for his preaching. This area that he was in was somewhere between the Haran Mountains and the Gulf of Aqaba. It was a very really rather large area that he was preaching in, and he was doing it for for three years. Now, you look at verse 23 and you say, well, why doesn't he have it there? Why doesn't he why doesn't Luke have it there? All he has is, now after many days were past. See that in verse twenty-three? And you have all of this going on. He's preaching in Arabia. You've got a king who's not happy that he's preaching in Arabia and wants him to w wants him to be put to death. They're apparently communicating with Damascus and All this is happening. Why would Luke do this? It's very likely because Luke wanted us to understand a particular point here. And that is the last part of verse 23 that the Jews plotted to kill him. So let's just pause and look at this. So Saul. Saul is going out immediately and serving the Lord, and he's preaching the gospel, and he's going everywhere, and what happens to him nearly, nearly at the outset And as he is preaching, this apparently is he growing opposition is happening until three years down the road he is now he is the Jews want his life It says in the passage that he was proving these things that he was saying. So he was obviously a very uh astute communicator. He was able to speak in a way that they were able. Not that he relied on that, we know from 1 Corinthians 1 that he didn't rely on that, he relied on the power of the Holy Spirit. But he did have have a way of communicating that there was very little that these Jewish people could say And just in the just as in Stephen's case, remember Stephen in Acts chapter seven, you now have Saul who is who is just really um now they're going to go after him. And now we pick up in verse 24. So look at verse 24. But their plot became known to Saul. And they watched the gates day and night to kill him. So they're watching when he comes in and out. Apparently he's going in and out of Arabia and d and Damascus and they're waiting for him to come back into Arabia uh from Damascus, and they're watching the gate to see when he's going to do that. And uh because they want to take him and kill him, he gets wind of this. Verse 25. Then the disciples took him by night and led him down through the wall in a large basket. So so now God is using these disciples that are at that are at uh Damascus To help Saul escape, and where do you suppose Saul goes? Well, the net the text tells us, verse 26, Saul is now going to go to Jerusalem. And when Saul had come to Jerusalem, he tried to join the disciples. But they were all afraid of him and did not believe that he was a disciple. Now let's just regroup and understand what's going on here. Saul gets saved. He goes and he preaches immediately and or very soon after he gets saved. He's now in Arabia preaching everywhere, and he's also preaching in Damascus. He faces opposition, growing opposition to the point where they want to kill him from the Jews that are in Damascus. I mean this guy is just just getting started. Then he then he comes to Jerusalem where the apostles are. And and very unlikely that all the apostles that by this point are in Jerusalem. We know that Peter is in Jerusalem. We know that from the book of Galatians, actually, and James. They're in Jerusalem from Galatians 1, 18 and 19. The rest of the apostles are probably doing missionary work at this point, but he comes there and they reject him. Do you see a lot of rejection going on here? Now you say, well, I mean he persecuted the Jew uh he was persecuting the Christians and but this is three years later now. This is not this is not Uh keep it in in perspective. You know the truth of the matter is when you're in ministry You're going to go through these kinds, not maybe to this severity. But when you're in ministry serving the Lord, whether you're in full-time ministry or whether you're just serving the Lord, you're going to have opposition. When you preach the gospel faithfully, you're going to have opposition. When you are attempting to serve the Lord because you love Him and you love others, there is going to be opposition. And here his own people, it's one thing for the Jews to be after him. But now his own brethren are afraid of him and are not willing to accept him. And you know what we can really gather from this as believers? As you serve the Lord, sometimes, if not often, it's messy. How many of you all like things to be nice and neat and orderly? And how many of you all like that? You'll you'll you know, uh so do I. But that doesn't happen very often in ministry. You know why? Because people are messy. You're messy and I'm messy. You say, I keep a neat office or I'm not talking about that. I'm talking about our lives. Our lives are messy, aren't they? And as we are ministering and serving, we are bumping into each other a lot. And as we bump into each other a lot. We find that things are not as neat and tidy as we thought they were in each other's lives. And you know what happens sometimes Sometimes we get discouraged from the opposition of serving the Lord when when we ought to really actually expect this. If we are really wanting to serve the Lord faithfully, to preach the gospel faithfully, to do the work of God, Jesus said, you will suffer persecution. There's going to be opposition. There's going to be suffering. So Christian, if your life is completely calm and it's a bed of roses and everything is going great and everything is wonderful and and and and it's just smooth and you're comfortable and you have no problems at all You have two possibilities. Either you're not a Christian, or you just need to wait a couple of minutes. Because that is the reality. Or you're not serving the Lord. That's a possibility too. Sometimes God, I Satan probably does get his his Christians right where he wants them. Or get his believers right where he wants them. And if they could just make them apathetic and they don't serve the Lord, then life is comfortable. This ought to be an encouragement to us. That Saul is being opposed even by his own folks, if you will. And he's being faithful in serving the Lord anyway. And there are times in our lives where we just need to learn to be faithful to in serving the Lord despite the messiness and despite the opposition, knowing that we really just have to expect that. 1 Corinthians 15, verse 57 is always an encouraging verse for me. Be steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord For as much as you know that your labor is not, it's not, folks, it's not in vain in the Lord What God wants us to be is to be persistent in serving Him. He wants us to be faithful in serving Him. He wants us to, despite the opposition, and even in the midst of the opposition, He wants us to be faithful in serving. him. Thankfully the story doesn't end there. You now have a man that that we've seen before. This is a man whose name means the son of encouragement. A man who is known for his ability to build up the believer, who comes alongside during this time of opposition. During this time of fear from the part on the part of uh these apostles even And we see now that Barnabas is going to come in verse 27 and notice what happens. But Barnabas took him and brought him to the apostles, and he declared to them how he had seen the Lord on the road. And that he had spoken to him, and how he had preached boldly at the at Damascus in the name of Jesus. So he was with them at Jerusalem, coming in and out. And he spoke boldly in the name of the Lord Jesus and disputed against the Hellenists, but they attempted to kill him. When the brethren found out, they brought him down to Caesarea and sent him out to Tarsus. Barnabas, who was a man of great integrity, a man who had great reputation. We don't know how Barnabas learned of the appearing of Jesus to this man may be m it's possible that the Lord uh appeared to him as he did to As he did to Ananias, but one way or the other, God gave Barnabas the assurance of knowing that Saul was who he said he was. Saul believed who he said he believed. And Barnabas was able to help assimilate, if you will, Saul into the body of Christ and help them to be able to come to grips with the fact that he no longer needed to be feared. And this is something, folks, that we can learn from by way of application. We note in this passage that there is this acceptance. And you see this term going in and coming out. What does that mean? He's going in and coming out. Well, it's very likely in an idiom for close fellowship, a freeness, and a freely free hint uh unhindered kind of openness that he had with these people. At first they came in and there's this fear and there's this doubt. But when Barnabas comes along, he is able to allay the fears of the people that were there in Jerusalem, including any of the apostles that were there, Peter and James, for example. He's able to help and calm their fears. They are able to give him acceptance, and there is this openness. There's not this confining spirit of skepticism and fear among them. There is now this openness to be able to come and go, to go and preach the gospel, to come back, and to be able to be renewed and refreshed by God's people. Can I ask you a question? Is that the kind of church we are? I believe it is. I think it's something we can work on. I think we can always grow in this area. But that's the desire, that's what God desires for his church. He desires for his church to be a place of of openness, of love of one another, of freedom and acceptance. And I don't mean toleration of sin But simply the ability to be able to come in and to come away from the world, which provides all kinds of opposition for us all week long. And to come into the body of Christ and to receive love from each other, to refresh our souls. One of the things I pray from time to time is that as we come together on Sunday mornings, That there is a refreshment of our souls one with another, that there is a love one with another. And you know, sometimes we come in and that's not exactly what's on our minds. And I'm I am I am I am first to admit that. God desires for us to have the kind of church that there is love here. And there is this freedom that Saul experienced now after he got over this initial opposition. And God wants that for us. You you ever heard somebody say, and it's been a long time, I've I've thankfully have not heard this from you all, which is a blessing. I've heard this from other churches that I would have been involved in. Somebody said that it's actually easier to go it's it's actually they have closer friends that are unsaved than close than friends that are saved. Have you ever heard that before? That is a tragedy. That should not be the case. We ought to be really Thankful. I can tell you that I have friends in you all, loving brothers and sisters in Christ, that in times where I'm a bit down or frustrated or something, that I I can come and receive encouragement. Now I think other we know that about each other to some degree, but we ought to always maintain that. There ought to be a kind of spirit that continues to be the case, and one that's forgiving of each other. One that knows that, you know, hopefully hopefully we're not all down in the dumps the same time. That's like the worst thing. No. One of us is down in the dumps, that's fine. We can encourage each other. If we're all down in the dumps at the same time, we ought to just all go home. Not really, but But may we be that kind of church that can Saul it it indicates here, it implies here, that he's going in and he's receiving encouragement, and he's going out and he's going out in the world, he's preaching the gospel, and he's coming back and he's receiving encouragement again. He's going in and out this way. And all of this, whether it's the the contribution of Barnabas Or the contribution of the disciples up in Damascus or the apostles in Jerusalem, all of this lends itself and the preaching of Saul and the faithfulness as he obeys God in this, all this lends itself to verse 31. Do you see what it says there? We read at the beginning. And the churches throughout all Judea and Galilee and Samaria had peace. And were edified. And walking in the fear of the Lord and the comfort of the Holy Spirit, they were multiplied. You want a church of peace? Church. That's a healthy church, a church that's pe at peace with God at peace with each other, at edified, building each other up in the body of Christ. Church is Walking in the fear of the Lord, the beginning of wisdom is the fear of the Lord, not the fear of man. There seems to be a contrast here. They feared They feared Saul, and this change now we're fearing the Lord instead, which is going to mitigate any possibility of fearing man. They're walking in the comfort of the Spirit of God. And God's multiplying them. People are coming to Christ. People are being discipled. All of this is happening because God's people are working together in this way. Let's just review some basic applications for us. Number one. We ought to begin our discipleship with two questions. Who are you, Lord? And what should I do? We are spending all of our time thinking about who God is and what he is, and it never resolves to a desire to serve the one we love. And we know we are cold spiritually. On the other hand, we ought to ask, what should I do? How should I serve because of the one that I know and love, the one who is gracious to me and merciful to me, how can I then, what do you, Lord, what do you want me to do? How can I serve in response to this? Number two, preparation and ministry go hand in hand. They go together. We don't understand that. As we serve the Lord, there's going to be discomfort. There's going to be, I'm not sure I'm ready for this. I'm not sure I can do this. And there's wisdom with that. It's not like we want to force people to do things that they're uncomfortable with, but there is there's rarely can you really do something for God and be comfortable at the same time. Number three, ministry is messy. If we're going to serve God the way God wants us to, it's going to require patience and perseverance. And that is imperative. And number three, assimilation is necessary. And can I just say to you that some of you I actually I many of you, if not all of you, I I the the the general thing I'm hearing from those who are guests that come into our church, I'm often hearing that there is a a love that they're receiving from you all. And number four, I just want to commend you on that. I really don't want to do anything except say, keep up the good work there. I'm hearing good things, and we can grow in that. We ought to really grow in our hospitality for others that come into our midst and our it's not just a matter of being welcoming. I think we are welcoming, but we can grow in in reaching out and meeting needs and having people over for dinner, those kinds of things. I think we can grow in those kinds of areas. But but um but those things are necessary for us for people to be able to to be encouraged by the body, to be built up by the body. Assimilation is necessary. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we do come to you and we thank you. Thank you for your word. When we see uh what we see in this passage, there there there may be some that have been convicted this morning. There may be some that are encouraged. Would I pray that you would do What you can what only what you can do in our lives to help us to be the kind of church that we find in Acts 9. 31. That we would have peace with one another and with you. That we would build each other up, and this would be a place where we would do that. We would walk in the fear of the Lord. Walk in the comfort of the Spirit. That you with all of this going on, that kind of culture and that kind of atmosphere, we would multiply. We would be ready to disciple people that you bring to Christ. We would be ready to reach those For the sake of the gospel. Lord, we need you with all of this. Our flesh will fail. We look at all that is in this passage and we know there's just this cry of our hearts to know that we are dependent upon you to do what we cannot do for ourselves. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. This time just