Take your Bibles and turn to the book of Acts this morning, Acts chapter four. Acts chapter four I really encourage you to please, I I know it's late notice, but to please come out to the baptism that will be uh, Lord willing, next week at 3. 30 on Uh on Sunday, we needed to be in between Faith Fi Faith Bible is kind enough to allow us to use their baptistry. We don't have one here yet. And um And they've been kind of let's use one, but we're sort of shooting between the the m the m between their services so we're not interrupting what they're doing, although there is talk, we might be actually kind of Joining uh they might join us basically. We'll see how that works. But anyway, 330 is where what we're looking at, and uh George and Jenny Lopez will be baptized as well as Zachary And um that's what I have so far uh as far as bap baptisms for sun for that Sunday. And um so uh um be in prayer for George as well. He's not here with us this morning. Uh he is uh just he has uh prostate cancer. I'm uh and um so just be in prayer for him and um uh i uh he's in pain and pray for jenny as well uh and that she would just be uh we comforted and the Lord would give um w doc wisdom doc uh wisdom to the doctors and all that as well. All right. Our text is actually going to be, I was a little overambitious with our text up here on the screen. It's actually going to be chapter 4, verses 1 through 13 this morning. And so let's read that together now. Acts chapter 4, verses 1 through 1 through 14. Now as they spoke to the people, the priests, the captain of the temple, And the Sadducees came upon them and being greatly disturbed that they taught the people and preached to Jesus the resurrection from the dead. And they laid hands on them and put them in custody unto the next day, for it was already evening. However, many of those who heard the word believed, and n and the number of them came to be about fi five thousand. And it came to pass on the next day that their rulers, elders, and scribes, as well as Annes and the high priest Caiaphas John and Alexander, as many as were of the family of the high priest, were gathered together at Jerusalem, and when they had set them in the midst, they asked By what power or by what name have you done this? Then Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit, said to them, Rulers of the people and elders of Israel, If we this day are judged for a good deed done to a helpless man, by what means he has been made well? Let it be known to you all and to all the people of Israel that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom you crucified, whom God raised from the dead, by him this man stands here before you whole. This is the stone which the which was rejected by the by you builders, which was become the chief cornerstone. Nor is there salvation in any other, for there is none other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved. Now, when they saw the boldness of Peter and John and perceived that they were uneducated and untrained men, they marveled and they realized that they had been with Jesus. Let's pray together. Father, as we come to you this morning and we have read through this narrative of of what is taking place now in the in the first local church in Jerusalem. I pray, Lord, that you would teach us some valuable things when it comes to what a church ought to do in the midst of difficulties and distractions. And also what we ought to do when it comes to being filled with your Spirit, I pray that your word would ring clear to us, the truth of your word would be fresh and new in our lives and we would we would just uh learn how to apply them to our lives this morning. We thank you, Lord, for your truth, and we pray that you'd bless it today, and we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. How many of you have ever watched Bob Ross on television years ago. He's died now he died of laphoma in fact actually. But how many of you have happy little trees. You remember that? Happy happy little trees or happy trees Um he he was a very calming kind of kind of guy to watch and he would do great paintings and things like that and he usually were landscapes. He spent some time in the military up in Alaska and that was the inspiration for most of his paintings And he would buy he would draw on these happy little trees. Um you ever notice that often he would he would paint this entire painting And it would be beautiful. And then he would strike something right in the middle of it. Like this black mark that strike and you and you'd sort of go, ah, what's he doing? So messing up that beautiful painting And of course then he would make usually a happy little tree, but uh he would make something out of that out of that um that strike and it would actually be more uh more beautiful than it was before. Well, we have in this passage uh uh an interruption to the normal flow and pattern of what we have seen before. in the life of this early church. You'll recall in Acts chapter 2, you'll remember that there was this grand miracle of the of the tongues Followed by the preaching of your word, of God's word, followed by the conversion of souls Followed by normal church life. That was kind of the process that we saw in chapter two. And in chapter three, we saw this map this prominent miracle that was being done at the most prominent time. for the most exposure possible in the temple. And we saw that in chapter three, the healing of the lame man during three o'clock in the afternoon when the afternoon s burnt offering was being offered. It was the time that would be the most prolific, prominent time. And so we see that there in that passage. And then we see, after that, as the normal pattern that we've seen in chapter two, we see a pattern then of the preaching of God's Word by Peter. Peter preached the first message in chapter 2. We see it again in chapter 3. And then we see we expect to see conversion of souls. And actually that is what we see. Chapter 4. Verse 4, you see the conversion. Many people believed. In fact, 5,000 souls believe in that verse. So it was 2,000 in chapter 2. It's 5,000 this time. But you do see something, then you're going to see normal church life as we go through chapter 4 as well. But there is an interruption this time There is something that seems to be in the way, and in chapter 4's case, it's persecution We're going to see other kinds of interruptions as well. For example, in chapter 5, we're going to see an interruption. We're going to see an interruption of unrepentant sin. That's going to be an interruption to normal church life in chapter 5. And in chapter 6, we're going to see problems with the Hellenistic widows and the care of the church, the administrative problems is what we're going to find. in chapter 6. And in each case we're going to see how God desires to deal with them, sometimes through his sovereignty, and sometimes through practical matters of inaugurating deacons, for example, in chapter chapter 6. In chapter 4, we see the interruption, if you will, the distraction, or could be a distraction, of persecution. But we're going to see in this passage that God sovereignly has a plan in the midst of the persecution. And you'll notice in the passage Some important things. First of all, you'll notice in this passage that the name of Jesus is mentioned on multiple occasions. In fact, that seems to be the main uh opposition, it's the it's to the naming of Jesus and and to the following of the authority of Jesus Christ. The people that were opposing John and Peter as they preached the word, particularly Peter. were these people that were that were their own authority was being challenged by the authority of Jesus Christ, by the name of Christ. And we're going to see that But you see in chapter 4, verse 7, again in verse 10, again in verse 12, again in verse 17, again in verse 18, all of those verses have this name men Mention the name of Christ. They're concerned about it And the apostles are going to absolutely, unequivocally choose to preach it no matter what. Something else in this passage that's important for us to understand is in verse 8. Would you notice, just look real quickly, glance your eyes down in verse 8 and notice. But in Peter's response to the people that are oppressing him and the opposition that are taking place, in verse 8 you see, then Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit, said to them. And you're you we have seen this before in other chapters. We're going to see it again in this chapter. That the main one of the main things to help us to understand this chapter is that the response that these people give, Peter particularly, is under the clear and complete influence of the Spirit of God. In other words, folks, this passage, this chapter, is not intended to just be a history of what happened. There is a point to this passage, and the point is found In the response that Peter gives, and this response being a response of what it looks like when you are truly filled with the Holy Spirit of God. And you recall. That we are, when we come to Christ, we are indwelt by the Spirit of God, and we're baptized by the Spirit of God. But the filling of the Spirit of God is something that we have involvement in. You are one time and dwelt by the Spirit of God and with permanency. Same thing with the baptism of the Spirit of God. But when it comes to the filling of the Spirit of God, that is something where we are under the influence of the Spirit of God. And we're going to learn more what that means as we move through this text. And particularly what we're going to see is how how Someone, particularly Peter in this case, responds, responds to opposition when they are under the filling of the Holy Spirit. Now let me just put this in in a more rel in a more uh con uh in our context. Have you ever been opposed? Have you ever been tried to do something for the Lord and you have been opposed as you do it? Have you ever attempted to do something or to stand for righteousness' sake and you were opposed This is a passage that is going to teach us how we are to respond. What does it look like to respond when we are truly filled by the Spirit of God? With all that in mind, we then will pick up here in chapter 4 and we'll see in verses 1 through 4 that the Spirit produces results. And I want you to notice in this passage that um that the amount of opposition. We noticed chapter three is already mentioned that there was this prominent miracle done where thousands of people realized what had taken place in this man who was forty years old Who is a layman being healed after coming daily to the temple? And so it's likely that thousands, if not over a hundred thousand people, understood what was taking place here or eventually would understand what was taking place. So this was very prominent. Notice though the kind of response or opposition that you have, the amount of opposition by the people in this passage. Notice what it says. First of all, you've got priests and you've got the captain of the temple. The priests are those, of course, from a Levitical line. They're divided into 24 parts. and they serve two weeks at a time throughout the year. You have the captain of the temple, which basically is kind of like a chief of police. Those within the temple compound had their own the they had their own police force. They were not regulated by the Roman Empire once once they were in that temple compound And so this captain of the temple is one who would be the who would be the leader of the police force, if you will. That's our modern term, not their term, but the leader of the police force in this temple. You have the Sadducees, who are Levitical priests as well. They're the conservative Jewish Orthodoxy of the day. And the thing that's significant about the Sadducees is they don't believe in the resurrection, not the resurrection of Christ. Nobody none of these believe n none of these believe in that. None of the leaders believe in that. The Sadducees don't believe in the resurrection of the saints. They don't believe that that that the that the even the Old Testament saints will rise from the grave. They don't essentially believe in the in the bodily resurrection of uh that's spoken of in the Old Testament. They don't believe in it. But not only that, if you just skip your eyes down to chapter to verse 5 and 6, you're going to see more. You're going to see that the Sanhedrin is involved in this. Look at chapter 5. I mean sorry verse 5. It came to pass on the next day that there were rulers and elders and scribes. You've got the Sanhedrin that are involved, and we're going to see are involved. The Sanhedrin are made up of 71 members. And you have specific prominent members of the Sanhedrin here. You have Anis. Annas is cited here as a high priest. He is not actually the active high priest. He would be, if you could say it this way, he was he would be the the high priest emeritus. He has no power. He's been deposed before, but he has a significant amount of influence among the people, which is why he's mentioned here You have Caiaphas, who is the son-in-law of Anis. In fact, Anis has five different family members at one time or another who's going to be taking the place as a high priest. Caiaphas is here at this time. Caiaphas is actually the high priest during the time of Christ. When Christ went before the Sanhedrin, Caiaphas was the high priest then, and Caiaphas is the high priest now. Then you have John and Alexander. We don't really know much about them. It's likely that they were also family within Annis' family as well. We don't know for sure. Uh the Bible doesn't mention them again, and so we're not really sure. But you uh the boy the point here is that you have a lot of leaders in these t in this temple compound that come to Solomon's portico where Peter is preaching, and they they really want to shut him down. Now with that in mind, then let's look and see what happens. What happens is it says that they came upon them. It's almost as though they were rushing to get to where he was. They heard of the of the message that he had preached to the Jews. uh that were there and they want to rush to him. They're coming upon them. They're laying their hands in a in a in a uh a a pronounced way toward that on them And it says that they were greatly disturbed. They were disturbed by what? Well, the Sadducees, no doubt, were disturbed by the fact that he was mentioning the resurrection of Christ. And the ramifications of the resurrection of Christ is that all who come to him will also rise from the grave one day And they were, I'm sure, upset about that. They were teaching uh in Solomon's Portoco, uh they were not authorized by the Sanhedrin to do so. This was not a violation of the rules, however, because they were not in the temple proper. They were, as we looked at last week, they were in the courts of the temple area, and so there was really no problem with them teaching there But they were not authorized essentially by the Sanhedrin, and very likely they were upset about that. The Bible says in verse 3 that they seized them and put them into prison. Now as soon as you read that you might think to yourself, it says until the next day it was already evening. You may think to yourself, and I did when I read this, I thought, well, why would they do that why would they throw them into prison before they even tried them Why would they why would they do that? I mean obviously they're not going anywhere. They could have just waited the next day and brought them in before the Sanhedrin, but why would they do this this way? I think it's very likely that this was an intimidation tactic They knew that they had to stand trial. They really hadn't violated any laws. It wasn't like they went against any of the rabbinical writings or the Old Testament laws or anything like that But they were trying to figure out what to do, and they thought, well, at least we can intimidate these folks, so they threw them into prison. They threw them into a a holding place. It was probably it was a it was a place where the Sanhedrin would throw people uh into prison. And the pris the actually there's a lot I could say about the Roman prisoners for sake of prisoners for for sake of time, I I won't do that. But understand this that all of the jurisdiction was, all of what was taking place was under underneath these this group called the Sanhedrin. The disciples were were probably, though, as they sat in those prisons, just kind of imagine Peter and John, they're sitting in the prison. There were probably others there of other other reasons that they were there They're sitting in this dark dungeon of a place and I would actually imagine that they were not surprised by this. The reason I say that is Jesus warned them that this would happen. He said in John chapter 15, verse 20, Remember the word that I say unto you, a servant is not greater than his master. If they persecuted me, they will also persecute you, persecute you. If they kept my word, they will keep yours also. But you know, that same guarantee of suffering for the cause of Christ that the that Jesus told to the apostles also. Extends to us. Paul said to Timothy in 2 Timothy 3, verse 17: Yes, all who desire to live godly in Christ Jesus will suffer persecution. And I do believe by that definition that there are different there are different levels of persecution. We may may or may not ever be thrown into prison, although folks, you know, we live in this United States bubble, but there are Christians all over the world that have been thrown into prison and are being thrown into prison for the cause of Christ. And are being persecuted in the way that we find in the book of Acts and we may not be much longer for that as well In 1 Peter 4, verse 12, it says, Beloved, do not think it strange concerning the fiery trial which is to try you, as though some strange thing happened to you. Peter warns those Christians that he was speaking to, and he says to them, look, don't be surprised when you are taking a stand for right and you suffer as a result of doing so. It is likely, if not guaranteed, that sometime in a Christian's life, he's going to have to take a stand for right. And it's going to be to his detriment in one way or another. It's sad, but sometimes that even happens in a local church. Sometimes that happens happens in various places. It often will happen in the workplace where you will choose to take a stand for something. And and you may get demoted or you may not receive the promotion that you thought you were going to receive. I know of people in the military. who because they wouldn't do certain things uh that that were not direct commands, but it was just sort of expected some of the social things that they do in the military That because of that, they were not promoted the way that they otherwise would have been promoted. Folks, there is a price to pay To be a disciple of Christ. And Peter and John were very likely not surprised by this. Paul says this about this whole concept of suffering in this life for the cause of Christ. In John chapter 5, I'm sorry, Romans chapter 5, verse 3, it says, and not only that, but we also glory in tribulations. We glory in them, he says. Knowing that tribulation produces perseverance and perseverance character and character hope Now hope does not disappoint because the love of God has been poured out in our hearts by the Holy Spirit who was given to us. We find in Romans chapter 5 that we ought to actually glory in tribulation. That God uses the sufferings of this time, which he says in Romans 8, that he uses the sufferings of this time even the fallen world and even sin in our lives to cause us to be more conformed to the image of Christ to grow in our perseverance for Christ, to grow in our character, to grow in our hope of the coming of Christ as well. And so we ought not be surprised if we have to suffer for righteousness' sake. This is something that happened throughout the book of Acts now. In fact, after chapter 3, there is only three, there are only three chapters in the entire book of Acts. That do not include some idea of persecution. In Acts chapter 14, verse 21, it's summarized, the Apostle Paul summarized it this way. Or Luke, Luke summarizes it this way about what Paul was doing. And when they had preached the gospel in the city and made many disciples, they returned to Lystra, Iconium, and Antioch. strengthening the souls of disciples, exhorting them to continue in the faith, and saying, We must through many tribulations enter the kingdom of God. They understood though that there was a price to be paid for entrance into God's kingdom. In verse 4, despite this persecution, which no doubt Satan intended to be a distraction, to thwart the cause of Christ, we see in verse 4 that it certainly did not. How many men in verse 4 do we see come into Christ? Look at it. Chapter 4, verse 4. It says, however, many of those who heard the word believed, and the number of the men, just the men, this is not women and children, which were allowed into that area of the courts, so they were there very likely Just the men came to about how many? 5,000. We go from 3,000 in chapter 2 to 5,000 in chapter 5. Look, folks, persecution is being used of God. For his purposes. And it's kind of like we we think of persecution, we think of suffering in our lives, we think of difficulties in our lives, and we think of we think of situations like this. And and we look at our those situations and we think that certainly persecution is going to snuff out the gospel. Do you remember those, you ever seen those airbellows? If you have a fireplace, you may have one. We have one. We're certainly not using it now. Uh but um but one of those airbellows that that uh that you blow into the fire. You ever seen one of those? How many of you have seen one of those? Help me out here. Okay, good. I just want to make sure we're awake. Okay. So you've seen you you've seen those before? I remember the first time I saw one of those year many, many years ago. I thought That must be to blow the fire out. Like when you don't want the fire in there anymore, that means be to blow the fire out. But folks, that's not at all what that's for, is it That is to fan the flame. You can take some just some hot coals and all you have is hot coals and throw one piece of wood on the f on that and take that airbellow and you can light that coal up and it will fan the flame. And many times we think of persecution and even sufferings in our life as something that is going to blow the fire out. But God intends persecution to fan the flame, and we see that here in this passage. God's gospel is always way ahead. of whatever we are going through and whatever circumstances in this world we see. First John chapter 4, verse 4 says this, you are of godless children and have overcome them, because he who is in you Is greater than he that is in the world. God's sovereignty and the gospel of Jesus Christ always has the upper hand, even though it doesn't always look like it. We then see in verse 7 that these court it's the next day essentially. They've been in prison for a day, and all of this group of people, the 70 Sanhedrin, Perhaps other religious leaders as well, the elders in this passage as well, it says that they're here. They are going to stand, it says, in the midst of them. Verse 7, and when they had set them in the midst, they asked, by what power or by what name have you done this? There was this area in the corner. It was a court that was hewn out of solid rock. in the corner of Herod's temple in the temple proper, and that was the court of the Sanhedrin. And in that court, the seventy members of the Sanhedrin would sit in a semicircle, a U-shaped semicircle. And on the edge of that semicircle, you'd have the students on the other side, the students of the Sanhedrin, and presumably that would be where the elders and some of the other people were sitting for this particular trial And Peter and John were right in the midst of all of that. Now remember, they haven't violated any crimes. They haven't made violated anything yet, any laws. They've not committed any crimes And here they find themselves in the middle, in the midst of the Sanhedrin, on trial. And I want us to notice, folks, then what is the response? The first response is quite Peter's going to use irony here as his defense. Would you notice what it says in verse 8? We will remind ourselves that the Holy Spirit, he's being filled with the Holy Spirit here. He gives them respect. And then he says to them, verse nine, If this day are judged for a good deed alone to be to a helpless man But what means he has been made well, let it be known to you all that to all the people of Israel that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth whom you crucified, whom God raised from the dead, by him this man stands here before you whole. The first thing he says to them is he says, So so let me get this right. Let me put this in my terms. Let me put let me get this right We're standing on trial for helping a lame man to walk? That's what we're on trial for? I mean, there's this rhetorical question. Like, what are we doing here? Why are we on trial for this? And of course, um he starts off that way, but then I want you to notice then what he does. Peter's going to take this time to preach to them. He looks at the 71 Sanhedrin, including the high priest. He looks at all the elders and chief priests behind him that are there present for this trial. And he is going to take the time and he is just going to preach the word. What boldness. He's on trial. And did you notice what he says to them? He says, we, the P, the person whose power brought that lame man to a place where he could walk. is the man that you, Sanhedrin, put to death. Jesus had just stood there 50 days before or more, maybe 60 days, but a few, around that time. He just stood there before them and they condemned him to death. And well they actually can't do that. St. Andrew does not have the ability to condemn somebody to death. That's reserved for the Roman Empire, which they it convinced Pilate to do that But they stood before him, and now they're saying he says with this boldness, with this openness, tells them the truth of what of what is the case here And he has four points to his message. He says, number one, you are guilty of crucifying Jesus. He says, you're guilty, verse 10. And this is the audience that he says of guilt and of crucifying Jesus the Messiah of Nazareth. He's very clear on who we're talking about here. Then point number two, he says, Jesus rose from the grave. He did this, and he's demonstrating that he rose from the grave by working through us to bring about this lame man's health and walking. And then he says, point three, the purpose of God was to establish this despite the opposition. Now notice what he does here. He is indicting them here. He is putting them on trial, if you will, in this passage. Notice what it says in verse Verse eleven, this is the stone which was rejected by your you builders, which has become the chief cornerstone. Now this is a quote from Psalm 118. And it has never been applied prior to this time, this way, but Peter cites A couple of things about this. First of all, he says, this is the stone which the builders rejected. And he actually inserts this word you in there. He says, you builders rejected. These were the builders of Israel. These were the the elite of Israel. These were the leaders of Israel. And they rejected Jesus Christ. And he says, the stone which you rejected has become the chief. cornerstone. The cornerstone, of course, is the most important stone that of a building that's built. It sets the the size and the direction of the of the building. It is what is established as the it sets the how plum the building is and And really the cornerstone, uh particularly the way they built them built houses and and buildings back then, the cornerstone was usually the largest and most prominent of all of the of all the corn uh of all the corners and and structure of the building as far as the foundations. concern. In fact, um you can go now I just was looking at this, you can actually go to the Palestine and to that area. And you can actually see where the where there are buildings that are gone, but the cornerstone is still there, even though the rest of the building has been has been demolished into rubble And yet you can identify the cornerstone of various buildings. Not every building, but identify it his point is that Jesus is the one who is now the cornerstone. You rejected him As the builder, and he is now going to be the builder. There's this implication here also that he is the one that's going to build his church. He is the one that's going to build the nation of Israel in the future when he comes comes back. He is the chief cornerstone. Then he mentions this. He says in no uncertain terms, point number four to his message, that Jesus is the only way. Do you see how clear that this is probably the most direct, clearest, exclusive verse, perhaps in the entire Bible. Neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none other name given among men whereby we must be saved. There is no other way. And do you know how that sounds in a pluralistic society? Even back then, by the way, they were pluralistic. The Sanhedrin shouldn't have been, they probably weren't. But the Roman Empire certainly was. They were in fact inclusivists. The way that they dealt with all of the different nations that they were conquering was that they would allow them to keep their religion. They would allow them to practice. In fact, they would assist them as long as it didn't rot it didn't interrupt the Roman Empire, what they were doing, and didn't cause any problems, they would allow that to happen But in fact, the Romans later on in Acts are going to see the Romans persecuting the exclusive Christians because they are exclusive in what they are saying. And it does cause disruption. Are we not living in a pluralistic society today? The greatest quote unquote sin in a pluralistic society is to be exclusive and to say that Jesus is the only way. That for the for a pluralistic society who is inclusive of all kinds of other things Whatever you think is right is right, and you determine what's right by what you think. And that's that's our postmodern uh society today Where truth doesn't come from the outside and you learn it and then you internalize it, truth comes from the inside And so whatever you think is truthful, that's truth for you. And that might not be truth for me. And it's okay that we contradict each other. It's both truth, and we're okay with that. Which is a total logical uh logical contradiction, which causes a real problem, then you have a bunch of people growing up not logical, which really bothers me. But anyway But but honestly, it is it is a it this this so so the point is simply this the exclusivity of the cross Is the offense. The offense of the cross is that it allows no other. You want to talk about Jesus' love, and you won't have a problem You want to talk about how Jesus came and healed the poor and you won't have a heal the poor, healed the sick and and and helped the poor, and you'll have no problem But as soon as you say that Jesus is the only way, you then will have a problem. And I will just say to you today But if there's someone listening in the sound of my voice, you're saying within the sound of my voice you're saying, I don't really you know, I don't know this this whole about this whole I I I'm good, I I I like what you're saying But you know, there might be other ways, and I wouldn't want to be the exclusive. It even it even you know, I I'm really convinced that this exclus exclusivity as sin is something that is actually actually training consciences, people's consciences wrong. That they believe that it bothers their conscience that we are so exclusive. Understand, folks, you've got to make a decision. Because the Bible says there is no other way. He that believeth on the Son hath life. He that believeth not on the Son hath not life. And the wrath of God abides on him. There is only one way. And if you have thought any differently than that, let me just encourage you now that you need to come to Christ and you need to claim Him as the only way. You need to by faith Trust in Christ as the only way. He said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man comes to the Father except by me. He says, through all, through Christ alone, we will be saved. The leaders listened to this. They listened to the boldness of Peter as he said these things. But I want you to notice what it says in verse 13. When they saw the boldness of Peter and John and perceived that they were uneducated and untrained men, they marveled. And they realized that they had been with Jesus. We'd seen them, we'd seen people marvel before, haven't we? We saw them marvel after the lame man was healed. We saw them marvel after the uh after the tongues were spoken in various languages. People marvel then as well. Now the Sanhedrin see a man who they it's interesting, folks, it didn't say they were offended. You would think that the boldness with which Peter spoke, they would be offended, but I suspect that Peter was was not did not speak in an angry way. I suspect that that Peter did not did not was not trying to incite their anger. He was simply claiming and and and and and heralding the truth and there is a difference. And he was simply stating what was true But they did marvel. They were amazed at what these people said. And it says in the passage that they were uneducated and untrained. And what they're saying there is that the Sanhedrin had a whole school By which they train people. And the fact that Peter could eloquently and clearly give this message to them without this kind of training was something that was very surprising to them. That wasn't normal. It is interesting that when the Spirit of God works in the life of a person, folks, it doesn't matter if they're educated or not. God can work for them And if you were listening today and you say, you know, I you know I I'm just not as educated as so-and-so. I don't know that God can really use me. Understand that the Spirit of God will use you exactly in the way he wants to use you, and he can Now that is not to say that God doesn't use educated men. The Apostle Paul is going to come later, who was trained in one of the best schools imaginable. He was under the under under Gamaliel in his teaching He was extremely well educated, and God used him to write the detailed accounts of the doctrinal truth that he wanted to you see the epistles and they are detailed And they are logical and they are laid out in very clear order. God used Paul and his education. But God will use the uneducated as well. And his spirit is really the key. It is the work of the Spirit to do, to use a person for his purposes the way that he wants to for his glory. And we see here that based upon who these men were, they were amazed by this. They were absolutely amazed. Now let me point this to you, point this out to you. What does it mean when it says they saw their boldness? This word boldness means openness. It says in Mark chapter 8 verse 32, the very first time this word is used, it's translated says, and they spoke this word openly, openly. And in John chapter 7, verse 4, it says, For no one does anything in secret while he himself seeks to be known openly. This word means to be open. It means to be transparent. This doesn't mean that Peter was was did not think before he spoke. The Bible says, let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, and slow to wrath. Peter was not swift to speak I'm sure he was thoughtful in what he said. It's obvious he he was thoughtful in what he said. It was very well laid out. Folks, he was he was speaking something that was he was clear about this. He was open. He was not fearful in any way. He was not worried about what they were going to think. He really was just simply going to state the truth. And he was open. You know, when I was in college and in seminary, uh particularly in undergraduate college, we took a lot of speech courses and homilitics courses and uh voice and articulation courses and all kinds of courses like that. And you know it was interesting uh that beginning speakers and preachers, one of the things that will happen is their gestures will be sort of Off from their message. You know, they'll be saying something sad and they'll put their hand up like that or something like things like that. It'll be sort of off Or or they'll speak they'll be speaking in a way that they'll they'll say something and then the gesture will be delayed. And it's it it just kind of throws you off a little bit when you're listening to it. There are different ways to solve that. We would have to say our speeches and sermons in the mirror. We were video recorded. Uh which I guess was good practice because I'm bidding recorded every week now, um, which I don't like to watch myself at all. But we we none of us liked it, but we did it anyway and it was helpful But there's actually a sense in which that can be harmful. Because you know the real key to having natural gestures when you're speaking or Or having the right kind of voice inflection when you're speaking to match the message of what you're speaking or preaching, whether you're speaking or preaching in the key, you've got to forget about yourself. That's actually the key. You've got to stop thinking about yourself and what you look like and what you sound like You've got to stop thinking about what other people are thinking about you, and you've got to think about communicating the message that you want to communicate. And as you forget about yourself, and as you are focused on the message you want to communicate, the gestures just come naturally. You don't have to actually think about it, and you certainly don't have to stand in front of a mirror and figure it out. That's one of the best lessons that you can learn is you've got to forget about yourself. Now, there's a reason I'm mentioning all of this. What is it about a response from someone who is genuinely filled with the Holy Spirit of God? What is it what does it mean to be filled with the Spirit of God? Well, here's what it doesn't mean. It doesn't mean That that God like fills us with a little bit of Himself. Like I'm like 10% filled today by the Holy Spirit of God, or 20% filled, or or 50% filled. And if I'm D. Al Moody, I'm 100% filled. And if, you know, maybe Abraham was 95%. I mean, that's not the way it works, folks. It's not a matter of the Spirit of God filling, He fills us, but it's not a matter of God giving Himself to us. It's a matter, folks, of us giving ourselves to God. Giving ourselves wholly to God. And the reason that Peter could be so open, and the reason that Peter could be so bold in what he was saying. Was because, you know, there was something that was just not in the way here. It was self. Do you know the barrier to being truly under the influence of the Spirit of God? The greatest barrier to being under the influence of the Spirit of God in your life is yourself and myself. When self is in the way, when we're focused on self, when we are preoccupied with self. Then the Spirit of God is not, we are not giving ourselves to the Spirit of God. If you want to And what we see in this passage, why was there a transparency and openness and not a guardedness about things? Have you ever have you ever been in a place where you're fearful? I mean, you've got the Sanhedrin everywhere. There's seventy people, they're surrounding on all sides And Peter preaches this message and he just speaks what he wants to say, and they are marveled by the boldness. How did this happen? Peter was not, he was not in any way concerned about himself at all. Brothers and sisters in Christ, if we are truly going to be under the influence of the Spirit of God in our lives, If we are going to see our response be like Peter's response in the midst of opposition. then we are going to have to get self out of the way. We are going to and you know the only way to do that is to positively love. God and others. See, that's the opposite of self-centeredness. The opposite of self-centeredness is love. When you love God and when you love others, you're not thinking about yourself anymore. Your self takes a back seat to the pursuits and the pleasure of God and the needs of others Self takes a back roll. You know what, Peter, it's not said in this passage, but you know what Peter is very likely love these people enough to tell them the truth And sometimes in your life and my life, the reason that we are hindered in speaking the truth openly before others is because self is in the way. Do you find yourself, just practically speaking, do you find yourself, brothers and sisters of Christ, do you find yourself preoccupied with yourself? Worrying about how things are going to affect you, how things are going to be, how you're thinking about things, how others are thinking about things about you. How, how, how, what folks, look. A absolute hallmark of being under the influence of the Spirit of God, the way Peter was, is that he self is out of the way. And folks, when that happens, there is a freedom. There is a liberty, there is a joy, even in the midst of being in having a bad night's sleep in prison and coming in b in in in the midst of the Sanhedrin. He still was able to be free and open with the truth of the Word of God. And I just would wonder this What about you? How would you look at your life? Has your life been a preoccupation with self? We can do this in ministry. We can be concerned about our ministry and even in ministries that you're in church. You can be thinking about, well, what this what do I look like when I'm doing this? Or what what What I'm doing is so much better or so much more than somebody else doing. Those kinds of things can can can creep in. It it it indicates a lack of being filled with the Spirit of God when that happens And so the the the application for us today is this, folks, to be filled with the Spirit of God. To be able to properly respond to opposition, we must be as Peter and we must get self out of the way. Let's just look at these three final conclusions here. Number one, the Holy Spirit filling is the key to responding properly to opposition. Holy Spirit filling is the key to responding properly to opposition. We must expect, folks, opposition as Christians. If you try to do anything for Christ, look, expect that there's going to be distractions. There's going to be opposition. I look at the three possibilities in chapter 4, chapter 5, and chapter 6. And I I'll take chapter five and chapter six any day well not chapter six is I'll take chapter six any day of the uh over the other other two. First one's persecution, second one's unrepentant sin, the third one is administrative problems Give me numbers give me give me administrative problems over the other two any day of the week. But I'm not thinking very biblically because if I really was thinking biblically, I probably would be wanting number of the first one, persecution, because that's fan fans the flames of the gospel But understand this, whatever you're dealing with, understand this. There is going to be opposition when you are trying to proclaim the name of Christ. And you must be filled with the Spirit of God. You must depend on His Spirit, or you will not be able to respond correctly. Number two. The Holy Spirit results in confident openness. Confident openness because self is no longer in the way. Now I'm not at all saying that that if you have a personality that is more th that you don't some pe some people's personality there's there's no barrier between here and here. And so it just sort of flows That can be as dangerous as not being able, as having too much of a barrier between here and here. And I'm not criticizing either one of those. Both of them have their dangers. So that's not what I'm talking about here, but but there there ought to be a confident openness, a transparent openness. And that happens when we are filled with the Spirit of God. And number three, the Holy Spirit Filling glorifies the Lord. You begin to do things that you would not otherwise do. You begin to respond in ways that you would not otherwise respond You begin to react in ways that otherwise you would not. And it glorifies God. You'll say to your own self, well, that's not me. The Lord did that. Or you'll say yourself with somebody else, you'll notice, well, that's not him or her. It glorifies the Lord. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you this morning and we look at your word and we see what it says. And we see that the example of Peter and how he he responded correctly with the gospel and his situation, with an openness and a clarity and a boldness, confidence Because he was occupied with you, with others, with his message, and he did not allow self to get in the way. And we confess before you, Lord, that selfness seems to always be there. And we, this is a daily struggle for all of us. Paul said, I die daily. Lord, we just confess to you that so often self gets in the way.