I'm excited about uh the you might call a sermonette tonight. Sort of a a message that we can look at from God's Word, uh perhaps in a slightly abbreviated form. Nonetheless, uh no matter how long we spend on God's word, it's uh it's important to take note of of what's being taught there, what's being told to us. what um we need to know about ourselves and about God. And so um if we could we could turn to Malachi and uh we'll actually be starting in chapter two verse seventeen and while you're turning there A question for you as we think about this text. Have you ever uttered the words? That's not fair. Now uh perhaps that question is not fair to ask that question. Um Perhaps uh maybe it's been a little bit longer for you, depending on how old you are. I don't know. I think I I haven't said that in a while, I think. Um But it uh it you know it it definitely comes up among siblings, right? Especially when we're we're younger perhaps and uh You know, it is uh intrinsic within human nature to find the injustice in situations. Perhaps some more than others. I can think of my my sister. She is someone who spots injustice and cannot tolerate it whatsoever. Um other people uh maybe maybe they would spot it, but they would go, eh, whatever, can't do anything about it anyway. Nonetheless, fairness is important, at least to some degree, for most of us. And it was important to the people of Malachi's day. You know the truth is while they were in very many in in a sense they were screaming from the mountaintops, it's not fair what we have to deal with right now. you know, perspective would have allowed them to see how good they really had it. And I think we'll we'll see some of that today and be able to apply some of that to our own lives tonight. Let's go ahead and pray real fast and then uh we'll get into this into our text today. Father, Lord, we we admit before you that um that we don't always see see things properly We don't always see things as you do. And Lord, I pray that you would help us from your word tonight to uh be able to gain a better approach and a better perspective on the world around us and the incidents and the things that take place around our lives and in our lives and the lives of our church and in the lives of our families. And Father, I pray that you would help us as we Take a look at this passage and give us insight to know you better and to live for you better as well. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Well we move now. We're into the fourth indictment, the fourth argument that God has against his people of Malachi's day. And that really does begin with chapter 2, verse 17. This is a familiar complaint. This is a complaint that we've looked at and seen before already in Malachi. But in this case, God addresses it. God raises it up, number one, and he actually addresses it for a particular purpose. He wants to deal with this complaint that the people of Malachi have. What's the complaint? Well, let's look at verse 17 to find out what that is. It says here in verse 17, chapter 2, it says, You have wearied the Lord with your words. And here's some divine argumentation again. Yet you say, In what way have we wearied him? In that you say, everyone who does evil is good in the sight of the Lord, and he delights in them. Or, where is the God of justice? So here is that familiar complaint. That complaint that the Israelites have that when they look at the wicked around them, the nations around them, the Gentiles, the unbelievers. They see the evil works that they do, and they don't see justice being taken place. They don't see their wicked deeds being rewarded with punishment Rather, they see them escape punishment, at least from their perspective. And so it causes them to say things like: everyone who does evil is good. And where is the God of justice? You know, once again, we have a clear perversion of their view of God. This is the result of them ignoring or forgetting how God has already revealed Himself to them. There's multiple passages that we could look at, but probably one of the most succinct and clear is Deuteronomy 32. 4, which says he is the rock His work is perfect, for all his ways are judgment. A God of truth and without iniquity, just and right is he It's very clear. All his ways are judgment, or all his ways are just. He is a God of truth and without iniquity. Just, righteous is he. They have allowed their circumstances to alter their perception of God. And we can certainly fall into the same category if we're not careful. They are ultimately saying, God, you are not fair. It is this misconception of God's character and how he judges that is a major part of the sin problems that they're having of that day. They don't trust God. They look at their circumstances and they they see very little reason to believe what God has said, to abide by what God has said, and to live as got how God has said. They have, as we've stated before, they have confused God's inaction against wickedness as approval. They do not consider that God may have a different timetable than they do But God is going to show them, at least in part, the hope that does reside in the future for them. We must be very careful to not fall into the same trap. We cannot allow our circumstances to dictate our emotions in such a way as to believe lies about our God. God was not going to let these perversions of his character to go unaddressed. And the next five verses beginning in chapter three. He begins to answer this question, where is the God of justice? It could also be stated that verse 6 is linked to and is also a continuation of that answer, but we'll get to that at a different time. So how will God's justice be meted out? What is God's plan? For the wicked, for the unbeliever, for those who don't seek his way. Well, look here at chapter 3, verse 1. And we begin to see what God's plan is. He says here, Behold, I send my messenger, and he will prepare the way before me, and the Lord whom you seek will suddenly come to his temple, even the messenger of the covenant, in whom you delight. Behold, he is coming, says the Lord of hosts. There are in this one verse three different persons that are in view. Three different persons are in view in this verse. Number one, we have God. God, he's talking about the what the person that he is sending. He is going to be sending someone Number two, we have this person that's mentioned as my messenger. Now, it's interesting. Sometimes this gets a little confusing for some because the truth is The name Malachi means my messenger. And sometimes people want to say, well, this must be a truth about Malachi himself. But as we look at this, this was looks more like something future for Malachi, for for their day, something that hasn't taken place yet So then who would this m messenger be? Well, thankfully we have the New Testament, we have all other portions of Scripture that actually refer to this passage, along with one in Isaiah as well. From Matthew, you may want to just jot these down, Matthew 3. 3 and Matthew 11, 10, Mark 1, 2, and 3, and Luke 1, 76. When you couple this with um With what is said in there, we see that this messenger that is being talked about is John the Baptist. John the Baptist. And then it says here So let's let's see, behold, I will send my messenger and he will prepare the way before me. So the the job of this messenger is a preparation for who? Well it says here, and the Lord whom you seek will suddenly come to his temple. It's talking about this Lord. And the Lord that's being referred to is of course the Messiah. Christ. You know what good would a minor prophet be without some prophecy, right? And to be honest, we haven't actually seen much of that yet. It's been a lot of indictments against the Israelites, but here we have our first dose of of future telling, of, of prophecy. It says here that this Lord whom you seek, he will come suddenly to his temple, and that he is the messenger of the covenant, and it's someone that these people will delight in. He is coming, says the Lord of hosts. Now, very likely, what's being talked about here is You know, often in the Old Testament, in the prophets, they viewed they saw the the um The prophecies concerning the Messiah, and it was often lumped together, and saw they saw it all as one coming. But as we have seen and and looked uh in Scripture and and we experience as well, that really there are two comings of the Messiah. We there are there one has taken place and one is still yet to come, which we commonly call the second coming of Christ. This suddenness And this uh the elements that are being talked about in regarding this coming of this mess uh or of um this Lord uh is mo most likely referring to the second coming of Christ. Because look at what is being said here. Let's continue now in verse 2. But who can endure the day of his coming? And who can stand when he appears? For he is like a refiner's fire, and like a launderer's soap. He will sit as a refiner and a purifier of silver, and he will purify the sons of Levi, and purge them as gold and silver, that they may offer to the Lord an offering in righteousness. So we see here that that Jesus, when he is coming in this case, he is coming as a what As a refiner, as a purifier. And it says in verse 2, who can endure, who can handle, who can withstand his coming? We see then we have much imagery. And while certainly it perhaps has some elements of his first coming, it has more to do with his second and his purpose of coming is one of spiritual purifying. And note that in these two verses that we read The focus of his purification doesn't deal with any wicked nations. It isn't talking about the Gentiles who have rejected God. Who is it talking about? Who will he purify? It says that he will purify the sons of Levi. Now, we've heard God talk to the Levites and the priesthood before in this book, haven't we? And he condemns them, right? They who are the spiritual leaders should have been active in protecting the sacrifices. And when the people would come with the lame and the sick to offer up to God, they should have shut the doors, God says. But they didn't. They allowed these irreverent and disrespectful religious practices to continue, and they didn't stop it. And what does God say here? He says, I will purify the sons of Levi and purge them as gold and silver. Why? For the reason of this, that they may offer to the Lord an offering in what? In righteousness. Yeah. So God is not ready to even talk about the wicked that go around that wickedness that goes around outside of Israel. He is still focused. on his people specifically. But you know, while this is perhaps for the Israelite of that day a little bit depressing, The truth is that God is showing that there is hope for the future, and that great hope is that God does have a plan for evildoers. Sin will always be dealt with by God. It may happen sooner, it may happen later, but we can be guaranteed that it will happen. Because God is a God of justice. Let's continue reading here. Then, in verse 4, then the offering of Judah and Jerusalem will be pleasant to the Lord, as in the days of old, as in former years. So we have here that part of the reason for this messenger to come to prepare the way for this Lord, as as he's talked about here, for this Messiah. The result will be appropriate, righteous offerings, offerings that completely contrast the disrespectful and irreverent offerings of Malachi's day. And here he says now in verse five. And I will come near you for judgment I will be a swift witness against who? Against sorcerers, against adulterers, against perjurers, against those who exploit wage earners, and widows and orphans. And against those who turn away an alien, because they do not fear me, says the Lord of hosts. He says here, he has specific categories that he's talking about. And this is this is not in general. This is talking directly to the people of Israel. Against the sorcerers, you might even say, among you, the adulterers among you, the perjers among you. Those of you who exploit the widow, the orphan And those who are deal untruthfully in their wages. And those who turn away the alien or the foreigner. These types of crimes, these types of sins were prohibited by the Mosaic Law. And God is saying that He will remove these types of sinners from Israel. And that's the idea. When it talks about earlier we we when it talks earlier about him being a a a um a refiner of silver and gold and a uh a um someone who i he he'll be like a launderer's soap. He's talking about that process of purging the iniquity Purging the impurities out of those elements. And that's what he's coming to do for Israel. He will be get rid of those who are acting and living like this. These are some pretty difficult sins to consider that would be a part of the nation of Israel, and yet Here we have it in black and white. It's true. Why would this happen? How could the people of God go this far? Well, my friends, this really serves as a good warning for us. And it serves as an example for us to beware. We have the answer right here in the pages of Scripture. Why did this happen? Why are these sins, and I'm sure other sins like them taking place within Israel? These are a group of people who should know better, right? Well, the reason, God says, is found at the end of verse 5. What does it say there? Because they do not what. They do not fear me. They don't fear me. They don't fear God anymore. You know, that kind of helps us because when we see a group of people Who have turned from God in such a severe way You kind of w wonder, how does that happen? And when we look at people in in our day and and people that we know How does it happen where professing believers or other people that we we know that have been exposed to the truth at least when they just turn and reject it Well, you know what? It's not the only reason or not the only way, but there is no fear anymore in their eyes. They don't fear God anymore. What this does, this brings to us the sobering reality of what a people who had lost their fear of God in their lives looked like. This fear of God, what what is it? Let's talk about it real quick here. We want to know what's being talked about here. Well, while it isn't a representation of just a complete terror, of someone, it does hold an aspect of dread. What do I mean by that? Well Think about it. If you put yourself in front of a holy God, whom the scriptures call a consuming fire. Would it not be appropriate to be afraid? Would it not be appropriate to say, I am scared? And I don't know what kind of fearful things you've been involved in or what has happened perhaps in your life that you have genuinely been afraid. Maybe, you know, we talk about phobias and different things. Some people they have a fear of height and it incompa incapacitates them. Maybe you have a fear like that. You know what? It is okay To be in a position before God. When God reveals Himself to you in some way through the pages of His Word, to go, wow, I'm afraid of this God. To the point where I I don't know what to do. And we see that. We see that in different aspects In the Bible, even when people wanted to be exposed to God, like Moses, and how he wasn't even able to handle Being face to face with the God of heaven. And God had to turn his back to him and only see just a glimpse. We see often too when when individuals in Scripture have visions, what happens? They're afraid. When God delivers a vision to them, they are afraid. And what's the first thing that God or the angel of the Lord or the angel himself has to say? Don't be afraid. Don't be afraid. So while that's not the only aspect of what the fear of God is, it's an important aspect. To understand that, you know what? God isn't just your buddy, He isn't just a friend. He is more than that, and we don't want to diminish that. When someone truly recognizes the awesomeness of God, And the littleness of ourselves, why wouldn't we have a measure of that kind of fear? But it certainly encompasses more than just that. What is the fear of the Lord? Well Psalm 111. 10 says the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. A good understanding have all they that do his commandments. His praise endureth forever. Proverbs one seven The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge, but fools despise wisdom and instruction. Proverbs nine ten. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and the knowledge of the holy Is understanding. There are three things there in those verses that tell us what the fear of the Lord is. And it's the beginning of wisdom, the beginning of knowledge, the beginning of understanding. If that's the case, couldn't we say then that the absence of the fear of God is the beginning of foolishness? Couldn't give you chapter and verse that says exactly that, but wouldn't there be an antithesis to that And how foolish were these Israelites of Malachi's day. You know, perhaps it's true that The people of Israel uh of of Malachi's day, they weren't the most prosperous people. They weren't the the in the position that they really wanted to be They had heartache and they had some suffering and they had they they were dominated by uh another nation But how good did they really have it? All the people were back. Anyone who wanted to go back to the Holy Land, they could go. They had the opportunity to have their their religious leaders back in place. They didn't have that uh several years prior to that time. They had a temple again. And no, it wasn't as glorious as Solomon's temple. They complained about that too. But they had it. Things were there. And instead of focusing on what they didn't have, maybe they could have focused on what they did have, what God had provided for them. And maybe they could have focused on the promises of God that they did know and did have. And perhaps if they had done that, they could have had a proper fear of God. They allowed their circumstances to dictate how they thought about God and what they did with in their lives through it. And because of that, they lost the fear of God. They didn't they weren't afraid of his judgment anymore. They weren't afraid of his chastisement. They weren't afraid of what God was going to do because they thought God is not Fair. So why do I have to live for him anyway? Truth is We have a completed scripture and we see the justice of God in in even more forms than they did. Do we really want fair? I pose that question to do we do we really want fair? No. Because what is fair? What's fair is you and I immediately, now and before now, paying the punishment for our sin ourselves, right? That's what fairness is. You know what's not fair? What's not fair is the perfect sinless Lamb of God dying on the cross in our place. That's not fair. You know what the amazing thing though is? Is that in that, in that, in that death and sacrifice for us. God still remains just. And we talked about that in Romans 3, that he might be just and the justifier of him who believes on his name. If the religious leaders of Malachi's day would have been thorough in teaching the Word of God, They would have seen that God they they didn't really want fair. Because fair would have been God rejecting those people a long time before That. And we're about to read in a little bit in verse 6. Just take a little snapshot here. For I, the Lord, do not change. Therefore, you, O sons of Jacob, are not consumed. The only reason God doesn't judge these people and eradicate them and start something else is because he already promised certain things to them. And he would not and in any way go against those promises. You see, God is just God is a God of justice. He is perfectly fair. They just didn't have eyes to see it. They were very short-sighted. I pray that we don't be that way. I pray that we aren't short-sighted like that, but we see the bigger picture. You know, it it is undeniably difficult When things are rough and things are difficult, to to be short sighted and only s only see This little you know the circle right around our own lives. And and keep asking why and why are circumstances like this and why is it difficult? And I I don't know how I'm gonna get out of this But the answer, number one, is fear God and trust Him. Fear Him and trust Him. Because he is just, he is perfectly fair. Anything else, if we don't do that, if we don't do that, then we are in the the beginning stages of being foolish In the beginning stages of no longer seeing the awesomeness of God, no longer revering him in his name And we are in fact emulating the people of Israel of that day. Let's not be people like that. Let's be people who fear his name and trust him. Trust him with everything. And when people, when God's people are like that, when God's people find themselves in that position, especially collectively, and like in a body believers like we are, what can God do with us when we're like that? I hate the term the sky is a limit, but it it kinda is like that. It's so cliche, but you know what? God can do amazing things with people who are just committed and just devoted to him. That's what he wants. That's what he wants. And it's what he was begging his people to do. Let's be like that. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for the truths of this time. In Malachi's time. Thank you for using him the way you have, the way you did. And Lord, thank you that that you have everything under control and that you truly You put everything perfectly in its time, whether it's reward, whether it's punishment, whether it's justice, whether it's discipline Your timing is perfect, Lord, and we acknowledge that. Help us, Lord, to be people who aren't short-sighted, but rather, as best we can, see through the lens of Scripture. And attain your perspective, ultimately trusting you with all outcomes. Lord, I pray that you would use us. Pray that you would grow us closer to yourself and you would use us use us mightily, even in this year to come, that people would be discipled, people would grow. People would come to Christ in our midst, and that uh your name would be glorified and magnified and your kingdom would be uh advanced for the cause of the gospel. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.