Hopefully it did yours as well. John chapter three. Let me begin uh by turning on my mic. Okay. Let me begin by uh asking a question. Do you have a Christ-centered worldview? Do you have a Christ-centered worldview? And most of you probably would say, yeah, sure, I have a crisis in a worldview. And some of you would be honest enough to say, what's a worldview? So let's look at what a definition of a worldview is And actually, and I and I want to begin this way for this reason. Your worldview is going to determine ultimately the decisions that you make. How you view the world, how you view yourself in the world will determine the decisions that you make in life. And that's why this is so important. A worldview is a framework for understanding the world. It is the perspective from which we see what is ultimate What is real, what our experience means, and what our place is in the cosmos or the world. That's a quote from John Piper's book on the subject I guess I should say that I don't agree with John Piper on all con plenty of things. Apparently his stance on gun control is a little questionable. But um he is he he he does a good job with subjects of this nature So I would ask again the question: do you have a Christ-centered world view? Let me ask you another question. Did God send his son primarily for you and me? Did God send his son? We've been celebrating Christmas. Did God send his son primarily for you and me? Now, keep that question in your mind, and I'm going to read a statement by A. W. Tozer. He says this. Acquaint thyself with God. To regain her lost power, the church must see heaven opened and have a transforming vision of God. But the God we must see is not the utilitarian God who is having such a run of popularity today, whose chief claim to man to men's attention is his ability to bring them success in their various undertakings. And who, for that reason, is being conjoled and flattered by everyone who wants a favor? The God we must learn to know. Is the majesty in the heavens, God the Father Almighty, maker of heaven and earth, the only wise God, our Savior. Now, most of us folks would then admit that God did not primarily send his son for us. He primarily sent his son to glorify himself. We would, I would think nearly all of us, if not all of us, would agree with that. That in first and foremost God, the Father, sent his Son to glorify himself. But then we would say, then the next question is: well, what about secondarily? Did God send his son secondarily for you and me? And the majority of us would probably initially say yes, but I'm going to suggest no. And I'm going to take the remainder of the message to prove that to you. But I'm going to do it this way. I'm going to give you an illustration. How many of you all had company over the holidays? I'm just curious. How many of you How many of you went somewhere over the holidays? Okay, that should have caught most people. Uh either you went somewhere over the holidays or you had people over over the holidays Let's suppose you were having company over the holidays and you went to the store to buy food. And somebody asked you, why are you going to the store? And you said to buy food. Would that be a correct statement? But would that be the ultimate reason that you went to buy food? No, your ultimate reason was to buy food so that you could bring it home to serve it to company. Make sense? Okay, so you have the all so you have three phases there. You have the ultimate That is to serve to company. And then you've got the beginning stage of what you're doing. You're going to the store. And in between, you have this thing that you're going to do, or this secondary purpose. We'll put it in these kinds of terms just so you understand. Now I've explained this to you. These are kind of big words, but I've explained by an illustration, so you'll get this hopefully immediately. Everybody understands the term ultimate, the ultimate, the final. How many have ever heard the term penultimate before? Okay, some of you, it's used in grammar. It is also used in mus musical theory, I believe. And it's used in languages. It's used in Greek accenting, but anyway, it's used in different ways. So you've got ultimate and you've got penultimate, and then there's another there's another word, antipenultimate In in Greek accenting, the way this works is you've got three different kinds of accent. You have three different levels of accenting. You've got the major ultimate accent. Well actually those are syllables. These are all syllables. And the final syllable is ultimate. And penultimate is the syllable before it, and the syllable before that is the antipenultimate. And so then they teach you how to accent those syllables. It's a lot, uh it's really boring. But anyway But for our purposes today, I'm going to suggest to you folks that the ultimate, without question, is that Christ sent his son to die to glorify himself. Nobody really can argue with that. But that there is a and and yes, in an antipenultimate way, Christ died for us. But I think that in our worldview, there is something that we are often missing between those two things Did, why did Christ ultimately come to die? And we're going to, and I'm going to, and why did he come to this earth to live? And we're going to deal with that, but before we do, let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, when we come to you, we thank you, Lord, for who you are. We thank you for the plan that you give to us in your word. And I pray that you would help us to formulate a more Christ-centered worldview in our thinking, that it will affect our decision making. It will cause us to navigate this life in a way that pleases you, despite all the difficulties of the world, despite all the problems I pray that we would have a worldview that is Christ-centered. And as we look at at John the Baptist's worldview, when we look at his approach to his life and how where he was in the world. I pray, and what Christ came to do, I pray that you would help us to adopt his approach to life. May this help us in the year to come. May this cause us to be more conformed and more direct in our following of Christ. And I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. I want to begin just in our study of this text by pointing out a few things in the text. I don't usually do this, but what I'm going to do is I'm going to kind of run through the content of the text kind of quickly And then we're going to go back through it again and we're going to begin to apply this in a fashion that we can really begin to understand the significance of what of what is here. John the Baptist, of course, in this narrative, has been approached by his disciples, if you recall from last week, with a question as to the following of Christ. There are people that are following Christ. In fact, at this point, there are more people that are being baptized by Christ's disciples and following Christ than John. And they are doing things in a different way than John has Has done them. In fact, the baptism with which they are baptizing is a different kind of baptism, which we learned last week. When the disciples of John come to John with this kind of question, John's essential reply Is that Christ must increase and I must decrease. And what we're going to find then here in this text Is why that's the case. John is now, John the Baptist is now going to give reasons why he must increase, and particularly why Christ must increase. Now, I just want to pause for a moment and just think about this. John the Baptist, outside of his very serious loss of faith later on in his ministry after he was put into prison Was a very consistent testimony for Christ. There isn't any question about that. He stayed focused on what his role was. He stayed focused on what the world's role was, and he stayed focused on what Christ's role was, and he stayed focused on what God's plan was. Do you and I ever struggle with focus? We do. There isn't any question about it. We are so fickle. And our society is so fickle. We run from one thing to another thing to another thing to another thing. We are a fickle society. We are not focused. Folks, the reason that we are not focused, I would suggest to you, is because we do not have a clearly biblical, biblically fixed worldview We are too we are too um influenced by our individual particular circumstances Instead of looking at scripture and coming with a clearly established worldview, and what you what you see from John the Baptist is that the that from the beginning of his ministry to the end of his ministry, with the exception of that of that that loss of faith later on in the end What you find in John the Baptist ministry, certainly up to this point entirely, is a great deal of focus. So that when John the Baptist's ministry was large and budding, and by the world's standards greatly successful, John the Baptist stayed firm on his focus. And that when John the Baptist's ministry diminished, John still stayed focused on the same goal. He understood how to deal, respond to things, and make decisions on things based upon this worldview that he had. And what we find in this passage is John the Baptist's worldview on life. And his life was entirely focused on Christ's role as the one who needed to increase. And folks, I want to just suggest to you today that your goal and my goal, our ultimate goal, ought to be for Christ to increase. In our lives, in our families, in our church, in our neighborhood, in our workplace In our world, our goal ought to be for Christ to increase. And the question is why, and the answer is in this text. So if you'll look at it with me, what I'm going to do is just review a few things and then we're going to go back through it again in a more detailed fashion. Verse 31 says this, He that cometh from above is above all, and he that is of the earth is earthly. And speaketh of the earth. He that cometh from heaven is above all. Of course, he is contrasting himself with Christ. He is saying that he came from earth, but Christ came from heaven. And the origin of Christ determines the fact causes the reality to be the case that he is above all. Christ is above all. Why must he increase in the life of John the Baptist and in his ministry? Because Christ is above all. We see the person of Christ there. In verse 32, it says, and what he has said and heard, that he testified, and no man receiveth his testimony. It says here in verse 32 that Christ testifies of what he has seen himself in heaven. Christ has experienced all. He's experienced a relationship with the Father. He's experienced all of what truth is from a heavenly perspective And he has come down to earth at this point to be able to testify of what he has experienced in God. Then you find in verse 33, He that receiveth his testimony hath set set to his his seal that God is true. And we're going to look at that. Verse 34, for he whom God has sent, speak the words of God. For God giveth not the Spirit by measure unto him. So he then says that Christ has this ultimate ability to testify with ultimate veracity. Why? Because he is given the words of God and he has a full measure of the Spirit of God. In the Old Testament, you had the Spirit of God that were coming upon various individuals for various times for specific purposes. But when Christ came, he had the full measure of God's Spirit all of the time. Verse 35, the Father loveth the Son, and hath given all things into the S into his hand. So that, verse 36, he that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life. And he that believeth not the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth on him In verses thirty-one through thirty-six, what we have here are a series of general statements. And they begin with the pre-incarnation, the fact that Christ is above all To the incarnation, to his exaltation. And what we want to see in this text is by what method, what plan Did God move Christ from his incarnation, the fact that he came and was born, to his exaltation? What was the plan of God to do that? What I mean by it's important to understand this, that when Christ came to earth, he did not limit or Or withhold his deity at all. But he did, Philippians chapter 2, limit his glory. So that when Christ came to earth and he was in the incarnation, and and and And the incarnation occurred, it was not as though people all immediately recognized him as God and Lord and King. They didn't recognize him that way. He came as a poor baby in a manger. And of course we know the story. But how is it that God, in his plan, caused the hearts of men, or some men, not all men? Some men to recognize Christ and who he really is. And that is the message that we want to get. And then what we've got to do in our own personal application of this is to see where, what is my placement in this thing. And where we want to come out is that we have an entirely Christ Christ-centered worldview. So let's begin here with John's initial statement in verse 31, where he says this. He that cometh from above is above all. He that is of the earth is earthly, and speaketh of the earth. He that cometh from heaven is above all. John begins here by by saying, why must he increase and m why must he I decrease God's plan begins by Christ's eternal person with Christ's eternal person. John realized who Christ Really was. He realized that this man who walked among them was the God of eternity past and the God of eternity future. And that he was truly above all. It wasn't as though he was just equal with the angels above above there in heaven. John's John's uh identification of Christ is that he is above all things. And folks, that is where our worldview must begin. It must begin with a conscious understanding of who is above all. It is not man, it is God. A. W. Tozer said this: we must practice the art of long and loving meditation upon the majesty of God. This will take some effort, for the concept of majesty has all but disappeared from the human race. The focal point of man's interest is now himself. Humanism, in its various forms, has displaced theology as the key to the understanding of life. And very frankly, I'll just say this by way of application as well. I occasionally hear some people sort of loathe theology. They sort of say that it is not really all that necessary, or we don't want to get into the theology stuff. Folks, do you realize that there was a day in the church, in Christ's church, where people realized that they must gain their worldview from theology? They must gain their worldview from what God says about Himself and what God says and has revealed in His Word first. And unfortunately, folks, if we're not careful, we get it mixed up. We have these glasses in front of the Bible, and that's called our experience and our world. And instead of looking at the world with the lens of the Bible, we look at the Bible with the lens of the world. It is for us a great tragedy. Why is it so important to delve deep into the into the revelation of who God is and what he has done? to not be satisfied with the surface of things, but to be able to know and believe what God says he is and how he works in the world. Why is that so important? It's so important because our worldview has got to come from who God is first. We are exposed to all kinds of things in the world. On every corner, we live day after day in the world. And it is appropriate for us to do that. We are exposed to all kinds of things throughout our lives in the world. And if we are not extremely careful, The world can become our lens rather than God's word remaining our lens God's character and God's word are the essential things that are absolutely necessary for us to have a Christ-centered worldview. And when the disciples, John's disciples came to John, and he said, I must increase, and or God must increase, and I must decrease, he immediately moves and he says Because Christ is above all. He understands things from a heavenly perspective. He understands things from the kind from God's perspective. The question that we need to ask ourselves in this whole understanding of what a worldview really is, whether we have a Christ-centered worldview, is are we beginning first with understanding who God is and what he reveals himself about his word. Secondly, we find here in this text That God's plan unfolds throughout Christ's divine testimony. This is incredible what what John says next. Verse 32 And what he has seen and heard that he testifieth, and no man receiveth his testimony. Now, let me just explain this explain it this way. If Christ is truly above all, And he is in control of all things. Why didn't he just come and immediately tell that to everyone? Why isn't it that everybody just he immediately revealed himself in the full weight of his glory to everyone And I'm going to suggest to you folks that the reason was that God, what Christ was initially looking for in his ministry, and what he's looking for today is internal reception. Not external reception based upon what Christ can do, but internal reception based upon who Christ is. And so when he came to earth, he limited his glory so that people could begin to see who he really was by his own testimony. He testified of what he knew to be true about God. He testified of what he had experienced in a way that nobody ever had. Nobody else ever in the history of Of the civilization of mankind, nobody had ever come from heaven, experienced heaven, and come down to earth and told everybody about it. There are, by the way, folks that claim that, aren't there? You can find books on that subject. I died, went to heaven, came back, and I'm going to tell you about it. Don't believe it. It's a farce. Only Christ has done this. And of course, because Christ is authentic in what he did, he has this great authority to be able to proclaim and to authenticate who God really is. But what we find in this text, folks, what we find is does the world, did the world, even at this point, did the world receive it? Look at what look at what John says. He says, and no man receiveth his testimony. Now, when you think of your own worldview, does that not compute with you? Sometimes we are guilty of living in a world where we think that the majority of people know Christ. Or that the majority of people are Christians. Or that just because somebody says they're a Christian, then they must be a Christian. Was that is that a Christ-like worldview? Is that the worldview that Christ would have taken in our world today? Or is it that the majority of people reject him? John, the writer of John, wants to get this theme across. This is not some the first time we have seen this kind of thing. Now, I want us to review for a few moments what John is trying to say here. It's going to help us to understand our placement in this world. Would you just turn back a couple of pages to John chapter 1? John introduces this idea of reception versus rejection back in this chapter. John chapter 1, verse 11 says this. He came into his own, and his own what received him not. But John then quickly says in verse 12, what did he say? But as many as received him, them gave he the power to become the sons of God. even to them that believe on his name. You see here these this contrasting idea. He came into his own, his own didn't receive him. But then there were some that did receive him Look at Christ's own testimony in chapter testimony in the beginning of chapter 3, verse 10. Jesus answered and said unto him, Art thou a master of Israel, and knowest not these things? Verily, verily I say unto thee, we speak that we do know, and testify that we have seen And ye receive not our witness. Why? He says it. If I have told you earthly things and ye believe not, how that how shall ye believe if I tell you of heavenly things? Why is it? What's the root problem? Well, we reviewed this in the past. We've looked at this a couple weeks ago. John chapter 3, verse 19. Just a few verses down. Now, this is the basis for judging. Oh, I've got a the wrong version here. Um I'm gonna read it in the wrong version because the only version I have right now there. Yeah, I can flip back a page. It's true. Verse 19. Chapter 3. And this is the condemnation, that light is common to the world, and men love darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil. For every one that doeth evil hateth the light, neither cometh to the light, lest his deeds should be reproved. What's the problem here? Why is it that people don't receive Christ? Because they don't like the light. The bottom line, folks, is that they don't want it They don't want Christ. That's the problem. They don't want it. We're going to find by further revelation, the Apostle Paul is going to say in Romans chapter 3. that there is none righteous, no not one, there is none that understandeth, and there is none that seeketh after God. What John is trying to get across in several places throughout his book is man's total inability. Man does not come to Christ because he does not want to. Man does not understand because he cannot. Man is incapable of coming to Christ Even though Christ comes and testifies of Himself I mean, if you really think about it here, folks, we have a new understanding of this now at this point with this particular passage. I mean, Christ is simply saying it's John is simply saying Christ testified based upon his own authentic experience and no one believes him So how is it that Christ is ever going to reveal himself? How is it ever going to happen where people receive him? Well, would you notice here, we're going to answer that question in a few moments, but if you look back at our passage, you'll see what it says here in verse 33. And you see this contrast again, by the way, you saw in verse 32, and no man receiveth his testimony. And then you see in verse 33, he that hath received his testimony. So apparently there have been some that receive his testimony, and yet nobody receives it. I mean what gives here? You're almost looking at it going, is this a contradiction? I mean nobody receives it, and yet yet some people have received it What's the answer? Well, verse 32, just keep this in your mind. Nobody has the ability to receive it. No one has the ability to receive it. Verse 33, he that hath received it, apparently there's somehow that people are receiving it. We're going to get to that in a minute. There are some people that have received it, even though nobody has the ability to receive it. His testimony hath set to his seal that what? That God is true. Now let me pause here and ask the question. Have you received it? I would guess that the majority of people in this room right now have received Christ. There are some very likely that have not, even in this room. And I think we all all ought to be aware of that reality, that it is a possibility. that even in our midst we are a close-knit group of people, we know each other, but but there is always that possibility that somebody has not received it. Have not received Christ. But for those of us who have, what is our role? Okay, we've got this worldview. Well, what is our role in the world? Our role is that we testify, we authenticate that God is true. Uses this word seal here. What it's talking about is this idea of somebody being a witness for somebody else. In today's standards, you would understand it as like a notary. How many have ever had to get a document and you sign a document, but had to go to another republic to get it to get it signed? Most of us at one time or another have had to do that And it's basically somebody witnessing and putting their stamp on the thing that your signature is your signature, and they watched you sign the thought sign the document and they're notarizing it. They're authenticating the document. They're authenticating your signature. See, most of us, if we're not careful, we can think that our role in the world is primarily to disseminate information. That what we are to do is to give out the information of the gospel. And although that is part of our responsibility, God says, go into all the world and preach, actively, verbally tell the gospel to every creature. What God has in mind for those to whom have received Christ, what God has in mind is that we authenticate God to the world, that we testify that God is true, that we say to other people, God has done something in my life. And I can by my own witness, my own testimony, I can tell you God is true in my life. I know Him to be true. It authenticates the gospel. It authenticates the message. And by the way, is that not incredible that God has tasked us with that responsibility? I mean, if you really think about it, who are we? Who are we that God would choose to authenticate his grand message to the world? Who are we that God would choose that? How is it that we are to do this? There are so many practical applications of this, but folks, what we've got to do is move beyond the 15-minute gospel presentation and think we're done. Or think that all we've got to do is we've got to give some of the gospel and then we'll just move on and we've absolved ourselves the responsibility. No, that is not a biblical worldview. A biblical worldview is that God, people have got to see you live. And see God living through you Puts it into a whole nother realm of what our responsibility is, doesn't it? And I would just ask the question I mean what what John said last week was that his his um greatest joy was that others would see Christ. And that ought to be our greatest joy, that others would be see Christ in us. And I think, folks, it's appropriate for us to ask the question, is that happening in our lives? And I just have to say by way of confession almost that I look at at 2015 and I think to myself, boy, I got a lot of work two thousand and and a lot of responsibility in 2016. I need to be To be more available, to be more present among those who need Christ. I need to authenticate God, God's message more. I want to read to you something that I think is just extremely appropriate because I think at this point some of us will have heard message after message on witnessing to others. And the importance of telling others about Christ. We've heard message after message on missions. But I want to get across something that I think is just absolutely vitally important for us to understand. when we're thinking through all of this. And I'm going to quote again John Piper. He wrote an excellent book on missions called the Let the nations be glad, the supremacy of God in missions. And he says this: missions is not the ultimate goal of the church. Worship is Missions exists because worship doesn't. Worship is ultimate, not missions, because God is ultimate, not man. Worship, therefore, is the fuel and goal of missions. Why is it that God's people are not effective Or not more effective in genuinely authenticating the message and just authenticating God, testifying that God is true. Why? It's because we don't worship as we ought. We don't see who God is as God desires for us to see him. We do not enjoy him. In the way that God wants us to. We do not see His majesty and His glory. We're not aware of His presence. That is why. We, if you look at the last 50 years of our churches, particularly our fundamental churches. We have been very focused on the message, on disseminating the information. But I fear, folks, that we have not been very focused. On authenticating the God we serve. And what we find here in this passage is that that is what our role is. Now, what then is the ultimate goal? Or actually the penultimate goal? The ultimate goal we know to be to glorify God. But I want you to see here verse thirty-five. Verse 34, we've explained already that Christ, I don't think any of us doubt the authenticity of Christ's testimony. Verse 35: the Father loveth the Son. Verse verse And hath given what? And have given all things into his hand. God's plan for increasing Christ is that God has given all things to Christ. Now, all things is very general, isn't it? It's really hard for us to wrap our minds around all things So let's let's pick out a few of the all things, shall we? Let's look at what God said what God says in the book of John. We actually have five different things that God says He gives to his son, or Jesus testifies that the Father has given to him in the book of John. Would you take your Bibles and turn to John chapter 5? And you're going to see the first one here. And some of these we're going to camp out on for a couple of minutes, and others we're just going to let you identify. John chapter 5, verse 22, for the Father judgeth no man, but hath what? Committed all what? Judgment unto the Son. God, the Father, has given Christ judgment. Look at verse 26. For as the Father hath life in himself, so hath he given to his son to have life in himself God the Father has given his son life in himself. That is, folks, he is self-generating. Now, let's just pause here for a minute. Is not the sec the third the second person of the Trinity, has he not always had life? Of course he has. What we're talking here is after the incarnation. We're saying that after the incarnation, Christ has the Father has still bestowed the ability for Christ to give life. That's why it's later on going to say, he that hath the Son hath life. He that hath not the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth on him, verse 36. So God has given Christ all life. He's given Christ life. But would you notice this in verse 30, and we see the same thing, verse 27. Hath given him, well, it actually has here authority, has given him authority to execute judgment. But we saw that in verse 22 as well. Would you look at verse 36 of the same chapter? But I have greater witness than that of John, for the works which the Father hath given me to finish, the same works that I do. Bear witness of me, and the Father hath sent me. The Father gave Christ works. That is, the Father gave tasked Christ with particular responsibilities when he came to earth. So he gave him judgment, he gave him life, he gave him responsibility. But folks, would you notice this? And this for our purposes, I think, is going to be the most important of them. John chapter 10, verse 29 says this. I'll just read it for you. For my father, which gave them me is greater than all, and no man is able to pluck them out of my hand. The Father has given his sheep to Christ. John 17, verse 6 reiterates this: I have manifested thy name unto the men which thou gavest me out of the world. Thine they were, and thou gavest them me, and they have kept thy word. John seventeen, eight for I have given unto them the words which thou gavest me And they have received them, and have known surely that I came out from thee, and they have believed that thou didst s me John 17, 9, I pray for them. I pray not for the world, but for those which thou hast given me, for they are thine. It says repeated times in Christ's Christ's prayer to his father, that great prayer in John 17, that the Father has given certain people to Christ. Now, folks, that explains the answer. To the question that we were struggling with in a few verses prior, where it says, no man's received him, but those have who have received him testify that God is true. What's the answer, folks? The Father has given certain people to Christ. Now, let me just point this out. Let me ask you again. What is, was the what okay, let's just we'll say it this way. Was the secondary purpose of the father When he sent his son, was it secondarily for us? I say no. It was secondarily for Christ. In other words, folks, we often during the Christmas time of year, we celebrate the gift of Christ's Son. Christ is the gift, and we are the receiver. But folks, that is not God's secondary, his penultimate intention. God's penultimate intention is that we are gifts to Christ. We are gifts to him. Of course, there isn't any question that he is a gift to us as well. I'm not contradicting John 3. 16. There's no question that God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. But folks, there is a greater purpose in this. It is for us to be given to Christ. We are gifts of Christ for the furtherance of his kingdom. I wonder what it would do if we start looking at ourselves as gifts of Christ rather than just Christ being a gift to us. A. W. Tozer said this. Popular fundamentalist theology has emphasized the utility of the cross rather than the beauty of the one who died on it. The saved man's relation to the Lord Jesus has been made contractual rather than personal. The work of Christ has been stressed until it has eclipsed the person of Christ. Substitution has been allowed to supersede identification. What he did for us seems to be more important than what he did to us. Now folks that's deep isn't it? We are really delving underneath the surface here. We're going a little deep here. But if we will grasp this, it will help us in our overall worldview. Folks, if we're not careful as Christians, self can be the center of our worldview. If we're not careful as Christians, it's me in the center and what God has done for me and what Christ has done for me, even internally, what Christ has done for me. We are the center of our worldview And folks, if we're going to fulfill the responsibility that God has for us in the way that has us, we've got to get out of the center. And we've got to put Christ in the center. So it goes something like this. God's plan is something like this. The ultimate reason that Christ came was to glorify the Father. The secondary reason that Christ came was to provide for God's plan a way for us to be given to Christ. In other words, folks, why did Christ come to die? Because God could not, in his character, give us to Christ apart from Christ's own death. But in order for God to be able to give us to Christ, he had to die. So what folks is important here is to understand of what Christ did to us for Christ. And if you can get a hold of that, it will change your worldview. It will change your perspective on life. It will cause you to make maybe a little different decisions. So what's our role? Our role is to authenticate God to the world. We're a gift to Christ to authenticate him And the Father to the world. That's why we're here Now some of you I could see the gears moving here. You're not so sure about this. Not so sure. Or maybe you are, but you're kind of thinking thinking through this a little bit. bit. Let me encourage you, don't stop thinking. Think through it. Take the time to work your mind around this. Take the time to to concentrate and to think Think through this until it comes out that Christ is the center of everything. So that when when when when circumstances come and you're doing well and everything's successful. You've got your mind, you've got your eyes focused on Christ. You know where you are, you know what you're supposed to be doing. You know your role, you know God's role, you know Christ's role, you you've got it on, you know the world's role, you understand all of it And when you're not as, at least in the world's eyes, as successful, you then can see the same thing. You see the same worldview. Your worldview doesn't change based on your circumstances. Your worldview stays the same. Why? Because it's centered on Christ. Do we not need this in our world? Do we not need this in our churches? And I'll just say this, I'll be honest with you, I was about to pass through this passage and skip over the next passage. So, well, I didn't cover that last week I'm glad I didn't cover it last week. I needed to cover it more thoroughly this week because folks, why is it so important? For some people I think I had about at least six to seven people asked me why we're covering John. Why are we studying the book of John? We're studying the book of John because it demonstrates who Christ is And if we can get a hold of who Jesus is, not just what he did for me, but who he is If I can get a hold of that, then it will make profound impact on my life. And I will begin to fulfill the purpose that God has for me in His kingdom. It is all, but bottom line, folks, it is all about Christ. Christ must be our all-in-all. He must be the center of everything. He must be, we must live for him. And that's why Christ would say, he that loseth his life will find it. And he that findeth his life, or loseth his life for my sake, sorry, I got that wrong. He that findeth his life will lose it. He that loseth his life for my sake will find it. It's incredible. Why? Because the more that we live in Christ the more joy we have in this life, the more we live in Christ, the more we will be testifying, we will be authenticating God to the world, the more joy we will have. That's the ultimate joy John the Baptist had, and it's the ultimate joy that we can have. Boy if there is any New Year's resolution in our hearts, it ought to be, it ought to be that Christ is more real to me and that I can make him more real to others. By my life. I pray that that I pray that our church can move forward that way. I pray that we not just will look at what tasks we can do, what ministries we can perform, what jobs, but that we can fall in love with Christ. and by that are motivated to fulfill the responsibilities that God has for us. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we We see in a very succinct way, in just a few verses here, your whole plan And we see our role in that plan. We see Christ's role in the plan. I pray, Lord, that you would help us. To really um to keep this firmly in our minds, to have it indelibly pressed in our thinking. The way that John the Baptist clearly did. That when we come to life And we deal with circumstances and difficulties and ebbs and flows and are tossed to and fro that we can stand strong all because of Christ. Lord, as we enter into this communion time, this time where we will celebrate and remember the work that Christ has done for us, may we not forget the work that Christ has done for us. Done to us in giving us the ability to worship you And giving us the ability to resist sin, giving us the ability to authenticate you to the world I pray that you would bless this time, and we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. In a few moments.