Take your Bibles if you would. We're going to get right into the message of the evening, which is found in John 18. And we're going to be picking up here in verse 39, John 18, 39. This morning, actually beginning last Sunday morning, we looked We've been looking at the trials of Christ leading up to his crucifixion. This is kind of a kind of neat how this has all worked out. We've been going through the the book of John, as you know, and uh um we've been going through this book and now just as we reach Easter we're going to hit the resurrection, which has worked out really, really well. But what I wanted to do is finish the trials of Christ starting last Sunday, then this morning, and then tonight. That way we can we can I can preach on the crucifixion next week. and the resurrection the following uh the following Sunday. We will skip palm sun well, we'll have palm Sunday, but we'll s we'll skip the thing we we won't do the palm branches message. We'll do the crucifixion of Christ. So this morning we were looking at the first Roman trial. As I mentioned this morning, we have a total of six trials of Christ. The first three trials are Jewish trials. Annas starts. He was the sort of the patriarchal high priest. And then you have Caiaphas, who was the legal high priest that was set up by the Roman government for the Jews. And then you have the Sanhedrin. Then we have, then everything moves over to Pilate. Pilate is the governor of the He is the governor of the region, and he is going to try Christ in a Roman trial, but and we went through the first Roman trial and we ended in verse 38. And the verdict of the first Roman trial was that Christ is not guilty. He says, I find no fault in him at all. in chapter 18 verse 38. Now we then pick up in verse 39, but between verse 38 and 39 is another trial that's not mentioned in the book of John. It's mentioned in the book of Luke, chapter 23, verses 6 through 17. This is a different trial. This is a trial that's going to be before Herod Antipas. So if you take your Bibles and turn there, we're actually going to start there, keep a marker in John 18, and turn over to Luke 23, verses 6 through 12. And we're going to look very briefly at this trial. What happened essentially, well, we'll find out in the passage, is that Pilate realized that Christ was from Galilee. and realized that Herod Antipas had jurisdiction in that area. Pilate had jurisdiction over the whole region, so he really he really could make this decree on his own He thought that the way that he could get out of this was to send this over to Herod Antipas. And so that's what he does here in verse 6 of 23, we'll pick up. Verse 6 it says, When Pilate heard of Galilee, he asked whether the man were whether the man were Galilean. And as soon as he knew that he belonged to Herod's jurisdiction, he sent him to Herod, who himself also was at Jerusalem at that time. And when Herod saw Jesus, he was exceeding glad, for he was desirous to see him for a long season because he had heard many things of him, and he hoped to have seen some of the miracles done by him. Then he questioned with him in many words, but he but he answered nothing. I can imagine if you imagine maybe Herod wanted him to perform a couple of miracles for him. And uh he starts answering questions asking questions and Jesus doesn't answer anything at all. I think he probably was a little disappointed at that point. Verse 18, verse 10, I'm sorry. And the chief priests of the scribes stood and vehemently accused him. You remember the si seven different accusations, everything from threatening to not pay taxes to uh or to withhold uh keep prohibit other people from paying paying taxes to um the final uh accusation, and of course that was true, um, but they accused him of of blasphemy. And so the chief priests and scribes They just you can continue to see this rancor in them as they begin the very uh at the arrest and they are externally righteous in themselves. And they and they are obviously hypocrites. They're they're not obeying the law in this in the first trial. The first Jewish trial was at night, wasn't supposed to be legally. You have all these different problems going on and Constant uh constant anger, constant um uh uh vehemenance and things have been have been welling up inside them. And so verse 11 says, And Herod with his men of war set him at naught and mocked him and arrayed him in a gorgeous robe and sent him again to Pilate. The same day Pilate and Herod were made friends together for before they were at enmity between themselves. So this particular trial, there was no verdict at all. He basically wasn't answering any questions, and so Herod said, well, he's not answering any questions. I don't have enough to really actually issue any kind of verdict. So he sends them back to Pilate for the final Roman trial, which puts which then puts us at John chapter 18, verse 38. So if you turn back there. We're now entering into the final trial, the final Roman trial. Now, if you'll remember from this morning, Pilate is in a real bad situation, isn't he, from his perspective He is on thin ice when it comes to the uh when it comes to Caesar. He is made these Jewish people very angry in the past with his uh graven images and with his stealing from the temple coffers in order to create uh to make an aqueduct. And so, and this has gotten back to Caesar, and Caesar has had to correct him. And so he is on real thin ice. He is very concerned about the Jewish people going back to Caesar, complaining about him And really, he's probably concerned about his own possibility of being deposed, as well as potentially his own death. So Pilate is that is is really concerned on the one hand. On the other hand He's concerned about his own conscience. Is it really just to put this man to death? We find an interesting An interesting consideration in Matthew 27, verses 19 through 20. Don't take the time to turn there. But in that passage, we have a concern from his wife, from Pilate's wife. Pilate apparently had a had a dream, and uh Pilate's wife had a dream, and Pilate was very concerned Uh his wife expressed concern about this. In verse nineteen of that passage, says when he when he was set down on the uh judgment seat, his wife sent him sent unto him saying Have thou nothing to do with that just man. For I have suffered many things this day in a dream because of him. So his wife warns him: Don't They don't have anything to do with it. This man is a just man. Don't don't issue a verdict to him. He indeed is he indeed is innocent. So Pilate is very torn. Pilate does not want to be the one to issue the final verdict. However, he is at great odds with the Jewish people, with the Jewish leaders, the chief priests And so he is in a bind. So Pilot decides that he is going to propose three different possible things. So we're first going to look at Pilot's failing proposals. And we're going to pick up here in verse 39, we'll see the first one here. He says in verse 39 of chapter 18 But ye have a custom that I would release unto you one at the Passover. Will ye therefore that I release unto you the King of the Jews? So he says he cites a particular custom that apparently the Jewish people had at this point to release some criminal at the Passover. We have no biblical record of this other than the four Gospels. There's no Old Testament record of this being a custom. And in fact There's no extra biblical record of this as well, but of course the gospel say that it is was a custom, so of course it was And so we find here he says, okay, this is my out. Certainly, they wouldn't want to, I mean, this man's harmless. It's obvious he's obvious that he's harmless. So certainly they would want to release him rather the common criminal. Verse 40 says, They cried, then cried they all again, saying, Not this man, but Barabbas. Now Barabbas was a robber. Now what we need to do then is look a little bit at this man, Barabbas, for a few moments. Barabbas was a man who was actually in Matthew 27 was a notorious criminal. We learn from the Luke 23 account that he was actually a murderer. This was no petty thief. This was not a robber in the and he wasn't just robbing convenience stores. This is a man who was a very serious criminal. And this is a man who was actually more than likely involved in various revolts in the past to overthrow the Roman government and to really throw the Jewish overthrow the Jewish leadership as well. So it's very surprising that the chief priests would choose to release this man over Christ, but it tells us just how just how um angry the chief priests had come had become. Also in Mark 15 verse 11, you might want to write this down. It says in that pat that verse that the chief priests stirred up the crowd to do this. The chief priests were behind the scenes and they were certainly saying things, but they were influencing the Jewish crowd. to call for the release of Barabbas and eventually the crucifying of Christ. So that was failed proposal number one. That didn't work. Then we pick up here in 19. 1. Pilate still does not want to send Christ to his death. And so in verse 1 of 19, we have, it says, Then Pilate therefore took Jesus. and scourged him. And the soldiers played a crown of thorns and put it on his head. These, by the way, were one f uh twelve up to twelve inch long thorns. and put it uh on his head and they uh put on him a purple robe. This is likely actually a red robe that had been uh faint that had been um uh uh a Roman soldier's robe that had been uh Why am I missing the word tonight? You know, faded, faded in the sun. That's probably what this was. Verse 3. And and said, Hail, king of the Jews. And they smote him with their hands. Pilate therefore went before again and said unto them, Behold, I bring him forth to you, that ye may know that I find no fault in him. And then came Jesus forth, wearing the crown of thorns and the purple robe, and Pilate said unto them, Behold the man. So Jesus is now being, as a second proposal to try to get out of this possibility of sentencing him to death, just chastens him, chastises him. He beats him with a kind of scourging, according to what I read, there are different ways that the Roman soldiers did this. The Jews had laws that limited the lashings to 40. Deuteronomy 25, verse 1 explains that. But the truth is, I don't there's different debate on this, but the Romans didn't have those same laws, so it really is it's really not we're really not sure exactly how how much he was he was whipped. Of course, these are the stripes that were pros prophesied in Isaiah. And so all this is coming about because of the to fulfill the word of Christ, of the Lord. The Romans us did this one of three ways. They either suspended their victim from the ceiling, sometimes they bound him to a post. Or they in some cases strapped him to a table. This was a very severe, very painful kind of chastisement. And of course the crown of thorns was put on his head, and there was this purple robe that was placed on him. Now the irony of all this is that they're doing this to mock him. But we know Christ to be the king, isn't he? Now his kingdom is of another world, as he told Pilate earlier. But the irony here is as they are mocking him, they are actually lifting him up. And they are going to lift him up on that cross so that all men can come to him and be saved and he can be their king. We find the irony is at a very intense level here when he when Pilate brings him before the people and says, Behold, thou art the man. This statement was in and uh uh was there in order to mock Christ to the point where they would say, yeah, this is just silly, and they would give up and kind of go on their way. This was obviously a futile attempt. But in saying and proclaiming that he is the man, that's exactly who he was. He is the man who set who was going to set them free. And so there is this irony in this passage. This, of course, did not work either. When we come to verse 6, we see this. When the chief priests therefore and officer saw him and cried out, saying, Crucify him, crucify him, Pilate saith unto them, Take ye him and crucify him For I find no fault in him. Then we find here Paul uh Pilate is going to bring Forth another proposal, and that's in verse seven, the final proposal. The Jews answered him, We have a law. And by our law, he ought to die because he made himself the son of God. You remember over in the second trial, that was the final accusation that stuck, even though there actually weren't witnesses to verify it. Caiaphas finally said, Are you the Son of God? And Christ said, Essentially, I am. And that was the thing that stuck you said, well we don't need any more witnesses. That's blasphemy. And they're carrying him off to the Sanhedrin at that point. So we find in this passage that they finally bring this up as the verdict, or as the accusation rather. The problem is we have a law that says that he can't say he's the son of God. Unless, of course, what he is the son of God. So there's sort of irony in this, the the only thing as I mentioned this morning, the only thing that they could peg him on was the fact that He said something that was true about himself, that they of course deemed to be false. They turned the truth of God into a lie, as it says in Romans 1. Pilate does not want to put Christ to death. It is obvious that that is the case. And so, verse 8, it says And Pilate therefore heard that saying, he was more afraid. He was afraid because now he's thinking, I might really have to do this. And went again into the judgment hall and saith unto Jesus, Whence art thou? Like where did you come from? But Jesus at this point, what does he do? Well, he gives no answer. By the way, why would Jesus give no answer? You think it's because possibly that he already gave an answer He said, My kingdom is not of this world, and the reason I was born is so that people could accept me as their king when they accept the truth. He already explained this. And so at this to Pilate previously, so at this point he simply gives no answer. He's already said where he is from. Verse 10: Then saith Pilate unto him, Speakest thou not unto me? Knowest thou not that I have power to crucify thee, and have power to release thee? Pilate's irritated. He's not happy that he is he's in this bind himself. He doesn't know what to do. He's trying to figure this out. He goes and tries to get more information from Jesus and he says nothing Jesus said with the authority of the Son of God in the next verse, Thou couldst have no power at all against me, except it were given thee from above. Therefore he that delivered me unto thee hath the greater sin. He says, he explains there in this verse that you look, the only power you have comes from above. But the real he does identify, Christ identifies that those, the Jewish leaders that delivered them to Pilate, delivered him to Pilate, they're the ones that are culpable here. Now he didn't say here that Pilate wasn't culpable. Pilate is going to be, at this point he's not, because he keeps declaring him innocent. But he's going to be culpable. But at this point, certainly the Jewish people Particularly the Jewish leaders are culpable in doing this. Verse 12, and from therefore Pilate sought to release him. He's still trying to release him here. But the Jews cried out, saying, If thou let this man go, thou art not Caesar's friend. Whosoever maketh himself a king speaketh against Caesar. Now, they're basically now threatening him. They're threatening Pilate and they're saying, look, if you do not give a verdict on this, you are not Caesar's friend, and they're trying to pit him against Caesar and saying And saying that that when he said he is God, he said he is king and therefore he is against Caesar, they're accusing him again of treason. Well they tried that before And Pilate questioned him, and Christ said this was a kingdom of another kind. This was not a kingdom from this world. But in this passage, we find obviously that he is a friend of Caesar, that he is being accused of treason anyway. And this is the thing for Pilate that just says, okay, that I can't do any more with this. Verse 13, when Pilate therefore heard that saying, He brought Jesus forth and sat down the judgment seat in the place that is called the pavement, but in Hebrew Gabbatha And it was for the preparation of the Passover and about the sixth hour, he said unto them, Behold your king. But they cried out, Away with him, away with him, crucify him. Pilate saith unto them, Shall I crucify your king? The chief priests answered, We have no king but Caesar Then delivered he him therefore unto them to be crucified, and they took Jesus and led him away. And so we find that he is going to be led to the crucifixion. It was it's interesting, isn't it, that the that the final the final The final cause of Pilate's decree was the fear of man. That was what finally caused him to issue a guilty verdict. and send Christ to his death. Now, this is just a very brief treatment of all of this I would encourage you over the next couple of next week or so to look at the various trials. I'm going to email out to you all I have a sheet of six trials of the six trials in different passages. I'll send that out to you guys. I encourage you to do some study on that. It is a very interesting study. And there are many, many things that we can learn from this But I think the thing that we can learn the most from pilot, which I just want to recap here and and recall, we mentioned this a little bit this morning. Pilate is a man that's not unlike many people that you and I know in this sense. Pilate is a man who cannot figure out the truth. He says in this passage earlier, what is truth? And you and I know many people It's not as though they don't know the name of Christ. They don't know the work of Christ. But they cannot seem to identify truth when they see it. Pilate is on the fence for three different trials. He doesn't want to reject Christ, but he doesn't really want to embrace Christ either. He doesn't know what truth looks like, and that's his problem. And that is the problem with the majority of the people that don't know Christ that we rub shoulders with. They don't know what truth looks like. They're not able to identify truth when they see it. And here is the reality of what happened. The reality is that Pilate Was on the fence, but eventually eventually he went the wrong direction. He was on the fence in all this, but eventually he rejected Christ. And folks, that is always the case when someone does not see the truth and they never see the truth Until they see the truth, they are destined to reject Christ. You either accept him or you reject him. There really is no middle ground. We have a country that is that is strongly becoming a secularist country, a nation that has no belief system at all, that basically says you really can't know truth You really can't see anything. You really don't know what's true. And what's true for me is not true for you. And what's true for you is not true for me. And that's the way truth is. It's based upon your own opinion. It's based upon your perspective. And that is not Christ's truth, is it? Jesus said very clearly and very distinctly, I am the way. the truth and the life, and no man comes unto the Father but by me. And we are able to celebrate that this morning and tonight, aren't we? This morning we were able to to Participate in one of the one on in the first of or in the one of the two ordinances, the Lord's Supper together, as we remembered what Christ did for us on the cross. And we get to witness the other ordinance that Christ left us in baptism and watching Emma be baptized tonight. So that is just a thrilling thing. This is all because of Christ. This is all because of the person of Christ and the work of Christ. And Emma would testify to the fact that there is no by it is by no works or by no self-effort. It is entirely by her placing her faith in Christ that she has come to Christ and that she is saved, that she has a relationship with Christ And baptism that we will be experien that we will be uh witnessing tonight in Emma is simply an outward expression of an inward reality in her life that she is Christ. It's a symbol. I use this illustration when I was doing when we were interviewing you together, when I was going through the baptism class. It's very similar to a w wedding ring, is it not? Now if I take my wedding ring off, am I still married? Let's hope so. Okay? My wife's not here tonight, but she would say yes if she was in the room. Okay. She's watching by streaming probably. But the ring tells everybody that I'm married, doesn't it? Okay? Now Anyway, I I could go on to a side I won't go onto a rabbit trail on that. Okay. The wing the ring tells everybody that I'm married. And that's really the way baptism is. Baptism doesn't save somebody. But baptism is a symbol that illustrates and shows that I am Christ. I am identifying with Christ, and I want this to be a public profession. of my faith. And we'll be able to witness that and experience that tonight with the Emma's baptism. Alright, what we need to do now first is we're going to pray. And then we do need, and I need to just ask, uh we have many guests here tonight. Um I I'm just thrilled that you all are here. I need to ask that you'll just bear with us for a few minutes. We have some church business that we need to a sort of urgent kind of a thing that we need to attend to for a few minutes. You just feel free to hang out here and you'll see this. We will try not to take a long time on this. So we're just going to need to do that for a few minutes and then we'll we'll then all head back to the fellowship hall and uh we'll be able to. to participate in the baptism. Let's pray first and then uh and then we'll get into our very short business meeting, Lord willing. Father, we thank you, Lord, just for the time that we can spend together in your word. We thank you for this uh amazing work that Christ did, the humiliation that he went through, not only of becoming man but humbling himself even to the execution of the cross. And we have no results but to be utterly grateful. We, apart from the work of Christ, would be all men most miserable. We would be still in our sins. We would have a hopeless eternity And it is all because of Christ who lived a righteous life and died And took upon our sin on himself, so that it could satisfy your just demands. And we could look on that cross and with confidence in the person and work of Christ, we could be saved. Saved from our sin, and rightly related and restored to you. Lord, I pray that if there is anyone here this evening that doesn't know you as their Savior, that is not assured Of having placed their dependency on Christ alone, that maybe tonight as they have heard these words from your Bible and witnessed and and will be witnessing one who is uh who is just following you in in showing that she knows you I pray that you would work in that heart and bring that heart to yourself tonight. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.