Colossians one as we continue our series in Colossians. I wanna say how much I really appreciate uh Harry and uh last week preaching and covering for me and um And uh how much I just appreciate uh others in our church as well that we'll cover. And uh it's it's definitely a blessing. And uh it was a good message last last Sunday, so really appreciate him. Colossians chapter one this morning. So almost a hundred of years ago, back in 1893, actually over a hundred years ago They had something that they called the World's Columbian Exposition, or you may have known it as the World's Fair. uh many countries from all over the place converged on one location and in nineteen in eighteen ninety-three it was going to be held in Chicago. There was actually a lot of debate as to which city in the United States it would be held at And there was a lot of actual vying for that position, but in in uh it it ended up being awarded to Chicago And there was this great, uh it was right after it was not far not it was soon after the Chicago fire and it it really helped bolster the city and helped um helped it recover from that great disaster that occurred. During this World's Fair, where I think over 60 countries came and represented themselves with all kinds of innovations and uh things that they were doing, during this time there was a particular group called the World Parliament of Religions. It was the first time, as far as we know, it was the first time in our nation's history Where there was a group that was actually sanctioned by the government, that was that Congress actually approved the World's Fair. It was actually sanctioned by the government for a group of non-Christians to get together to discuss religion. And there was, at least it seems to be from what I can tell, there was some idea that they could all get together and come up with a religion that would that would suit everyone. And we the by definition we call that syncretism. And rarely prior to that time did you see syncretism in our country, but after that time you saw much of it. It wasn't sanctioned much. um uh by people until it became something that was of of greater note by the nineteen six uh nineteen sixties I believe. But um now you have in our country all kinds of syncretism. As our country has become a melting pot of all kinds of different ethnic groups, which of course we celebrate that as a country. We're a nation of immigrants immigrants. But on the other hand, you also have all kinds of religions and you have lots of syncretism. And as Christians, we know we have to fight syncretism. So how do you fight that? Well, in that day, D. L. Moody was a prominent evangelist in that day. He would help hold different campaigns and revivals during that time. And D. Al-Muni was encouraged by lots of people, lots of Christians, to actually go at it with this parliament of religions. They wanted him to actually debate them head on. D. Al-Mudi instead decided that the way that he would deal with this was to take this as a great evangelistic opportunity. All kinds of countries were converging in Chicago and they were celebrating all kinds of things, but during this time you had all kind people in Chicago that had never heard the gospel before And so he decided this. He decided that he was going to simply preach the preeminence of Christ. He was going to preach him as supreme and as all-sufficient. And he was not necessarily going to debate all of these different religions. He was simply going to preach Christ. And as he did so He set up all he found every location that he he possibly could. He even rented a a uh um uh a tent uh to to do this. It was a uh a circus tent and used different churches in the area and did everything he could that there would be a maximum amount of preaching of Christ during this time. And historically, we are aware that as far as we can tell, this was very successful. The Chicago campaign of 1893, many, many people came to Christ during that time. The Apostle Paul is going to do something very similar in Colossians chapter 1. In Colossians, in this Colossae, this city, you have the problem of syncretism. where all kinds of differing religions and spiritualities and views of God and how you get to God are all coming together in Colossi. And the Apostle Paul, he's going to begin by just preaching the preeminence, the sufficiency, the supremacy of Christ. And as he does so, we are going to see the supremacy of Christ unfold, and he's really going to, as he proves the supremacy of Christ, He proves that Christ is therefore all sufficient. You and I as Christians need to remember that. In a world where the world, our country, the world, culture would say that Christ may be one piece of the puzzle, we must understand and believe and live out the truth that Christ is all sufficient. He is supreme. He is preeminent. And because he is those things, he also is all sufficient. Unfortunately, we as Christians live in a way sometimes as though Christ is just a piece of the puzzle. Christ is just a, he is not all-sufficient, he's just one of those things that I use in my life to get me where I'm going or to do what I need to do. And folks, that is a terrible testimony for the cause of Christ. When a Christian really lives completely and finds his sufficiency entirely in Christ, it is a great testimony to the world. Of Christ being sufficient, and why can he be sufficient? Because he is supreme You see this universal nature of Christ that Paul displays in chapter 1. I just want to go through a few verses real quickly here. You'll see this. You'll see, first of all, in chapter 1, verse 6 It says that the gospel is bearing fruit and growing through the whole world. You see terms like all and whole throughout this passage. Verse 9, we continually ask God to fill you with the knowledge of his will through all wisdom and understanding. Verse 10, that you may please him in every way, bearing fruit in every good work. Every, every In verse 11, with all power, strengthened with all power. In verse 15, firstborn over all creation. In verse 16, For in him all things were created. All things have been created through him and for him. Verse 17, he is before all things, and in all things hold together. Verse 18, so that in everything he might have the supremacy, the preeminence. In verse 19, for God was pleased to have all his fullness dwell. Verse twenty, through him to reconcile himself to all things. You see without question in in chapter one that the theme of chapter one, as Paul preaches in our passage today, as he l lays this out, is the preeminency and the sufficiency of God. of Christ. And we want to delve into this because the reason that you and I struggle with making Christ our all-sufficiency. is because we do not really see him as all-supreme. And the more that we see him as all-supreme in our lives It will motivate us to also live as though He is all sufficient. We find in this passage, as you'll recall from last week, and in verses 13 and 14, we see that Christ has delivered us from the power of darkness. And conveyed us into the kingdom of the Son of his love, verse 13. He has done this. In other words, he has transferred those who know Christ as their Lord and Savior from the kingdom of darkness to the kingdom of Christ, the kingdom of light and of righteousness. We have gone from one kingdom to the other. How has he done this? Verse 14: in whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins. It is the redemption of Christ Jesus. Jesus owns us twice. He owns us because he created us. But because of sin, Jesus owns us again because he redeemed us with the price of his own blood. He bought us back unto himself, and then placed us in his kingdom. Well, what qualifies Christ to be able to do all of this? To be the Redeemer, to buy us back, to put us from one kingdom into another? What qualifies this? And the answer is the supremacy of Christ. And we're going to learn about that today. As we do, let's go to the Lord in prayer, and then we'll see what God says about this. Father, as we come to you this morning, I pray that you would mark on our hearts and our minds the truth that Christ is all supreme. And it is your desire, you say in your word, that you are pleased that Christ may have all of the preeminence. Lord, I pray that our church would learn today to give you the preeminence. I pray that we as individuals in our lives would learn. To ha give you the preeminence by seeing you as all sufficient. Help us with this, dear Father. We confess before you and we admit before you that we so easily rely On our own methods, on our own strength, our own determination, our own will, our own minds. Yet, Father, you want us to live In light of Christ's sufficiency. May we understand that more today. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, we pick up in what is actually known as a hymn in verses 15 through 20 of this passage. Paul will do this from time to time, especially in the first chapter of his epistles, where he will actually quote a hymn. In some cases, he'll change a few things, and that's the case of this hymn. In verses 15 through 20. We're not so much going to focus on the fact that it is a hymn, just to note that that is the case. But he is going to really lay out, as I've already said, the supremacy of Christ. And he begins in verses 15 through 17. by noting Christ's past and present supremacy over creation. Picking up at verse 15, it says It says, uh, he is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn over all creation. For by him All things were created that are in heaven and that are on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, all things were created through him. And for him. So this passage talks here about the supremacy of Christ over creation He starts off by noting the essence of Christ. He says that it that he is the image of the invisible God. Now that immediately might strike somewhat of a question. How can you have the in the image of something invisible? It says here, he is the image of the invisible God. And very likely Paul uses this phrase to strike at their curiosity, to cause them to think about this. Part of the th part of the reason is, as we have noted before, that they were being being influenced by Gnosticism And Gnosticism, as you may recall, is is a belief that there is this higher knowledge that you can attain, this, if you will, invisible knowledge that you can have that is separate from material things. And so as they are being tempted by this, he points this out. He says that Christ is the tangible image of the invisible God. Well, what does it mean that God is invisible? Well, God in his nature is invisible. 1 Timothy 1. 17 says this. Now to the King eternal, immortal, invisible, to God alone is wise, be honor and glory forever and ever In Hebrews 11, verse 27, it says, By faith he forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king, for he endured, seeing him who is invisible. Moses, it says, not fearing the wrath of the visible king, feared rather the God who was invisible, who he cannot could not see And he did so by faith. In fact, that is what faith is. It is believing in that which is invisible. Christ is the image of God. Probably one of the best passages to help us to understand this is 1 Corinthians chapter 15. In fact, I'd like you to take your Bible and turn there so you could see this. 1 Corinthians 15, verse 45. 1 Corinthians 15 is a very long chapter. And we'll pick up in verse 45, and it will note some things for us that will help us to get a context of what Paul is talking about here. It says in 1545, the first man Adam became a living being. Okay, that acclimates us a little bit. We've got Adam, who became a living being. Do you remember in Genesis chapter 1, it said, Let us make man in our what? In our image. That humanity is made in the image of God. The last Adam he says in this passage being become became a living life-giving spirit However, the spirit is not first, but the natural, and afterward the spiritual. The first man was of the earth made of the dust, the second man is the Lord from heaven. The second man is the Lord from heaven. As was the man of dust, so also are those who are made of dust. And as is the heavenly man, so also are those who are heavenly. And as we have borne the image of the man of dust, we shall also bear the image of the heavenly man. Jesus is the image of the invisible God. That is, he is the second or the last Adam. He is the one who is both the physical image and the spiritual image of God because he is God. Hebrews 1, verse 3 says this. Who being in the brightness, talking about Christ, who being in the brightness of his glory in the expressed image of his person, and beholding all things by the word of his power, when he had m had by himself purged our sins, Sat down at the right hand of the majesty on high. Jesus is the image of the invisible God. We'll understand more of what this means as we go on. But let's then move to this reality of what he is talking about here. He is talking about the fact that God, that Christ is God revealed. You remember John chapter 1? There's a lot of parallels, by the way, between John chapter 1 and this passage. You'll see a lot. But John chapter 1, verse 18, it says, No one has seen God at any time. He's invisible. The only begotten Son, who is in the bosom of the Father, he has declared him. John is later going to say in verse chapter 14, if you have seen me, you have seen the Father. This is going to be very important for us to understand as we get into this passage and what is going on here, and we'll see that this in a few moments. We know that there's a relationship between mankind and the image of God. We've already quoted Genesis 1, verse 27. But did you know that what Christ is doing is he is again conforming us to the image of Christ. Romans chapter 8, verse 29, for whom he foreknew and he also did predestine to be conformed. to the image of his son, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren. So God made humanity in his image The image of God was marred by sin in Genesis chapter 3. The image of God, we'll put it this way, was distorted. When Jesus came, he is God, and he was born of a man, so he was both man and God. And so he became the perfect image of God because he is God. He is the God man. And he was able to do what Adam failed to do. And not only that, but he is able to live a righteous life completely, die to pay the punishment for our sins. And then set us in a kingdom for himself. And then we are going through this life, and he is conforming us to the image of himself of Christ. Not that we ever become God, but the moral attributes of Christ become the moral attributes of us. The Bible says that when we see when we see him, we'll be like him, for we will see him as he is What is Christ doing? He is one by one restoring what God originally intended in the first chapter of Genesis. First couple of chapters. What Paul is saying here is that Christ is the answer to the entire plan of God. He is supreme. Now this is important for us to understand. It's important for us to understand that He is entirely supreme. Mahatma Gandhi once said I cannot ascribe exclusivity, exclusive divinity to Jesus. He has divined as Krishna or Rama or Muhammad or Zoaster. I cannot prescribe exclusive divinity to Jesus. Well, Gandhi was wrong. Christ is exclusively divine. None of these other people are. And we're going to see how Paul puts this. We're going to see four ways that Christ is exclusively Supreme in this passage. We first see in this passage that He is supreme over creation. He is the firstborn over all creation. Of course, you may recall from the Old Testament that there was real significance to the firstborn child. God actually says that Israel is his firstborn in Exodus 4, verse 22 and in Jeremiah 31, 9. It actually says, even though David was not the physical firstborn, it actually says in 1 Samuel 16, 11 that God chose him as his firstborn. And we find in Psalm 8927 that the firstborn is given a highest of statuses. Psalm 89, verse 27, it says, Also I will make him my firstborn the highest of the kings of the earth. In Hebrews 11, verse 28, by faith he kept the Passover, the sprinkling of blood, lest he be destroyed, the firstborn should touch him. So this is a status, a place of privilege. It was the highest of the high. And it's interesting that twice in Scripture in the Old Testament, God names the firstborn of someone who was actually not the firstborn. Israel or Jacob was not actually the firstborn, and God names him Israel as the firstborn. He does the same thing of David. So it tells us that it's not so much the firstborn as in the Old Testament. It's not so much about birth order as what status you are. And the status of that God places on Christ is that he is highest above all creation. He is over all creation. Now that's important. Is Christ created? Well, his humanity is, but he essentially is not. So he is the firstborn of creation. Now, we need to understand what he's talking about here. From just this, we would think that Christ is the highest of the created beings. But that is not solely or explicitly the case. Christ is not only the highest of the created beings, Christ is the creator. That's important for us to understand. So you'll notice in this passage what it says here. Verse 16, for by him all things were created that are in heaven and that are on earth. Visible and invisible, whether thrones are dominions or principalities or powers, all things were created through him and for him. So Christ is the supreme creator of all things. He is creator of everything. And all things were created by him. John 1. 3 says it this way: all things were made through him, and without him nothing was made that was made. Nothing was made without Christ, because Christ is the creator of the world. God. It's really incredible when you put all of this together, why what God is doing, what God in His plan did with Christ. All of what he displayed, and we'll see this as we continue. It was in heaven and on earth. His sphere is in heaven and earth, the visible and the invisible. God created both. Christ created both. Now that's important for for what Paul is establishing here. Remember, the Gnostics believed that all spiritual things are good and all physical things are bad. Well, what does it say here? Well, Christ is the creator of both what? Both those things that are spiritual or invisible, and those things that are visible or matter. He is the creator of all things. Paul is putting this in a context to help them to understand that they are off in their thinking, those who are Gnostics, and to warn the Church of Colossae not to be influenced by this. He is the creator of all. He is even the creator of the angelic realm. That's what it's talking about when it talks about thrones and dominions, principalities, and powers. There are several, many other places in the New Testament. The word thrones is actually only used here in the New Testament, but the principalities and powers and dominions, they are in the book of Ephesians and in 1 Corinthians. and other places in Colossians as well as 1 Peter. So he's talking, he is creator even of the angels of all things. And Rick, you'll recall as well. that this that this Gnosticism, this Colossian Gnosticism that was occurred, they were lifting up angels. It happened a lot in the New Testament. You find also in the book of Hebrews. that that was going on. And God has to say in Hebrews that Christ is preeminent over the angels in Hebrews chapter 1 as well. We find the supreme purpose in chapter 1, verse 16. All things were created through him and for him. He was not only did God Christ the creator of all things, but he was it was created for Christ. And this, the fact that it was created through him, actually demonstrates the wisdom of Christ in creation In Proverbs chapter 3, verse 9, it says the Lord by wisdom founded the earth. By understanding he established the heavens There are a lot of other passages I could look at right now, but we'll move on to the fourth way that Christ is supreme. He is the sustainer. This is the key passage for us to understand that. It says, by him all things consist. He is the supreme sustainer of all things. Do you know that when you get into the atomic level and you see electrons, the nucleus and electrons that are being held together, there is it is still theoretical as to how that is held together. There's an understanding that gravity holds the planets together. But beyond that, how does gravity work? There seems to be a limit to what science can say about that. There's these theories that they go into. Well, we know as Christians from what the Bible says that it's Christ who holds it all together. He is the sustainer of creation. If Christ did not have his hand on creation, the planets would not stay together. It would be a total disaster. How is it that you can explain how atoms don't just explode- I mean when you when you research what atoms will do if the electrons get out of place and things like that, explosions occur. How is it that everything is being held together? It is, folks, the Bible is clear about this. It's being held together by the hand of Christ. And for those reasons, we ought to see Christ always as supreme over all things. Now, the truth is we often don't live that way. Do you live every day of your life realizing that the atoms that make up your body are sustained by Christ Do you live that way that God, that Christ, is holding everything together? Well, how do you live that way on a practical level? And the answer to that has to do with do we see Christ as all-sufficient? It is has to do with the sufficiency. Of Christ. And there are a couple of different ways that we don't really see Christ as all-sufficient, and they have to do, at its core, with our relationship with creation. Some people actually say that, you know, I just need to, if I can be as separated from creation as I possibly can, Then I will be more spiritual. And that was the asceticism of the day. That was the Gnosticism of the day. That I need to separate myself from material things. I need to separate myself from those kinds of things. And they forget that God is that Christ is the creator of those things. The other way is actually to see, to become dependent on material things or to worship material things Is that a possibility for us? Do we get to the place where we are worshiping the creation rather than the creator? I think that's actually probably more of our tendency than the other way. But depending on your time in life and how you live and those kinds of things, we I know I've waffled both directions. We need to be careful about this, folks. The answer to this is to see God's creation as God's creation. And the creation, if we are rightly related to it, it causes us to worship the Creator. And if we are rightly related to the create to creation, then it causes us to depend on the Creator. For example, where does money come from? Well, it comes from the fact that I get a job and I work for a living and I work hard. Well, no, that's actually not true. Yes, you work, yes, you need to work hard. The Bible says if you don't work, you don't eat them. That's true. But who gives you the energy to work hard? Who gives you the ability to be able to do the things that you do to be able to provide for you? So so we must learn to see all of what Material things are as all coming from God, and those things we look to Him for our dependency. When we find our security or our sufficiency in the things of this life, then we are not living as though Christ really is supreme. And Christ is supreme. So we need to be careful about this. Number one, we need to understand that the supremacy of Christ should cause us to live completely for Christ. There's an interesting passage. It's one that's very familiar to you and I in the book of Romans. In Romans chapter 12, do you remember verses 1 and 2, it says I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present yourself a living sacrifice holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. Well the verse before that is a very important verse. The verse before that in chapter 11, verse 26 says For of him and through him and to him are all things to whom be glory. Now that sounds like Colossians, doesn't it? The natural application, folks, of the fact that creation is made for Christ is that as we are creation and we are again redeemed by Christ, We ought to be completely for him. That we ought to present our bodies a living sacrifice. That we ought to be completely and wholly committed to Christ. Unhindered, unbarred, unfettered for whatever Christ would have us to do. And it's just reasonable for us to do that. Why? Because we were made for him. We were made for him, but we were also redeemed for him. And it just makes sense for us to wholly and completely live for him. Well, Christ is supreme, and we must see him and live out His sufficiency in our lives. How does that play out on the present day? Is Christ ruling as supreme now? Well, although Christ is ruling universally as supreme, he is holding everything together, he is not mediating his kingdom now in the same way that he will in the future or has in the past. The way that he is mediating his spiritual kingdom or establishing his spiritual kingdom is through the church. Would you notice what the text says about this? It says verse 19. Actually, no, I'm sorry, verse 18. And he is the head of the body, the church. Who is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in all things he may have the preeminence. Jesus Christ is the head of the church. That who, the one who is supreme and over all things. Is also supreme over the church. And that really speaks to a couple of things. It speaks, one, to how important the church, the role of the church is in this time period. Between creation and the and Israel and the resurrection of Christ, and after that you have the church, and then later on Christ will set up his kingdom. And between the resurrection and when Christ sets up his kingdom, you have this church that is God's principal work in the world today. And the Bible says that Christ is the head of it. He is the head of the church. Well, what does it mean by head? In the Old Testament, you have this concept of head of something, the head of the family. Or it's sometimes translated in the Old Testament as chief. Like in Genesis chapter 40, verse 20, in Joseph, the story of Joseph, you have a chief butler. In Exodus 6, verse 25, it said, Eliezer, Aaron's son, took for himself one of the daughters of Pitiel as wife, and she bore him Phinehas. These are the heads of the father's houses of the Levites according to the family. So you had heads of houses. Well, in Christ's church, the head of the household, the church. is Christ himself. He is the head. He has, this is an absolute identification of Christ. It's interesting that both in Colossians and Ephesians it says that he is the head of all things. In Ephesians 4, verse 15, it says but speaking the truth in love may grow up in all things unto him who is the head. That we we are growing into understanding Christ's headship and living out his headship in our lives. In Ephesians chapter 5, verse 23, it actually says, for the husband is head of the wife, as Christ is head of the church, and he is the savior of the body. So what is he talking about here? Well, we see in the passage that it says, with his headship, it says, first of all, he is the beginning. Notice what it says. Verse 18. And he is the head of the body, the church, who is the beginning, number one, the beginning, number two, the firstborn from the dead, and number three, that in all things he might have the preeminence. It says that he is the beginning, that is, he is the creator of all things, and he is therefore the creator of the church And he did this according to his wisdom. Paul mentions this here. It's the wisdom of creating the church that he is pointing to. In Proverbs 8, verse 22 through 23, it says, The Lord possessed me at the beginning of his way before his works of old. I have been established from everlasting from the beginning before there was ever on earth. So the beginning has to do with the wisdom of Christ. in creating his church. But not only that, it says that he's the firstborn. Now we've already seen this before in verse 15. Now we're seeing it again that he is the firstborn, but in verse 15 it says that he is the firstborn of creation, but in this verse, what does it say? He is the firstborn of what? He is the firstborn from the dead. What's it talking about? Well, this is a reference to the fact that he rose from the grave. He is the firstborn of the resurrected. He has the highest status, if you will, of the resurrected. This is the same thing that it said in 1 Corinthians 15, where it says that he is the first fruits Of them that slept. And the fact is that we find in Matthew chapter 16 that will shed some light on this, that the church is actually built on the resurrection of Christ. In Matthew 16, verse 18, Christ says, And I also say to you that you are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church. And the gates of hell or the gates of Hades shall not prevail against it. Now that's an interesting verse. It says, Upon this rock I shall build my church, and the rock is actually referring to the phrase afterwards, not the phrase before. And the phrase afterward says, and the gates of Hades will not prevail against it. Well, the word Hades or translated hell is also translated grave. In fact, most of the time in the New Testament is translated grave. And that is actually a good way to translate it here as grave. The gates of the grave will not prevail against it. Christ says, I will build my church. And the gates of the grave will not, and upon this rock I'll build my church, and the gates of the grave will not prevail against it. What is he referring to? He is referring to the resurrection. That is, the basis of the church is the resurrection of Christ. The grave could not hold Christ. And upon that rock, he would build his church. It is based upon the resurrection of Christ. So it says that Christ is supreme over creation, and Christ is the head of the church. Why? Because He is He thought it up, He's the beginning of it in His wisdom. It's His. Christ says, I will build my church. And the basis with which the church exists is the resurrection of Christ. And it says, why? What is the purpose of the church? Well, it is that in all things he may have the preeminence. God's plan is that Christ will have the preeminence in all things. In 1 Corinthians 15, verse 28, it says this: now when all things are made subject to him, Then the Son of Himself will be subject to Him who put all things under Him, that God may be all in all. There is this plan, this divine plan, and the church is part of this divine plan that God may be all in all. And how does this happen? Through the preeminence of Christ. He is preeminent. Now, I want to make some application here. What's the application here for us as Christians? In our individualistic society, we can draw the idea out that I can have a personal relationship with God apart from the body of Christ. That is our cultural thinking. We are in our Western world particularly a very individualistic society. But what we find in this passage is in that the very essence of God's plan, we find the church, and we find the head being Christ. And we find in the book of Ephesians that we are growing into his headship. Well, what does that mean? It means this: we are learning to submit to Christ. Within the body of Christ. That is, we are learning to have a submissive spirit. That's why it's going to say in Ephesians chapter 5, submit yourselves one to another. as an application of this submissiveness under the headship of Jesus Christ. And that's why it's going to say as well. that wives need to submit to their husbands as well. It's this matter of headship in Ephesians chapter 5. The application here, brothers and sisters in Christ, is this. Our role in the kingdom of God, our role in becoming in the image uh uh in being conformed to the image of the Christ. If you want to boil it all down, really boil it down, it's going to go exactly against our culture. It's going to be about submission. And I'd like to ask us this simple question, are we submissive? Do we have a submissive spirit one to another It's not just a matter of a submissive spirit toward authority, although that's certainly in Scripture as well. There are three institutions ordained by God, and God wants us to have a submissive spirit toward all three of them. But it's a submissive, it's just generally a submissive spirit one to another. How do you submit to the head of Christ? Well, certainly through the submission to the Word of God. But in the Word of God, you have the significant headship. And the way that you do that is through a submissive spirit. And there is this need for us as Christians to become dependent on Christ through a generally submissive spirit toward him and toward others in our relationships. In Romans chapter 12, verse 4, it says, For as many, for as we have many members in one body, but all the members do not have the same function. So we being many are one body in Christ and individually members of one another. You cannot separate the Christian life from the inner workings of the body of Christ. In 1 Corinthians chapter 15, verse 28, though, it says that there is this plan that God is using all of this, that we will be conformed to the image of Christ. We're kingdom citizens now, and there is going to be one day where he is going to make all things right. And so we find in the final verses, in verses 19 and 20, it says, For it pleased the Father, That in him all the fullness should dwell, and by him to reconcile all things to himself. By him, whether things on earth or things in heaven. Having made peace through the blood of his cross. To illustrate what's going on here in this passage I would refer to you to a very familiar iconic illustration in our nation's history, and that is of in 1912. of the liner, the the s white star liner, the Titanic. And of course, you know the story, I'm sure, of the Titanic and how it crashed. uh on an unexpected iceberg and many, many people. Over sixteen hundred people died on that fateful day. What you may not be aware of is that on that day there were actually 18 half empty lifeboats. that hovered nearby people that were grasping for their lives or hanging on to pieces of of uh the the boat and uh the ship that had been uh destroyed and uh there were there was um lifeboats that had gathered you know maybe forty to sixty percent of the people in them. And they were not far, from what, 300 yards in fact away in some cases, nearby, 18 different boats. But the tragedy of this is that many of the boats, in fact almost all the boats, did not go back to save these people. For example, boat number five. There were 40 people on the boat with a capacity of 65 people. It was going, uh they they um the officer, uh in fact they have a name, third officer Pittman, was in charge of this particular boat And he said to the men, should we go back? And the passengers protested. They said, why should we lose all our lives in a useless attempt to save others from the ship? Boat number two, the officer uh the officer didn't want to go back, but the people did. In fact there were ladies on the boat that really urged the officer to do that, but he was callous and he didn't listen. And so in that case It was the boat was 60 60% full, but they did not go back. You have these same kinds of stories. There was actually only one boat, boat number 14, that returned to help. And this was after an hour of the Titanic seeing sinking. Now, this is, if you just visualize the scene, it's a great visual of our world. You have all of the mess of death and sin and problems and and and difficulties and people that are so selfish that they don't even think about love for e for others. They just are worried and concerned about themselves, and we are all that way. And if you doubt whether or not we are all that way, listen to what Romans chapter 3 says about us. It says, as it is written, there is none righteous, no not one. There is none who understands. There is none who seeks after God. They have all turned aside. They have together become unprofitable. There is none who does good. No, not one. Their throat is an open tomb. Their tongues they have practiced deceit. The poison of asps is under their lips, whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness. Their feet are swift to shed blood. Destruction and misery are in their ways, and the ways of peace they have not known. There is no fear of God before their eyes. That is a description of a fallen world. And folks, what we need is in a fallen world is reconciliation. And that's what this passage says in Colossians. Christ came to reconcile. And by him, verse 20, to reconcile all things to himself, by him, whether things on earth or things in heaven, having made peace through the blood. of the cross. And we're going to look more at reconciliation next week or the week after. But we need to understand, folks, that what Christ came to do is to reconcile all things into Himself, to make everything right in this world that is destroyed and messed up. And though we are living in the midst of the fall, and though our responsibility in this life is submission to our headship, Christ and to see the sufficiency of live out the sufficiency of Christ in our lives. We can have great hope in the assurance of knowing that Christ will come again, as Harry preached last week That is the hope of the believer that he will make all things right. And he will reconcile all things to himself. So, the whole point of this is this. I'd like to read this from uh a man by the name of um Abraham Kuyper. No single piece of our mental world is to be hermetically, and I had to look that up word, it means sealed tight, uh, hermetically sealed off from the rest And there is not a square inch of the whole domain of the human existence over which Christ, who is sovereign over all, does not cry mine. Did you catch that? It's all Christ's. So how do we live in light of this? Number one The supremacy of Christ over all creation should lead to our full worship and dependence on Christ. Creation should direct us to Christ. You can move the next slide in conclusion. Number two, the supremacy of Christ over cr over the church should lead us to respond in submission, love, and unity in the body of Christ. The supremacy of Christ over his church should lead us to respond in submission, love, and unity in the body of Christ. And number three, the supremacy of Christ over the broken universe should that future supremacy should cause us to rejoice that Christ will one day reconcile everything to Himself. Let's go, Lord, in prayer. Father, we come to you this morning and we are grateful. That Christ is all supreme. He is the creator and the sustainer of life. He is the head of the church, and he will one day come and reconcile all things to himself. He is in the process of reconciliation. Father, we're living in a mess. We're living in like the mess of the Titanic where everybody is dying and nobody wants to Everybody is just selfish who is being saved. Father, I pray that you would help us not to be that way. That we would live. understanding and living in light of Christ's all-sufficiency in our lives. Help us to understand more as we go through this great book of Colossians How to live in light of that sufficiency, to bask in it, to love it, to glory in the sufficiency of Christ, and to live it out in our lives on a day-to-day basis. Thank you for this book and for this passage, this glorious passage that teaches us about the supremacy of Christ and the sufficiency of Christ May we live that way. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen