Would I want to set our s our lessons up this way? Um what we are dealing with tonight is going to be in the category of wisdom. Very little tonight of what we talk about will be a matter of right and wrong. There may be some things that are, but much of what we talk about will not be a matter of morality. Or doctrine, but wisdom. And I think it's important for us to understand the distinctions between those things. What is the difference between if you if you use these three terms, doctrine, morality, and wisdom? Somebody help me. What what are these three terms? Let's take Doctrine. What is doctrine? Yeah, good, perfect. Doctrine is teachings. Teachings from from the Bible. Now, doctrine can include either moral teachings or what wisdom teachings, but it's it it mainly is what we believe. to be true about God, about the world, about ourselves, about Christ, about those things that we can find from the Bible Now, let me then ask you this question. What is the difference between morality and wisdom? Somebody tell me, what would you think is the difference between morality and wisdom? Is there a difference? There definitely is a difference between the two. Morality are those things that are clearly defined in Scripture as wrong. Or right. There's no question about it. It's right or wrong. Lying and stealing and Fornication and those are clear mor moral issues that are right or wrong. I mean all all three of those are the the wrong. Wisdom issues are not moral issues in that they are not a matter of right and wrong. They're a matter of what is the most, what is the best way to do something What is the most appropriate way? And often in wisdom literature, uh it's not a matter of of yes, don't, or do. It's a matter of of wisdom. Let me give you an illustration with this just real quickly. Uh we were reading in Proverbs the other day, Elizabeth and I and Elizabeth pointed out a verse, or she was reading Proverbs and she pointed out a verse to me. And it said something to the effect of paraphrase, don't overstay your welcome. If if you overstay your welcome at somebody's uh with somebody, then they'll end up despising you is essentially the Paraphrase. In other words, you can become overfamiliar with somebody and you can presume upon them too much where they end up despising you. Well, how is that morality? There's nothing moral about that. It's wisdom, right? I mean it's not right or wrong. Does that mean you, okay, well I better never ever go over somebody's house again because I don't want to do that It's not that at all. It takes wisdom to know when you would cross that line, when that would it's just a matter of wisdom. And there are a lot of things in Scripture that are a matter of wisdom. Sometimes what we do in our lives is we make the mistake of of um of saying, well, I'm not doing anything morally wrong, so therefore I can do whatever I want, which is technically true But it isn't always the wisest thing. In other words, just because I can do something, and it's not prohibited, doesn't mean I I it wouldn't be it's the wisest thing for me to do Does that make sense? And just because I can do something doesn't mean I'm not cautious about it or I don't have a measured approach to it So when we come to technology, we're going to see how this all works out. But I just want us to start off this way by just pointing pointing out how God says we are to pursue wisdom. He says, My son, if you receive my words and treasure my commands within you, so that you incline your ear to wisdom and apply your heart to understand, yes, if you cry out for discernment and lift up your Is that my phone? Speaking of technology? It might be. Anyway. Um if you if you s guys everybody turn your phones off. You don't you really don't want this is not a time that you want to we're gonna be dealing with technology. Anyway. Um so that you incline your ears to wisdom and apply your heart to understanding. Yes, if you cry out uh for discernment and lift up your voice for understanding If you seek her as silver and search for her as for hid treasure, then you will understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God. For the Lord gives wisdom, from his mouth come knowledge and understanding. He stores up sound wisdom for the upright, and he is a shield to those who walk uprightly. So we see in this passage this we really need to get wisdom. In fact, there are a couple of times Proverbs just says it this way, get wisdom. Whatever you do, get wisdom. And so what we want to do tonight is is to try to glean from a man who has really put a lot of thought and research into this issue. He has teenage kids himself. He has his they're on the other upper end now. He has his daughter. Well when he writes this book, his daughter is 16. His I think his son is 18. And so he has had to he has he has thought through these issues of technology, particularly for his family. He's a Christian man. uh who loves the Lord and who wanted to raise his family in a way that is not Amish, where there is no technology at all in the home. That's not realistic. but on the other hand, uh was very concerned about about the role technology was playing and the proper place of of technology. And I want to say this that in just rubbing shoulders with you all, with without exception, every parent of a teen in this church has at some point said to me, uh expressed concern about this issue of technology. All of you have, but your parents. Either the one of the one of the parents, not not both of you necessarily, but In some cases both. And so this is something that parents of teens are trying to work through, but let me just say this. It doesn't start there. It starts at the youngest ages. We have had to in our family, I don't have teenagers yet. Um I say that with fear and trembling. coming. But um but uh I we've ha I've had to think through this and in the the process of thinking through okay well how are we gonna handle this? At what age is my kids gonna have phones? When are they going to have tablets? What is the gonna are there what restrictions, all those kind of things that come to place that my parents didn't have to worry about Because it wasn't you know, I my p my kids can't believe we didn't even have internet when I was a when you were a kid. I I try to tell them what w what it was like when I was a kid and they you know, this phone I said, nobody had cell phones Yeah, pagers was probably back then. Yeah. And uh um I mean you had a ho phone that with a cord that went and You know, if you had a nine hundred megahertz wireless phone that was still connected to your house, that was pretty pretty big deal when I was a kid. Okay. I mean things are things have significantly changed And so one of the things that's difficult about this this subject is is that it Things are changing so rapidly that studies there there's not even time to do studies on the on the effects of what occur is occurring. Because there's just so much it it's changing so fast. And so um I really appreciate his approach. His wife is a scientist who actually creates technology. And so he has uh uh intimate understanding of of technology as well. So this is the man who's written this book and he the the title of the book is The Tech Wise Family. I want to begin by actually reading Amy Crouch, that is the daughter, she has written the Ford, she's a 16-year-old daughter, who has written about her dad's use of technology in the home or limitations of technology uh with the home. And and I I'm doing this as you know a testimony uh just just by by in the way of testimony so that um folks here understand some of you teenagers understand that there is real value here. She says, as the author's daughter I've been living with a tech-wise parents for sixteen years. Some might say my older brother who had it for 19 years would be even more qualified to write this forward. I, however, would argue that as a test subject number two, I've enjoyed an even more refined approach So if you are wondering how techwise parenting actually works out works out, I might be able to help you. I think the best part of techwise parenting for me was ha has been its focus on something older and better than the newest thing. The keyword is better. Tech-wise parenting isn't simply intended to eliminate technology, but to put better things in its place. Technology promises that it can provide wonder Take a picture with the proper filters and you'll be awestruck. It will look better than real life. But this promise is deceptive My iPhone's wonder generators from Instagram to Temple Run. I don't even know what that is, Temple Run. That's I'm not sure what that is. Turn out to be only distractions from the things that really spark wonder. Thanks to TechWise Parenting, I've discovered a world out there that is better than anything technology can offer. As close as our front lawn. I'll be honest though, if you're hoping that being tech-wise will neatly eliminate technology's harmful influences from your children's lives, you're you're set up for disappointment I haven't been totally able to escape its pitfalls. I probably have a healthier relationship with technology than some of my peers. But I still have problems aimlessly scrolling through websites and apps even when I need to do important things such as sleep, eat, and do homework and make cookies. And having I thought cookies was that's interesting. And having comparatively healthy relationships isn't much of an accomplishment given what I have I'm comparing it to. I'm probably uh I probably I'll probably be figuring out how to balance technology and productivity through my whole adult life, and I doubt even the most tech-wise parenting could prevent that. Tech-wise parenting has added wonder to my life, though, and that's enough. The real world is so fantastic that getting a taste of it makes even the most jaded kid want more. Not only have I really, not only have I always known the wonder uh is out there, I've been taught how to search for it No multitude of glowing rectangles will ever be able to replace the single bumblebee. And that's the real legacy of tech-wise parenting for me. It has shown me where to look for what I need most. Wonder comes from opening your eyes wider, not bringing the screen closer. If you're worrying what uh that not having a TV will wreak havoc on your child's life, don't worry. Well, maybe it will wreak havoc, but it's it'll be the good kind. I did end up drawing on the bathroom wall with a with a neon green crayons meant only for the tub, but I also learned to paint tiny watercolors. We still have them in tiny boxes, violin, rose, and comes in. All right, so I'm going to move on a little bit here. Okay, my parents' approach in parenting uh cause a certain amount of havoc and even difficulty. But since that's not the best way to persuade you to buy the book, call it flourishing instead. Tech-Wise Parenting welcomes the mud, the crayon drawings on the wall, and the arguments, because it takes some messiness to flourish. After all, the creativity that makes a kind uh a kid think that the wall is her canvas also encourages her to sing cow songs and learn the violin. All right, that is a testimony from a 16-year-old who grew up in a home where technology was had its uh proper place. What I want to do now then is what I have done is taken the book and I've out I've I've taken its headings. And then I've also taken highlights from the book to help us and then we'll be g able to draw some um draw some uh discussion points from these. The first part of the book, part one, is the three key decisions of the Techwives family. And he's going to get to these three key decisions toward the very end of what we'll we'll cover tonight, Lord willing. He begins with a preface. By the way, if you're reading a book, don't skip the preface. This is just for free. I do a lot of free stuff lately. Don't skip the preface. The preface tells you what the author is thinking and the purpose behind why he's writing, which is very important if you want to understand the book. So college students, when you go to college and you're reading their textbooks, don't skip the preface. You'll be better off if you don't. Alright. This so he says in the preface this, this book is about how to find the proper place for technology in our family lives and how to keep it there. So that's his statement. That's his thesis. How to find the proper place of technology and how to keep it there. What this isn't saying is he's going to say how to eliminate technology. And those of us who like tech are kind of relieved by that. That's not what he's saying. Um but he is very concerned that we that we understand its proper place. and how to keep it in its proper place. Parents, let me ask you, how many of you find that to be something that has been difficult in your parents I'm curious. I'll raise my hand with yours. Something that we've had many discussions over to try to figure out what its proper place is. And I think as my our kids get older that will continue to be a discussion, although um because of this book maybe not quite as much many discussions as otherwise would have been. Here's some things that he says in his preface. He said, when previous generations confronted the perplexing challenges of parenting and family life, they could fall back on wisdom or at least old wives' tales. that have been handed down for generations. But the pace of technological change has surp surpassed anyone's capacity to develop enough wisdom to handle it. We are stuffing our lives with technology's new promises with no clear sense of whether technology will help us keep the promises we've already made. I've had the incredible, perplexing, and rewarding joy of parenting two children through the teenage years with my wife Catherine, who is by the way a scientist who builds extraordinary technology in her lab and is incredibly sane in her lack of obsession with technology at home. Something else we need to know about this book. So the Barnard team set out to document the role technology actually plays in American families and the concerns that both parents and children have about it. One of the things you're going to find in this book is that it's well researched. By the way, I would recommend parents you buy the book and read it. I think it would be helpful. Even if you have if your grandparents, if you have I mean it's just a good It's a good book to read. And I appreciate I don't know if I have that quote in here, but I appreciate what he says about this. This well, I hope I hope I have the quote, because it really is something he says quite quite good about about not just it just just being the the families that we think of families, but this this is society in general. Throughout this book, you'll get a picture of the graphs, charts, and sidebars. You're going to see a lot of that kind of thing to help us to understand how this is all going to work. Technology in it is in its proper So then he what he does is he gives several basic principles of what it looks like when technology in it is in its proper place. These are Really good. And this is not a not the sum total of what he's saying. Some of it it was a little hard to grasp what he what he's saying here, but He's going to point out in more detail why why he thinks these things, but he starts off by just pointing out what it looks like when technology is in its proper place. Technology is in its proper place when it helps us bond with real people we have been given to love. It's out of its proper place when we end up bonding with people at a distance like celebrities whom we will never meet. So that's one he says. Technology is in its proper place when it starts great conversations. It's out of its proper place when it prevents us from talking with and listening to one another. You get that? That's a good one, isn't it? Can you use the other day uh um we were going to Myrtle Beach and we mentioned it to we were talking Brad uh And he pulled out his phone and he showed me a picture of the star the the um um the teeth that the the shark teeth that they they collected. Well, did that help our conversation? It sure did. I mean that would be a good use of technology. Here, let me show you a picture. Or when my dad my dad pulls out his phone and and talks about the West and shows you pictures and you're he says here here that enhances conversation. So that would be an example of how it would actually help the conversation. But then there are other times where it prevents it. How might it prevent it? Help us out here. How might the phone prevent Talking with and listening to one another. Texting back and forth at the table. Texting back and forth at the table. Good. Okay. Yeah oh yeah. Well read it, it's up there anyway. Yes, Rose. Yeah. If you vent venting on Facebook is a really bad idea. Okay. You want to destroy relationships, just vent on Facebook. People have no idea the context you're talking about, and they take it totally wrong wrong. Uh when we put something on Facebook we ought to think, do uh do I want the whole world to read this? Because they will be. I mean, or a lot of people, yes. I know I've been guilty of that, but If I'm quote unquote bored with the situation I'm in, I can go anywhere I want on my phone, which is ultimately very selfish. Good. Okay. Yeah. And and we all have that tendency to sort of I'm bored, I'm standing in line, I'm bored, and I go and I hit you know, if you're standing in line, you have people around you. And it used to be that when we stood in line with people around us, we didn't look at our phones. We would talk to the people that we're in line with, like like they were real people. But the problem is, I will tell you, this is true, there are times where I have looked around to talk to somebody and everyone's on their phone. So I feel funny Looking around trying to talk uh strike up a conversation with somebody and anyway, I s I I feel like saying, hey, can I have your number so I could text you so we could have a conversation? Anyway. Maybe I should try that sometime. That could be funny So so that's a good example. Good. What else? Any other I think I think the dinner table, texting of the dinner table is just should be Not a good thing. And I am a I am I have been guilty uh uh of it occasionally, not very often, but every once in a while. She said more often than I closed this line. Okay. All right. All right, technology is in its proper place when it helps us take care of the fragile bodies we inhabit. It's out of its proper place when it promises to help us escape the limits and vulnerabilities of those bodies altogether. What is it saying there? It's kind of a mouthful. It's actually saying some things that are very important. If technology helps you in some way, you have a pedometer or a Fitbit, okay, those are probably good uses of a technology, although don't rely on them. Because I don't think their calorie counts are right. But anyway, yeah. Yeah. When you're you're trying to escape Something about your own how God created you, something about your own physical being And you don't like it or you ha you don't want to think about it or you want to be somebody different than what you've been created to be. And so you're actually using technology as an escape either to just ignore what reality is How what guy or to create your own reality. I um I ve I even see this with social media sometimes. Have you ever seen but somebody's Facebook picture and then you go and meet them and they look nothing like that? I mean so that can even yeah there are whole there are there's there's a phenomenon out there of very people creating Facebook families just They just feel somebody's baby cases and post them with their own. And you have things that are even more detailed. You have role-playing things, you have avatar kind of uh uh games and all those kind of things And those are those are areas wanna be where you want to be careful because because it's now you're it's trying to escape what God has created you to be. Yes, he shin. I see some friends, I know they're eight, but I can see their profile reflected uh ten years younger than eight. Yeah. Yeah. All right. I'm probably gonna do that when I get older too, so anyway. So All right. Um next. Technology is in its proper place when it helps us acquire skill and mastery of domains. They are the glory of human culture. Okay, that's let me read it again. Technology is in its proper place when it helps us acquire skill and mastery of domains that are the glory of human culture, sports, music, the arts. Cooking, writing, accounting, the list could go on and on. When we let technology replace the development of skill with passive consumption, Something has gone wrong. Does that make sense? I think this is good. This is really helpful. God has made a really cool word at world out there. Now sin's messed it up a lot. And we have to know when sin is messed it up and we have to understand that. But there's a lot of cool things out there that God wants us to enjoy, things like sports and music and art and cooking, those kinds of things, writing, those kinds of things Technology, if it helps us with those things, if it helps us to enjoy the creation that God has made, the real creation. Not this, the real creative. If it helps us with that, great. If you can learn a musical instrument by taking guitar lessons online. Or if or whatever other m lesson instrument instrument. Or if you can learn to cook or there you know I what I use technology for a lot? YouTube ha can tell you how to fix anything. So I'm gonna tell you a lot of times I'm underneath the hood of a car with my phone and looking at YouTube and figuring out how to how to change that alternator or whatever it is. I I actually think it's a gr that's a great use of technology. And I'm not gonna stop no matter what this guy says. I'm glad he's not gonna say that. Anyway Because it's very, very helpful. So there's a there's good uses of it. Um and he says that. It's balanced. He's not saying get rid of it. There are some very helpful things about it. But you've crossed the line if now You have become you you are not learning new skills and you're not enjoying God's creation and you're not because you're so caught up in the technology. Does that make sense? If you're not growing and developing, that that's an indication that maybe technology has taken too much of a hold. Yeah, right. Good point. You know, and people clap because they like what you said. Yeah. And every every everywhere you look in society, people have have begun the thing So very good. And actually church is one of the greatest way we are everybody in a service is to be participant. That is such an important thing to understand when you're that's why they call it a service, by the way. This is a side note, but that's why a service is a service. It's not just You know, a show. This is a really lousy show. Anyway. But uh but it's not just a show. It's a s it's a it's a service because everybody's coming to participate to serve. Your presence and your activity in singing and all those things are a matter of serving within a service. Anyway, um but the point is simply that technology if it causes this problem, if it causes to go away from this, then it is is certainly a problem. I think the screens are a good obviously we have them. I think that they are a helpful thing. Now We also have hymnals. But with a mom who's trying to hold two kids and wants to still sing, try doing that with a hymnal too. Uh it's not even one kid with a hymnal is really difficult. And to be able to participate in a service uh is a good it's a good thing and I th there's a disadvantage in as far as being able to sing parts and those kinds of things. I'm actually working on that. There is a way to do that on the screen now. I'm finding um we have but we also have the hymnals as well for that. Um all that to say we have to we have to balance these things out. Technology is in its proper place when it helps us cultivate awe for the created world we are part of and responsible for stewarding. Our family spent some joyful and awe-filled hours when our uh children were in the middle school watching the beautifully produced BBC series Planet Earth. How many of you seen that series? It's pretty It's pretty nice. It's out of its proper place when it keeps us from engaging the wild and wonderful na natural world with all our senses You there it you can't replace going into nature and taking a hike because when you watch it on a screen you're only using one sense, not five. And so um anyway that's a uh He says this. Technology is in its proper place only when we use it with intention intention and care If there's one thing I've discovered about technology, it's that it doesn't stay in its proper place on its own. This is this is is this not true? I mean I this has been my experience. Much like my children's toys and stuffed creatures and minor treasures, it finds its way underfoot all over the house and all over our lives, if we are intentional and careful, we'll end up with a quite Extraord extraordinary mess. So that's what he says. He he he gives those principles for when technology has gone too far versus when it's in its proper place. The entire book is to say what is technology's proper place, here's what it is, and also the majority of the book actually is how you keep it in its proper place. And frankly, it is something that all of us need to just really think through. By the way, as I've read the book, I agree with a lot of what he's saying, but I don't agree with everything he's saying. And that's okay, right? Because that's not the Bible. I'm not see he's not the Bible. But there is a lot of good things that he's saying. Now here's we're gonna get into now we move past the preface. And I took my time with the preface because it really establishes what we're trying to accomplish here. In other words, he's not going to give us all the techie ways to be able to put passwords on everything. That's not the point of this. or how to create firewalls and how that that's not the point of it. He is giving us principles, wisdom principles, to act to for us to be able to establish what is the proper place of technology. Here is an interesting statistic here. I don't know you might be able to see that. You might not, but right here you have the number of um you have a number of um different things that they polled Barna polled different people and asked parents what they dou what the most difficult thing they were dealing with in their families And the number one, 65% said technology and social media was the thing that they were having the most difficult time knowing how to deal with. in their families. Well that makes sense, doesn't it? Because we haven't had to deal with it before this generation. You know, before a decade or two at the most, we haven't had to deal with this So trying to figure out how to deal with it. The world is a dangerous place, uh is more dangerous, comes in second, lack of common morality comes in third, financial factors, bullying at school, high academic pressure my work and so on. But the highest is technology, how to handle technology and social media, according to Barna and their in their polling uh of a cross-section of parents. If there is one word that sums up how many of us feel about technology and family life, it's help. Parents know we need help, he says. And that has been my experience too in talking with parents. Now he begins then to talk about just general observations about technology and family life. This is helpful. He says, we love the way devices make our lives easier amid the stress and busyness that fill our days. We love the way screens can almost magically absorb our children's attention and give us a few moments of quiet in the car or before dinner. We are guilt my my family's guilty. Okay, we we um we don't do it nearly as much anymore. We really have cut back on this, but But um there have been times where we just stuck the screen in front of the kids because we just wanted too quiet. And uh we knew that that would that would get the the desired result We admire the ease with which our children master technology, the prowess they show with video games and bursts of creativity in arts and movies and music that divi devices help them produce. And he so he's saying some of this is, you know, this is this is just how we live and One of the things then he says this, but we also sense the precious days of childhood are passing by far too fast in a haze of ghostly blue light We watch as the inevitable intensity of teenage relationships is raised to near toxic levels by a sleep-depriving round-the-clock deluge of messages. We feel helpless to prevent them from overexposure far too early to the most violent and imminent facts of life And is this not true? Is this not a problem? Now I don't have teenagers yet, but I've talked to your parents, and this is this is on some level a problem. It's it and it and this constant messaging back and forth, this is not something that I ever dreamed of as a teenager. That I would be able to message my friend in the middle of the night a picture of something that was totally inappropriate. Or a me or talk about something over messaging the uh you know, text messaging that was just not a pro that that I should be talking about. I mean I've never fathomed that. At mid midnight there was only one thing that was happening in my house. Okay. And um so uh um This is something that we need to really think about and it's a bit of a concern, yes too. with discussed in text. Yeah, it does. That's very it's a very good point. Kim I think something that we now do that everything that somebody sends out or text is now available to whoever wants to go get it. Oh yeah. They have access. Yeah and all out there on the web It'll sh it it'll show up it may show up when you least expect it, like on a re you know, on a a job interview or something. I mean I've heard of things like that happening. Um Older kids know the sick to Now this is something that was I didn't know about until I read this. Older kids know the sick to the stomach feeling of having binged on a video game for days on end Just as their parents know queasy too much Netflix feeling. I I'm not really familiar with this. Apparently this is a problem that's happening where people are actually getting to their st sick to their stomachs because they just are spending too much time on on uh and various things like this. They've watched as their most media savvy peers the ones with a thousand followers from their high school or a million followers from all over the world, first expose themselves, then overexpose themselves and go from reveling in the attention to breaking under the weight of others' expectations and derision Um this is what we need to be aware of. The Bible says, he that foreseeth evil and hides himself is wise. The prudent man does this. So if this is a possibility that our kids and our teenagers and and ourselves could get caught up in this kind of problem, this is not You know, we it used to be that I mentioned this this morning, it used to be that as long as you you know pornography didn't flash up on the screen and everything was okay. No, there's actually other problems that are occurring because of of technology not having its proper place and having no parental ability like we have the Bible But not having a lot of wisdom from previous generations or no wisdom from previous generations because they didn't have to deal with this To be a child, teenager, or young adult these days is to have to navigate a minefield of potentially life-altering choices, often with strangely little guidance from older adults who who, after all, are blue to their own screens. So you have a whole generation of people that are exploring all kinds of things on their screens. With no input from anybody older than them that has experience and wisdom because they're on their own screens I mean we have a societal struggle here, I think, if we really think about uh the pro about it. I I It it a a child the Bible says a child left to his own devices is going to end up in ruin. And if if if if we're just exploring things on the internet without without uh the constant um interaction of people older than us and wiser than us, we have to really really consider that. Um And the grandparents, they aren't necessarily free of their own over dependence on technology, but I've heard more distress about our current techno technological addictions from grandparents than anyone else They love their grandchildren and will slight and with slightly less infatuation than their children, it's so true. And and want to spend time with them. But just as young children uh Not just as young children, but as middle schoolers, high schoolers and beyond, but they see their grandchildren absorbed in their devices, preoccupied with popular entertainment and chatter with their peers just when they could could be having the time of the of their and their grandparents' lives. I and I've seen this. I've seen this in family get togethers that I had no control over. I mean as far as extended family get together Thanksgiving time. And everybody's doing this. We're all watch they're either watching football, which is what most of us guys are doing, and the r and the rest of them are all Facebooking. And every once in a while you hear this Anyway, you can see I'm a little annoyed by that. I'm like, what are you laughing about? You want to share it with the rest of us? You're in a room with people. Okay. I I I'll uh I'll calm down now. Anyway. Um the number of Apple devices we call so but we're gonna switch the other side it is not as though he is totally you know, taking an Amish approach. The number of Apple devices we collectively own is easily in double digits. And in the basement there's a pretty sweet TV purchased just before those gorgeous plasma screens were phased out. Which is really annoying probably for him. Um The key point he says is this we benefit from all kinds of devices, but we don't build our lives around them. We haven't eliminated devices from our lives by any means, but we go to great lengths to prevent them from taking over our lives. This is the key. Very, very important. Start to put the commitments uh in uh so he is what he's going to do is he's going to propose various commitments, family commitments that he and his family has made. And that we can choose to make them or not. I go through some of them and say, I'm not making I don't think that's a good idea. Other ones and we'll we'll go through them eventually, not tonight, but we'll go through them another time. He says this, when you start these commitments, he says start put these in put these commitments in this book into practice, and if you have kids old enough to form the word no Let alone hack their way through the internet firewall, they will probably complain loudly for two weeks. You will complain for two weeks. But very soon you wonder why you ever waited this long to pursue the real life you were made for By the way, kids, if your teens and kids, if your parents start because of this, they read this book or they're listening to these lectures, they start saying, you know what, we need to lose a little more wisdom with how we're using our devices. Don't just go with it. Give it time. Give it two, three weeks before you before you knock it, because you might find that there's a world out there that is worth looking at and um and enjoying. and learning from. He then talks about there are four there are four primary areas that parents struggle with with their kids in helping them to to deal with, particularly I think with teens, but uh it actually was the range of age four to seventeen. Discipline, time management, helping my children develop good moral character, and again here monitoring monitoring technology. and social media. It's still in that top that top range of of of uh um of concerns. So then what he does yes. It's exactly right. And that's actually the connection he's gonna make. He's gonna make he's gonna make that that's exactly observation. What Carol said was The top three are affected by number four, and that's what he's going to point to. He's going to say that discipline time management and developing moral character are being hindered by the technology and social media. There's a h there's a a connection. Why we're s why are we struggling with these three? We're struggling with these three to some degree because of this one. Not entirely. I mean if you can't blame it on that. We have things like sin natures and you know, other things that really are probably more to blame. But but this is an issue that is contributing to this to the difficulty. Now then what he does is he points out to what seem to be In this book it was sort of like, why are you pointing this out? But he's trying to develop a philosophy for for moving forward. That's that's what I would gra gather from this He calls it the the nudge. You say, what what in the world? At least that's what I said. I'll I'll I'll explain it. Or he'll explain it. We didn't just hold off on buying TV for our they held off on buying TV for their kids' sake. He said, I find TV, TV's moving images nearly irresistible. This is a problem in America because it it in an awful lot of public places and homes there's an awful lot of TV. If there is a screen in view, I'll find myself following a college basketball game or for that matter a local car dealer advertisement. with far keener atten attention than I'm giving to the person right across from me. And I find have you you find yourself doing if you're in a in a restaurant and they've got a TV in the corner and I'm talking to some you ever find yourself uh cock trying to really like pull yourself away from looking at that used car salesman crazy guy up there that's you know or whatever it is that It's really draws it's really really weird. So he says that anyway he's gonna we'll explain this more he'll explain this four as popularized in Richard Thaler This is a particular book he's read. Nudges are small changes in the environment around us that make it easy for us to make the choices we want to make or want others to make. Small changes in the environment around us. And so he's going to suggest that there are certain small changes that we should make that will help us to be able to to uh make right decisions and right choices. So he calls these nudges He says this: nudges don't generally make us do anything, but they make certain choices easier and more likely. They don't focus so much on changing anything about our own preferences and ability to choose well. They simply put the best choice right in front of us and make the wrong choice harder. The makers of it of techno technological devices Have become absolute masters at the nudge. Every notification that comes in on your smartphone is a nudge, not a command or a demand, right? I mean they can't command you to do anything. But something that makes us makes it easier to stop whatever you're currently doing and divert your attention to your screen. They are masters at it, aren't they? And they have these these dings and these all these other things, these and and you're like compelled to I wonder who that is that's you know and you want to find out who it is. You don't have to pay attention to it, but there's this nudge to want to know what it is and who it is Yeah. Increasingly sophisticated agri algorithms help apps manage the number of nudges so you never get tired of responding to them. I didn't know that. That's a little scary. We are continually being nudged by our devices toward a set of choices. The question is whether those choices are leading us to the life we actually want. I want a life of conversation and friendship, not distraction and entertainment. But every day, many times a day, I'm nudged in the wrong direction One key part of our of the art of living faithfully with technology is setting up better nudges for ourselves. The value of disciplines and choices But nudges, now this is this is so good. This is so good even if you're not talking about technology. Nudges will never on their own build the wisdom and courage we need, partly because we often can't control our environment. So you can't blame, oh man, there was a TV, I had to look at it. We can't control our environment. No matter how much we'd like to We need to change something inside of us as well, to develop the strength to make good choices, even when everything around us is nudging or pushing as in the wrong uh us in the wrong direction. And for that we need disciplines. Now listen to what he says about disciplines. This is really good. Disciplines are very much like what weightlifters call progressive overload. The best way to gain strength is by pushing your muscles to the very edge of their current capacity for a relatively brief time. Um no one can spend twelve hours a day bench pressing hundreds of pounds, and no one should want to. But spend an hour a day, a few days a week, in that kind of focused, strenuous exertion And you will see gains and strengths that come no other way. Strength that will then be available to everything else you do. Now here's what he's talking about. How many of you all did any weightlifting in high school or college? I I did in high school. And and I would and and the way that you do you know, you're trying to gain you know you're trying to be able to bench press a certain amount and you're trying to increase how much you can bench press is very few reps at the highest weight that you can several times a week. So, you know, if you're high uh I I I could usually bench press I mean when I first started I could bench press maybe uh I don't know 180 pounds and I end up being up near uh two hundred and fifty or something. And the way that you do that is you you take your your your most possible weight that you can and you push hard three or four times. You're not doing high reps, you're doing low reps. And you're doing as much weight as you possibly can. And what that does is it increases over time your threshold of ability to be able to to be stronger. It's like it's like put m m the military understands this. That's why you have boot camp and and uh and basic training and all these things You don't live out those of you who went to basic training in boot camp, you don't live that way every day, right? But what it does when you're in the military is it it increases your capacity to be able to do certain things. And that's what he's talking about here with disciplines. The most powerful choices, this is so helpful. The most powerful choices we will make in our lives are not about specific decisions like where do you go to college, who do you marry, those kind of things. but about patterns of life, the nudges and disciplines that will shape all our other choices. This is especially true with technology. Technology comes with a powerful set of nudges, the default setting of our easy everywhere culture. Because technology is devoted primarily to making our lives easier, it discourages us from disciplines, especially ones that involve disentangling ourselves from technology itself. So here's his plan. I've suggested ten commitments for a healthy family life with technology. One in each of the following chapters. The Ten Commandments are definitely not the same as Ten Commandments. And so he says there are three fundamental choices that he's asking everybody to start off with. And these are good. He says f the first and deepest is to choose character. To make the mission of our family for our children and adults alike the cultivation of wisdom and courage. That I'm going to choose to cultivate wisdom and courage to produce character. Choice number one. Choice number two, he says, is to shape space, to make choices about the place where we live that will that put the development of character and creativity at the heart of our home. So the goal is character, creativity, wisdom, those kinds of things, and to shape spaces that allow for this. And third is to structure time. To build rhythms into our lives on a daily, weekly, and annual basis that make it possible for us to get to know one another, God, and our world in deeper and deeper ways. So those are the three things he says, if we can make those choices, then you're ready then to explore habits and decisions And commitments that we need to make to make those choices a reality. And those are things that we have to actually be conscious about. What is our goals as a family in our families? Are our goals character and and and creating a space that will cultivate that and structuring time that will cultivate that. Now let me give you a couple of practical things just to help just to think about. And then we'll we'll be done. Number one, we ought to think in terms of time. He's going to say later on in the book, and we haven't gotten into this, but he's going to say in the book, one of the things he highly recommends is that you don't When you wake up in the morning that you you don't have any technological devices, uh uh devices available for the first hour or two That you're just gonna read you're gonna read God's word, make a cup of coffee, think those kind of things before before and all those have to go together. You've got to make the coffee to think. Okay, in my opinion. Alright. But um To to really before you go in the now I have another solution to his that that um he says that don't have any advice he says don't use your phone as a alarm clock. Well I use my phone as an alarm clock Okay. Alright, how many of you all use your phone as alarm clock? Okay. Most uh wow, most of you use your phone as alarm clock. I I it's it's an extremely reliable ph alarm clock, that's why I use it. Now, here's a way really easy way to solve that. Put the thing on airport mode. You know what airport mode does? It disconnects it from everything. You're not gonna have any pro so put it on airport mode. Now if you have a problem like you can't seem to bring yourself to put it on airport mode You actually really have a problem. But but you need to actually put it somewhere else, okay? Uh so that that you you're not tempted to to do that. But he says, first of all, do that. Yeah. No phones in bedroom. Yeah, I and that that's a that is a great idea. And actually he's gonna he would be a proponent of that. No phone phone in bedroom at all. Or just put it on airport mode, because I'm not I'm not changing Anyway um anyway I but if if I can't put it on airport mode I did I by the way I did last night I put it on airport mode Um and um and I had a great night's sleep, but I would have anyway probably. Anyway, um but no, that's uh I think it's a really good point. Or and going to bed, he said your s your your phone should go to sleep before you do. That's a great idea. Okay. So he's going to give practical suggestions for that, th those kinds of things. And he's going to give he's going to he's going to actually go into like sleep studies. and how our devices are affect sleep and other things. It's going to go into a lot of detail that way. One of the things I'll just mention here, because I don't know when the next time we'll meet together to talk about this. Is I am personally very concerned about the idea of particularly a child or a teenager having a device That is that is a a device that they are constantly engaging with that that's just a constant thing. Um let me illustr let me give you an example what we've decided in our home with my kids. With our kids, for example, they do have tablets But what we have said is you can only use a ta your tablet for 30 minutes a day. You have to ask permission first, and you have to sit at the dining room table to use it. The reason for that is is that if they're sitting at the dining room table, who can walk by anytime? And frankly, I could say, hey, let's work let's do this tablet together. Let's whatever you're gonna do with it, let's do it together. I think that there is a real danger in even conscious, unconsciously or subconsciously, escaping reality through these individual devices. I think a much better option you say, well, should my kids learn technology? I think they need to. I think they need to learn computers. I think they need to understand it's not going away, folks. My what I'm not gonna s suggest here This is just my opinion, but I'm not going to suggest you just get away, get rid of all technology. Texting isn't going away. Okay? It's here to stay, and it is the primary mode now of communication. So it's just the way it is. But we've got to learn how to use it correctly. So what I will say with with this is our kids have computers. There are screens that you can walk that it's not like just mine and just my world. So that would be one example of something that we've done that I think might be helpful. Any other comments or questions about about just how we or thoughts on on all this subject? Even things that maybe your family has done that that um any thoughts on this? I'd be curious. Yes, Kevin. I would say as a uh a gamer, and I get technology for the sense of entertainment and and fun, just for no profit fun. When I have used that, it's the least fun. When I have discretion and discernment as to where, when, and how long, whether it'd be video games or any other performs entertainment. It will fill its purpose more compared to binge watching and binge playing or being responsible. Okay. Good. Any other thoughts on that, on technology? All right, we're gonna we'll we'll we'll wrap it up here because we're kind of uh at our time limit. But um be thinking about this and discussing this. I would encourage you to buy this book. And I really would encourage you to just think through this and um there you I don't think we can start too young with our kids on on on preparing them. uh for how we're going to deal with with all this uh this technology and and using it properly, having its proper place, but not allowing it to hinder things in our lives. John, did you have something? Uh I just one of my biggest pet deeds about all of this, you know, has been how it disconnects the person on the the other side of that it's not a person. Yeah. Thanks because you can say anything you want. Because you don't have to deal with that person, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, that is a real um yeah. Courage. It takes courage to face somebody and to say, look, here's what I'm dealing with, or here's what you need to deal with, or here's what we need to deal with. That takes courage. What's the opposite of courage? It's cowardice. And a lot of cowardice goes on behind a screen. It doesn't have to be, but a lot of it can be. Much better. There's certain points where when you're texting or things that you ought to say, you know what, this this requires a phone call. Or, you know what, I think well I think I need to go talk to this person. Um I that should be in our thinking. Anyway, uh lots of lots of yes. decisions that we think for anonymous and we can say whatever we want. We do have an object pressing front of you want to work on cover in your car because you thought you could do it with things. Good needs to deal with before the Lord and ask the Lord to change you. Can I ask a question, maybe you teens out there a little bit? Uh what's I th the the anonymous thing, how is that happening out there? Like like I don't know how it's happening. Like when I text somebody everybody know like they know who I'm texting. Facebook people know who I'm Facebooking. How is the anonymous thing it's happening, I know it's happening. Okay. Message boards, Internet, um, okay I don't do any of that, that's why I'm not sure. Yeah, I mean you can yeah. based on like recreational stuff. Yeah. Uh less than like social stuff. So people put a fake name up. They talk about something that they probably care a little too much about, and then they start playing out That's essentially what I was thinking. Okay. Whereas like if they're actually doing it on your phone name, the people that they know they're a little less likely, they're still likely to be but they're less likely. See I think I'm pretty techie, but I don't know that I am because I don't do any of this stuff. I mean I'm not involved in I don't I don't uh well I Seems like it would take a lot of time, I guess I'll say that. Um so uh but okay, and and and Kim is kind of making a good point up here. You are are not really anonymous. You might think you're anonymous, but there are ways to track Where you where you've been. So keep that in mind as well. That's just a matter of practical wisdom there. You can usually I mean it it it's track most of it's trackable unless I mean you can there are ways of getting around that I'm aware of you can ping IP addresses to other parts of the country and anyway. But as a whole that's not a good idea. Yes. Yeah, address. It you might think there is some danger of uh approaching some uh websites and uh apps and That hope meeting uh put called wisdom. Okay. Let me ask that, is there anything else, parents or teens, that you say I'd like to see this addressed as we go through this? Because we're going to do an others here. I'd like to see this This brought up. Any any other thing? Things like that? We should we should address that. Sam? One of the things we we discuss at our home a lot is uh screen line. use as more anti, I'm more pro. Only because, like you said, technology's not knowing anything. And I really think like in Asher's he's it's he has a propensity to be He could be an amazing coder, but the kid's got that brain. Yeah. So can we at least put it up and we talked about this? There's an entertainment springtime. And then there's education. Yeah. That's I think that's important to distinguish between because if if you're gonna make it in the future in a lot of jobs, you need a lot of do these things. And if you're not doing it Yeah. How do you think dealing with that? And he is he covers. Right, sure. And he covers screen time. I actually that's actually an area where I don't really agree with him completely on uh is is how he's approaching it because I think it's a little un unrealistic but um but um I uh uh anyway, that's a we'll we'll definitely cover that. That'd be a good good this good discussion. Um I ha I talk about screen I have a lot of screen time in my life. I'll tell you I am on the a lot. And um I have blue I have blue g glasses that cut out the blue light just because I'm on it so much that if I uh it actually was affecting my vision. Yes. Yeah. So you're telling me why why are you doing it? Exactly. All right, why don't we go ahead and and that's good. Any other ones that if you think of anything you could email me and we'll try to address the this issue. I do want to s want to try to deal with this. Hopefully this has been helpful. And I would encourage you to buy the book. I think that would be as good as as well. Alright, let's let's uh let's pray together. Father, we thank you for the time that we could we could spend just observ just going over this. I I pray Lord that it has piqued our interest and our And really caused us to begin to think about these things and how we can, Lord, we want to live lives that not are just moral, but the best lives we can live for you. and to to take full to to enjoy what you have given to us and and to often the the the good thing is is um Takes the place of the best. And so I pray, Lord, that you would just help us in these areas to just give us wisdom with all this. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.