Every time that a person comes to Christ Satan loses and Christ wins. So for somebody that knows Christ as their Savior What is Satan's goal? Satan can never regain them as a soldier of his. They will never be able to do Satan's bidding in the way that they would before they came to Christ. So what is Satan's goal for the believer? Have you ever thought of that? Do you know Christ is your Lord and Savior this morning? What is Satan's goal for you? And the answer to that Is that he wants to render you useless for God's purposes? He wants to put you in prison. He wants to shackle you. I don't know if you've any how many of you have ever gone over to Fort McHenry and seen where they put prisoners. There's other places I'm sure that we could use as an illustration for this as well, but the one that's memorable to me is a little kid we went to Fort McHenry, which is not that far from here at all. And they they put prisoners, people in a holding place that they caught as prisoners of war, they would put them in It was like this tunnel kind of a thing underground almost with one opening, one access point so that they couldn't escape. Because if you put uh A prisoner of war in prison, then he you he's useless. He can't fight for the other side. The shackle that often Satan uses is The true shackle is sin that Satan uses. He continues to get us to think that we are under the slavery of sin, even though we're not. But the shackle that he often uses is fear. He wants us to fear because the Bible says that fear has torment. And in fact, those who fear will find themselves paralyzed when it comes to the purposes of God. The Judaizers, I believe that was really Satan's intention in using the Judaizers to convince people that, particularly the Gentile believers, that they needed to follow the Mosaic law. Their slogan, if you will, is in Acts chapter 15, verse 1, which says, and a certain man came down from Judea And taught the brethren, unless you are circumcised according to the custom of Moses, you cannot be saved. Can you imagine what it's like for a group of Gentile believers to gloriously trust in Christ? And then to be told by some convincing naysayers that they really haven't done it all the way, that there's something else they need to do. They've experienced being unshackled. They've experienced the grace of God in their lives. They've experienced what it's like to be a changed person. And now there are a group of authoritative kinds of people coming and telling them, though, you're not really saved unless you follow the Mosaic Law. And the danger for those kinds of people was that they were going to succumb to fear. Oh no, what if I'm not really saved? If Satan can get you to feel as though you're not saved, he can shackle you. And that is what he was doing. to the to the uh the the gentile Christians in the first century. And Paul wants none of it He wants to make sure that this does not continue to happen to the Gentile Christians in the first century, that they understand that they are liberated in Christ. It's interesting how what Satan's tactic is in the early church. You could say, in a sense, that it was espionage. Would you notice in the text what it says from last week we learned this? Verse 4, chapter 2, verse 4. And that because of the fur the first brethren unawares brought in who came in privily to spy out liberty, our liberty, which we have in Christ. They went in to spy out how they could destroy. The liberty that Christ had given them. And Satan desires to do the very same thing for you and I. to destroy we are liberated but to feel ha cause us to feel as though we're not and he will do it Not just from those that are outside, but from those that are inside. Christ said it would be that way. He says in Matthew chapter 13, verses 24 through 30. Tells us the parallels of the the per the parable rather of the s of the tares in the wheat. Christ told the story to the disciples to explain that this is like the kingdom of heaven. This is what was going to happen. during this part of the kingdom of heaven when in uh after Christ passed away, uh died and rose from the grave and ascended. That there would be people in the church that would truly know Christ as their Lord and Savior, but there were others that would claim to, but don't. And that those who claim to but that don't but don't would would would deceive and would lessen the usefulness of those who do. And they won't be able to be removed because less you actually uproot those that genuinely do, until the coming of Christ when all will be set straight, when he will divide the tares. From the weak. And so there always is this risk of people within the midst of God's people, within the universal church, that claim to be Christians, that say they know Christ. But they're actually desiring to undermine the work of Christ. And usually the goal is to withhold from liberty. In fact, when you really think about it, There are all kinds of churches and groups of people throughout this country that would claim to be Christians, but in one way or another, they have added works They have added some sort of self-effort to the grace of God. And they still call themselves Christians. And they still call themselves a church. Those are the ones that are most dangerous. It's not the Buddhists or the Hindus or the ones that we are can clearly identify as unbelievers and and they wouldn't even claim to be Christians. It's interesting over in Hong Kong when I was over there, missionary Matthew Conrad, while I was over there, explained to me that over there, when you when someone's not a Christian, they just say, yeah, I'm not a Christian. Like in the church, if you get the people would bring visitors to their church and they'd say, Yeah, I'm not a Christian. That's like an open thing. Are you, are you? No, I'm not. And it's you know very d it's very different than than the lines being blurred that happens most of the time in our country. Well, the lines were blurred in the first century, and what you have here actually are false Christians. They're pseudo- Christians that are coming into the church and Satan is using them to thwart God's work in the world and the and the furtherance of the gospel. And he was doing this that it by risking the rate thing that was at risk was their liberty. Would you notice what it says there? to spy out our liberty, which we have in Christ Jesus, that they might bring us into bondage. And we're going to learn what that is right after we pray. Lord, would you help us as we look at this extremely important subject? Help us, Lord, to understand the liberty that we have in Christ. Help us to understand the gospel and its need and the need to have it go forward. May we understand our responsibility in living out the gospel and preaching the gospel this morning. And we pray these things in Christ's name Amen. Well, last week we noted that Paul was headed to the Jerusalem after 14 years of his own conversion and preaching the gospel all over various places. He took Barnabas and Titus with him. Titus was an object lesson for the apostles in Jerusalem that he met privately with to show them what a Christian Gentile looked like. And he asked them point blank, does this man really need to be circumcised in order to be saved? There is something just compelling about meeting someone who has truly been converted by Christ. They know that they have a relationship with the Lord and there's this They just you just can tell there's something very compelling about that. And so rather than speaking in academic terms, he brought somebody with him and said, Do you not see this man knows Christ? Does he really need to add the works of the law? And of course they all agree that he did not. The thing that was at jeopardy was their liberty. And the liberty that we see in this passage, I want to just mention to you biblically what this is. Because I think there's a lot of confusion about it. And I will say that we're going to chapter 5 in Galatians actually covers this in great detail. This is not going to be a comprehensive study on the book on the idea of liberty. But I think at this point we do need to understand a few things about it. You know the first person to mention the idea of liberty when it comes to the gospel is Christ Himself. Christ said in John chapter 8, verse 32, You shall know the truth, and the truth shall set you fall make you free. They answered, the Jewish people there answered, We are Abraham's descendants, descendants, and we have never been in bondage to anyone. How can you say you will be made free? You know what Jesus answered them, how Jesus answered them Most assuredly I say unto you, whoever commits sin is a slave to sin. He wanted them to understand that the thing that enslaves us the most is not a government. It's not another person. The thing that enslaves us the most is sin. And Christ came to set us free from the bondage of sin. That is why he came. That's why it says in Galatians chapter 5, stand fast therefore in the liberty by which Christ has made us free. And do not be entangled again with the yoke of bondage. Christ saved us to liberate us from sin. To make us free from the demands of the law. He saved us for that reason. When we think of this term liberty, the Apostle Paul explains it this way in Romans chapter 8. And I think it's helpful to understand where all of this liberty is going. Romans chapter 8, verse 21, it says, Because the creation itself also will be delivered from the bondage of corruption into the glorious liberty of the children of God. And not only the creation, but we ourselves who have the first fruits of the Spirit grown inwardly as we wait eagerly for the adoption of Son, the redemption of our body. He says, right now we're living in a fallen world in corruptible bodies. We're living in a in a horrible you know, it's a it's a sin-ridden fallen place. And one day, where we're going with all this liberty is we're going to be free from all of it. It is true that what God has done in the gospel is for those who accept the gospel by faith He has freed us from the power of sin. He's freed us from it. And but one day we look forward to the fact that one day he will free us from the presence of sin. Are you not looking forward to that day? Every day, a Christian knows the struggle that we go through to fight sin and to keep it at bay and to confess it as quickly as possible and to identify in his early movements. We understand that war that is within us. We constantly are tempted by various kinds of sin on every level. Sin sins external, sins internal, sins of uh of all kinds are constantly in our world that tempt us to shackle us again. to enslave us again to the things that Christ made us to be free from That is true Christian liberty. To be free from sin and to be free from the power of it. In Galatian and Romans chapter 6. It says, being made free from sin, you became the servants of righteousness. Did you know that we will always be enslaved to something? You and I do not have a choice. We are designed to be dependent. Say, well, I don't really like that. I live in America. We like our independence. Guess what? That's a delusion. And that's not going to be very popular among You know, some people, but it is a delusion. Independence is a delusion. What is reality is that we are always dependent upon something. And before we know Christ, we are dependent upon sin. We are enslaved to it. But once we know Christ as our Lord and Savior, we are freed from sin to be servants of righteousness and of God. And God wants us to understand this. And by the way, freedom to be righteous and to live righteously is so much better You know, there is, just on a practical level, there is nothing better than pillaring your head at night with a clear conscience. To know that there is nothing between me and the Savior. Nothing, I love the song, nothing between my soul and the Savior. That's freedom. That's liberty. And the Apostle Peter, in discussing this issue when it came to the early church, he says. He says about the Gentiles and to the Jewish people that were trying to impose the law. He says, Now therefore, why do you test God by putting a yoke on the neck of the disciples? Which neither our fathers nor we were able to bear. But we believe that through the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ we have been saved in the same manner as they. He said, our fathers couldn't handle the yoke of the law, and we can't handle the yoke of the law. And when Christ came, he took on the yoke of the law himself. And he lived the perfect life so that he fulfilled the demands of the law. And therefore we no longer have to follow after the law. Instead, we follow after the law of Christ, which is to love God and to love our neighbors as ourselves. It is a different kind of law that is not a demand, a yoke that we cannot bear. It is a it is a A kind of service that we are free to do because of our love for God and our love for others. Then what Paul says after he explains what was at stake, he says this. And this almost could be the purpose statement of the entire book of Galatians. And we mentioned it last week, but I want to re repeat it again here. He says, to whom we gave place we gave place by subjection? No, not for an hour. By the way, these so he said the people that were trying to impose the Mosaic Law on them, he said we did not even give them an inch. We did not even give them a hearing. We did not subject ourselves to them at all. It's interesting how he puts this. We we didn't subject ourselves. We didn't submit ourselves to their thinking at all. We held our ground and didn't even give in for a moment why. Why was it so important? That the truth of the gospel might continue with you. That could be the purpose statement of the whole book of Galatians, that the truth of the gospel might continue with you. You. And for you and I as Christians, that ought to be our heart. The truth of the gospel might continue with you. Can I just tell you, as a pastor, that's my heart for you. Not just for you, but me, and for my family. The truth of the gospel might continue with us The Apostle Paul is speaking to Timothy, who was his protege in the faith. He says, Hold fast the pattern of sound words which you have heard from me. In faith and love, which are in Christ Jesus. That good thing which is committed to you, keep by the Holy Spirit who dwells in you, in us. He says in 2 Timothy 4, verse 7, which is Paul's swan song after he has come to the end of his life, he says, I have fought a good fight, I have kept what? The faith. And the greatest desire for all of us should be for each other that we would fight a good fight and that we would come to the end of our lives and we would keep the faith. This faith has been hard-thought throughout church history. And it's helpful for us to remember just how hard thought it has been. The Middle Ages comprised of a thousand years between the fifth century and the fifteenth century. During that time, it is rightly called the Dark Ages where the medieval interpretations of Scripture and the superstitions of the day began to overtake the truth of the Word of God. The Bible was taken out of the hands of the common man and placed into the Roman Catholic Church to only be interpreted by them. And darkness filled the world. And the gospel was almost entirely snuffed out. Did you know that we this month are celebrating the 500th year of the Protestant Reformation on October 31st? 1517, when Martin Luther nailed the 95 Theses to the wall at Wittenberg. And began the Protestant Reformation, and we all ought to be grateful for his contribution. But his contribution was not the first contribution that led up to the Protestant Reformation. There were men like John Wycliffe. Who went against the Catholic Church and desired that the worship services be put into English rather than Latin so you could actually understand them. And that John Huss said the same kind of thing, and they both began to translate the Word of God and wanted to put it in the hands of the common man. Folks, as soon as you take the Bible out of the hands of the common man, you have problems. The gospel will be snuffed out. John Huss died, burned at the stake for his faith. The Catholic Church nailed him as a heretic. They were so vehement against John Huss that they actually exhedit the body and bones of John Wycliffe, even though he was already dead, and burned them as well. William Tyndale came along later and continued the translation kind of work and was a um was also known also new Martin Luther and This was all took place in the hand of God to enlighten people as to the truth of the gospel through the Word of God. And from then on, we have had more light in the world But do you know that we have no guarantees of that? We do have a guarantee that the gospel will always prevail. We do have a guarantee that the kingdom of God will always prevail. But we have no guarantee that we will be the ones that will sustain it. We have no guarantee that we will be the ones that fulfill our responsibility as Paul did to keep the faith. I talked last week very briefly about the need for us to pass on the gospel to our children. I rarely do this, but I want to give us some very practical guidelines. To help us to prepare our kids to receive the gospel. The truth of the matter is, it is only God that can get a hold of a person's heart, including kids. We are powerless to see them come to Christ. But we can do certain things to prepare them for God's working. And I am, I'll just tell you that I've been very burdened about this lately in my own family's life as well as the other families that are in our church And I want us to just take a few moments, and some of these are my opinions, some of these you may not agree with, some of these are straight from Scripture, and you better agree. And you're going to have to wade through that, but I want to give you seven opinions, or seven guidelines, rather, that I would just suggest for you to help prepare your kids for the gospel. Number one. Teach them the law of God. So they are prepared for God to teach them grace. Teach them the law of God. So that they are prepared for God to teach them grace. You know, the truth is you and I can't teach them grace. But God can But they can't appreciate grace until they first know the law. They can't appreciate grace until they first know the demands of God's justice in their lives. And in an early age, folks, we need to teach our children the just demands of God so that they are able to receive the grace of God. Number two, we need to express unselfish pleasure when they do right, and unselfish displeasure when they do wrong. And we need to pray that this prepares them to desire to please God. Here's what I mean by this. Sometimes we get upset when they do wrong because it inconveniences us. Or embarrasses us. I'm not sure that there is anything that you can do that is more destructive than that. And I am guilty of it myself. I want to say that up front. We ought not be displeased that our kids did wrongly and that it dis inconvenienced us We ought to be displeased that our kids did wrongly and it and it displeased God. And they ought to know the difference. We need to know they need to know that we are grieved because God is grieved. And hopefully that will, and we need to pray that that grief and commendation in their lives from us prepares them. To please God, to desire to please God. Number three, do not give them their way. If they get their way when they are young, they will demand their way when they are older. They will not be prepared to accept God's way. Do not give them their way. This sounds really harsh, doesn't it? I'm not saying don't love your kids, I'm saying do this because you love your kids. Do not give them their way. Number four. Keep them centered in truth Reality and truth go hand in hand. Here's where I meddle. Ready? Ready for me to meddle Video games, fantasy novels, much of TV and movies are an escape or can be often escape from reality. A child or any person for that matter who does not live in reality will not care as much about truth Now, some of that's my opinion intermingled with other things, but there is I I would just come suggest that to you Why are we having, why is it that it seems as though we have a whole generation that doesn't seem to care about truth Well, it's because they're not living written in reality. And if you are if you are subjected to reality And the confusion of reality, and not allowed to escape from reality, then your heart yearns for what's true in the midst of the confusion. Your heart yearns for what's right in the midst of the confusion. But I fear that we are teaching our children by maybe even our own actions. To escape reality rather than to find truth in the midst of chaotic reality. Number five Failure to listen is foolishness according to Proverbs. You know how you identify the Bible says foolishness is bound up in the heart of a child. Kids, I love you, but you're foolish. Foolishness is bound up in the heart of a child. The Bible says that the rod of correction deals with that. You know how you know foolishness? The Bible says that a fool in the book of Proverbs does not listen. A fool does not listen. It's characteristic in the book of Proverbs. Over and over and over again, it says a fool doesn't listen. That's my paraphrase. So you know foolishness is down up in their heart if they're not listening. The Bible says discipline is the way that you deal with foolishness. Number six, rehearse the gospel often. And ask questions for gospel understanding often. And be careful about giving them false assurance. Rehearse the gospel often. Ask questions to them about the gospel to help them understand the gospel. You ask you we were talking about this in Sunday school. You understand more when you're asking questions. And in fact the teacher If he's wanting to teach in a way that they grasp, you ask the student questions. Ask your kids questions about the gospel. And help them to understand the gospel and be very careful about giving them false assurance in the gospel. I I believe that a child can be saved at a young age. But we ought to be really careful about it. We ought not push our kids to come to a decision about Christ. We ought not, I would even doubt that you should ask them to come to Christ. Let them sit under the preaching and the teaching of the Word of God, rehearse the gospel to them, preach the gospel to them, question them about the gospel, and let the Spirit of God work in their lives to come to a place. where they are truly accepting of the gospel. Now there might be a certain time and age and time where you you you you ask them point blank, probably when they're teenagers, look, look, we've got to get this matter settled. Do you know Christ or not? I don't think there's there's probably a time for that. But be careful about it. Number five uh number five seven, number next. Give the gospel with them. Give the gospel with them. Make your family a gospel ministry team. There is a lot of people in our in Christianity that have the mantra family first. And I agree. So why would you not preach the gospel with your family? Why would that we not try to reach people for Christ with our families? Why would we try to separate that? Why would we try to say, well, I don't have enough time to give people the gospel because of my family? No, have your family be a team for giving the gospel. These are ways that we can have a gospel-centered home. And folks, I would just encourage you to, I would just commend them to you. And if you say, I can't write all these down, I'll email them to you. I'll email the whole church these. If somebody reminds me. Because these are vitally important. Folks, we need to have an and and it just doesn't apply to our kids. Folks, it applies to all of our lives. It applies to our the workplace. It applies to our neighbors. It applies to every aspect of our lives. We ought not be mules. Do you know what a mule is? He's a good strong animal that can't reproduce. Well it'll be well, we'll talk not talk about horses or something, I don't know. We then find in there in what God's Word says here in Galatians chapter 2, verse 6, he says, but of these whom seem to be somewhat Whatsoever they were, it maketh no matter to me, accepteth no man's person, for they who seemed to be somewhat in conference, added nothing to me. But contrary-wise, when they saw the gospel of the uncircumcision was committed unto me, as the gospel of the circumcision was committed to Peter. For he what that wrought effectually in Peter to the apostleship of the circumcision, the same was mighty in me toward the Gentiles. Here's what the conclusion was. The conclusion was that no Titus did not need to be circumcised, and neither did anybody else that was a Gentile. That was very clear that that was not necessary for salvation. And the reason for that was that God does not determine a person's salvation by external appearances. That's what it essentially says. It's interesting the word it says whatsoever they were to make no matter. The word make no matter, the word is actually word face. He doesn't, it says in the Greek, he doesn't judge the face. And what it's actually saying there is he does not make a determination, God does not, of someone's position with him based upon an appearance. And essentially, anything external like circumcision or these law things, these are all appearances. They're not internal kinds of things. And so the judgment was very clear. Everybody was in complete unity about this. Now remember I said before that these folks, these false Christians, were spies and they were going in through Covert means to determine how they could divide and conquer. That was their goal. They noticed that the way that Paul preached his gospel to the Gentiles, was different than the way that the Jewish that the Jewish apostles or the apostles that are preaching to the Jews preached to them. Particularly Peter is in this passage. And they said to themselves, we can divide and conquer. We can demonstrate that Peter and Paul have two different gospels. Now, of course, they did not. That's why Paul and Peter got together along with the other other disciples in that private meeting. It was the same message. But folks, what was the difference that they were seeing? Folks, the difference was that the context was different. The method was different. How they approached things were different based upon who they were talking to. Same message, different method. Timothy Keller says it this way, the apostles were determined to preserve the gospel message and the lifestyle implications of it. But they were equally prepared to adapt the medium of that message, to adapt the medium of it. They would, folks, we need to understand that there are different ways to accomplish the same goal, and we've got to understand that there's got to be some flexibility About gospel methods in order to communicate the gospel message We are sometimes flexible on the gospel message and inflexible on the gospel method And folks, when we do that, we are in serious trouble. Sometimes we determine a church or the veracity of an organization or a church or a ministry or a school or whatever Based upon their methodology, instead of actually looking at the message they're preaching. And the message that they're preaching might be completely false, but we like the method. And so we miss the mess the myth that they they're not preaching a good message. On the other hand, sometimes We and folks, we need to be careful about this. I think that this is a thing we'd be really we need to be flexible when it comes to our methods. And inflexible when it comes to our message. Let me ask you this question. Why are people sometimes inflexible with methods? Why are they inflexible? I wrote down three reasons, or four reasons actually. I added one this morning. Four reasons. Number one, some are just too afraid. They live in fear. And so they're just afraid to consider new ways of communicating the gospel. I'm not saying it changed the gospel. I'm just saying that you consider who you're talking to and making sure you've got a good, the best possible connection that you can, the best possible communication that you can to the gospel. Some people are just too afraid. Some people actually the problem is is they don't know the gospel well enough. A few couple weeks ago I was um uh some of you know I I heat my house with wood during the winter at least partially and I was out splitting some wood and one of the logs that I hadn't stacked up, I was Elizabeth was helping me, one of the logs I had stacked up was needed to be cut. It was too long And so I actually laid it on the splitter, the metal splitter, and was about to c saw it on the splitter. And m many of you were reacting, sort of going, why would you do that? My wife was doing the same thing. And she said she sort of kind of motioned to me like, do you sure you want to do that? And I went and cut through the piece and there wasn't any problem. The reason that that was the case, folks, is because I've done so much cutting of logs and I took it so slow that I just knew I could know in my hand when there is a release to the log. I just know when it releases. So I can get really close to that metal piece and and without knowing and I'm not going to go through or hit the metal piece because I know when the log releases. I you there's no way to know that unless you just you just done enough of it. How many of you all know what I'm talking about? They've done a lot of a lot of cutting with okay, Caleb knows. Okay. Good. I'm glad Caleb knows, because otherwise I'd I'd be worried about myself. But anyway, got a little cut c corroboration there. Folks, there is something about knowing the gospel so well that when you know the gospel so well, you know when it's crossed So you're comfortable with trying new ways of communicating the gospel because you know the gospel Now I'm not at all suggesting that you use an misunderstanding of liberty to communicate the gospel, or that you sin in order to communicate the gospel, or that you do anything morally wrong to communicate the gospel I'm not saying that at all. But sometimes, folks, we get stuck on certain methods because we're we don't really know the gospel well enough, so we're worried about some sort of slippery slope Well, if you know the gospel, you're not worried about a slippery slope because you know the gospel. You know when it's gonna be when it gets violated You know even when an ounce of it does. Folks, be very careful. And let me just put it this way, more importantly, you there's nothing wrong with being cautious. When I went through that log, I went really slowly Extremely slowly. There's nothing wrong with being cautious. But folks, when you are looking at the gospel work of someone else, make sure you're not too quick to judgment on them. Because folks, that's what happened in this in this b in this early church. They were too quick to judgment on Paul. They didn't actually look and investigate the message. When we see an adjustment in the method, something we're not used to do, nothing wrong with questioning it. But what we ought to do is go back and look at the method. Now here's the thing. Do you realize that sometimes the message is been has been compromised, which is why they're choosing the method they're choosing? But the key to the discernment of knowing that is when we see a method that we're uncomfortable with, go back and look at the message. See what they're preaching. See the content of the message. And if there's something wrong with the message, then you know that perhaps it's wrong, the method is wrong. Folks, be very careful about dismunity because of methods. Be very careful. That you unify around the message of the gospel. Satan's goal is to divide and conquer. Now, I'm not at all saying we violate our conscience, we're not careful, I'm not saying any of that. I'm simply saying that the thing that we've got to protect is the message of the gospel. And we ought never compromise the message of the gospel because we like the method. Sometimes it's a good method with a bad message. Folks, I have been in churches that were very conservative. That the gospel was not preached. I could not think of one time where there was a clear gospel message preached for years. And folks, when that happens, you've got to realize that you can have ever you can have everything right. You can have all the forms right. You can have your Dutch line of the row. But there are people folks that we're not, if you're not careful You can concentrate so much on the form you miss the thing inside the form. Well, they do this and they do that and they do this, and I've always done this and I've always done that. Oh I know. Folks, the answer is that we've got to know the gospel. Sometimes I think it's because we're mentally lazy We're just lazy. We don't want to think. You know, if they just do the same thing they always done, well then we don't have to really think about it. We don't have to really worry about it because they're just they're always doing the same thing. Sometimes people just don't want to think. And the problem is actually mental laziness. But you know the reality, folks? Sometimes it's because they don't really fully trust the gospel. We sometimes worry about this stuff because we don't really fully trust the gospel. You know what God says? He says, he who has begun a good work in you, what? Will complete it the day of redemption. What a great truth. We don't need to live in fear. I'm not saying don't be cautious. I'm not saying don't I'm saying be cautious. I have a double negative. Anyway, that was weird. We need to be careful, but folks, we do not need to live in fear because the gospel will bring us to the point of living. And folks, what Satan wants to do is render us useless And that can happen when we're not focused, when we're focused on the wrong thing. Well, they realized that Paul's methods were going to be different, even the message was the same. Because God had called Paul to a different mission field. He had called them to the Gentiles. And he was going to go and he had got particularly gifted Paul to be able to go to the Gentiles and to preach the gospel. And he had particularly gifted Peter to go to the Jews and preach the gospel. Folks, sometimes we get caught up on giftedness. And we don't understand that peep different people have different gifts. They have different ways of approaching things. And we think that the other person's gift is Their perspective is wrong when God has actually called them to a different direction and a different gift. And we need to understand that we've got to work together and we've got to have flexibility when it comes to those things and various people's different kinds of gifts. Very important for us to understand. Notice the great picture of unity in this passage In verse 9 it says, and the right hands of fellowship were given to them. That we should go under the heathen, and they should go into circumcision. They gave Paul and Barness the right hand of fellowship. They clasp their hands together. It was a symbol of unity. It's like in the wedding ceremony when the bride and the groom join hands. It's this symbol of unity one with the other. That we're unified. We're together. And there was this symbol or display among the apostles of unity when they gave the right hand of fellowship one to another. Would to God that we may that God continues to grace us as at Bethel Baptist Church with unity in the gospel. We may have all kinds of different different disagreements on different things. But may we understand that our unity is not in those things, that our unity is in the gospel of Jesus Christ. And we ought to be ready to display that unity. And we gotta, and I'll tell you the key to this thing. We need to understand what is essential, what is secondary, and what is and what is not important at all. We've got to understand these kinds of things. I love the saying that goes something like this. To those that are essential, unity. To the non-essential things, liberty. And to all things, charity. If we would understand that, we would keep the main thing the main thing, then we will be able to remain unified. And I'm very grateful as a church that we are unified. May we stay that way. There is always the possibility of Satan getting in and doing a little divide and conquer. And when he does that The forward movement of the gospel is at risk. Well, let's conclude this way. Number one We must seek to unify with those who preach the gospel for the sake of the gospel. We must seek to unify with those who preach the gospel for the sake of the gospel. Number two, we must tolerate Or coop-we must not tolerate or cooperate with those who compromise any aspect of the gospel at all. We must not tolerate or cooperate with those who compromise any aspect of the gospel at all. And number three, we must be inflexible with the message of the gospel, but flexible with the methods used to communicate the gospel. Those are three important important messages from this text. Let's pray together. Our Father, I pray that you would help us. That in Bethel Baptist Church, the gospel would have free course in our lives, in our families. In our homes, in our community. Lord, may we do everything we can for the gospel to move forward. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Let's stand as soon as I get a hymnal