I uh I don't remember everything, but there are certain glimpses of my childhood that just sort of stand out. Of course one is when I came to Christ, another one I was baptized. But another one that I that really stands out to me was one where I was um we were driving in the car, I was sitting in the passenger seat as a child back when you could sit in the passenger seat as a child. But anyway, and we were up on two ninety f we were driving northbound on two ninety-five, and I do remember that as a child, and that's a little I I was a little nerdy. But anyway, I couldn't I knew where we were going. I knew the directions, everything. And we were headed northbound in two ninety five. It was just my mom and I. We were in in an old Oldsmobile uh station wagon. And I turned and I was thinking a lot about life. And I was contemplating life and just why why were why was I here? I think I may have been like eight or nine, something like that And so I turned to my mom and I said, Mom, I have a question. And I said, why did God create us in the first place? And my and she paused for a moment and it was almost as though she knew that this was a an important moment. And then she just said to me, she said, because we were created to glorify God. And I remember that to this day. And interestingly enough, that sort of set the trajectory for my life. Just that statement that she made to me that we were created to glorify God. And of course, that bears witness with scripture, of course, which says in Isaiah 43, 7 Even everyone that is called by my name, for I have created him for my glory. I have formed him, yea, I have made him. In fact, the Bible tells us that the whole creation is for the purpose of God's glory. But of course, there are some people that rebel against God's ways, and there are some people that walk consistently with God's ways. But to understand God's sovereignty in all of it. I wanted to use an illustration this way, and you're going to see all this hopefully uh bearing out in scripture as we get to it, but I wanted to sort of open with this. Illustration. If you can think in terms of a chess board and playing chess and life is a chessboard and we're the dis different chess pieces. And God is the one moving the chess pieces around. But unlike a usual chess board, each chess piece has a limited ability to be able to make its own its own movements. So you might be able to move just like chess pieces can make limited movements within their you know like a um a knight can only move the four you know the four spaces like an L shape and And uh the the bishop can only move diagonally, that kind of thing. And so uh just just as you have that, these you can move within within a certain way you can move within a direction that you want. But of course, you're just a chess piece on this massive board of all kinds of other chess pieces, and you really don't know what way to move. And so the only way that you're going to know how to move is that you're going to ha you're going to have to look to the person who moves, who's moving things, and ask him. In other words, you're going to have to live consistently with the chess player, which in our illustration is God Now, we all sort of understand that that as a uh you know living in this world and navigating this world there all of the possible variables of what we should be doing in order to be consistent with God's kingdom would be impossible. We've got to live submissively to God's will in order to be be living in accordance with the furtherance of God's kingdom. But let's add something to the mix here. Let's suppose that there are some chess player chess pieces that don't want to follow the chess master or the chess master and choose to move their own ways the way that they choose to. And it's not consistent with the will of the chess master. They just choose to go their own way. And of course, the majority of the world does this. But somehow the chess master is so wise, he is able to take both the ones who are working against his will and the ones who are working consistently with his will to ultimately win the game. to ultimately fulfill his purpose in glorifying himself. Did you know that even people who are going against God's will will ultimately glorify God because God is ultimately a wise God who will bring all things into submission to Himself. And what we're going to find in this passage is we're going to find a group of religious leaders who are now militant against Christ. They are religious leaders who want to go against him and who are have have been fed up with all these miracles we're doing. And the pinnacle of his miracle working has been the raising of a man from the dead named Lazarus And now they are incensed, they are incited over this. And rather grouping in a m in a mob kind of a way that they've done before and trying to pick up stones to to stone Jesus. They are much more organized this time. They are much more premeditated. They are much more uh uh methodical about their approach, and they begin to convene together About seventy of them in what is called a convening, a council of the Sanhedrin. We're going to look into all of that, but first we need the Lord's prayer we need to pray the Lord asking his blessing to help us to see his sovereign working in all of this. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and we look at your word and we ask that you would help us to understand our role in glorifying you. And we're going to look here at these leaders who are about to desire to destroy Christ. But in desiring to destroy Christ, they bring about the death of Christ, which is was in your plan all along. And it's incredible your sovereignty can do that and your wisdom. Lord will contrast that, your word contrasts that with a with a woman, a single woman named Mary. Who desires to be submissive to you in humble devotion to you. Lord, I pray that you would help us in our lives to be the kind of people that submissively follow your will, but are grateful for your sovereign hand over all that will cause through your masterful, incomprehensible wisdom, to glorify yourself in the end. We thank you, Lord, for this. May this be an encouraging and challenging message as we look at your word this morning and we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Of course, all of you know that we are, uh at least most of us I would imagine know that uh we are uh just started the Olympic sixty The sixteen uh two thousand sixteen Olympic Games over in Rio. How many of you all have watched any tidbits of any of that so far? All right. Not not as many as I thought. a few of you. And uh one I I I it's all I always find them to be interesting. You have to be discerning as you look through some of these things, but um there is something sort of inspiring about people that have worked extremely hard and sacrificed a lot in order to be in a place uh like the Olympic Olympic Olympic Games. But there is one particular person that really stands out to me, and that is a girl by the name of Gabby Douglas. How many of you all know who that is? Alright, many of you know who that is. There are some in the Olympic Games that would say that they are Christians, but I kind of wonder, to be honest with you. But there are others that seem to have such a shining light in the way that they speak and how they interact with people that they really seem to be desiring to glorify God. Gabby Douglas, for example, said this in in referring to the Olympic Games. She said, is everything I thought it would be being an Olympic Olympic champion. It definitely is an amazing feeling, and I give all the glory to God. It's kind of a win-win situation. The glory goes up to him and the blessings fall down on me. Let all that I am praise the Lord. May I never forget the good things he does for me. Another time she said this. God has given me this amazing God-given talent, so I'm going to go out and glorify his name. Now folks, this is a person that more than likely is demonstrating that she really knows Christ. Because there are other people that would name that would claim to be Christians, but really is all about what their faith is doing to help them get where they want to go. But in Gabby Douglas's case, it seems as though she realizes that her giftedness comes from God's benevolent hand. And that all she wants to do is to take it and use it for her for his glory. Now the reality is you and I can't all be Gabby Douglases And so instead of going for the gold, we're going to have to learn how to glorify God by doing the laundry. And what we're going to find here is some principles from God's Word on how to do that. But first, we want our we we desire and I desire for all of us to be encouraged today. by the reality that there is a world out there that is going crazy, but God is in control. And ultimately, God's purposes will come together for his glory and for our good. And I want us to begin to see this today as we pick up in the story. about a group of men who now are getting together to deal with this man named Jesus. We pick up in verse 25, and this is directly after he has risen Lazarus from the grave, and we find that the people The na the uh uh are coming to Christ and they are believing on him because he has now displayed his resurrection power. To put it in another way The people are popular, or the people are popularizing Christ. Christ is becoming popular, and his miracles are becoming very compelling for this uh for for the people. And this is causing great angst on the per peop on the part of the leaders of the of the Jews. We see here, picking up here In verse 45 it says, Then many of the Jews which came to Mary and had seen the things that they that which Jesus did believed on him. But some of them went their way, their ways to the Pharisees, and told them what things Jesus had done. We see apparently that in verse twenty-five there are people that As far as we can tell, did believe on Christ, and it was an authentic kind of belief, and this is contrasted. There is a but there which contrasts in verse 45 uh 46 another group of people that reported what Christ was doing to the leaders, the Jewish leaders, the Pharisees and the Sadducees and the Scribes. It's interesting that of course Christ had a chapter back decided that he needed to avoid the fair the the the religious leaders and so he performed this miracle among the people in Bethany. But he did so without the religious leaders present. He had done many miracles before with the religious leaders present, most notably uh and most recently in the in the narrative, uh the blind man who who were was able to receive his sight even though he had been blind from birth. And of course, you'll remember from that passage, these religious leaders were skeptical about what Christ had done, and they were trying to find every way possible to discredit the powerful miracle that Christ had performed. But to no avail. And in fact, it brought on them a sense of embarrassment because they were not able to do that on any level. The blind man himself argued for it. The parents of the blind man argued for the fact that he was blind from birth. And Christ said to them that they were in darkness, and they began to even question themselves, but in front of the people they were embarrassed. But at that point, they were still skeptical as to the authenticity of Christ. Now, however, they knew that Christ was authentic. The w the power of the resurrection as displayed by the rising of Lazarus should have caused them to think twice about who this man Christ is It should have caused them to turn to him, but instead it hardened their hearts toward him, and they desired to m go farther and farther down this path of selfish ambition. and fear, and they began to desire to do away with Christ. And we find this as we pick up in verse 47. Then gathered the chief priests and the Pharisees a counsel and said, What do we? For this man doeth many miracles. If we let him thus alone, all men will believe on him. And the Romans shall come and take away both our place and nation. They gathered together, these members of Sanhedrin gathered together. There were probably about 70 of them. They were comprised primarily of priests who were also Sadducees by belief. And there was a chief priest whose name was Caiaphas. He'll enter the picture in a moment. And there was an influential minority named the Pharisees. The Pharisees seemed to be most incensed about the fact that Christ was violating their interpretation of the Sabbath, and they were influencing heavily the rest of the Sanhedrin. But at this point they were all convened together and they were threatened by this by Jesus. They were threatened by his power. They were threatened by those who were believing on him. They were threatened by his popularity. They were simply threatened by Christ. And so we find that they don't know what to do. This is not explicit in the passage, but it seems as though they were also fearful of Christ. A man with that much power certainly could do something against them. And so they were in a quandary as to what to do. They knew that they could not hold still and do nothing because they were afraid that all of the people would believe on him. And all the people then would cause uh that him to, and they thought probably that he was going to overthrow the Romans Or they were also concerned that he would be he would attempt to overthrow the Romans, but it would be such a powerful des uh overthrow, or such a powerful attempt, though not successful, that the Romans would stamp them out And the Romans would in fact uh uh want to eradicate the Jewish nation as well as get rid of their temple. And of course, this is not outside the realm of possibility. If you recall hundreds of years back, Antiochus Epiphanes as a Greek did this and desecrated the temple. And so they were afraid for their way of life. They were afraid that this conflict would rise and escalate to a point where it would be a conflict against the Romans and against the Jews, and they would not be able to keep peace And they were very afraid and they were threatened. And they were also concerned about their own self-interest. I don't think there's any question about that in the passage as well They would lose their place of influence and authority and leadership over the people. And they were concerned about that as well All of this came to a head when the high priest, whose name was Caiaphas, decided to make a statement. And he says in verse 49 And one of them, named Caiaphas, being the high priest that same year, said unto them, ye know nothing at all. Now Caiaphas apparently was not known for his diplomacy. It wa he did not graduate from the from the school of diplomacy. Instead, he was fairly brazen when he said this. And he had had many years uh as a high priest, and he said, Look, you are not making sense of what you're saying. He said, You don't know anything This was had to be an insult to the people, but they like what they heard after that point. Because he says this in verse 50. Nor consider that it is expedient for us that one man should die for the people, and that the whole nation perish not. Now what Caiaphas was doing here was simply ex describing a scenario that he did not want to see happen. He did not want to see the ro the the Jewish people rise up against Rome and the Romans destroy the Roman the the Jewish people. And so he decided that it would be better to take out, to pragmatically destroy Christ, to destroy this man who he thought was leading a rebellion, which Christ actually wasn't doing that, but he thought he was. And so uh he decided that it would be better that this man would die instead of uh and and to be a scapegoat to sacrifice for all the people. Now, what is interesting about that is how it is worded. Isn't that interesting? He says it would be better for him for one man to die for all of the people. John picks up on what Tyaphas says, and John notes that Tyaphas inadvertently prophesied here. Caiaphas, who by the way, it says that he was there during that year, it does not mean there that he was only a high priest for one year. It means that during this momentous year, Caiaphas was the high priest, and saying this. Caiaphas says these words in verse 51 we see here, this spake he not of himself, but being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus should die for that nation. And not for the nation only, verse 52 tells us, but that also he should gather together in one the children of God that were scattered abroad. So we find here an explanation on John's part to identify that Caiaphas accidentally prophesied against or prophesied That Christ would die for the people on behalf of the people as their substitute. Now, isn't that amazing? That here is a man who was desiring to oppose Christ and to lead the council of the Sanhedrin to oppose Christ. And instead of opposing Christ with his words, he prophesies that Christ is going to die for the people. And this is an amazing idea here, that God is so wise and so sovereign and so awesome that He can use something that is perfect purposely against his will to actually accomplish his will. That he can do something that is absolutely against what he desires to actually glorify himself in the end. And folks, this ought to be a great encouragement for God's people. I will tell you that I have heard no shortage of comments about our country in the last few weeks and months. And the direction that our country is going. And I will just tell you that there is one side of this that I understand. We are not going a good direction as the United States of America. We are forfeiting the moral fiber of this nation that that founded this nation in many respects. But let me encourage you that God is sovereign, that He is in control over all things, and God knows what He is doing. And even though we we look, folks, we should not be despairing over what's going on in our country. We should not be despairing God's people should stand firm and resolute and we should be at peace with what is going on. Why? Because God is sovereign. He is in control. And we should not be anxious about these things. We see here a man who desired to go absolutely against God, and yet God had his own desired plan, not only in prophesying, but ultimately he used the members of the Sanhedrin to influence the Roman government to put Christ on the cross and it looks as though Christ is done. But God had a larger plan because Christ would rise again, victorious over sin and death. The very the very desire to impact uh uh Christ negatively, in fact Puts him on the cross where he can die for the sins of the world as Savior and Lord. Let us not remember that no matter what happens in this life God is sovereign. God is in control. And you and I ought not to spare. You and I ought to be encouraged. We ought to stand resolute and peaceful as a people who know who our God is. And from that point they desired to kill Jesus, it says. Verse 54 Verse 53 says, Then from that day forth they took counsel together for to put him to death. Jesus therefore walked no more openly among the Jews. But to the what wilderness into a city called Ephraim. That was about twelve miles north um northeast. I could see it on a map, but I had to think about it. Northeast uh in Ephraim And so they were basically in hiding with his disciples. He was basically in hiding with his disciples. And I'll just mention this. Seventy people rise up to try to arrest Jesus, and this one man can escape the whole thing. And it demonstrates, and I I won't spend long on this because we have a lot more to say about this passage, but but it demonstrates that Christ sort of like he can do what he wants. I mean Christ came to the cross willingly. God did use the nation of Israel to um I mean God did use the Jewish leaders to bring bring uh Christ to death. That did happen. But it is also interesting, folks, that Christ did this on his own accord. He did this according to his will. And really, folks, he did it on his terms, and we see that in this passage Then we see at verse 55 it says this: And the Jews' Passover was nigh at hand, and many went out of the country up to Jerusalem before the Passover to purify themselves. So the Passover now is coming into play. Verse 56 says, Then sought they for Jesus and spake among themselves as they stood in the temple. What think ye? That ye will not come to the feast? Verse 57. Now both the chief priest so so basically what that happens is they begin talking about this. So is Christ going to come or not? The Sanhedrin had put out word that if anybody sees Christ, that they're supposed to be notified, they're supposed to be uh so that they can identify Christ and arrest him. So they're asking the question, is Christ going to come or is Christ not going to come? So his popularity, despite the Sanhedrin's desire to seize him, actually continues to increase. Verse 57. Now both the chief priests and the Pharisees had given a commandment that if any man knew where he were, he should show it, that they might take him. But folks, that is not even close to the end of the story. Because what we are going to find now is that although God is going to use people that oppose him for his purposes, He's also going to use people who are submissive to him for his purposes. And so we see a contrast here between these religious leaders and one single humble woman named Mary. And we find Mary now comes on the scene in chapter 12, and we'll begin in verse 1 where it says, then Jesus, six days before the fat Passover, came to Bethany. where Lazarus was uh was which had been dead, whom he raised from the dead. And there they made him a supper, and Martha served, and Lazarus was one of them that sat at the table with him Then took Mary a pound of ointment of spikenard, very costly, and anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped his feet with his hand, and the house was filled with the odor of them of the ointment. Then saith one of the disciples, Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, which should betray him? Why why was not this ointment sold for three hundred pence and given to the poor? This he said not that he cared for the poor, but because he was a thief and had the bag and bear that it uh bare what was put therein. Then said Jesus, Let her alone. Again the day of my bearing has she kept us. For the poor always ye have with you, but me ye have not always In this passage, we find a woman who desires to worship Jesus. This is a very interesting passage, and it's one that's actually repeated over in the book of Matthew as well as in the book of Mark. Just for the sake of understanding this passage, I would just mention this, that there is an account of a woman who anoints Jesus in the book of Luke as well. But in my estimation, there are so many differences between the other accounts and Luke's account that it is very unlikely that um it's very unlikely that Luke that Luke is talking about the same occurrence In other words, the same account that we find in Matthew and Mark is the same account that we find here, but Luke has a different account of something entirely different, a different, a different accounting of another woman anointing Christ in a different set of circumstances. I just mentioned that just for the sake of your own understanding and study. But in Matthew chapter 26 and in Mark chapter 14, we have a parallel account. to this chapter in uh to this book in Luke. I'm sorry, in John. Much of there are some details in Matthew and Mark that are not mentioned in the book of John that that are somewhat helpful. But there is one particular one that is absolutely necessary for us to understand. And that is that in Matthew and Mark, it describes Mary as coming to Christ and anointing his head. But in this passage, it describes Mary as coming to Christ and anointing his feet. Now, of course, they were at a dinner. And we don't know where the location from this passage we don't know where the location is. The other two passages say that it is at the location of the house of Simon the leper. Some have suggested that Simon the leper was the father of Mary and Martha and Lazarus, or the father-in-law of one of them, and then that's a possibility, but we don't find anywhere in Scripture that explicitly says that. However, they were in a place where Lazarus was seated, and Martha was serving serving, and we've seen that of of course before. And Mary comes in, and these of course in that day they ate dinner reclining. So all their heads were at the table, and they would recline out from from there and their feet would be extending out from the table. That is how they recline at a sort of more formal dinner. They really knew how to relax while they were eating. So some of you that that are watching the Olympics while you're eating, you have good biblical precedent for that Um I'm joking about that a little bit. But anyway, and so and so basically they're reclining. And and during this time Mary goes, and more than likely, she does what? Well, she probably anoints the whole body of Christ, from the head to the foot. She uses a very extensive uh very uh fragrant uh ointment uh that is called nard or in this passage it says spike nard. It is one one that is extremely uh expensive. Judas here and the disciples in the other passage estimate that is about 300 denari, that's about 300 full days working wages or a year's working wages. That's a lot of money. And so you're talking about thousands and thousands of dollars that are spent on this ointment that is given to Christ to anoint him. Something that is important for us to understand, to really understand what was happening here, is to realize that as far as we know from any account of the of Christ of Christ's head toward uh his death and his exaltation, was that people were not aware that this was going to happen soon. Even the disciples at this point were not aware that this was that the death of Christ was happening as soon as it was going to be happening. And we should not assume that Mary comes to Christ by ano and anoints him in this way in her deliberate anticipation of his burial. That would be an assumption that we should not make. It would be far better assumption to assume that she did not, that wasn't her intention, but that Christ sovereignly was going to use this. as a as to signal his his eventual death and burial and of course eventual resurrection And that's all important to keep in mind as we look at this passage and as we look at what is happening with Mary. Now, if you can imagine now a couple of things about Mary that we need to take into account. We have a couple of different descriptions of Mary in the Bible. One, if you'll recall, is found in the book of Luke, where Martha and Mary are on the scene and Christ comes to visit them, and Martha, if you'll recall asks Christ to actually rebuke Mary for not helping with the food. And the Bible says that Martha was cumbered about much serving And Martha comes to Christ and says, Would you bid her to help me? And Christ actually in turn rebukes Martha and says that Mary hath chosen the better way. And the right way to interpret that passage, I would believe, is that Mary had chosen to sit at the feet of Jesus and to fellowship with Christ, and that that fellowship was more important than meaningless service. Not that service is not important, we're going to find here that she is serving. But we need to understand that there is a meaningful kind of service and there is a meaningless kind of service. And Martha had gotten so occupied with her service that she had forgotten the very reason she was serving. Mary instead was sitting at the feet of Christ. She was communing with Christ. She was learning of Christ. She was humbly submitting to Christ. And Christ says that Mary had chosen the better way. In other words, folks, Mary had learned to have intimate fellowship with Christ. That in and of itself is a lesson for us, isn't it? We must not serve in the way that Martha does. We must serve in the way that Mary does. And Mary came to Christ and learned of Christ and lived in light of that. But we also find just one chapter back last week that Mary did falter. Mary faltered in her displa in her despair. Mary, who didn't understand why Christ didn't come when he did, and came to Christ and said, If you had been here, my brother had not died. She did fall into a place of hopelessness and despair, as we learned from last week. And so Mary realizes this And once Mary sees that Christ had a much larger plan, a much bigger objective, one that she could not imagine at that point, all she can do is humbly fall down at Christ's feet and worship him. Because what she does here, very likely, folks, is in response to what occurred when Christ displayed the power of the resurrection in the last chapter. And so she comes to Christ, and John identifies her humility in speaking of the fact that she anointed Christ's feet. We know from another passage that he wipes his feet with her own hair. This demonstrates the humble submission that Christ that Mary learned from falling deep into despair and hopeless hopelessness and rising above that despair and hopelessness and seeing the power of the resurrection of Christ And caused her to simply serve and worship and give of herself sacrificially in humble service to her Lord. And what we learn from Mary is one who serves God in a submissive way. humbly and just desires to give all that she has to him. And we find here that Mary, number one, understood what it was like to be have intimate fellowship with God. But Mary also dis Despaired at times and knew what it was like to lose hope in Christ. And finally, when she sees the power of Christ, all she can do is worship him in humble submission to him. The beginning of our message we identify the illustration of a chess board that there are some that on the chessboard that would work against the master. And ultimately the master will bring all things to a head to glorify himself. But there is another option, brothers and sisters in Christ. The other option is that you and I learn out of humble submission to express our devotion to Christ, maybe uh certainly even sacrificially, and that our service to Christ is not service that is that is empty as it was with Martha years prior. but is full of s of of love and full of submission and full of adoration and full of worship, where she just falls humbly at Christ's feet and submits to him. and devotes herself to him. And I want to say this on two parts. Number one, I want this to be an encouragement to you. There are some of you that are that faithfully serve. And I don't mean just necessarily within the full four walls of this building, though certainly that would be included. But some of you just have faithfully served for as long as I've known you, and you faithfully sacrificed, you've faithfully gone against what is convenient from time to time, and you have just simply served. as an expression of your relationship with Christ. And I just want you to say, keep going. I am, it is always encouraging to me when I see that. And I do think that we have a church that there are many people that you serve that way, keep serving that way, and serve understanding that it's just in humble submission to the will of the Father, so that He can be glorified not in spite of us, but because of our humble service and devotion to Him. But there may be some here that you might be distract- you have been distracted by other pursuits or been distracted by just whatever. Can I encourage you to return to a place where you are, as Mary did, humbly devoted to serving Christ sacrificially? Doing so where you just simply say, Lord, I'm going to serve you faithfully, I'm going to follow you closely, and I'm going to express my devotion to you just by humble submission to you Now here is what is amazing about this passage. When Mary served in this way, another parallel passage says the extent to which Christ used this. And I'd like you to take your Bibles and turn to the book of Mark for just a few moments, and I want you to see how Christ chose to look upon this. What we find in Mark is that Christ greatly valued this humble devotion to himself on the part of Mary. And we're going to see how humbly she devote how he responds to all of this. And we're going to see how God might choose to respond to our devotion by extending our service, if it's humbly given and sacrificially given, into ways that perhaps we won't even know this side of heaven. Would you notice what it says in verse 8? Of course, you know the account from the book of John. I could have turned to the book of Matthew. It says the same thing in book in Matthew. But in Mark chapter 8, it says this. Jesus speaks here and rebukes the disciples actually collectively in this passage when she says this she has done what she what She hath done what she could. She has come aforehand to anoint my body to the bearing. Now let me just suggest to you that I think at this point Mary was surprised by this I don't think Mary had any clue to the extent of what she was doing. All Mary wanted to do with response to the resurrection power that she had seen was to worship Christ and to display so by anointing him. But Jesus took this and expanded her efforts far beyond, I think, what she imagined. He says this in verse 9: Verily I say unto you, wheresoever this gospel shall be preached, whereoever this gospel shall be preached throughout the whole world. This also that she hath done shall be spoken of a memorial to her. This past Wednesday we looked at the book of Ecclesiastes And we looked at the various pursuits that are futile for a man to pursue apart from God. One of those pursuits that we looked at is the pursuit of legacy. Solomon said that for us to pursue legacy is absolutely futile because the reality is as much as you try to make your mark on history, you will never be able to, because no one will ever remember you It's a very uplifting passage. But when God chooses to take your small work And when God chooses as he did in chapter six with the little boy that gave five loaves and two or five loaves, what was it? Seven loaves and five. Whatever, how many met It's a small amount. Um I can't remember the the time right now. But a small amount of loaves and fishes and multiplies them among thousands of people God can do that with us. And he does this with Mary. Three times in three different Gospels, this is described. This is very unusual. You do not usually find that many accounts of a particular act. You have the crucifixion itself That's in all four of the Gospels, and you have various accounts that are in all four of the Gospels. But this is a particular account where Jesus expands the knowledge of this to extend to all three out of the four accounts in the Gospels. Jesus expands this, and this is what God can do with our humble service. God can take it and multiply it beyond what we could ever imagine. And I am convinced that there will be one day May uh maybe not until we get on the other side of heaven where we can look back and when we can see humble, submissive devotion to God, we could see really what God is actually done with all of that. Let me just tell you to be encouraged. If you are just faithfully serving in some small way, maybe it is just changing diapers. Maybe it is just taking care of your family. Maybe it is those look, don't minimize doing the laundry. Those kinds of things are things that if we will do according to God's Well, if we will do in submission to the Lord, if we will do as unto the Lord, you do not know the what it will what the impact it will make one day. You are not aware of it. God will give the increase in his time. And you all and I ought to be encouraged by this. We find here though that the story is not ended because despite this humble act of service and devotion, there are some people that because they did not have the same kind of approach to serving God yet, though they will in the future The disciples led by Judas Iscariot himself, who had a wrong motive entirely from the passage. decide that this really would have been better to be sold and given to feed the poor. Of course we know that Jesus was in favor of feeding the poor. He did that himself on several occasions and And the disciples probably distributed funds for that. But folks, let us not forget that ultimately Christ is the one who must be served. And when somebody serves Christ, what we find here in this passage is that this is led by a man. John identifies particularly who this is led by, Judas Iscariot. who absolutely had no consideration for what was truly valuable in this service. Rather, he was concerned with lining his own pockets. And this was, of course, evil as you personified in this passage. We find a precursor to the evil that he will do In ultimately selling Christ out for 30 pieces of dirty silver. But did you know, were you aware that according to one of the accounts Were you aware, and Mark, that this actually propelled Judas to do what he did later on? Because the way Jesus responds to the rebuke of Christ in this passage is that instead of humble submission, which is what we see, I think, from the other disciples. The other disciples, I think, listen to Christ. If you put everything together, what you find is that in the next chapter, he is going to be continue to teach them about humble servanthood by washing his feet. in John chapter 13. And so the other disciples more than likely submitted to what Christ was saying here. But Judas was incensed. Judas was self-righteous. Judas was, he became absolutely, he became hardened by the rebuke of Christ. Folks, are we ever that way? Are are are are our hearts ever hardened by Christ's rebuke? Does Christ rebuke us sometimes? He certainly does. And of course he does that through his word. The Bible tells us that the word of God Christ is going to bring conviction to our lives. And we have one of two choices. We can either submit in humble just devotion to him, and we can Align ourselves with his will, or we can be brazen against it. We can harden our hearts against it, and we can do as Judas did in becoming more evil than he already was. And brazing himself to betray his very Lord and become a person who is an accomplice to this act. But let us not forget, this is all in God's plan, that God is sovereign over this as well. What do we learn from the religious leaders in chapter 11 and from Judas's example in chapter 12? That God will bring all things to a place where he will glorify himself. And God is sovereign over all. Now, let me just pause and bring us back to this application. What should be our approach? Just practically, who do you want to be like? Do you want to be like a Sanhedrin? Do you and I want to be like Judas Iscariot or the disciples? And of course, anybody who names the name of Christ, who knows him personally, would say, of course not. We want to be like Mary. If we want to live a life that is consistent with the will of God, that the chess pieces are moved by God however he would choose. Then we are going to have to live a life of humble devotion to our Lord. And I would ask this question. Are we willing to spend our lives in humble, sacrificial devotion to the Lord's service so that he can give his increase to our lives? It's that simple. We have here a wonderful example in this this woman, Mary. Who humbly devoted herself to him, would you choose to do the same? Let's pray together Our Father, we do come to you. And we're thankful for this passage. We are encouraged by the fact that you are a sovereign God, and you will even choose to use the rebellious movements of man. To bring about ultimate glory to yourself. But we are all so challenged by Mary's humble devotion to you A woman who learned fellowship with you. A woman who was not exempt from despair and hopelessness. And now a woman who concludes in her service by humble devotion. This is a woman who all of us, a person who we can all identify with. Lord, may we take that step of humble devotion to you As Mary did in this passage. May we live lives that are submissive to your will. May we live lives where one day you can say to us, you lived a life that is pleasing. to me. Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Lord, as we even enter into this time of devotion through communion, I pray, Lord, that it would be a time where we are just unified in joyous remembrance of the sacrifice that Christ made for us on the cross. Lord, we would be miserable. Apart from your mercies, we would be consumed. And your faithfulness is great. And your love is beyond imaginable to send your own son to die on the cross, to pay the punishment for our sins, to shed his blood for us, Lord, so that he could be our right, adequate substitute. And so that we could our sins could be wiped clean and that you could remember them no more. And so, Father, we remember Christ's death on the cross for us. Because you don't remember our sins any longer. Lord, may we worship you in this way, and we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Just a few moments what we are going to do is enter in