All right. Well this m this much will be recorded. That's okay. So I'm sorry, let me pick up in verse 26 again of Genesis. And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness, and let us have and we have this word dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth So God created man in his own image, and the image of God created he him. Male and female created he them And God blessed them, and God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth, and subdue it, and have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the earth air, and over every living thing that ki that moveth upon the earth. And God said, Bless Behold, I have given you every herb bearing seed, uh, which is upon the face of all the earth, and every tree uh in the which uh is the fruit of the tree yielding seed, uh to you it shall be for meat. And every beast of the earth, and to every fowl of the air, and to everything that creepeth on the earth, and therein there is life. And I have uh given every green herb for meat, and it was so. And God saw everything that he had made, and behold it was very good, and the evening and the morning was was the sixth day. And so what cr what God says in his word is that he has this dominion and he's given us this dominion. And He's given us all creation to manage it. And that implies something. It implies that God made us to work. He created us to labor. But like all good things. Now, actually, before we get into the bad part of this, now you just think about this. Let's suppose before creation, before I'm sorry, before the fall, after creation, before the fall, Adam goes out and he decides to build a house. Just imagine this hyper the we don't know we don't know if he did this or not, but let's say that I'm not sure you would need a house, depending on the con this the environment, but but let's say he did. He went out and he built a house. How long would that you suppose that house would last? Now remember there's no decay, there's no death, there's no erosion. How long would that house last? Forever. Or if he went out and he plowed the fields, how long would every how long would if he made if he planted some trees, he took some Some fruit and you put it into the ground and you plant some more trees. How long would those trees last? There's no death. There's no decay. There's cycles still probably, but there's no death or decay. They would last forever. Everything that Adam did, every labor that he g he did, any effort that he put forth into the creation that God had given him would have lasting forever effect, wouldn't it? But what happened after the fall? Notice what, if you will, in Genesis chapter 3, verse 17. Of course now Adam and Eve have sinned, and here's what happened as a result of Adam's sin, verse 17, and unto Adam he said Because thou hast hearkened unto the voice of thy wife, and hast eaten of the tree which uh I commanded thee, saying, Thou shalt not eat of it. Cursed is the ground for thy sake And what does he say? In sorrow shalt thou eat of it all the days of thy life. Thorns and thistles shalt it bring forth to thee, and thou shalt eat the herb of the field. And the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread till thou return unto the ground, for out of it wast thou taken, and for dust thou art, and unto dust thou shalt return. You see a huge change in a lot of things. In all of creation, you see a massive change where there is now there is now death and there's now decay. And you also see from creation that there is that work is not going to have the lasting effects. And work is going to be by the spread sweat of the brow. And labor is going to be hard And it's going to be arduous. And it's going to be difficult. And after all of that work and difficulty and struggle, you're going to die. Aren't you encouraged? Aren't you glad you come on Wednesday night to be encouraged on all these passages? I mean that is basically the conclusion that Solomon is now going to come to By experience. We know that just by what Scripture says. But now what we're going to learn is by Solomon's own experience and his own very descriptive way of explaining all this We're now going to come to Ecclesiastes chapter 2. And before we get to our text, I want us to just pick up now on verse 16 of chapter 2. And I want you to notice something here. He says, For there is no remembrance of the wise more than of the foolish. Remember when he was contrasting the wisdom of the wisdom of the person who's wise, the person who's foolish at the end of the day, they both die And nobody remembers either one of them. And so he says, This: seeing that which now is in the days to come, shall all be forgotten. How dieth the wise man, and as the fool. And he says, verse 17, Therefore I what? I hated life, because the work that is wrought under the sun is grievous unto me. For all is vanity and vexation of spirit. Now, then notice what he says in verse 17 or verse 18. Yea, I hated all my what? All my labor which I have taken under the sun Now, he is now going to, so he's moved from pleasure and possessions, which kind of mingled in with pleasure. Then he moved over to the pursuit of wisdom. He said, both of those are vain pursuits in and of themselves. Now he's looking at labor, and he's now going to say labor is a vain pursuit in and of itself. And he says this. He says Why? Why is this such a vain pursuit? He says this. I should leave it unto the man that shall be after me. Now, if you recall, Solomon had huge amounts of possessions. He was more than likely the richest man had ever lived as well. Not only the wisest, but he was also the richest. So he had he uh in fact the land of Israel had expanded to its furthest point under Solomon's reign. And and I mean it was just the notoriety of Solomon, the riches of Solomon even reached to to Bathsheba, as you know. And and and his riches and all of his labor and all of his work that he did, he finally comes to the conclusion that this is all going to be he's hating it. He's hating all of his work that he's done. Now, if you think about it, isn't it true that you get a sort of a sense of accomplishment from the work that you do? For example, let's say you you build something with your hands. And you spend a lot of time building it with your hands and after you're done you have this I mean I even get some s some sense not a lot but a little bit of fulfillment for mowing the lawn. Okay, you get a nice clean lawn afterwards. I don't like the process, but after I'm done I get about two minutes of of enjoyment over looking at that lawn before I have to mow it again. That's the downside of the labor part of it. You keep having to do it again. But there's sort of this fulfillment over what you do and and seeing things happen and seeing things built and s there's this there's this sense of satisfaction over that But he says, if that's all you're pursuing, if you're pursuing what you build and pursuing your what what your your your your labors and you're just working, then he says ultimately it's vanity. And he says, I hated my work because I'm who I'm going to have to leave it to. Verse 19 says this He says, and who knoweth whether he shall be a wise man or a fool Yet shall he have rule over all my labor wherein I have labored, and wherein I have showed myself wise under the sun. This all also is vanity. Why is it that he has a problem with what's ha uh with with His labor. Why is he hating his labor? Well he's gonna have to leave it to somebody else. He's working all of it and eventually he's gonna die and have to leave everything. But what's the real problem, the real risk that he's calculating here as to the kind of person that might get this? Somebody's gonna handle it foolishly. I've wa acted wisely, he's saying. I worked wisely and I've labored diligently. For what I have done, and I am afraid I'm going to give it all to somebody who's going to de handle it, and he's going to handle it foolishly. And he says, I am hating my labor over this. Now It is interesting, isn't it? That does does Solomon have a valid concern? He does, doesn't he? Because what do we know from another book of the Bible? Would you take your Bibles and turn to 1 Kings for a moment, verses 1 Kings chapter 12? And what we are going to find is that Solomon hit the nail on the head as to what happened to his kingdom after he died. Because we have a man whose name is Rehobam, who is his son, who is heir to the kingdom And we're going to see what Rahaboam does with all the labor of Solomon, all the building up of that Solomon did. Here's what notice what happens, verse 1. Rahim, Rehoboam, verse 1, 1 Kings 12, Rehoboam went to Shechem, for all Israel were were come to Shechem to make him king. And he came to pass when Rahboam the son of Nebat, who was uh yet in Egypt, heard of it I'm sorry, Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who was yet in Egypt, heard of it. for he was fled from the uh presence of the king Solomon and Jeroboam dwelt in Egypt, that they sent and called him And Jeroboam and all the congregation of Israel came and spake unto Rehoboam, saying, Thy father made our yoke grievous. All right, let's pause. What's he saying there? What are the people saying there? In real real easy vernacular, your dad taxed us a lot. He imposed a lot of extra taxes on us in order to be able to build and to maintain the kingdom that he had. Now, therefore, make thou the grievous service of thy father and his heavy yoke, which he put on us, lighter, and will serve thee. He says, Would you lighten our tax load a little bit, and we're going to be faithful to you? So Rehoboam does what? Well, Rehabam decides that he's going to get counsel on this. Is that a good idea? Well, sure it is. The Bible says in the multitude of counselors there's safety. If you have a hard decision to make or you're up against you're not sure what to do, get counsel. But listen to the counsel you're getting and factor in who's counseling you. He says this in verse 5. And he said unto them, Depart ye for three days. Then come again to me. And the people departed. And the king Rehaboam consulted with who? The old men, well, specifically those that stood before Solomon his father while he was yet a lot while he's yet lived, and said, How do you advise that I may answer this people? And they spake unto him, saying, If thou wilt be a servant unto his people this day, and wilt serve them and answer them and speak good words to them, then they will be thy servants. What's he saying? He says, lighten their load. If you lighten their load, this will be a very good idea, and you will be able to gain their trust and their loyalty, and they'll live they'll be your service forever. Was that wise advice? Yeah, that was pretty wise advice because you know the truth of the matter is? It's one thing for Solomon, who had established leadership over the nation of Israel, to impose some of the things he imposed, though It's questionable whether he should have or not. But, you know, he probably in a sense could have gotten away with it, and he did. But Rehabam is just establishing his leadership. And Rehoboam was w got good advice from men who Solomon had gotten advice from. But he what let's see what happens. And they said basically just do what they're saying, follow this agreement. Now, let me ask you this question. Why, pause for a minute, why would somebody not follow this? Okay, he didn't like it. Okay, yes. Right. So he what what do you suppose Ray Bohm was concerned about? He was concerned more than likely about looking weak. He was concerned about looking weak and and and or concerned about not being able to carry in the revenue that it and keep up the the the name of his father, something like that. It could have been more notable than that. But overall He was afraid of looking weak. What do you call that? Insecurity. Yeah, insecurity, which is pride. And that's always going to cause you to make bad decisions, isn't it? Particularly if you're in leadership. Is there a temptation to be insecure when you're in leadership? There is. But when you begin to make decisions based upon your insecurity, the decisions are going to be very poor decisions And Rehoboam does not take these wise this wise counsel. He's going to in ch in instead take he's going to go to somebody else and he's going to get more counsel. Now let me ask you a question. Just practic this is really practical. Why would he go anywhere else? Because he didn't like what he heard. And do you know that is really this is you you talk to somebody who's a bit on the foolish side And you know what they do? They will go and get advice until they get what they like. Okay? There have been many times where I've seen this before. They'll go to wise getting wise counsel. They'll be given wise counsel, but they don't like it. So they'll go to somebody else who will give them what they like and they'll choose to listen to it. Because people will ultimately do what they most want to do. It's very and but but that's also a very foolish thing, isn't it? And so Rahum is demonstrating I'm not going to read the rest of this. You know that what would ha well actually Let's let's read a little bit more. Um you probably know what happens already, but let's look at verse uh eight. But he forsook the counsel of the old men. which they had given him, and consulted the young men that were grown up with him, and which stood before him. And he said unto them, What counsel give ye that I may answer the people who have spoken to me, saying, Make the yoke which thy father did put up upon us later. And the young men that were grown up with him spake unto him, saying Thus shalt thou speak unto the people that spake unto thee, saying, Thy father made our yoke heavy, but make thou it lighter unto us Thus shall it say unto them, My little finger shall be thicker than thy little finger shall be thicker than my father's loins. And now whereas my father did lade you with a heavy yoke, I will add to your yoke. My father hath chastised you with whips, I will chastise you with scorpions. So Jerob, and you know what happened? He split the kingdom. And he had, he, so what did he do? He did exactly what Solomon was afraid his heir would do. Because he and he acted very, very foolishly. Now, would you take your Bibles and turn back? I I there's a lot more here that I could read, but the bottom line is his kingdom was split, he squandered Solomon's reign. There were problems all the way into up to the Babylonian captivity until Christ would come back, all because Rehoboam acted foolish foolishly, not all because of it. God's providence and sovereignty allowed it for that to happen. But But Rehoboam acted foolishly in this occurrence. And so what we see here is that Solomon's wise anticipation of the future was a very legitimate concern. And so he says in Ecclesiastes chapter 19, he says, this is vanity. Then he says in verse 20, I'm sorry, chapter 2, verse 19. Then he says in verse twenty, Therefore I went about to cause my heart to despair of all the labor which I took under the sun. So what is his reaction? He caused his heart to spare it. Have you ever been there before? Okay, here's how this works. It's called you you begin to see what's really going on in your life. Maybe it's stress or it's anxiety or worry or pressure, and you're lamenting over something, and you worry, and you worry, and you worry, and you worry, and you're You're upset about it until you finally, it says, and he said, I turned my heart. Until finally he broke into despair. When it says he turned his heart, the word, the idea there is he went from partial, a partial, um, a partial fixation to a full fixation. Apparently he kept himself in solid ground for a little while here while he was despairing over his labor. But in verse 20, we have him just sort of fall apart. He's in despair over this. And remember, this is the third of the three pursuits. Pleasure was first, wisdom was second, now he's talking about labor, and he is absolutely in despair over his labor. He doesn't know else to pursue. He doesn't know else to go. I've pursued everything else to pursue, and all of it's vanity. And he is broken over this. And he explains further why he is so broken. He says, verse 22, actually, verse 21, for there's a man whose labor is in wisdom and in knowledge and inequity. He said, there is a man who does labor that way in wisdom, knowledge, and equity. Who do you suppose he's talking about? He's talking about himself here, is what he's talking about. He's saying it in the third person, which is a much more polite way of saying it, but is it true that Solomon did manage what he had with wisdom, knowledge, and equity? He certainly did. Okay, and he had the wisdom of God to do it. Now, he didn't there he was not morally upright. I'm not talking about morality here, but with wisdom and knowledge and equity, those kinds of things, he did he did rule his kingdom that way. He said though he says though this Yet to a man that hath not labored therein shall he leave it for his portion. He said, But I'm gonna leave everything I have to somebody who didn't work for it. Now, let me contrast this for a moment, because are you aware of the book of Proverbs and what it says there? Proverbs chapter 13, verse 22 says this: a good man leaveth an inheritance to his children's children. And the wealth of a sinner is laid up for the just. So Proverbs tells us that it is a good man is going to actually try to leave wealth even for his grandchildren. That that should be one of his goals. Solomon says here, I'm despairing over this sort of inequitable reality that I'm going to labor and then give this to somebody else who won't labor for it. What what do you do with those two things? Any ideas? What do you are they almost seem contradictory? We've seen this before in Proverbs and Ecclesiastes. What do you what would you make of this, Kim? He said a good man. He's saying that you know, from a earthly perspective, if you train us on like a problem resolved in a way that Okay. Good. What did Solomon fail in? Raising his kids. I mean, he didn't raise his kids to leave it to them to be able to I mean he he was a great la you know, he labored and he had wisdom and all these kinds of things, but in leaving everything to his kids, he didn't spend I mean, just practically, doesn't sound like he spent enough time raising his kids. Make sense? And he learned from his dad's example. Yeah, good point. All right. So so is there a warning there for us? Just a thought. Okay, now. Um Then let's then finally move on for on to uh 222. Uh 222. We have a conclusion here. He says, For what hath a man of all his labor, and of the vexation of his heart, wherein he shall labor, he has labored under the sun For all his days are sorrow, this is his conclusion. All of his days are sorrows, and his travail grief Yea, his heart taketh not rest in the night. This also is vanity. His conclusion about this pursuit of labor. His conclusion is it's all vanity. He comes with three things. He says, number one, he says, life is full of sorrows. You want to pursue labor, your life is going to be full of sorrows. Number two, you want to pursue labor, your life is going to be full of grief. Number three, you want to pursue labor, you're not going to have any rest. Does that not sound like a great life? No rest, travail, and sorrow. Now let me ask you, how many of you all work sometimes feel that way? Okay, and we got suddenly hands all over the place. I've been retired at that time. And I got I think there's like five men in our church that are really considering retirement. Real sick. Now with all of this This is where it ought to leave us. Go ahead and go to the final conclusion applications here. This is how it ought to leave us. Number one, go ahead and put it up there. While hard work and diligence are admirable, primary pursuit of it will end in disillusionment and ultimately despair. Okay, if your primary pursuit is is hard work and diligence, then it will ultimately end in disillusionment and bis and despair. Number two. It is truly said that we tend to work at our play, worship our work, and play at our worship. This approach will lead to discouragement, disillusionment, and despair. Have you ever heard that before? That's not original with me. Do we not tend to do that? We tend to work at our play, worship our work, and play at our worship. And Solomon says that kind of life will l lead to despair. Number three, understanding the futile legacy of pleasure, wisdom, and labor should leave us with a longing in our hearts for something. We ought to conclude there must be something missing. You follow this? Because this is now concluding a section that where he has pursued like everything in life tangibly to pursue, he's pursued it. And it leaves him just Vain and vain desperation, this emptiness of life. That's exactly Solomon's point. His point is that if we are pursuing all of these things as primary pursuits That we're going to end in total despair. And he wants us to be there. He wants us to understand something. And we're going to get to the other side of this. We're going to now see next Sunday next Sunday, next Wednesday, a glimpse of the other side. You're going to see the sun peaking its out of the horizon now, finally, okay? It it'll it'll peak for a little while and it's gonna drop back down, sorry. Okay. Alright, but you're gonna see it peak. What's that? Oh sense uh I thought you said he says has a sense of humor. I actually do think he has a sense of humor in Ecclesiastes. But anyway, but because it it pops up a little bit in the So it's gonna do that next week and we're gonna we're gonna have a a reprieve from our depression next week. Okay. Alright. But for now, it ought to you know the it really is we really ought to come to the conclusion about life that man I can't you know, I cannot chase pleasure. And that's going to end up in despair if I do, or I should not chase the accumulation of knowledge and wisdom. That's going to end up in despair. And I cannot chase Labor, that's gonna end up in despair. There are something else that we must be chasing. And we're going to learn what that is next week. For now it ought to just he we ought to just heed the warning. Don't chase those things. And of course, you can also read Ecclesiastes if you want to. You don't have to wait the next week. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you and thank you, Lord, for your word. We thank you that it does teach us not only what we ought to pursue, but it warns us about what we ought not per pursue in its primary purposes. Lord, your word is clear that pleasure has its place, and wisdom is the principal thing, and labor is something that you have called for all people to do. And yet if they do not have their proper places, and if we make them a primary pursuit in our lives, we end up in a place of vanity. We end up in a place of emptiness and vexation. We end up in a place of futility. Lord, may we understand this and may it factor into how we live our lives. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen