Take your Bibles, please, and turn to Matthew 27. Matthew chapter 27. We're going to be looking today at verses 29 through 50. Some of these verses are very short verses, and so we can cover a few more than in the epistles. Let me ask you a question this morning. How many of you all can look back at a time in your life where you feel you felt rejected? You can think back to put your hand up if you if you can think back to a time, specifically back to a time where you can say I really feel felt rejected. Many of you uh raised your hand. Some of you have never felt rejected before I want to talk with you after the service. And so if you didn't raise your hand, stay, and I want to get your your advice on how never to No, I'm kidding. Um some of you are too tired to put your hands up probably. Yeah, all of us from time to time feel that have felt that way. One person suggested it is it is the most difficult thing that we go through on a fairly regular basis. Uh, the feeling of rejection. If you think for your life back even to the time of the playground where maybe you didn't get picked for a certain thing or you had team captains and you were the last one to be picked or You were you proposed to a girl and she said no. I mean there's all kinds of things in our lives and situations and people that cause us to feel rejected. Sometimes a child will feel rejected by his or her parent. Sometimes a parent may feel rejected by his or her child, which is very difficult. But in this case, the rejection goes far deeper than we have ever seen before. In this case The God of the universe is being rejected by his creation. In this case, the king is being rejected by his subjects Jesus is coming to earth. He came to earth and was born a baby to be the king of the Jews. And yet the Jews clearly rejected him. Each one of the Gospels, as we go through them, we will see a different focus. We notice those focuses by looking at the differences between each gospel during the accounting of the crucifixion. And we will notice certain things about Matthew's gospel today. For us to understand what Matthew is really driving at when it comes to When it comes to Christ's crucifixion and the message that he wants for us to understand, we need to understand something about the book of Matthew. And in the book of Matthew, we will note we we note, first of all, that the genealogies in the very first chapter are there to demonstrate that Christ has a legal right to the throne. Matthew 1. 1 says this is the book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham. And we understand that Jesus as king and Jesus as one who is going to set up his kingdom is a very prominent theme in the book of Matthew. Fifty-five times, in fact, I counted the word kingdom being used in the book of Matthew. Matthew wants to show Show us how Jesus came to save his people. That is a another significant theme in the book of Matthew. Matthew chapter 1, verse 21 says, and she shall bring forth a son. And you shall call his name Jesus, and he will save his people from their sins. So we have the idea of Jesus being the king in the book of Matthew. And we also have the idea of Jesus being the Savior of his people in the book of Matthew. As you work your way through the book of Matthew, you're going to find different teachings on what kingdom life is like. And then you come to a pivotal point in the book of Matthew in chapter 12 and chapter 13, where you find a discourse between the Pharisees and Christ. And in this discourse, the Pharisees are actually accusing the power of Christ to be coming from Satan himself This, of course, is the height of blasphemy. Matthew 12, verse 24 says, Now when Farr the Pharisees heard it, they said, This fellow does not cast out demons except by Beelzebub, the ruler of the demons. When this accusation was leveled against Christ by these Pharisees, Christ at that point decrees something that is very definitive against the nation of Israel. In Matthew 12, verse 30, we see he says, He who is not with me is against me, and he who does not gather with me scatters abroad. This is a judicial decree by Jesus Christ that the nation of Israel by their elected leaders has now Established that they do not believe that Jesus Christ is the Messiah. In fact, he does the works of Satan. We don't have time to go through the that passage in a detailed way. But suffice it to say that at that point in back in Christ's ministry, there was a change in understanding that he would one day die for the sins of his people. Of course he knew that from the very beginning. But there was a change in his ministry at that point. What Matthew wants to show us in his in this passage is that Jesus experienced utter rejection. Rejection on every level imaginable. Truly, Christ in his crucifixion fulfilled Isaiah 53, verse 3, which says, He is despised and rejected of men. A man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. And we hid as were as it were our faces from him. He was despised, and we esteemed him not. Surely he hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. Yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him, and with his stripes we were, we are healed. Then we find in Matthew chapter 17, verse 22, that the Son of Man shall, he prophesies, the shed up son of man shall be betrayed into the hands of men. We find that Matthew is going to emphasize the curse by some, we'll see how this works in a few minutes, but by a curse that is leveled from the Father on Christ. And this is to and and really actually the whole crucifixion demonstrates this Deuteronomy 21, verse 23 says, For he who is hanged is accursed of God. When Jesus Christ hung on that cross, he actually was cursed of God, not by the merits of himself, but because he took on the sin of the whole world. And Matthew wants us to understand the kind of rejection, deeper than any rejection that you and I have ever gone through. The loneliness, the hurt. The darkness that Jesus went through on this cross is far greater, far deeper than anything you and I have ever gone through in our lives. We need the Lord's help to understand all of this. Let's go to Him in prayer. Father, as we come to you, I pray that you would help us to see the great sacrifice that you made on the cross for us. Today, our focus will be on the rejection of Christ. The fact that your people rejected Christ as king. But as we'll see, the rejection goes even deeper and further than that. Lord, I pray that as we go through this, you would help us To understand and to grasp the weightiness of the sacrifice that you made on the cross for us. And that that would cause us to stand in humility. And gratefulness and love for you because of the great love that you displayed for us in the cross. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. We're going to pick up here in verse 33 of this passage, and we're going to see in this passage. the place of Golgotha that was chosen where Christ would be crucified. Verse 33 says, and when they had come to a place called Golgotha, that is to say, Place of the skull. They gave him sour wine mingled with gall to drink. But when he had tasted it, he would not drink We find just from this passage, from the initial attitude of the people that were there and the setting. It demonstrates the rejection of Christ. Golgotha was a place that was very visible to people that would be passing by And of course, this was during the time just prior to the Sabbath and the Passover that Christ was killed. He was put hung up on that cross. And we find in the passage later on that there are many people that passed by and mocked him. He was placed in that location so that he could be set up as an example, not to be a revolutionary, not to overthrow the Roman government as he had been accused of doing. We find also in this passage that there was this beverage, this wine that was mingled with vinegar, gall, is what it says in the passage. This is actually a pro a fulfilled prophecy in Psalm 6921, which says, They gave me also gall for my meat, and in my thirst they gave me vinegar to drink. This was done to mock Christ. The gall or the vinegar that was added to this wine would have made it undrinkable. Here Christ is hanging on that cross at Galgotha. His thirst obviously was severe. And the Roman soldiers very likely doesn't say it was them, but probably put or raised this to his lips. Of course, it was undrinkable, and they read, and he rejected it. And very likely the Roman soldiers laughed at this, scorned Jesus as he could not quench his thirst. This was a cruel kind of torment for a man who was, among other things, dying of loss of water. But it doesn't end there. We see this execution in verse 34. They gave him sour wine, but then he would uh ver uh but then he had tasted it, he would not drink it. Verse 35 Then they crucified him, and divided his garments, casting lots, that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken of by the prophet. They divided my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots. Sitting down, they kept watch over him, and they put up over his head the accusation written against him: This is Jesus, the King of the Jews. It's interesting that in all four of the Gospels, there is very little actual description of the crucifixion process. Usually the gospels have send their message by accounting of various events and various situations that surround the crucifixion This is probably because the crucifixion itself was so co was so well known. The methods of the crucifixion were so well known that it was unnecessary for the gospel writers to to actually uh account of them in their in their various passages. However, it is important for us to grasp the kind of execution that was Used. It was a Roman execution that was used to be a public example There was a scourging and a loss of blood, a shock from all the pain produced in agony. And this could have gone on for days at a time. Of course, in this case it didn't go on for days, but in in certain cases that could have, it was a kind of torment that was designed to be able to be uh long lived and gone on and and and and the duration could have been days And we find that the idea is that eventually they would die of one of three things, either suffocation, cardiac arrest, or loss of blood. And if they weren't dying quickly enough, as we would note from from our own from the passages that uh that are in the book, particularly in in in the Gospel of Luke, who was a doctor Um when they didn't die quickly enough they would actually break their legs and it would collapse them and cut them off from breathing breathing. They would be suffocated as a result Now, the reason that we review all of this, and many of you probably are aware of this kind of, you've done some reading or heard some messages on this, is just to remind us of the kind of rejection and humiliation and all of took that that took place When Christ came and it actually says that he was crucified. Here is the God of the universe, the creator of the ends of the earth. who is become who is become man. He is both God and man. And he goes to the cross. To suffer and to die, to pay the punishment for our sins. And what is the response of the people that surround him that are viewing what is going on? There is a great insight that we can get from this because the same the same responses and attitude of the people that viewed the cross as it was taking as the crucifixion was taking place Is similar to the responses that we might see now in the world as people hear of the gospel of Christ and the crucifixion We see in this passage that they divided his garments and cast lots, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken. They divided my garments among them, and my clothing they cast lots. This was a fulfillment of Psalm 22, verse 18, which says that same thing. So, what's the significance of this? Can you imagine the God of the universe is hanging on a cross and below business transactions are forming? There was so such preoccupation with the value of this robe that we know from other accounts in the book of John, particularly uh that many many of many robes, many of these kinds of things would have had seams in them, but this one did not, and so it was more valuable So they chose rather than dividing it, they chose to keep to retain its value by by gambling for it. It's hard to imagine that, isn't it? The torture that was taking place At the same time, business transactions were taking place at the foot of the cross. And it tells us something about the cavalier attitude of the Roman soldiers. that were witnessing these events. In and of itself, it demonstrates an apathy toward what was happening. And that is in in fact, by app by way of an application, a lesson for us Is it possible that you and I are preoccupied with certain things in our lives and it keeps us from living out the gospel? Are we so focused on certain business things or other things in our lives, things that may not be necessarily bad, but it in their wrong place they aren't right? Do we live in light of the cross? Do we boast in the cross? Or are we so preoccupied with other things that we are like those Roman soldiers? Who at the foot of the cross, as the Son of God is dying and paying the price for the punishment of sin, are making business transactions, gambling. Over the robe, the vesture of Christ. And we see further the antagonism of the soldiers, this overall attitude that demonstrates rejection. Verse 36 says, Sitting down, they kept watch over him there, and they put up over his head the accusation. So this is actually a phrase that's unique to the Gospel of Matthew. Apparently the Roman soldiers were watching him to make sure that there wasn't some sort of insurrection. They actually believed that Jesus was trying to be a revolutionary. And uh at least some of them did, and so they were watching to make sure that nothing was taking place instead of really understanding the weight and the value of what was actually happening when Christ was paying the punishment. for the sins of the world. And so there's this attitude of antagonism. And finally we have this ironic title. Now we will wait to describe this more when we get to the Gospel of John. There's more detail there about this, but there is this title of King of the Jews that is placed over the that was placed by Pilate over the cross at the at the top of the cross And there was great dissension among the Sanhedrin when that was placed there. They didn't want there to be that kind of description on the top of the cross. And yet there was, and Pilate in doing so was mocking Christ, but it was an ironic thing because he was indeed, and is indeed the king of the Jews. Now, what this does is it sets us, we understand from this portion of the passage the overall general attitude that is one of rejection. And the next passage we're going to see is actually going to be a passage that is going to identify specific kinds of rejection that were leveled at Jesus Christ as he was up on that cross. To understand this, we actually first need to understand the concept of irony. Irony is something that you would understand if you take an English literature or American literature course. is a literary device that is used. But let me help you a little bit with this to help us to grasp what irony is. I I think I think the best way to understand what irony is is to understand sarcasm first. We may not understand irony, but sarcasm we understand. Most of you are aware at this point that we have gotten a new building. Um that was supposed to be funny. Um and this building thanks Dave, I appreciate it. Um and this building was um a built is a building that has a lot of a particular kind of material. What material does this building have a lot of? A lot of brick and a lot of block And a lot of concrete. And so as we go we've been going through the building at different times. I've been uh a lot of times I'll be talking with Harry about the building. And I'll say something like, Yeah, I wish I knew somebody that knew knew something about block. And he would say, oh yeah, we gotta find somebody like that. So so that comp what is that conversation? Well that's sarcasm. It's there to emphasize a point that obviously Harry has many, many years of experience with block. And so he and so and so it's just a it's just a a way of sort of a comedic way of being of emphasizing something By saying the negative, which is actually true. Does that make sense? So that's sarcasm. I think we all understand what sarcasm is. Irony is when the person who is speaking doesn't know what he's saying Sarcasm, if I say we need to find somebody that knows something about block, I understand I'm being sarcastic. I know what I'm saying. But on the other hand, irony is when the person is saying something that is quite true, he's saying it and it's saying it in a false way, but he has no idea of what he's saying. That's irony. Does that make sense? And so what we find as we go through this passage, this is laced with irony. And we're going to see this in just a few moments First, before we do this, I want you to notice something just about the structure of this passage. You're going to notice in verse 38, it says That the two robbers were crucified with him, one on the right hand and the other on the left. So we have these robbers who are here, or thieves, or they think the King James says malefactors. We see the same thing again in verse 44. They're mentioned again as ones who also reviled him. And the reason in that you have that in both places is that this sets off a particular structure. Of identifying certain things, certain kinds of rejections that Matthew wants to show us That Christ is undergoing as he is on this cross. I would note one thing about the translation here of robbers or malefactors or thieves. All three of those are probably not real great translations. This particular word is actually a word that is usually used as someone who is a revolutionary, someone who desires to overthrow the Roman government. These two people that were on the right and left of Christ were not just ordinary thieves. These were people that were in were were attempting to overthrow Roman the Roman government. And the reason that they were set in act in uh along with Christ in this way was to was that is essentially the accusation that they were making against Christ as well, as you would review the trials, you'll find that to be the case. There is this there is this overall description then that Matthew wants to portray of Christ being rejected as an overthrower of the Roman government. That is the view of the Roman soldiers. That is the view of the Roman Empire. And that is the rejection that they are seeing. And then we're going to see further rejections in this portion of the text. This, by the way, these people have been presumed by some to be actually friends of Barabbas. Barabbas was, if you recall, was supposed to die, but instead Christ died in Barabbas' place. And so these two people very likely were accomplices with Barabbas to overthrow the Roman government and they were being they were being cha chastised, they were being executed for that reason. Well, with this in mind, we want to then pick up and we want to see rejection number one, which we're going to find in verses 38 and 40. We've already read verse 38. You'll notice that in verse 39, and those who passed by blasphemed him, wagging their heads And saying, You who destroy the temple and build it in three days, save yourself. If you are the Son of God, come down from the cross. First of all, we have this ironic rejection of this ironic ignorance of his purpose. If you recall from the previous If you if you recall from the previous I didn't know both of them were up there. I should have I should have yeah I just leave it there for now. That's fine. If you recall from the uh from the um previous um uh passages in the in the trials, this was a reference to that. And you'll notice in this passage that there were there was this accusation among the people And you see this term blasphemed. This is the exact same term that was used over in Matthew chapter 12 when the Pharisees blasphemed Christ and rejected him And it's very likely that Matthew is referring by implication back to that whole idea of blasphemy. Well what was he what were they trying to say? What were they bringing up? Well, it actually says that they were wagging their heads or they were shaking their heads. This specific kind of mocking Is a fulfillment of the prophecy in Psalm 22:7, which says, And they that see me laugh me to scorn, they they shoot out their hip, they shake their head, saying The same thing is in Psalm 109. 25. I became also reproached unto them. When they looked upon me, they shaked their heads. And so this is a fulfillment of that passage. It's interesting that that that Matthew and that the Gospels would be so specific to identify very detailed prophecies and to note the fulfillment of those prophecies so that this would be unquestionably clear. that this was the fulfillment of the Old Testament prophecies of the coming of the Messiah and what he came to do. You'll note that the discussion was over whether or not Jesus would destroy the temple and be able to rebuild it in three days. The mockers there witnessed the proceedings of the Sanhedrin when this occurred. And this is particularly noted because the Romans saw the Romans, in order to be able to to keep the keep control with a diversity of different religions actually made it desecrating any temple to be a capital offense. The accusation of Jesus threatening to destroy the temple and then to raise it again in three days Was actually something according to Mark's gospel in chapter 14, verses 57 through 59, was something that the witnesses couldn't agree on whether or not Jesus actually said that he was going to do that. If he actually said that he was going to destroy the temple, well, they had him where they wanted him, and they would be able then to bring him to a place uh of of a decree of capital punishment However, that wasn't the case actually. He actually said in John chapter 2 we find in the very early parts of his ministry, after the first cleansing of the temple, and there were two cleansings cleansings of the temple, very likely. At the very early part of his ministry, we actually find that Jesus said, if you destroy the temple in three days, Then in three days then I uh uh if you destroy the temple, then in three days I will raise it up. But in that passage in John chapter 18, verses verses uh John chapter two verses eighteen through twenty-two Jesus was actually speaking of something different than the actual physical temple that he had just cleansed. He was actually speaking of his own body. It says in that passage, so the Jews answered and said to him, What sign do you show us, show to us since you do these things? Jesus answered and said to them, Destroy this temple, in three days I will raise it up. Then the Jews said, It has taken 46 years to build this temple. Will you raise it up in three days? But he was speaking of the temple of his body. Therefore, when he had risen from the dead, the disciples remembered that he had said this to them, and they believed the scriptures and the word which Jesus had said The irony here is that they are discussing this idea of Jesus destroying the temple and in three days it will be risen up. And that's exactly what's happening. Actually, they are destroying the temple. They are destroying Jesus, who is going to replace the temple. And in three days that temple will be risen up, that Christ will be risen from the grave. This is verified by the fact that in verse 51 we find after the re after the crucifixion That Matthew accounts of the veil of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom, and the earthquaked, and the rocks were split. So clearly Christ is going to replace the temple. And this irony of this is essentially the irony that Christ now becomes the place of the presence of God. This now becomes the place, Jesus becomes the place where you are able to have access to God by faith alone. They rejected him, but in their rejection, they were actually demonstrating that Christ would actually Pay the punishment for their sin and be that temple. We see the next rejection, number two, is an ironic misunderstanding of his position. You'll notice what it says in verses 41 and 42. Likewise, the chief priests, so the chief priests, by the way, are a representative group of all the rep groups of the Sanhedrin. Likewise, the chief priests, also mocking with the scribes and elders, said, He saved others. Himself he cannot save. If he is the king of Israel, let him now come down from the cross, and we will believe him. He trusted in God, let him deliver him now if he will have him. For he said, I am the Son of God. They identified the fact that Jesus had claimed to be the King of Israel. And they said to him, he saved others, but himself, they actually they said this in a third person with the idea that Jesus was going to hear this, more than likely. And they were mocking him and saying he saved others, but himself he cannot save. They're mocking him, and they're saying that he essentially, because he is on that cross, is not the king of the Jews. But in fact, the very fact that he was up there demonstrated that he was the king of the Jews. And more importantly, it was that it was how he was saving his people from their sins In other words, if he were to come down from that cross, if he were to rescue himself, he would not be saving his people from their sins. The irony is quite Profound here. They were accusing him of exactly the opposite of what he was doing. He was saving the people that by their sins, uh saving people from their sins. By not saving himself. And yet three days later he would save himself. He would rise from the grave of his own power and of his own will, victorious over sin and death. Then we find, lastly, now there's let me mention this as uh let me mention this as well. In Matthew chapter 28, verse, before we move on to the next one, Matthew chapter 28, verse 19, which is also in the book of Matthew, of course. It says, All authority is given unto me in heaven and in earth. In Philippians chapter 2, it says, Wherefore God hath highly exalted him and given him a name which is above every name. That was actually a result of the humiliation of Christ. It was a result of all that was taking place. Christ would make him king over all. I mean Fat the Father would make Christ king over all And then we have finally this third rejection. It is conditions that they were placing on him. Ironic conditions, verse 43. He trusted in God. Let him deliver him now if he will have him. For he said, I am the Son of God. He was they're pointing out this idea that Jesus had said that he trusted the Lord. He trusted his Father. And he said this many times in the New Testament, many times in the New Testament. This also was a fulfillment of Psalm 22, verse 8, which says, He trusted in the Lord, let him rescue him, let him deliver him, since he delights in him. The point that the these men were making in identifying the fact that that uh he trusted in God was essentially was essentially that he really didn't trust in God. That Jesus, that the Father wasn't saving him. And they were basically condemning Christ with their language. They were reviling him. They were condemning him. Because he was his essentially they were saying that his claim to trusting God was a misplaced kind of trust. Now I want to make this application to all of these kinds of rejections, all three of these rejections This application is simply this. Do you notice that these are the same kinds of things that the world says about what happened there on that cross? Or the working of God in the world. For example, one of the most common questions is how could a loving God Allow such death and disease in the world, allow such calamity and problems. And you know what the answer to that question is? Wrong question. How could a just God be so merciful to us? How could a just God allow anything to go on at all How could a just God allow people to live and to breathe when they have all when we have all sinned against God so egregiously? See, understanding who God is and how God works and the ways of God require us to know God. And it is through the person and only through the person of Jesus Christ that we can really know Him. Psalm 69, verse 20 says, Reproach has broken my heart. I am full of heaviness. I looked for someone to take pity, but there was none, and for comforters, but I found none. In Matthew's gospel, you see no depiction of any kind of sympathy, of any kind of comfort. Of any kind of those kinds of things. Now, in other gospels we see little bits of it. We see Mary that is concerned about things, I mean very uh saddened by what's taking place. But in this passage, Matthew wants to really get across the utter and complete rejection of Christ. By the world, by the Romans, by the Jewish people, by the leaders, there was this absolute rejection that God actually used To save God's people. Now, if I could digress for just a moment, I would just simply say this God uses our rejection for his purposes. Do you remember Joseph? Do you remember how Joseph was rejected by his brothers and sent into a life of slavery? And then was rejected rejected by his slave owners and was sent into a life of prison. Lots of rejection there, wasn't there? And God used this rejection to create a leader that would be able to save the people, his own family. From starvation, from the famine that was in the land. And so we see that God actually uses rejection of other people in our lives to do what he wants us to do, really to conform us to the image of his son. But let me be clear about this. That is a digression. Because the truth of the matter is no one is ever experienced The rejection that Christ experienced on the cross. Because we're not finished yet. There is one other major, more, deeper kind of rejection here, and that is the rejection. of Christ's own father. Jesus' father rejected him. Verse thirty-five forty-five. Now from the sixth hour unto the ninth hour there was darkness over all the land. And about the ninth hour Jesus cried out with a loud voice, saying, Eli, Eli, Lama Sabaksanai. That is, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Some of those who stood there when they heard that said, This man is calling for Elijah. Immediately one of them ran and took a sponge, filling it with sour wine, and put it and put it on a reed and offered it to him to drink The rest said, Let him alone. Let us see if Elijah will come to save him. And Jesus cried out again with a loud voice and yielded up his spirit. In this passage, we see the separation of the Father from the Son. In this great cry, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? We see that prior to that cry, which is the only cry of the seven, the only word of the seven words of the last words of Christ that Matthew Matthew um Matthew mentions here. We see that prior to that cry there was darkness. From 12 o'clock to three o'clock, there was darkness in the land. Why was there darkness? Well, very likely, darkness is a depiction here of judgment. The judgment of God came down on Christ because he had taken on the world. We find this idea of darkness being a depiction of judgment in several places. For example, in the book of Amos, we find it. Amos chapter 8 verse 9 says, And it shall come to pass in that day, says the Lord God, that I will make the sun go down at noon, and I will darken the earth to broad daylight. Sound familiar? And I will turn your feast into mourning, and all your songs into lamentations. I will bring sackcloth to every waist and baldness on every head. I will make it like mourning for an only son And its end like a bitter day. And then to a lesser extent, but certainly to an extent in Ex Exodus chapter 10, Verse 21, we find that the plague prior to the angel of death, just prior to the judgment, the final judgment was this plague of darkness. And the Lord said to Moses, Stretch out your hand toward heaven, that there may there may be darkness over the land of Egypt, darkness which may even be felt And we know, of course, from Galatians chapter 3, verse 13, that Jesus was actually made a curse for us so that we would not have to experience that curse. And after taking on the great sins of the world on himself, and after being judged by God for those sins, not for the sins of his own, he lived a perfect life. But for the sins of the world, he says, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? This was not an actual separation of the Trinity, as some have suggested. That has never happened before, and nor will it ever happen. This is not as though Jesus stopped becoming God, nor Is it that Jesus at this point's deity separated from his humanity, as some have suggested? Those are called docetic and Gnostic views. That's not at all what was happening here. What is happening here is a breaking of fellowship. There was a complete and utter separation of fellowship from Jesus from his Father. This was the only time in the history of the world, the history of the universe, even go farther back than that from From the there is no beginning of time for the Father and the Son. It goes it's it's in eternity past and up through eternity future, never before, ever, and will never again happen. that the Father and the Son will be separated in fellowship. Can you imagine that? Really let that settle in for you. You and I cannot put our minds around that. We get disgruntled if we if we miss somebody for a few days. A few weeks or a month or a year makes us very discouraged if we have been with somebody for a long time Some of you know what it's like to lose a spouse who you spent years with, and you understand the pain of that. You understand the torment of that. Well, Christ was tormented more. For all of eternity, he had the closest relationship possible that anybody could ever have with his father. And now he was separated from his father. And you know why he did this? For you and for me. The level of agony had to surpass any agony that he was going through. from his own physical suffering. It was a spiritual agony. And he did this for me. And he did this for you. And even as he was separated from his father in fellowship, he still prays to his father. He cries out, Why have you forsaken me? There is this ironic trust that Jesus has here. Even toward his father, even when he separated from his father. And this ought to cause us to have a level of sober gratefulness. Elizabeth Barrett Browning, a popular English poet of the Victorian era, wrote these words. Yea, once Emmanuel's orphan cry, his universe hath shaken It went up single echo less, my God, I am forsaken. It went up from the holy lips amid his lost creation That of the lost no son should use those words of desolation There is the reality that because Christ used the words, why have you forsaken me? You and I, if we know Christ as our Lord and your Savior, if we've accepted this gift of eternal life, never have to read, never have to say those words ourselves. Never do we ever have to say, Why have you forsaken me? Because Christ said these words, you and I never have to. They the people there were not understanding what Jesus was saying. It's quite it's it's not quite clear why. He uses the term Eli Eli Labas Labasanoxani, something like that. And and this is a term that that is used in um it it's it's he speaks the first part in Hebrew and the second part is in Aramaic. Of course Jesus was trilingual. Most people were back then. They had they uh they had Aramaic and they if because they were Hebrew they would know they would have known Hebrew and then the trade language was Greek. They probably knew all three, possibly they knew a little bit of Latin too. Don't think first century people weren't smart because they were. Um and and Jesus knew all these languages. In fact, in fact on that inscrip the inscription of uh King of the Jews was on all three of these of the sign of the uh was on the sign. All three of those different languages were there. For whatever reason, they misunderstood this word Eli to mean, or Mark uses the word Eloy. Which is the Aramaic version. For whatever reason, they misunderstand this to think that perhaps he's calling out for Elijah. And the reason that they were doing that was because there was this sort of extra-biblical idea that's not at all Founded in Scripture, that because Elijah depth never died, that he was translated, that he actually comes and rescues people that are followers of followers of God that are true have true piety. The this was something that was taught by rabbis and rabbis actually believed that this was the case for a really good rabbi, he would Elijah would come down. And so they wanted to see whether this was going to be the case for this man. That was not at all what Christ is saying. It kind of tells you how how the lens that people put on things The lens of the world that they see, they see the gospel, they see Christ, what he does, they see this, they look at things through a certain lens that totally masks the truth. of what is in this, of what Christ was saying and what is truly in the gospel. And they somebody actually comes and they put uh a sponge on his um on his lips again. And there is a lot of debate actually as to whether or not this is something that was out of done out of sympathy or out of mockery. If you take it everything in context in this passage, I would lean towards saying that this was a mockery. Although if you disagree, that's certainly fine. It's really hard to tell Probably they were actually lengthening there was an attempt to lengthen his suffering. And so that's why they offered this to him on this read. And the other people said, no, let him alone. We want to see Elijah come and actually take him. Let's see if this happens. Totally missing the whole point of what was happening. Totally not getting it. But Christ allowed all of this to transpire the way he did. And by the way, Christ orchestrated everything. Imagine that. Think of it. Christ orchestrated all of this. We know this from verse 50. And Jesus cried again with a loud voice. And what did he do? The Spirit was not taken from him. He yielded it up. This demonstrates that Jesus willfully died to the very last breath. It was his plan. It was his choice. He didn't It wasn't as though he just died and it just happened. He chose at that point in time to yield up his spirit. Jesus was sovereignly over all of this. The sovereign of the universe allows wicked, cruel men to reject him, to place him on a cross. To reject him as Messiah and King. And he uses all of it so that he can be their Savior. And the response that you and I ought to have is simply this: what wondrous love is this? Oh my soul! I would just ask this question: what is your attitude toward Christ and his work? Do you and I have a cavalier attitude when it comes to the gospel? Are we just sort of going through the motions every Sunday? Are we just kind of doing our thing and knowing that we've got our fire insurance or we've got our i is that our attitude? I are we like the the the the the thieves uh the I'm not the thieves the robbers are we not the robbers, the Roman soldiers, excuse me. Are we like the Roman soldiers? who are at the at the foot of the cross and doing their business. Gambling for robes, for a robe While Christ died for the sins of the world. Are we aware and living out the gospel in our lives? A more pointed question is simply: are we accepting and rejecting Christ? Are we accepting and rejecting him? And finally, understanding that Jesus was rejected so we can be forgiven. How would you respond today? And there may be here someone, maybe more than someone, maybe many, maybe a few. That you've heard many messages before, you have read your Bible many times before You have thought that perhaps you said a prayer or you did a certain thing that caused you to think that you knew Christ. But as you see what Christ actually did, In taking on your sin and placing it on himself and dying for your sin, you realize you never actually accepted that gift by faith. And that is entirely possible. Just because you've grown up in a Christian home, whether you're I'm not just talking about kids or teenagers here, I'm talking about all of us. Just because are familiar with church kinds of things does not mean you have truly accepted the gospel of Christ. And if today you would say to yourself, you know, I have never really understood what Christ did for me, can I really encourage you? To come and talk with me after the service. And I'll be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that your sins are forgiven. that you can have a right relationship with God by understanding, by agreeing, and by accepting what Christ did here. We are not universally saved because of this. The Bible says that we must accept it by faith. As many as received him, to them gave ye the power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. That's pretty better. Father, we do come to you and we ask you, Lord. To help us to behold the cross, to boast in the cross. to know the truth of it and to understand it. Father, we pray, Lord, that you would help us with these things. And Lord, if there is anybody here that doesn't know you as their Lord and Savior, I pray today would be a day where they would understand the great sacrifice that Christ made on the cross of Calvary so long ago And I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.