To tell you the story of Jesus Television's uh Sixty Minutes broadcast, which has been broadcasted for many years now, interviewed a particular kind of nurse who helped people in their last days of life. They were uh of course that takes a very special kind of a person. But as they interviewed her, she reported that what most people wanted to do in their final days of life They wanted to go to their homes. They wanted to have only close family members around them. And they wanted to have a time of peace and reflection on their lives. And just to spend their final days with their family. And what you find in beginning in John chapter 13 is a change in Christ's attitude. Prior to John chapter 13, he is continuing to communicate with the masses of people in various circumstances. But now he is going to turn his attention to his disciples, the people that have stuck by him, the people that are closest to him. And these people, he is going to, he wants to get across a very important truth about the significance of the coming cross, the death that he is going to um he is going to experience just probably 24 hours or so from now. In fact, it's quite interesting that for the next several chapters, the next four chapters, it is going to be discussions with Christ and his disciple, and we are it is known as the Upper Room Discourse. This is the time where he's going to be able to explain what the disciples need to know and to prepare them for when he would no longer be with them. And he also wanted them to understand that the execution that they probably at least thought would happen, perhaps, though that was questionable because they also thought he was going to set up a kingdom, which we'll see in a minute. If there was to be an execution, he wanted them to know, and of course there was going to be, he wanted them to understand the great spiritual significance of this execution, rather than thinking it was just an execution of them of a mere criminal. What we find also in this passage, as we pick up here, is that Christ is going to express his feelings for his disciple. He is going to get more even emotional to them. Expressing his love for them, expressing his desires for them, and their desire and they're going to have some opportunity to express their desires for him as well. And so this is going to be a section of scripture that we're going to go through really for the next few months, and it is going to be, I think it will be very helpful for us, to really help us to understand the significance of the cross of Christ. And to help us to understand what Christ left us to do as he ascended to his father, because many of the applications that he made for the disciples are going to be directly and can easily and should be directly applied to us as his church as well. In two parallel passages we find in both Luke and in Mark, there is in this passage as we approach John chapter 13 in the first 17 verses, There was some strife going on. There was some debate going on among the disciples. And I won't read from both passages. One is uh the in in the book of Mark. Chapter 10 verses 40 through 45, but we'll read from Luke in chapter 22 verses 24 through 27 where it says this, and there was also strife among them. Here were the disciples. If you would if you would, his closest family members, he was closest to his disciples, and they are in strife. They are arguing. What is the strife about? Which one of them should be accounted as the greatest in the kingdom Verse 25, and he said unto them, The kings of the Gentiles exercise lordship over them, and they exercise lore authority upon them are called benefactors. But ye shall not be so. But he that is greatest among you, let him be as the younger, and he that is chief as he that doth serve For whether is greater he that sitteth at meat, or he that serveth, is not he that sitteth at meat, but I am among you as he that serveth. Christ is now going to explain to him the nature of the kingdom. They think they're concerned about who will be the greatest, who will sit at the side of Christ, who will be the greatest. in this kingdom that he is going to inaugurate on earth, they still think just a day before his death that he is going to set up and mediate his kingdom on earth at this point. And Christ is now going to through a tangible illustration. He is going to explain the nature not only of his kingdom, but of his coming death. And he is going to use a particular word picture, if you will, or an object lesson himself Doing something that would be unfathomable for them. They would not uh imagine that this would be the case. And we're going to see what that is and the significance of all of that. But first let's go to the Lord in prayer and ask his blessing on our time together. Father, as we come to you and we see Christ and the opening words of this great discourse that he gave only to his disciples. Before he uh he he experienced his exaltation, starting with his death and ending with his with the with the ascension. Lord, I pray that you would help us to see the significance of the cross freshly today. That we would realize just how How amazing uh it was, and that we would learn to live in light of it, that we would experience the cross ourselves. In the sense that Christ would want us to. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. We begin with a setting in verse 1 where it says this, now before the feast of the Passover, when Jesus uh knew that his hour was come, that he should depart out of this world unto the Father, having loved his own, which were in the world, he loved them This verse tells us that this was just before the Passover feast. This was the final Passover, of course, that Christ would uh partake of with his disciples And before this feast was to take place, they were in this upper room, and we find here that that he is going to express some things to him, to the to the to the disciples. We see here that it says that he was now aware that the hour had come. And if you recall from various passages uh throughout the book of John he kept saying, My hour had not is not yet come, my hour had not yet come. And he said that throughout the book of John, and now he was aware that his hour of exaltation had finally it was at hand. And with that in mind, there is a great great awareness of this. There's a great urgency about this. And there are just some things that he has been waiting to communicate with his disciples, perhaps And now he is going to be able to communicate these things. He has this future mindset. We notice also in the passage that there is now a clear distinction to whom he is talking to. He says that he is speaking to those who are his own rather than those who are of the world. In John chapter 3, we find that God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son But now we're going to find in chapters 13 through 17 a clear distinction between those who are of his own and those who are pulled out of the world and those who are in the world. And he's going to make this distinction throughout this wonderful discourse of Scripture. For example, in chapter 15, verse 19, he says, if you were of the world, the world would love his own. But because ye are not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hateth you. And so he is going to describe for them how they are supposed to live in the world. But they are no longer of the world. And what that is supposed to look like for them. And we're going to see this in chapters 13 through 17 But now we turn our attention particularly to this passage of Scripture where he says in the final parts of verse 1 that he loved them unto the end. What does it mean when the passage says that he loved them unto the end? There are essentially two possibilities here. What it may mean is that he loved them to the uttermost. To the most that he possibly could love them, he loved them with a complete kind of love We find in John 15, verse 13, which is later on in this discourse, greater love hath no man than this, that a man laid down his life for his friends. And he is prophesying of his own laying down of his life for his friends, the disciples, in that verse. But it also could possibly have another kind of connotation here. The word end is really the same Greek word that we find in John chapter 19 verse 30 when he is on that cross and it says this He says those final words, it is finished. And so it may simply mean here that he is identifying the fact that he is going to love them until the very end where he was on that cross where he could finally say on the behalf of the disciples and really on behalf of all those who would accept him by faith The sacrifice is complete. The sacrifice is finished. And so he says, I love them, he loved them to the end. He went to the cross out of love for them, and he loves them to the end, to the point where the sacrifice is finished. So which is it? And I'd like to suggest to you that it is both. He loved them to the uttermost, and so therefore he loved them to the end, to the point where he would go to the cross, and finally, as he took his last breath, he was able to say it Is finished. He loved them that much. And the illustration that he is about to give them by his own example of foot washing, which you have uh probably noted by now. This example he gives them was really to demonstrate the kind of love that he had for, the special kind of love that he had for his own disciples. And folks, you and I have that same kind of love, those that kind of love that we have only as his followers, that extreme kind of love where we recognize that he laid down his life for us. With that in mind, we then see in verse 2, he's going to pick up here and he's going to explain what he's about to do. Or he's going to it explains what he's going to do. And supper being ended, verse 2, the devil having now put into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, to betray him. This is mentioned by John because he wants them to understand, wants us to understand the urgency about what he's about to do. And there's some debate as to whether it's talking about Satan putting into Judas's heart the idea to betray Christ. or whether Satan is doing is putting it into his own heart and he's going to influence Judas in the future. At the end of the day, I don't think either one, it's it's so important to take it. It's probably maybe even talking about saying both here. But at the end of the day The point is that this is about to happen. This is this betrayal, all of the drama that's going to take place prior to the crucifixion, this is all about to happen, and Christ wants them to get it right. He wants them to understand what's going to take place. But he also is aware, as we'll find out later in the passage, that they're not going to understand until it already takes place. Verse 3, it says, Jesus knowing that the Father had given all things into his hand, and that he was come from God and went to God. He riseth from supper, and laid aside his garments, and took a towel, and girdeth himself. After that he poured water into a basin and began to wash the disciples' feet and to wipe them with a towel wherewith he was girded. It says here in verse 3 that he realized he had come from God and he was about to go to God. Christ was fully aware of the of the masterful plan that he was fulfilling for his father, and he was looking forward to returning to his father on his right side And with all of this in mind, he wants to get this message across to his disciples, and instead of speaking it, he decides to do something about it. It has been said that actions speak louder than words, and sometimes that's true. And so what he is going to do is he is going to prepare himself to wipe, to, to wash the disciples' feet. Now that may not seem to be a big deal to us. What's the big deal washing someone's feet? But remember that in those days they wore sandals. Not only did they wore sandals, but they did not get in their vehicles to drive anywhere. They walked just about everywhere. Not only that, but they also did not have indoor plumbing. Where do you suppose people's indoor plumbing went? In many cases it went into the streets. Now if you can imagine this a little bit, you can sort of understand why it was understood to be something that was only the most demeaning of people would would wash someone else's feet All of the excrements that could perhaps even be on a person's foot feet as they walked across walked through the streets. I'm being I'm being kind in the in what I or I'm being cautious in what I'm saying. You get the idea, I think. Not only that, there was debate as to whether this was such a a a a something that that that culturally was unacceptable for someone else to do, that they had in those days both Jewish slaves and Gentile slaves. And it was decided that this was too demeaning to allow a Jewish slave to do for someone else. That only the Gentile slaves would actually wash the feet. And so Jewish slaves were not allowed that the their masters were not allowed to requ were not allowed to require their Jewish slaves to wash their feet. This was something that really only the lowest of the loop low. I really don't even know what to compare this to in our culture. But whatever most demeaning job, most grotesque thing that you can possibly imagine doing in our culture, that's what he did here. He gets up and he washes their feet. And you might wonder why in the world all of these details, why in the world were the details of him taking a towel and wrapping it around his waist And all these different details that you find in the passage. Why doesn't it just say he washes his disciples' feet? And I'll tell you why. Because in the the first century readers as they read this, very likely if they did not have all these details, they would have thought that it was just merit metaphorical. Of course, he couldn't really mean that he washed the disciples' feet. That couldn't possibly be meant what he meant. It must mean some sort of metaphor for something else. He couldn't have actually washed the disciples' feet. But with the details here of taking the of taking out off his his robes and and his and his garments to the point where some commentators say he went all the way down to his loincloth. Which was probably a picture of something else if you'll recall. He would one day, he actually lied naked on that cross. Now with all of that in mind, he goes and he does this in this humiliating fashion, and it shocks the disciples. Why did he do this? Well, first of all, he did this to demonstrate to the disciples just how much he loved them But he also did this for another reason that we'll find in the passage as we continue, because there's one person here that decides to speak, and very candidly he is very likely speaking on behalf of all the disciples when he says this. We know who he is. He's done this before. This is very common for this one person to be the spokesperson for the whole group. And you've got to have somebody that does this and we find this man to be the case, that to be the case, and so Peter does, and he says this Except that he did he he he went too far as we'll see. But anyway, verse six. Then cometh he to Simon Peter. So he's washing different disciples' feet. And when he comes to Simon Peter, verse six, it says Thou shalt, uh, he says, um, and Peter saith unto him, Lord, dost thou wash my feet? He's basically saying, are you really going to do this? Now Jesus answers in a way that tells us Very clearly what the washing of the feet is intended to picture. Do you see this in verse 7? Jesus answered and said unto him, What I do thou knowest not now. But thou shalt know hereafter. Now, what was he talking about there? Was he speaking of the fact that they would be finished dinner soon and that Peter would understand then? Or that Christ would be taken into custody and he would understand then? No, what he was talking about is that you'll know after my own death, my own sacrifice. He is saying, Peter, you don't understand what I am doing now, but one day, but you will, after this is all said and done, understand. And this, folks, is a clear indication for us. that the picture of the washing of the feet of the disciples was to picture his coming death. And so with that in mind, Peter says this in verse 8. Peter saith unto him, Thou shalt never wash my feet. And by the way, in the Greek this is extremely emphatic. You are never going to wash my feet. And Jesus says this if I wash thee not, thou hast no part with me. Now what Christ is basically alluding to is the fact that what what the effect of the cross, what happens when the cross is applied to a person. Cleansing occurs. And he's going to say that explicitly in a few verses. He's going to say that you are clean. There is a cleansing that takes place. We call it justification by faith. The Bible tells us that those who come to Christ And the cross, the blood of Christ is applied to their account. They are declared righteous by God. There is an exchange that takes place where our sins are placed on Christ and His righteousness is placed on us. And this is picturing that. And he says, if you are not cleansed by me, then you have no part with me. Now the next part of this is is quite it's it's a it's interest it's it's interesting and it and it's very debatable as to what what there's different views and there's a couple of good views on this. Because we'll just read the passage and then you're going to see what I mean here. It gets a bit confusing at first glance. Actually, at second glance and third glance, I had to study this a lot. Look at verse 9. Simon Peter saith unto him Lord, not my feet only. Oh, oh, yes, verse nine. Some Peter saith unto them, Lord, not my feet only, but also my hands and my head. Jesus saith unto him, He that washeth needeth not save to wash his feet, but is clean every whit, and yet ye are clean, but not all. For he knew who should betray him, therefore he saith, of course, talking about Judas there. Now, what is he saying here? Um it's a it's a bit difficult to grasp what he's really what he's really saying. In fact, it's it was so debatable that even in the first century some of the early manuscripts actually assume that part of this was not included and so they didn't include it in in what is being said. But the overwhelming manuscript support seem uh indicates that all of it should be there. And so what is he saying when he says, not just your feet have to be washed, not everything, and all of that? Well some suggest that what he is saying here is simply that every that that ev it ev he's talking and emphasizing the fact that everything needs to be cleansed and once you're cleansed, that's all there is. But if you look specifically the passage, he says only your feet need to be cleansed if you're already cleansed all over. Here is how we need to take the passage. I would recommend that we take the passage. And if you disagree with me, that's fine. But I would recommend that we take it this way. When Christ when Peter said, first of all, we we begin we begin to understand in this sense. When Peter says I I the the the the the my feet are not clean and clean my feet and all and everything, clean my hands and my head, do it all. He is really recharacterizing the illustration. In other words, the illustration started off as clean my f the foot washing had to do with the death of Christ and justification. When he says, do my hands and my head also, he's going to re-characterize this illustration, and Christ is going to take the same illustration and he's going to explain something else. In other words, he's going to use the illustration to no longer mean what it previously meant. It previously meant the death of Christ and foreshadowed that, and now it's going to mean something else. Now this is hard to imagine. It's sort of the same thing as a mixed metaphor. And you usually would not do this. But we have seen Christ do this before, actually. If you recall over in John chapter 10. When he c said that he was both the door as well as the shepherd. Do you remember that passage? And he said that if you are a hireling, you won't come through the door? If you are a true prophet, you will come through the door. And then he says in the same passage, I am the good shepherd. Well, in an illustration, how can you be both the shepherd and the door? Doesn't really make sense, except that he was taking that overall illustration to point out two very significant truths Number one, how do you identify a false prophet? How do you identify a false teacher? Number two, I'm the good shepherd and I know you and you know me. And so he was using the same illustration to present two different truths. And essentially that's what you have here as well. He's going to do the same thing actually later on in John 15, which we'll get to. So we have precedent for him doing this. And so what you find in this passage is that in verse uh that in uh verse eight um He's really referring to a different the foot washing being something different than it is in verse 10. Because he then says in verse 10, Jesus saith unto him, He that is washed needeth not save to wash his feet. Now let me sum- let me point something else about verse 8 that's going to be very important for us He says in verse 10, are the disciples clean or not? The answer is they they certainly are. And he wants to emphasize that the disciples are clean. Do you see that? Look at it again, verse 10. It will not hurt us to read this several times. He that is washed, so he's assuming they're washed, needeth not to save, needeth not save to wash his feet, but is clean every whit And he says this. What does he say? He declares them as what? Ye are clean. Now let me pause and just say this The emphasis in this passage for the application of the disciples is this. I want you to understand that you are already clean. He needs them to get this. And he says it later on in John chapter 15, verse 3. He says, You are clean by the word which I have spoken to you. He wants the disciples to understand that they have been cleansed and that this cleansing occurs in in faith of the future provision on the cross. He's got to get them to understand that. That's very, very important. And by the way, it's extremely important for you and I as well. You and I need to understand that if we know Christ is our Savior, He has cleansed us. There is something that happens in the Christian life when you and I feel dirty when we are actually clean. And there is something that happens in the Christian life that will stunt our growth when we do not accept the cleansing of Christ in our lives it has already taken place positionally because we know Christ is our Savior. And by the way, does that not happen from time to time There are some times in the Christian life where something occurs in your life or a sin that you have committed in your life and you feel as though perhaps you are not really cleansed. And Christ wants to get across the fact of these disciples that for time and eternity they have been cleansed by Christ. And he wants them to understand that. And you find the same kind of thing going on in 1 John and other places where Paul and John and the apostles are constantly reminding Christians that you, if you know Christ your Savior, and that you are cleansed by Christ positionally. And he wants to get to get across. So no matter what else you see on this passage, in this verse, that's the emphasis. But he does say that those who are fully cleansed from time to time do need their feet to be cleansed. Now at this point, he is not talking about with the foot washing, he is now no longer talking about the work of the death of Christ. to cleanse us positionally. He is now talking about that practical work in the Christian life of needing cleansing. We find this, I think, probably best explained, and it almost looks contradictory when we look at it, but I want you to turn your Bibles, if you would, to Philippians chapter 3. And we'll see this in Philippians chapter 3. And we'll pick up in verse 9. By the way, I uh if you put your mar a marker in in chapters two and three, we're going to return back to chapter two and then back to chapter three again. So we'll we'll be in Philippians quite a bit here. And we'll help to just put a marker there. Philippians chapter 3, verse 9, it says this. And be found in him, not having mine own righteousness, which is of the law. But that which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith. He says, I don't have my own righteousness. I've got Christ's righteousness applied to me. Verse 10, that I may know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his suffering being made conformable unto his death. The righteousness of Christ applied to me allows me to know Christ and do fellowship with the suffering and that know the power of his resurrection. All of that is a is is as a result of my the work Christ's righteousness being applied to me If by any means I might attain unto the resurrection of the dead. But then he says this in verse 12, and does this not resonate with us as Christians? Not as though I had already attained. You and I have not already attained that which has positionally been attained for us. Not that I already attained, either were already perfect, but I follow after if that I may apprehend that for which also I am apprehended of Christ. Now, folks, that kind of looks like double talk, doesn't it? But all of this, if you live the Christian life for any length of time, you understand what he's saying. There is a sense in which you have apprehended all in Christ. But there is a sense in which you have not apprehended all in Christ. And positionally, you have apprehended all in Christ, and in Christ's eyes you are you are declared righteous by him. You are cleansed. But practically and experientially we there are times in our lives where we sin and we have to confess our sin before the Lord. And John knew this when he wrote this and by the way John knew this and explains this even. even with more uh more clarity in first John, doesn't he? Because it says in that passage, if you confess your sins He is faithful, talking to Christians there, if you confess your sins, he is faithful and just to cl to forgive us our sins and to what? To cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Folks, there is a fellowship. that we need to maintain with Christ. We are positionally cleansed by Him. That occurs at the point that we we pass from death to life. But when it comes to our fellowship, we need further cleansing. Not our whole bodies, but our feet. And so he points out in a very rudimentary sense this truth that would be further explained throughout the epistles. And further explain throughout the New Testament that we would all understand as we grow in Christ the need for practice to match position And folks, all of us who know Christ our Savior, that's what Christ is doing. He is conforming us to the image of Christ. We are growing in Christ. We are becoming more and more Like Christ, so that one day when we stand before him, we will be like him, for we shall see him as he is. And practice meets position at Christ when we see Christ. And that's essentially the, I think, as I would suggest, the best way to understand this passage. Something else that we find as he washes the disciples' feet that is clearly in this passage while you're in Philippians chapter 3, that I want you to see, would you flip back one chapter to Philippians chapter 2? And this is clearly pictured in Philippians chapter two. Verse 5 of Philippians chapter 2, it says this: Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. And what happened? Being in the form of God. Thought it not robbery. In other words, it wasn't something he grasped to be equal with God. Jesus was equal of God. But what did he do? He made himself of no reputation. And took upon him the form of a servant, a slave, and made in the likeness of man And then he humbled himself even further. Not only did God become man and take on human flesh, but the humiliation did not end there. Verse 8 says, and being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself further and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Christ, when he went to that cross, expressed humility that was never seen in the history of civilization and never will be seen again. And he and the best illustration that he could come up with was this foot washing ritual that if he could do this, he could hopefully get these disciples to understand the significance of what he was about to do. And they needed the clean and they had the cleansing of Christ, and they he wanted them to understand that. And all need to be cleansed by Christ and the cross applied to them. But finally, folks, we find thirdly that Jesus demonstrated the importance here in this passage of servanthood Because we sit pick up here in verse 12 where it says this. So after he had washed their feet and taken their garments. Again, he said unto them, Know ye what I have done to you, ye call me Master and Lord, and ye say, Well, for so I am. If then your Lord and Master have washed your feet, ye also ought to wash one another's feet. For I have given you an example that ye should do as I have done to you. Verily, verily I say unto you The servant is not greater than his Lord, neither he that is sent greater than he that is sent him. If ye know these things, happy are ye if ye do them. Jesus tells them that the same thing that I just did to you, you need to do to one another. He expresses the relationship that he has with his disciples. And culturally during that time, there was, it was very common for there to be masters and for there to be disciples. And by that point, the things that the disciples would do for their masters was essentially no different than what a slave would do for his master. A disciple would be completely obedient to his master. A disciple would do any form of service for his master that was requested of him. A disciple would do the same kinds of, took the same practical role that a slave would take, and there was nothing that was beneath a disciple to do for his master, except for one thing. And you guessed it. Footwashing. There was only one thing that the disciple was not required to do for his master in that culture. He could be asked to do anything, but he could not be asked by the master, and it was not culturally acceptable to be asked by the master to wash someone out his feet or somebody else's feet. Christ asks them to do what is absolutely unacceptable in that culture. He asks them to do what they would never even think of doing. And he says, you have wah I have washed your feet. Now you need to go and you need to decide, you need to wash each other's feet. Now let me ask you a question. We're going to find in Philippians chapter 2 that the same mind that was in Christ Jesus, we just read this. He says, you have that same mind as well. He commands them for his disciples, believers, all believers, let this mind be in you. Which was also in Christ Jesus. And Christ Jesus says here, told his disciples, he said, You've got to, if you're going to have my thinking, if you're going to have the mind of Christ, you've got to wash the disciples' feet. You've got to wash each other's feet. You've got to serve one another. And I just asked you that question. Do you and I have that kind of mentality about our brothers and sisters in Christ? Do we see our brothers and sisters in Christ first and foremost as our masters and we must serve them? Now, this passage is not teaching, as some would suggest, that Christ should is instituting an ordinance. Some suggest that there actually should be a third ordinance, and some churches practice footwashing on a weekly or monthly or some regular basis. This passage is not teaching foot washing as an ordinance. And we know that, folks, because this was so culturally distinct in what he was doing here that we see all of what he was doing as a picture. wasn't intended for us to do. So how is it that we are supposed to apply this? And we have the exact direct answer from Scripture in Philippians chapter 2. So would you flip back there? Philippians chapter 2, and I want us to see this in verse 1 of Philippians chapter 2. Now, if you recall, we had just read verse 8 and following that described what Christ did when he came to earth He limited his own glory, he took upon the form of a servant, he was made in the likeness of men. But then we find here in this passage in chapters two through one, which really the basis of the death of Christ Is what we read, and now he's the application actually comes first in this passage. We're going to see what he says here. He says this if there be any consolation in Christ. If there be any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any bowels and mercies. Now let me pause there and ask you this question. What he is talking about here in verse one in chat in Philippians chapter two is he says, Is there any encouragement in Christ? Is there any comfort of love? Is there any commer is there any joining together in the spirit, spiritual fellowship one with another? Is there any bowels? He's he's talking about there uh the idea of of uh of um empathy? Is there any empathy? Is there any uh affection one for another? He's asking the question And he's talking to the church of Philippi and he is asking this question, do you have this? And if you're going to and he is going, he's saying there's a way to have this. But let me ask you before we move on, do we have this? Is there that kind of affection in our church? Is there that kind of compassion? Is there that kind of encouragement? Or is it something we could work on? Maybe your heart resounds and says, yes, I'm thankful for the encouragement that I received from the church, and I know that that would be the case for many of you. But maybe some of you are saying, well, I would like more of that. I would like more encouragement. I would like more comfort. I would like more of that kind of a thing in our church. Or you see scripturally that we're not doing as well as we could do, which we never are, right? So we have room to improve. What's the answer for that? The answer is quite interesting. Verse two. He says, fulfill ye my joy, and he says this, that ye be like-minded, having the same love. You've got to start off with the same love. Who do you suppose he's talking about? He's talking about love for Christ. Being of one accord, of one mind. And then he says this. Number one, he says, let nothing be done through strife or vainglory. Then he says this, but in lowliness. We've seen that before, haven't we? In lowliness of mind. Let us do what? Let each esteem other better than themselves. And then he says this: look not every man in his own thing, but every man also in the things of others. Now I wanted to put this in very practical terms for us. So I put it this way. Number one. Number one, I think we need to stop asking what we can get and start asking what we can give. He says, Don't do things through selfish ambition. And if we're going to have the kind of the kind of experience as uh in the church that God desires for us to have, as people have this encouragement, this love this this empathy, these kinds of things, it starts by not asking us what we can get, but what we can give. Number two We need to regard others as better than ourselves. Can I ask you, do you do that? When you think of the folks in our church, I'm just using our church, this certainly this would be anybody in the body of Christ, but certainly with our church, would you would you say that yes, I regard other people as better than myself? I regard their opinion as more valid than mine. I regard I value they have more value to me than me. I don't think I got it altogether. I don't think I know better than they do No, I I regard others better than myself. Number three We need to seek to meet the needs of others rather than just looking out for our own personal interests You know, and I'm not saying this, church, and that let me just let me put it this way. I I just pastorally I enjoy, one of the things I enjoy about the ministry is I get to see a little more than other people see as far as who is loving other people, who is meeting the needs of other people, who is seeing needs and meeting them. And our our folks, you all do that. And I'm thankful for that, and I'm thankful for what I get to see with that. Not that we we we certainly could do better, but I think I'm thankful for that. I'm thankful for that that the love that we have here. And the one other fellowship that we kind that the kind of fellowship that we have here. But you know, as a whole, there are all kinds of blogs. And articles and journals and books on asking the question what's wrong with the modern Christian church? And you have all kinds of possibilities and some people point to polity and some people point to this problem or that problem You know, a lot of it I think has to has to boil down to just this. Are you looking at church for what you can get or what you can give? Now, with that in mind, I'd like us to turn back to this passage in John. And I want us to notice something about this passage. Jesus says, hey, if you're my disciple, you're not greater than me. And I washed it, I washed your feet. And you need to do that to each other. And he says as a final, as a final comment on what he did and what they ought to do, he says, verse 17, if ye know these things, he says what? Happy are you if you do them. That should have sounded really weird to the disciples. I'm happy if I wash someone else's feet. Really? I don't think that would make me very happy. And folks, you and I are so prone by our culture to ask the question, what would make us happy? And God says, Christ says in this passage, whatever you think won't make you happy may very well make you happy And what he says ultimately is when you learn to serve others and give to others and meet each other's needs and you begin to not look on your own interests. but on the interests of others. When you begin to do that, as it says in the book of Acts, which we're going to look at in a minute, as it says in the book of Acts, it's more blessed to give than to receive. The happiest people this side of heaven are the people that have learned the joy of giving. And I'm not just talking about monetarily. The happiest people in this life are the people that have learned to sacrifice themselves on the behalf of other brothers and sisters in Christ and to demonstrate love to them and to show and to give of themselves to each other. Those are the happiest people. And I don't have to take a poll. Christ says it here I'd like us to take our Bibles finally to turn to one final passage in the book of Acts, if you would. Would you turn to Acts chapter 20 for a moment? And I want you to see how this bears out practically In Acts chapter 20, we find the Apostle Paul who has spent many several years with the church of Ephesus. Probably three or more years. He has spent longer in the Church of Ephesus, perhaps than any other church, but he certainly spent a long time with them and he had developed some very important helpful relationships. And by the way, if we recall from some of the some of the teaching that we find in Ephesians, there is a lot about the church in Ephesians, isn't there? And in fact, we find verses like be kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgive That's in Ephesians. And so the kind of tender-heartedness, the kind of serving each other, the kind of love for each other that we find that is commanded in the book of Ephesians, we find reiterated in this chapter, but we find something else in the chapter that I want us to be made aware of. And what have what we have here is Paul is now, he is gone going to the the Ephesian elders on his way to another location, and he is discussing some final things in the Ephesian elders, and he's actually pointing out to them that he probably would never see them again. Now, with that in mind, let's pick up in verse 32. And now, brethren, I commend you to God and to the word of his grace. Which is able to build you up and to give you an inheritance among all them which are sanctified. I have coveted no man's silver or gold or apparel. Yea, ye yourselves know that these hands have ministered unto me my necessities, and to them that were with me. So what is it saying there? It's saying, You've ministered to me, you've met my needs. And then he says this, verse 35, I have showed you all things, how that so laboring ye ought to support the weak. And to remember the words of the Lord Jesus and how he said, it is more blessed to give than to receive. Then he says this, and when he had thus spoken, he kneeled down and prayed with them all. There was this affection, there was this fellowship. There was this connection. And verse 37 continues, and they all wept sore and fell on Paul's neck and kissed him, which was not inappropriate there. Verse 38. Sorrowing most of all the words which he spake, that they should see his face no more, and they accompanied him unto the ship. Folks, do you see the affection that they had for each other? Do you see the love that they had for each other? The fellowship that they had for each other. Why did that happen in the passage? It happened because everybody was giving To each other. They were Paul had received their his needs were met by them, but he was giving to them. And he taught them this principle of it is more blessed to give than we would receive. What would happen to a church if everybody learned it's more blessed to give than to receive? It would be a happy church, wouldn't it? But we don't have to wait for a whole church to catch up, right? We can do this in our own selves. We can choose to make contributions to God's people. just by giving of ourselves in love to them, by serving each other. And when God when when that occurs, there is something that is sweet that happens. There is an affection that occurs. There is a love and a fellowship that that takes place. There is a comfort and encouragement that takes place. And you and I can be all partakers in that if we will follow Christ's example and we will choose to serve one another. in that way. And folks, this is exactly the opposite of our culture, who says it's all about me. It's all about what I need. It's all about what I want. If I can just get what I need and what I want and I know what I need and nobody else knows what I need, this is exactly the opposite of what the culture teaching us. And we've got to fight against that kind of mentality in the culture who identifies the idea that if I just Do it on my own, I'll figure it out on my own. I got I'll pull myself up by my own bootstraps, I'll do my own thing, and I'll be fine, folks. That's not the Bible. That's not what Christian how Christians are supposed to be living Aren't you thankful that this was all exampled by Christ? And the greatest message that we can learn from all of this is simply this. That Christ gave set for us the perfect uh example of love and servanthood. He gave us this example when he went to the cross. It was the supreme example of serving one another. He went to the cross for us. He didn't deserve that cross. We deserve that cross. And then yet he did that for you and for me. And I can think of no no better way to enter into a time of communion, a time where we celebrate the sacrifice of Christ for us on the cross. Christ did not want us to forget, in fact, during the upper room discourse is when during the during the upper room uh scene is when this This uh all took place for the very first time, and Christ did not want his disciples to forget the significance of what he did on that cross, and so he said, you need to practice this. And the church, the the the first century church was known to practice this, in fact, daily. They'd come together daily to remember what Christ did for them. And to remember the significance of the cross. They did this daily And when we come together, we demonstrate together the unity that we have in the body. We may have different backgrounds, different opinions, different ideas. But if we all agree in the shed blood of Christ on the cross, we can partake together, and we see the focal point of our unity is the cross of Christ. And his broken body and has shed blood on the cross for us. And what I want to do now is just take a few moments. And give you an opportunity just to pray before the Lord in silent reflection. I don't want to make a distinction between the sermon and the communion table today. I just want to kind of move right into this, and I want what I'd like you to do is just take some time of silent reflection of the Lord to prepare your heart For the great remembrance of what Christ did for us when he shed his blood on the cross for us, he came humbly And he sacrificed himself on the cross for us, so that we could have our sins forgiven, so that we could be cleansed by him. And we do this out of a remembrance and out of a thankful heart, and we declare, the Bible says, the Lord's death until he comes. So if you just take a few moments, if there is a the Lord brings a sin into your heart, certainly you should confess that before the Lord. Examine yourself. But the main focus needs to be on preparing our hearts to worship Christ through through communion through this communion time. And then we'll come together and partake together.