Then turn to the book of Acts this morning. Acts chapter, we're going to look actually at the end of chapter four as well as chapter five verses one through twelve. And we'll have our scripture reading now. And let's go ahead and pick up in Acts chapter 4, verse 32, and then we'll read through 5. 12. Now the multitude of those who believed were of one heart and one soul. Neither did anyone say that any of the things he possessed was his own. All things in common. With great power and the apostles gave witness to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus. And great grace was upon them all, nor was there any one among them who lacked, for all who were possessors of lands or houses sold them and brought the proceeds of the things that were sold, and laid them at the apostles' feet, and they distributed to each as any one had need. And Joseph, who was the name Barnab, who was also named Barnabas by the apostles, which is translated the son of encouragement, a Levite of the country of Cyprus, Having land, sold it, and brought the money and laid it at the at the apostle's feet. But a certain man named Ananias, with Sapphira his wife Sold a possession, and he kept back part of the proceeds, his wife also being aware of it, and brought a certain part and laid it at the apostle's feet. But Peter said, Ananias, why has Satan filled your heart to lie to the Holy Spirit and to keep back part of the price of the land for yourself? While it remained, was it not your own? And after it was sold, was it not in your own control? Why have you conceived this thing in your heart? You have not lied to men, but to God. Then Ananias, hearing these words, fell down and breathed his last. So great fear came upon all those who were who heard these things. And the young men arose and wrapped him and carried him out and buried him. Now it was three hours later when his wife came in. Not knowing what had happened. And Peter answered her, tell me whether you sold the land for much. And she said, Yes, for so much. Then Peter said to her, How is it that you have agreed together to test the Spirit of the Lord? Look, the feet of those who have buried your husband are at the door, and they will carry you out. Then immediately she fell down at his feet and breathed her last And the young men came in and found her dead and carried her out, buried her by her husband. So great fear came upon all the church, and upon upon all Who heard these things. Let's go to the Lord. Ask his blessing on our time together. Father, as we look at your word this morning, there are some passages in your word that are intended to encourage us. There are some passages in your word that are intended to instruct us. Some passages in your word that are intended to warn us. Although this passage has great instruction, there is a sense of warning in this passage. And this is something, Lord, that you would we would ask that you would help us to understand. We pray, Lord, that you would continue to develop and to foster a good spirit in our church. We're thankful for the attitude and the behavior and the thinking of your people at Bethel But we are aware that as we try to do things for you, as we attempt uh to reach people with the cause of for the cause of Christ, and we attempt to bring people to the gospel and to disciple people and to worship you. in spirit and in truth, we are aware that Satan is at the door. And this passage will clearly make us even more aware of that. And I pray, dear Father, that you would help us to learn what we need to learn from this passage as your word tells us in Psalm 119, our your word have we hidden our hearts that we might not sin against you. Lord, may that be our heart today, and may we also glory in the fact That Christ is the answer to all of sin. That He is the one to whom we should answer to because He is the one who can offer forgiveness to all. I pray, Lord, that we would rightly understand this passage and use this in our lives. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, it seems like Acts chapter 5 is is not the the most exciting passage. Well it is exciting and in a certain way, but not the most uplifting passage right before we uh right before we get into VB Vacation Bible school. But there is a sense also in which It's an important one because anytime we do anything for the Lord or desire to do anything for the Lord, there is an enemy that we have that does not want us to do those things. The Bible says in 1 Corinthians 12, verse 27, Now you are the body of Christ and members individual. In Ephesians chapter 4, verse 12, it says, For the equipping of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ. God says in his word that the church is a body of believers. And in the life of a person, he developed a person develops ways of thinking and patterns of behavior and general attitudes. And it is important for a person as they grow and develop to have right ways of thinking and right patterns of behavior and right general attitudes. But did you know that it is equally as important for a church as a whole, a collective assembly, to have right ways of thinking and right patterns of behavior? And right general attitudes. And we call this, when it's a collective group of people, we call this a culture. Every group of people has a culture, a way of behaving, a way of thinking, a general spirit or attitude, whether it's a nation. Or in our nation, you have a lot of many, many subcultures. You have a church which is essentially like a subculture, or at least its own culture. And there are certain things that will really help any culture, but particularly the body of Christ, there are certain activities that will help, and one of those activities that will really help a culture is sincere generosity. And you find in this passage in Acts chapter 4 That the people were very, very generous. There was this sincerity of generosity among the people. And this contributed to a great culture, a unified culture, a culture of compassion, a culture of mutual Christ-like love. This culture was a kind of culture that any of us would want to be a part of. It was like a little bit of heaven on earth, if you will. But there are certain things that can destroy a culture very quickly And one of those things that can dis destroy the culture that could be that is built by good thinking and right behavior and loving attitude and generosity and unity. is dishonesty. Dishonesty can absolutely destroy a culture It can destroy the culture of a family. It can destroy the culture of a business. Why do we have so many problems even in government, in the federal government, with with with uh all of the things going on with all the trials and Congress and and different uh different committees that are checking out different things. Why? Because of the corruption and the dishonesty. Folks, there is a real sense in which dishonesty has absolutely no place in God's church. Frankly, it has absolutely no place in the lives of individual believers. As soon as you infuse dishonesty into an organization or an organism or a culture, it is like a cancer. That will spread, that will destroy a culture from the inside out. And that is why this area of dishonesty is so directly and swiftly dealt with by the Apostle Peter in this passage when it comes to Ananias and Sapphira. God intends, and the author Luke intends us to not begin the thought in Acts chapter 5, verse 1. But the thought really begins in, if not before, in chapter 4, verse 36. What you notice in verse 37 of chapter 4, that you have this phrase and laid it at the apostles' feet. You have the exact same phrase in chapter 5, verse 2 at the end, and laid it at the apostles' feet. Folks, that indicates to us then that these two These two characters or three characters are to be a contrast. That Barnabas is to contrast the generosity, this is your generosity is to contrast With the dishonesty of Aniris and Sapphira. And so first we ought to look at this reality: that sincere generosity encourages God's assembly Would you notice that we see this man Barnabas, whose actual name was Joseph, but he was given the name Barnabas because it means son of encouragement. And we see, as we've already read in the chapter, that Barnabas gives a sells a plot of land, and he gives all of it to the Lord. He gives it and he lays at the apostles' feet to be to meet the needs of the apost of the brethren to meet those needs that are in the body of Christ. And folks, this is very likely something that is viewed as very generous. And people are probably influenced and touched by this grand generosity on the part of Barnabas. And it certainly was something that Barnabas had a true sincere Sincere heart just to give to God's work for the needs of God's people, for the furtherance of the gospel. There's no question about that that Barnabas Throughout the book of Acts is lifted up as an example believer for all the believers in the church of Jerusalem and beyond. And we know from, or we think from from tradition, uh from church history or from uh from other extra-biblical sources that Barbas probably started his ministry as one of the 70 that were sent out in Luke chapter 10 by Christ. Barnabas was a man who was genuine in his desire to please the Lord. He was a man who, along with Paul, formed the first missionary journey as he went out, and in Lystra he came to a people and they and they called him Zeus, probably because he was a man of high stature. He was a tall man. He went on a second missionary journey with Paul as well as John Mark. And if you'll recall, this disagreement between Paul and John Mark, and Barnabas was a man who was of great compassion. He was a great man of encouragement. Tertullian, Emperor Tertullian in 300 A. D. suggested that Barnabas actually wrote the book of Hebrews, and that is a possibility. The thing I want us to realize about Barnabas is that Barnabas was a man of great influence and a man of great credibility. And part of what gr what probably not on his own intention, not by it not not the intent of this, probably what happened is he gave of himself This was something that people noted and saw, and as a result, his influence increased among people. In fact, credibility was attributed to him so greatly that God used him when Saul came to Christ. Do you remember that in Acts chapter 9 when Saul came to Christ? Who did God use to sanction Paul and to allow the church, the assembly to accept him? It was this man, Barnabas. Barnabas. transferred, if you will, his credibility to Paul at the command of God to do so. The church would were willing to accept Paul because of the influence of Barnabas It's very likely then, folks, that as he gave this gift and gave all that he had was in sincerity and honesty as he gave it. That these two other folks in this passage, Ananias and Sapphira, wanted the same kind of influence. These were from what we can tell, these this couple, was a couple that probably had a uh they were probably well uh they probably were wealthy people. They probably had quite a bit of money in this passage. And these were people that decided and looked at what Barnabas did. And decided that they too would want to give to the work of God. But we're going to see very clearly in the passage that they had a different motive than Barnabas. And Peter was going to have to deal with this dishonest this dishonesty in the body of Christ. We're going to see clearly in the passage that as Anaias and Sapphira sold this plot of land, they were in no way required to give all of it to the Lord. The problem was not that they kept back a portion of what they sold. That was not the problem at all. And that's clear in the passage. Peter says, don't you have control over this? Isn't this yours? By the way, that tells us that this is a sanction on private property. In fact, even in the Old Testament, you find that it says, thou shalt not steal. That's actually an implication. That God sanctions private property. This is not, chapter 4 was not this, we no longer have private property. That was not the issue. These things were not the issue here. The issue was dishonesty They sold a plot of land and they sold it and sent it and gave it as though they gave all of the proceeds from their sale. They were dishonest. before the apostles and before the church of God. And this, of course, is of great a great problem. You'll notice in verse 2, verse 1, we see it's Anoniris and Sapphira, they're here. And Iris is his name means Jehovah is gracious, and Sapphira simply means beautiful. In verse 2, we see these very clear verbs like sold and kept back. and brought and laid. We have it clearly laid out here what happened. This was very deliberate. It was very definitive. It was very clear and it was very verifiable. There was no question as to what happened here, and verse 2 bears that out. In verse 3, then we have Peter who is now going to confront Ananias. And he starts by simply asking the question: why has Satan filled? your heart. Now this is categorically different than, for example, when a lot when when uh when Judas, when the when a Satan or a devil uh when Satan possessed Judas This is different than that. This was the fact this was what Peter's talking about was that he was under the influence In fact, the same word here, filled, is used in Ephesians 5, 8, verse 18, where it says, Be not drunk with wine wherein is excess, but be filled with the Spirit. be under the influence of the Spirit of God, as it's commanded in that passage in Ephesians 5. And in this passage, what you have is the same word, but instead of being under the influence of the Spirit of God as others were clearly in uh uh throughout the book of Acts This man was under a different influence. This man was under the influence of Satan. And And so Peter is asking the question, why are you under the influence of Satan? Why has he allowed why have you he is have you allowed him to fill your heart to be under his influence. This is something similar to what Paul, what uh God and David talk about in the Old Testament as well as Isaiah. Psalm 28, verse 3 says, Do not take me away from the wicked and with the workers of iniquity who speak peace to their neighbors, but evil in their hearts. Psalm 41, 7 says, All who hate me whisper together against me. Against me they devise my hurt. Isaiah 9 verse 9 says, All people will know, Ephraim, and inhabitant of Samaria, who say in pride and arrogance of heart Now, one of the things that we really need to understand from all of this is that the work of God was going wonderfully. People were being saved. People were being discipled. The church was growing. Worship was wonderful. Everything was going splendidly. There was unity in the body of Christ. Folks, any time that that is taking place, sin and Satan are at the door. We found already previously in the book of Acts that There were attacks of Satan from the outside by the Sanhedrin. And they were under persecution because of their preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. But now this other kind of distraction is a distraction that is internal, where the attack is coming from the inside out. Satan is going to work from the inside out. And I would suggest to you that there are more, more problems in the body of Christ, not from attacks from the outside in. But the greatest problems in the body of Christ often and most most frequently are from the inside out. And they actually start with the individual, where we in our own heart don't have things right in the right with the Lord. and then that expands to external behavior, which then affects the body of Christ. And I think you're going to see this in a in a very significant way 1 Peter 5, verse 8 says this: Be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, walks about look like a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour. Resist him. Steadfast in the faith, knowing that the same sufferings are experienced by your brotherhood in the world. Understand, brothers and sisters in Christ, understand, folks, that we Must resist and be sober and be vigilant of our adversary, the devil. He wants to thwart the work of God, and we must be aware of that possibility. Then we find here, and uh Peter is going to say, he's going to ask another question. He says, Why do you lie to the Holy Spirit? And I said lied to the apostles. He lied in the presence of the assembly that was there, the other church members that were there. But what Peter says is that who you have really lied to is the Spirit of God. Let me ask you a question What does it mean? Why would he have said it this way? Why wouldn't he have just said, you lied to God, the Father, or lied to Jesus, the Son? Why specifically did he say the Holy Spirit? You've lied to the Holy Spirit. Well, you have noted already in Acts chapter 4, verse 31, it said there were it said that the assembly were in great unity one to another. There was this unity in the body of Christ. Well, we know from Ephesians chapter 4, verse 30, verse 3, that unity in the body is actually a result Of the Spirit of God's work. Ephesians 4-3, endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace Do you remember in Acts chapter 9, verse 4, where the apostle, or actually where Saul is on the road to Damascus And Christ stops them in his tracks and he says to him, Why do you persecute me? Now, who was Saul persecuting? He was persecuting the church. And yet Jesus doesn't say, why are you persecuting the church? Jesus says, why are you persecuting me? And Jesus also says that we are his body. Folks, there is a real sense in which when someone does something to the body of Christ, They do it to God because it's God's church. It's God's church. It's not man's church. It's God's church But why specifically the Holy Spirit? Well, because the implication here is that the thing that is at risk here is the unity of the body. And unity comes from the Spirit of God. And so this is the work of the Spirit of God in the church. And so he says, you have lied in opposition to the work of the Spirit of God. in your life. And we need to we need to be aware of this. Sometimes we think of the church in in in as just look like a social gathering or some sort of construct that is established by our society. No, folks, the church is an organism that is ordained by God. It's an institution that is established by God. Jesus said, I will build my church. It's Christ's church. And there ought to be a soberness about that. We need to understand how important it is that there is a purity of truth in the body of Christ. Well, Peter is going to clarify some things in the next verse here. He says, you've kept bar back part of the price of the land, but it's clear from the passage that that's not the problem. He says, well it remains your own, verse 4, is this any problem at all? Why um it's in your control. In other words, he's Peter's saying, why would you lie about something you didn't need to lie about? You ever seen that and maybe your kids, your kids lie about you and something? He's like, why did you lie about that? That wasn't even necessary And and and of course you never need to lie about anything. Let me make that clear. But this was particularly something that That didn't really make a whole lot of sense. But he wants to make it clear that the problem is not that the portion of the land was given, the problem is the lie about it And he says here then in verse 4, why have you conceived this thing in your heart? He asked this. There's actually six questions here. He starts with, why has Satan influenced you in your heart, and now he says, why have you conceived this thing in your heart? In other words, there's clear culpability here. In other words, yes, Satan is clearly involved in our lives to thwart the plan of God. But when we sin, there is always, even though our external influences work, We are always responsible when we sin. And he says this here. This tells us something about how it takes a sin takes a foothold in our lives. The way that this is worded, it indicates that this is not something that just happened overnight. That Annas and Sapphira just one day decide, hey, let's sell land, lie about it, and go to the church and tell them uh we we saw we we were giving all of it when we were when we only gave part of it. This was something that apparently in the heart of Anis and Sapphira Even though this sin may have happened uh and the devising of the sin may have happened recently, that there was something in the heart of Anis Sapphira over time that allowed this kind of thing to happen in their lives where they were willing to lie before the apostles and lie to the Church of God, and lie ultimately to the Spirit of God. This tells us something about the way sin works. C. S. Lewis said this about sin. Every time you make a choice, you are turning the central part of you the part of you that chooses into something a little different from what is what it was before. And taking your life as a whole with all your innumerable choices. All your life long, you are slowly turning this central thing either into heavenly creature or into a hellish creature either into a creature that is in harmony with God, or with other creatures and with itself, or else it is not uh or else is not one that is in in a state of war and hatred with God and with its fellow creatures and with itself. To be the one kind of creature is heaven. That is, it is joy and peace and knowledge and power. To be the other means madness, horror, idiocy, rage, impotence, and eternal loneliness. When we make choices in our lives internally, they affect what we do eventually externally. And when we make those choices, and if they go unfettered and unhindered and unrepentant, they will affect others. And if we are members of a church, they will affect the church of God. Jesus, or Peter rather, says here in verse 4, you have not lied to men, but to God. Now it isn't as though they didn't lie to men as well, but the but but Peter wanted to uh wanted an Easter to understand the severity of what he had done, that he had lied to the Lord. In Proverbs chapter 6, we have a list of things that God says he hates. The list is this. Verse 6 of Proverbs chapter 6 it says, These six things the Lord hates, yes, seven are an abomination to him, a proud look, a lying tongue. hands that shed innocent blood, a heart that devises wicked plans, feet that are swift in running to evil, a false witness who speaks lies, and one who sows discord among brethren. Interestingly enough, there are there are seven things total there. There is only one sin that is repeated And you would think that it would be one of the sins like murder or uh one of these other sins that are that are really bad But the sin that is repeated in that passage is lying. The first part it says a lying tongue. The second part of it, or the last part of it, it says a false witness that speaks lies. Out of all these sins, the one that's repeated is lying. Well, folks, why is that? When we deceive ourselves. When there is lying in our hearts, when there is when we are living in untruth, in unreality, when we are not thinking on things that are true, when our lives are about a a lie rather than the truth, when that occurs in our lives. All of the other sins are going to come about as well. In fact, Ananias and Zephira committed every one of these sins except for murder. Every single one of these, very likely, the proud look, I mean, we don't know what they looked like, but they certainly had pride in their hearts. Uh lying tongue, obviously that one that one. The heart devises wicked plans. We see that. Feet that are swift to run running to do evil And one who sows discord among brethren. All of those things are things that happen when there is lying in the heart, when there is lack of truth, when there is falsehood. And this will destroy God's church. And there is great soberness that we need to experience in our lives when it comes to this issue. of honesty and the danger of dishonesty in our own lives as individuals and in the Church of God. And of course, you know that the consequence here is that he fell down and breathed his last. What we are witnessing here in this narrative is the sin unto death. 1 John 5, verse 16 says, If anyone sees his brother sinning a sin which does not lead to death, he will ask, and he will give it give him life for those who commit sin, not leading to death. There is sin leading to death. I do not say that you should pray about that. James chapter 1, verse 15 says, Then when desire has conceived, it brings forth sin. And sin, when it is finished, brings forth death. Folks, we ought not be deceived about the fact that sin, when it is finished, brings death. There is a sin unto death. The question then is, what is the sin unto death? And I'm going to just take a few moments to explain what I believe the sin unto death to be. Some of this is conjecture. I'll just say that up front But I think it will be helpful for us. I want to start this by simply saying it is not blasphemy of the Holy Spirit. And I'm not going to explain why it's not blasphemy of the Holy Spirit right now. But the sin of the death is not the blasphemy of the Holy Spirit In 1 John 5, verse 16, the verse that we just read, it seems as though that the sin unto death, though it's not mentioned what it is there, it is identifiable. And he actually says that you should not pray about that. In James chapter 1, verse verse, or I'm sorry, James chapter 5, verse 20, it says, If anyone sees a brother sinning a sin which does not lead to death, he will ask, and he will give him life for those who commit sin not leading to death There is a sin leading to death. I do not say that you should pray about that. So what is it, what is this identifiable sin that leads to death? Well, first of all, we need to understand something. Number one, we need to understand that all sin gone unchecked Unresolved and unrepented of will eventually lead to death. That's what James chapter 1, verse 15 says. But when it gets to that point, what does that kind of sin look like? Well, let's consider the examples that we have in Scripture. The first example that we find in the Old Testament is the example of Nadab and Abihu. In Leviticus chapter 10, where they offered strange fire before the Lord, and as a result of that, they died. We find Uzzah in 1 Chronicles chapter 13. And you remember poor old Uzzah as he tried to brace the Ark of the Covenant as it was falling, was placed on a cart. It was being brought back to the kingdom and is placed in a cart and instead of of uh putting on a cart, they they did that wrong by the way, uh that's part of the problem. Uh they used uh Hell tried to keep the cart from the ark of the cart from falling, touched it, and died. And Nia Sapphira is another example of the sin and the death. In 1 Corinthians chapter 11, folks, we might think that the sin and the death is just kind of that Old Testament kind of thing, or maybe early church, but In 1 Corinthians chapter 11, it actually says that if you partake of the Lord's Supper unworthily, then you are guilty of then pi it says that the people there were sick And some slept, some died because of that. Now let me mention this. That passage is not saying that if you have unconfessed sin categorically that you will die if you take the Lord's Supper. That's not what it's talking about there. It's actually talking about the manner in which you take the Lord's Supper. It's talking about in taking it in an irreverent manner. I used to really worry about this in my life. I would take the Lord's Supper and I would be sick on Monday when I was a kid. I'd be s I I'd take the Lord's Supper and then I would be sick on Monday and wonder if I had done if I had missed a sin in my life that was unconfessed and I couldn't I I maybe I missed it and now I'm going to be sick or die because of that. And folks, that is not what it's talking about in that passage at all. Talking about taking it in the wrong manner. But it does say that that does that can happen if you take communion in the wrong manner. So what are the what are these things what what when you look at all those examples in Scripture, what is the thing that is in common? Well folks, let me make this suggestion. The common thread in this has to do When there is an offense against the worship order of God's people In the Old Testament or in the New Testament. In other words, there seem it seems to be that the sin of the sin uh the the the sin and the death is when there is when the sin grows to such an extent that it affects the body of Christ even to the point of being of Some aspect of worshiping God. That's the thread with each one of those things. And so it's very likely that that's what it has to do with. So what do we learn from this? We learned the simple truth that our sin does start internally, work its way out. And can, if it goes unchecked, affect the body of Christ. And when there is such blatant, brazen sin in the body of Christ that is open and definable and And blatant as it was in this passage, then it may be that God chooses to take that person home. It's something that only God can determine, obviously, not that we can determine. But the sober, the application for us is to realize just how dangerous sin is. And we're going to see this as we continue in chapter 5, verses 5 through 11. In verse 5, we find that this corporate result is that fear came upon all those who heard the things. This fear is a frightful apprehension. It is an awareness of God's judgment. In 1 Timothy 5, verse 20, the Apostle Paul tells Timothy. Those who are sinning, talking about those who are living in unrepentant sin, they just will not repent. It's open, it's obvious, and they will not repent from their sin. Those who are sinning, rebuke in the presence of all that the rest also may fear. In Philippians chapter 2, verse 12, it says that we are to work out our own salvation with fear and trembling. Fear and trembling. In other words, sometimes we think that fear Is always wrong. Sometimes, folks, fear is right. In fact, the Bible says that the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. And there is a real sense when it comes to the body of Christ that there ought to be a reverence for the body of Christ. There ought to be a soberness. There ought to be an awareness that this is God's church. This is God's assembly. This is God's Christ's body. And what we do to the body of Christ, we do to Christ himself Verse 6, we see that with no ceremony or anything, of course we've read the passage, and the passage is very clearly understood, the wife comes in. Sapphira, Peter gives her a chance to recant uh this the the the the whole dishonest uh plan Of Ananias and Sapphira. But she doesn't. She chooses not to do that. And she affirms what Ananias has already said. And she dies on the spot as well. Let me mention this. Are there times where you ought not submit? Are there times even, ladies, when you should not submit to your husbands? And I would say absolutely there is. This is a case. When you when when you when clearly That what they are doing is against what God wants them to do. Or when you are asked to do something against the Bible, then then it is not okay to simply say I was just following orders. There are a lot of there is a culpability there. And so if a husband asks a wife to do something that is against the Bible, the wife does have the ability and the responsibility to refuse. To not do what is clearly here. Now, folks, I am not saying at all that a woman should not submit to her husband. And things that are not clear Even in convictions that are formed from the Bible, those convictions should be governed by her husband. But when it comes to clearly, blatantly going against what the Bible says All of us must submit to the Bible because it is the primary authority, and all other authority is delegated from the Bible, which is the primary authority. We see here what Sapphira, what Peter says to Sapphira, and it really actually gets to the root, the root problem in verse 9. It says that you have tested the Spirit of God. It says, why do you test the Spirit of God? What does it mean to test the Spirit of God? In Psalm 78, 17, it says, but they sinned even more against him by rebelling against the high, the most high, in the wilderness. And they tested God in their heart by asking for the food of their fancy. This is a reference to the Old Testament Israel who was given manna, but they complained about the manna. They wanted something more. They want something that they wanted that was not a matter of nutrition. It was just something that they wanted. They wanted something of their own fancy. And they complained to God about it. And it says in that this passage in Psalm 78 That was a way of testing God. So, what does it mean to test the Lord? I think we can illustrate it this way. There was a professor once who tells of a story of a student in his class who cheated. And he saw her cheat, and everybody in the class saw her cheat. And after the class was over, he confronted her about her cheating. And at first she denied the fact that she cheated But after it was clear that there were other witnesses involved, she decided that she would confess, and so she did, she confessed to the professor that she did indeed cheat. The professor said, well, I certainly forgive you for cheating, but you need to go to the to the university and you've got to explain to the university that you have cheated. There are policies against cheating and you've got to make things right with them and then once you do that we'll everything will be fine. It'll be forgiven and forgotten, but you've got to go to the university and get things right. So the student went to the university to get to to talk to the university, and when she went to the dean of the university, she squarely denied it. The professor gets a call, says we need you to come in here. So he co so the professor goes to the dean's office, and the dean's office, uh the the the the dean explains what's going on and this this this Student says, Looks directly in the professor's eyes, looks directly at him and says, I never cheated The professor said, excuse me, not only did you cheat, and not only are there witnesses that you cheated, but you told me that you cheated already. And the student again looked squarely at him and said, I never cheated. Now that that folks illustrates to to to some degree anyway, what it means that we test the Spirit of God when we lie. The professor knew she cheated and knew that she had already confessed. He already knew everything, and yet it's it's still she's still having this brazen rebellion Folks, that's exactly what happens when we lie. The Spirit of God in our hearts already knows we're lying. He knows what's happening, and we know he knows it's going on. When we lie, the Spirit of God not only knows it, we know he knows it. And when we choose to lie anyway, we are testing God's Spirit. That's why it's so important, folks, to be men and women of truth. David says this after his sin. He confesses it before the Lord and he says this. Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity and in sin my mother conceived me. Behold, you desire truth in the inward parts And in the hidden part, you will make me to know wisdom. Purge me with hyssop that I may be clean. Wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow. You and I would do well every day of our lives to spend some time with the Lord. And to make sure that we that there is truth in the inward parts, that we are being honest with God, that we're being true to God. Are there times where the Spirit of God is convicting us of things and we are ignoring the promptings of the Spirit of God in our lives? We're going on with our daily tasks. We are so busy being occupied with so many things that we're not listening to the still small voice of God And we accumulate unconfessed sin one after the other and we think that that will not affect us? Brothers and sisters in Christ, it will. And those of us who have lived the Christian life for any length of time realize that that is the case. I imagine in a group this size that there are people, including myself, that I can look back And there are times when I allowed sin in my heart to go unchecked, and it caused great problems in my life. Keep sin, catch sin in its early movements. How do you do that? Be true with your God. How do you do that? Spend time in quietness before the Lord. We ought to allow the Spirit of God and the Word of God to search us and to know us And when we are true with God and true with the things of God and we are clear in our conscience before the Lord, When we are, when there is no unconfessed sin that is in our lives, when there is a clarity about those things, then there is a freedom that comes, a joy that comes. A peace that comes. And that joy and that freedom and that peace spills out. To the body of Christ. It does the exact opposite of what lying and deceit and dishonesty do. It encourages the body of Christ. It's a loving thing that happens. The unity of the Spirit is preserved. The question for all of us. Is there lying in our hearts? Is there untruth in our hearts? Are we thinking on things that are lies and Falsehoods rather than things that are true and pure and right and good and holy. God desires truth in the inmost parts of our lives. So when we put all of this together, when we look at this passage and we see what God has for us, There are four things that we can conclude. Number one, sincere generosity, sincere, unhypocritical generosity encourages the body of Christ. I remember several years ago when I had left a church up in Pennsylvania. I had just left and we had we were we were looking at the prospect of selling our house and realizing we didn't have a lot of money to be able to fix up the house. I mean we weren't we weren't destitute but we really didn't have a lot of money to do that And um we were just I was trying to figure out how in the world I didn't want to spend money to because I didn't have uh you know I was just sort of in a tough place. Then we got a check from someone in that church for $1,000 in the mail. And more than just the practical help, there was this encouragement. That we felt like God is with us. Like we'll be okay. Even though we needed, you know, even though that wasn't going to sustain us forever. There was just this encouragement that it felt. It also was also by as a side note interesting. My wife actually, careful with my wife's prayers, my wife actually prayed that this specific family would give this amount to us and it showed up in the mail. I don't pray prayers like that. That's my wife. That's not me, but it it anyway. Um she didn't and she didn't tell me about it till she was like she dropped her jaw. She's like She was like, you will not believe this. I just prayed this specific amount from this family. Anyway, but that generosity, you know, that that person that gave us that money, nobody will ever know who they are. They'll never know what that what that they probably won't know what I I don't know if we may have sent them a thank you note, but other than that they wouldn't have known uh what that meant to us even. It wasn't something that was it was just this this generosity to help some people that were in need and they knew it Generosity encourages the body, sincere generosity, not one that look that gives and then I hope everybody understands what I'm giving, but just that that desire to To encourage the body that way. Number two, self-serving generosity is a pact of hypocritical dishonesty. Self-serving generosity. If you are giving for self- To aggrandize self, to glorify self, to lift self up for others to see what you're doing. If you're doing that, it is a path to hypocritical dishonesty. Now, let me caution you Remember I preached last Sunday about judgmentalism? So nobody should be judging that in anybody else. That's something that we should only be judging in ourselves. But we ought to examine ourselves. Number three, transparent communion with God is the best guard against the trap of dishonesty in the body. Transparent communion with God is the best guard against the trap of dishonesty in the body. And number four. We must develop and maintain a sober reverence for God's church. You know, uh you know, we we want to have fun at at Bethel Baptist Church and we want to have a spirit of joy and those kinds of things. things, but folks, let's let's not forget that there has got to be a soberness about what the assembly is. The first time the word church is used in the book of Acts, it's here. It's as though God says, now you understand what a church is. There is there the it how important it is. The assembly is unified. This is very, very important. And there is there ought to be a sober reverence when it comes to understanding The assembly and what the church is. It's God's church. Every time I stand in this pulpit, there ought to be in my heart a reverence for what I am doing. I am preaching the Word of God. You all have commented occasionally that that if I say something that's a little off, I'll correct myself. And it's it's because when I stand in this pulpit, I don't want anything coming out of this pulpit that's in any way untrue. Even if it's just an exaggeration. I mean I I'm not saying I never exaggerated for the pulpit. I just corrected myself. That's funny. Anyway. But it's important for us to be sober about these kinds of things. What I want to do actually is I I think with a passage like this, when when a when a message is preached uh from a passage like this, I think it's appropriate to give you all time to do some searching in your own heart. And what I want to do just in the quietness, and I really don't want a lot of movement right now. In the quietness of our of of of this moment, the Spirit of God. I would let me encourage you just before the Lord to search your heart and to allow God to search your heart. Has the Lord in you in in your spirit, before the Lord, in his spirit, has the Lord convicted you of something? Let's just take a few minutes and just pray silently before the Lord, and then we will pray, uh we will pray to we will sing together. I want to do that, but let's give us time to do that Father, we come to you and we pray, Lord, that you would help us. To be men and women who are just inherently truthful, that always seek the truth, want the truth, live the truth And I pray, dear Father, that you would guide us in your truth. I pray that you would guard us from ever having a culture of lies or deceit in our assembly. that would ruin the spirit of unity that you foster through your word, through your spirit May we be, may you continue to use us and may we be alert to Satan's influence. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.