Number 13, the Bible says this. When Jesus came into the coast of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, saying, Whom do men say that I, the Son of Man, am? They said, some say that thou art John the Baptist, some Elias, and others Jeremiah, or one of the prophets. He says unto them, but whom say ye that I am? And Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou Simon Barjonh, for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father, which is in heaven. And I say also unto thee that thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer this morning. Father, we thank you for this text. We thank you for this discussion between Peter and Christ that Matthew chose to record under the inspiration of Scripture. We thank you that it is preserved for us so that we can look at it this morning. And Father, I pray that this morning, as we examine this text, that our eyes would be open to the significance of some wonderful truths that we find here. Father, I pray that our hearts would be strengthened, and I pray that our hearts would be guided to understand Christ's relationship to the body, the church. Father, help us to be challenged where we have been proud. Father, help us to be encouraged where we have felt weak and insufficient and unable to move forward. Father, I pray that you would be exalted, that we would see your worth, and that we would glory in it, that we would truly have worshiped because of the preaching of your word this morning. I pray that you would guide my thoughts. May I present these truths in a very simple and very Christ-exalting way. And I pray that you would be pleased with it. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. I don't know how many of you are outdoorsmen, but I do like the outdoors. I like to fish, but when I was a kid and a teenager, I never had the opportunity to go hunting. Something my dad didn't do. Well, when I was a teenager, my dad uh bought me a shotgun. He bought my brother a shotgun. And as we got a little bit older, we got to the point where we would be able to use it Well, as a college student, I got the idea with my brother that we wanted to go deer hunting in a large wilderness area on Eglin Air Force Base. You could get permitting and you could go And so we got our equipment together and we wanted to go deer hunting. So one late fall afternoon, my brother, myself, and another young man went out on Eglin Air Force Base. Late in the afternoon And we began to travel off of a dirt road where we had parked our pickup truck into the wilderness to find places where we could go hunting when the season opened. We were excited. We'd never done this before, and we didn't plan very well. Because after wandering, we didn't realize that's what we were doing, but later we would realize that's what we were doing. We wandered into some areas that we were very unfamiliar with. And we got lost. In fact, we got into an area That's known as a flooded timber area. If you've ever seen uh maybe pictures of the Mississippi Delta in Louisiana, you see just miles and miles of flooded swamp. That's where we got lost. We had no idea how to get back to our trucks. In fact, late in the afternoon turned into early in the evening, and pretty soon it was completely dark. And we were just wading through water in the middle of a flooded swamp, having no idea how to get back to where we had started. Well, one of us decided it was time to look around. So my brother climbed up into one of those tall cypress trees, and we said, John, what do you see? And he said, uh, water trees. Not good. Do you see any paths or do you see our truck? He's like, nothing. It all looks the same as far as I can see. Well, we were a little bit nervous at that time. Nobody wanted to say it, but it was true. And so we began to argue about which way was the right way. And pretty soon we realized we were in trouble Well, around the middle of the evening there, we noticed that the moon came up, and one of us had the idea that we should just walk in the direction of the moon Until we hit something that would give us a marker to know how to get back to the truck. And that's what we did. And uh around 12 o'clock, 11 30, we uh we got back to the truck And we just thank the Lord for uh Him getting us back there, that we didn't have to spend the night in the swamp. But I give that story to tell you this. What we desperately needed when we were out there in the wilderness was something to point us back to the right direction. We needed something to guide us. And the reality is that in life, we need things to guide us when we go through difficulties. Think about this week. This week, back-to-back days, there were two Supreme Court decisions. One was not a moral issue, but the other one certainly was a moral issue, and a lot of Christians began to get very unsettled. The kinds of things that I was reading were very unsettling. I have lots of unbelieving friends, lots of people that I interact with that actually were really excited about the decision that was made And a lot of people that were viciously, fiercely angry about what was gone down with the Supreme Court, and other people who were just completely discouraged and didn't know what to say. The reality is in times like this, we desperately need truths from the Word of God to guide us. We need these truths to be those things that point us back to the truth So that we know the way that we're to walk. And this text is a text like that. This text is significant Because it tells us about Christ's relationship to the church. And if we understand his relationship to the church, it will become bedrock truth that will give us stability as we walk through life, no matter what happens. Good or bad, we can be pointed back in the direction of truth, and we can walk in the ways of the Lord. What is the significance of Christ's statement? To Peter and Matthew 16. And how should these truths shape our understanding of Christ's relationship to the church? The first thing I'd like us to see this morning is that Christ is the foundation of the church. Christ's person and his work are the centerpiece of our Christian faith. Look down in verse number 16. Jesus asked the question to his disciples. He says, Who do people say that I am? And they said, well, some say that you're a prophet. And they gave some different prophets. Jesus said, I don't want to know what they think. I want to know what you think. You've seen my works. You've heard my instruction. You've watched me. You've walked with me. What do you have to say? You know what the Old Testament says? Who do you say that I am? Well, Peter, the most outspoken of the disciples, just spoke up right away. And what does he say? He says, Well, you are the Christ, the Son of the living God. He was correct. He understood that Jesus is the Messiah. But then Jesus makes a very interesting statement following the statement that Peter makes. He says this: He says, Thou art Peter. And listen to the next phrase, upon this rock I will build my church. What is Jesus talking about? What is the rock upon which Jesus is going to build his church? Well, the reality is there's been a lot of discussion about this over church history. But rather than dealing with all of the debate, let's look at some other passages of Scripture that shed light on Peter's understanding of the rock upon which the church was built. If you could go with me to the book of Acts, chapter 4. In Acts chapter 4, we're going to see a very interesting statement that Peter makes that I believe refers us back to his understanding of the statement that Jesus makes in Matthew chapter 16. Is the church built on education? Is the church built upon programs, standards, pet issues? Is that what the church is built on? Well, the answer is no. Is it built on a personality? The answer is no. Listen to what Peter says in Acts chapter 4. In Acts chapter 4, verse 10, he says this: Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom ye crucified, whom God raised from the dead, this is the stone which was set at not. Of you builders, which has become the head of the corner. Notice what he said. This is the stone which was set at not of you builders, which has become the head of the corner. It's very interesting. Peter is referring back to several possible statements in the scriptures. I believe that he's talking about something that was said in the book of Isaiah. He understood very well that the Messiah would be set aside by the builders. That Israel would reject the Messiah when he came to his people initially. But I think he's also referring back to a statement that Jesus has made earlier. Upon this rock I will build my church. Look at another passage description in Ephesians chapter 2, verse number 18 and following. Christ is called the chief cornerstone of the foundation of the church. He says, through Jesus we both have access by one Spirit unto the Father Therefore, ye are no more strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints, and of the household of God, and are built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets. Jesus Christ himself being the chief cornerstone, in whom all the building fitly framed together groweth unto a holy temple in the Lord. This is a beautiful passage of Scripture. I actually addressed this passage of Scripture at another time when I was here. But what I'd like us to focus on in this passage is that he says, Jesus Christ Himself is the chief corner stone in whom all the building fitly framed together groweth into an holy temple in the Lord. He's referring to the fact that Christ is the corner of the foundation upon which the church is built upon. Everything is rooted in Christ. Everything is built up from him and out from him. He is the corner stone. Paul says something very similar to this in 1 Corinthians 3, verses 10 and 11. He says that the apostles laid a foundation that could not be erased It could not be replaced, and that foundation is Christ. He says, Other foundation can no man lay than that is laid which is Jesus Christ. Very simple truth. It's not profound, but it's very important. The foundation upon which the church is built is not a man save the God man, Jesus Christ, the Messiah. This church isn't built on its pastor, it's not built on you people, it's not built on deacons, it's not built on programs, it's not built on anything, but the person and work of Christ And that's substantial. The fact is we as God's people need to be all about Christ. We need to be asking, who is he? What did he come to do? Why did he come to do it? What does he demand? Why is his way exclusive? What does it mean to be Christ-like? Are we really growing into this Christ-likeness You say, why should we be asking those questions? Because those questions are rooted in the gospel, and the gospel is about the person of Christ. The gospel is his person. It is his work. And it is the reason why he came. And as a church, we have to get back To focus on the gospel. Many, many churches in our generation are not rooted in the gospel, frankly When you see the church, you don't think about Christ and the gospel. You think about this particular style. You think about this particular personality. You think about this particular stripe within the whole spectrum of churches. The things that you are drawn to are not the gospel, but we could say peripheral matters. We as God's people need to get back to a focus on the person of God. Christ. And I believe that that would root out a lot of the petty issues we fight over, too. The fact is our identity as Christians is not in those things, but it is in this person. our Savior and Lord. Our unity as God's people. Our motivation. Our delight is in Christ You know, one of the things that we as God's people need to get back to is delighting in the Lord. We get so focused on, am I doing right here, am I doing right here? And the reality is this, if we would delight in the Lord, take care of some of those problems. He is the object of our delight. He's the sole object of our faith. If he's not, we aren't even Christian at all. The fact is, a lot of people identify Christians as moralists. These are the people in society that can't get with the times. These are the people in society that have to have this vindictive spirit towards other people, that they have to be so condescending and so judgmental. My folk friends, that is not Christianity. Christianity is rooted in the gospel. And the reality is we do proclaim Christ. And Christ is going to cut to the heart of people's hearts. And he is going to cause offense to the world. But the reality is our identity is not moralistic. It is Christ. He is our comfort and sorrow. And we as God's people, in times like these, need to get back to what we as a church are founded upon and rooted in And that is the person of Christ. You know, a lot of the rhetoric that's going on in the news today is self-imposed. It really is. A lot of the rhetoric that is going on in the news today is because people have never really interacted with genuine Christ-centered Christians. And they need to. The reality is that the people whose lives are the most broken in our society, the people we're the most afraid to interact with on any kind of level, are the people that most need To interact with a Christian who's centered in the gospel. There is a woman, you mentioned a book on your uh Facebook. There is a woman who was a a teacher, I believe, at Syracuse University, somewhere up in upstate New York. She was an English professor and she was a very outspoken lesbian, and she was also a very outspoken uh We could say feminist or something like that. And in the course of her outspokenness, she would write articles for the local newspaper. And one day, a godly pastor who didn't know her, she didn't know I believe they were close, like maybe they're even neighbors. They lived close to each other, I believe. He wrote her. A very kind but not compromising letter. In fact, when he did that, this woman did not know what to do with that. She thought, you know, I'd like to meet this person because he seems to be different than my perception of Christians. And this pastor and his wife befriended this woman who a lot of Christians would have been like, you know the neighbor down here? Stay away from her. You know what I mean? The reality is they they reached out to her in a very amazing way, and she became a believer, and by the way, she is a pastor's wife. Today. Very, very outspoken, very articulate woman. In fact, uh she's very interesting to listen to her testimony What's the point? The point is this. There was a very self was selfless pastor who reached out to a person who was broken and didn't know it. It's because he was rooting in the gospel. The second truth that we will see is answering the question: who is it that builds the church? Who is it that builds the church? In verse number 17, Jesus makes a very simple statement: I will build. Very simple, right? I will build. Notice what he didn't say. He didn't say, hey, Peter, you will build. He didn't look at the disciples and say, Peter, James, John, you men are going to build my church for me. He didn't say that. But do we think that way? You know, as a missionary, I hear all kinds of interesting things. Sit in a missions conference and a pastor will get up and he'll say, Our brother over here Has built all these churches and he's done this and he's done that and you just kind of sit there and you're like, well, I'm glad I'm not him because I feel really uncomfortable right now. Because the reality is he didn't build that. God You remember a statement made in uh in July of 2012 on the campaign trail, our president at the time made a statement, you didn't build that. You remember that statement That everybody was talking about. Why did people get so offended by that statement? Well, because when we've done work, one of the great joys we have is relishing in what we've done. We like to feel good about what we've done. The reality is that when we realize it's Christ who builds the church and not us, it really changes the way that we view the church. You know, it's very easy as a missionary to become proud that my philosophy of ministry is superior to my friend over here. Very common. Oh, the way that I did deputation, or the way that we do our church, and the way that we do missions, and the way that we handle church planning, the way that we train our men, these things become issues of pride. When in reality it's this, your philosophy versus his isn't really what builds a church. It's Christ's work. Notice, go with me to 1 Peter chapter 1, verses number 18 and following. I love this text. It's preaching through 1 Peter in our services there in Gone on Sunday mornings. And this is what the scripture says: ye were not redeemed. With corruptible things, as silver and gold received by tradition from your fathers. He says, but with the precious blood of Christ He says, who verily was foreordained before the foundation of the world, but was manifested in these last times for you. Who by him do believe in God, that raised him up from the dead, that your faith and hope might be in God? Who is it that builds or adds to the church? Is it a new outreach minister? Is it the VBS person? Is it a young pastor? The answer is it's God who builds it. He's the one who asks the church, notice who did all the work in there. He says, you weren't redeemed by corruptible things. You weren't redeemed by money, you weren't redeemed by something that your parents gave you. He says you were redeemed by the precious blood of Christ. So who did the work to accomplish your salvation? It was Christ. His blood was shed. His righteousness is imputed to you when you trust in his finished work. He goes on to say this: who was verily foreordained from the foundation of the world? Who is it that determined to send Christ? God did. Nobody sat down and said, I want to make a plan of how to get people saved. Nobody did that. God had determined, even before there was a fall, that there would be a savior. But he didn't just determine the plan, he accomplished the plan. He says this, though he was forordained, he was manifest in these last times for you. In other words, what God chose to do, he chose to accomplish. And then he even says this: By him, you believe in God. Even the point that brought you to faith. Even the point that brought you to repent and believe in the gospel, he gets the credit for that according to this text. By him You believed in God. Did you believe? Sure. Did you make a choice? Sure. But from this text, the analysis is it's by him that you did that. So what is the point? The point is this: every aspect of our salvation is rooted in the work of God, not the work of man. We are the recipients of grace. We are the recipients of a gift. And that is why he says, this is done that your faith and hope might be in God. God adds to the church. But he doesn't leave the church alone. Who is it that builds up the church once it has been added to? Well the answer is found in Ephesians chapter four, verses seven and following. God gifts the church so it will be built up into maturity. He says, Unto every one of us is given grace according to the measure of the gift of Christ It says, he that is Christ gave some apostles, prophets, evangelists, pastors, teachers. For what purpose? The perfecting of the saints. For the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ, till we all come into the unity of the faith, into the knowledge of the Son of God. You might say, why is that significant? I'll tell you why it's significant in a very practical way. As a missionary, I look at the church and I ask the question: Will this church be able to reproduce itself? Will this church be able to carry on without my presence? The question goes into my mind. And I say, well, that's the purpose for me being here. To help them get to a point where they don't need me anymore. But as you look at over the church, you start realizing something There has to be people that rise up who are qualified to pastor and shepherd the church before it can be turned over to someone to do it. And you look at the people and you go, uh Uh where you think that. You look at somebody who's twelve and you say, I wonder what he'll be in ten years. Look at somebody who's fifteen, you say, I wonder what he'll be in ten years. Somebody who's 25, you say, I think he could be qualified, but does he have the desire? And all of a sudden you realize something. You cannot put it in them. You cannot go into them and flip a switch and all of a sudden they they have the gifting to be in the ministry, they have the desire to do the work, and they're gonna have the character to walk the path. You can't do that Now you can teach them the Word of God. You can disciple them in the truth, just like we preach the gospel. But we realize we preach the gospel to many people that reject it. We have no power to save anyone, and we have no power to sanctify anyone. But this text tells us that God adds to the church And God builds up the church in his own ways. This is very significant. The church is not built by some superior philosophy of men. ministry, though some are superior to others. It's not because someone has advanced degrees, has a strong personality, or is very gifted, or works very hard. The church is built by the faithful plotting of God's people when the Spirit blesses and moves in the hearts of men. There are times that you preach and teach and you see no response that gives you encouragement. And you say, I wish. And there are times that you preach and you teach, and God moves, and you don't know how it happened. And the whole point is this: God builds a church. We don't. God's ways often even defy our ways. And we as God's people need to get back to the simple confidence in the fact that God builds his church. 1 Corinthians 3, he says, I've planted, Apollos watered, but God gave the increase. Then neither is he that planteth anything, neither he that watereth, but God that giveth the increase. We can't take credit for the work that's done, nor should we be discouraged that it's not moving as fast as we want it to. God builds the church. That moves us to a third truth, and that is found in verse number 18. The question is: this: who owns the church? Whose will should be the final rule for the decision-making of the church? Is it a pastor? Is it like a very wealthy person in the church? Is it a little group of people on the side? Is it a congregation? Is it the deacons? Is it some board? Who should be ruling the church? Who has the final say? Whose words should dictate what happens? Very simple answer, Christ's word. That is why the scripture is our final authority. That is why the scripture is the final saying. That is why we preach the scripture. We teach the scripture. We sing the scripture. We Because it is Christ who alone has the right to command the church. This is why expositional preaching is so important, because expositional preaching is letting the text speak for itself. At least that's what it's supposed to be. Someone is expounding what God said rather than expounding what they think. And there's a huge difference. The reality is in verse 18, Jesus says, I will build my My church. He didn't say, Peter, I'm going to build you a church. It's going to be huge. It's going to be full of life. I'm building it for you. He didn't say that. He says, I'm going to build my church. Jesus loves his church. He purchased it as his own bride to be sanctified that he will present to himself at the end of the age in purity. In Ephesians 5, he says, Christ loved the church. He gave himself for it, that he might present it to himself, a glorious church, not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that it should be holy and without blemish. Why is God so jealous over his people? Because they're his bride. Why was God so jealous for Israel? We read about this in the Old Testament, and even that word jealousy makes us uncomfortable. It's because Israel was his bride. His people belong to him. He deeply loves his people. He cherishes his people. He defends his people. He disciplines his people. He brings his people on into maturity. God loves his church Even when Peter writes about the ruling nature of the office of the pastor-elder, this is what he writes. In 1 Peter 5, he says, feed the flock of God. He says, not as lords. Over God's heritage, but be examples to the flock. When the chief shepherd shall appear, he shall receive the crown of glory that fadeth not away. He emphasizes in that text that those who lead the congregation are to lead by example, not by iron fist. They are to lead by preaching the will of the overseer Christ, not their own wills. They are to feed God's flock, not their flock. Pastors are not priests to the people. They're not kings over the people. They're not the CEOs of a business who hire and fire and bring people in and do what they want. That is not their responsibility. The church, the body. Can also get off base too. The church is not, could we say, voting for a political official The fact is that the church is a sacred body, unified under the authority of the scriptures, led by pastors who, by humble example, are to live and expound the scriptures. Providing a steady diet for God's people, where Christ alone will be exalted as head and obeyed as the Lord. Do you see how these truths should shape the way we view the church? The church is about Christ Christ owns the church. Christ builds the church. But let me leave you with a final thought that I think will be quite encouraging to you, especially in light of the days in which we live. Look at verse number 18. In verse 18, he says, This I will build my church and the gates of hell. Shall not prevail against it. What is Jesus saying in that short phrase? I will build and the gates of hell shall not prevail. He's saying the same thing in both a positive and in a negative way. Positively, he says, I'm going to build something. It's called my church. Negatively, he says, and nothing can stop it The gates of hell shall not prevail against it. Do you ever look across the landscape of our culture? Whether it be our church culture, our secular culture, and say, what's going on? This is like chaotic Do you ever kind of get that feeling? Look at the worldliness that we see. Look at the abuses of authority. Look at the pragmatism we see that is really mainstream in so many places Think about the persecution going on around the world. Heard about a pastor in the Sudan who's on death row because he's a pastor. You hear about stories in North Korea where people are sent to concentration camps for the rest of their lives because they own a Bible You hear about stories in Iran where there are pastors who've been imprisoned and are potentially on death row, but they don't really know You hear about what's going on in Syria with Iraq and ISIS. You hear about Boko Haram in Nigeria. And you can't you you go, we live in some wild times. What's going on? What kinds of stories are they going to write about then the 2020s? When our kids study American history, if they're doing that. What are the stories going to be? We talk to missionaries who are perceptive of what's going on in the cultures they're working in. And when people say that the gospel is booming in Africa, African missionaries say actually it's not. It's called prosperity theology that is booming. And that is not the gospel, but that is a perversion of the gospel. And many people are deceived and many people. Many people are blinded. And they say, by the way, it's not just in Africa, it's in Central America, it's in Asia. You say That's not encouraging. I know it's not. It's reality. I think as Christians we shouldn't bury our heads in the sand. We should look at the facts and say we live in a nasty world. But do we have hope? Can we be encouraged in spite of turmoil? Well, if we can't, then we certainly can't stand with believers from other generations. Who face far more tumultuous times in their own societies? How does the New Testament present the reality Of Christians and suffering and their responsibility in the days in which they live. In Revelation chapter 6, this is what John writes about that time period leading up to the return of Christ. He says, I saw under the altar the souls of them that were slain for the word of God, for the testimony which they held. And they crowd with a loud voice, saying, How long, O Lord, holy and true, dost thou not judge and avenge our blood on them that dwell on the earth? Now we don't know who he's seeing, but the reality is that we know during the tribulation many, many saints are going to be martyred for their faith. Many, many saints. We know from the time of the apostles till the day in which we live, many, many saints have died for their faith. People that we'll never hear about, but we will worship before the throne of God in heaven with someday. And he says, those people cry and say, Lord, how long are you going to put up with this? You are just, right? You are holy, right? You do hold the truth. Will you not avenge our blood? And this is what they hear. They should rest in yet a little season until their fellow servants also, and their brethren that should be killed as they were, should be fulfilled That verse does not give us hope that things will get easier for us or that things will get calmer for us. It doesn't necessarily tell us that they won't either, but it doesn't give us that hope. The fact is, the New Testament never tells us that on this side of eternity, on this side of glorification, we have the promise. That we'll have a painless life. Or that the rule of society is going to be the scriptures. We have no promise about that. The fact is, we do know that we live in a tough world. So, how does Paul encourage believers in the book of Romans? In Romans 8, he says this: I reckon that the sufferings of this present time Are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. He just puts it this way: your suffering today Doesn't compare to the glory that you will experience in eternity. You say, what kind of hope is that? It's a huge hope if you're living for the eternal state. It's a huge hope. What he's saying is your suffering has value. Your suffering accomplishes something He says the earnest expectation of the creature waits for the manifestation of the sons of God. The creation shall be delivered from the bondage of corruption into the glorious liberty of the children of God. He says, all of creation, not just you, believer living today, not only are you groaning, but everything in the creation groans. It's like a woman who's about to give birth, she's in pain. And you are in pain. But deliverance is coming. My friends, listen to what John writes in chapter 21 of Revelation. He writes what gives us hope, what gives us strength, what gives us stability. He says this: Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men. He will dwell with them. They shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them and be their God. God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes. There shall be no more death, neither sorrow nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain, for the former things are passed away. Behold, I make all things new, right, for these words are true and faithful. You say, what's the point? The point is this. We walk in this life by faith rooted in the hope of glory. Not a hope like I hope so, but a hope that is rooted in the God who cannot lie, who has promised. Steadfast assurance. That we can be steadfast and unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, because we know our labor is not in vain in the Lord. Lord. When he says the gates of hell will not prevail against the church, what he's saying is this not even death itself has the power to stop what I'm doing. doing. Oh death, where is thy sting? Grave, where is thy victory? The sting of death is sin. The strength of sin is the law. Thanks be to God who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. That's That's what he's talking about. So, what's the significance of the statement? How should these truths shape our understanding of Christ's relationship to the church? We're reminded that Christ is the foundation, the builder, and the owner of the church, and no matter how bad things may appear to have become, his truth will prevail. His word will go forth. He will build his church. The gates of hell will not prevail against it. Do you believe that? That is what walking by faith is. Walking by faith is perseverance, no matter the circumstances that we we face as Christians. You know when our hearts well up with pride and we feel compelled to promote ourselves because things in the church are going well, caution. The church is not about us. We didn't build it. We don't own it. We're just servants. And may I say feeble servants When our hearts are overwhelmed by fear and discouragement, in fact, even hopelessness Which is worse than people are today. Let's remember Christ's promise. I will build my church. Gates of hell will not prevail against it. He's building his church through us. And in spite of us. And he's done it in every generation, and he's going to continue till he returns. When our hearts are tempted to compromise the truth, let's keep this in mind. It is only Christ who has the right to dictate the church. His word is supreme. Our opinions, our philosophies, they come under the rule of Christ So we must be very cautious about what we do as his people. Let's put our hearts together in prayer Father, I thank you for this text because it cuts to the heart of some of our greatest problems as your people. We are prone to pride. And it cuts to the heart of pride. We are prone to discouragement. It cuts to the heart of discouragement. We are prone to be overwhelmed. We are prone to forget your promises. And Father, sometimes we think it is Even worth it. But we're reminded by this text that you are building your church that you own for your glory, built upon the person and work of Christ. And nothing can stop the work that you are doing. You will accomplish what you have intended to accomplish, what you have purposed, it will happen as you intended it. And it will be done to you. your honor and glory, and we thank you we can be a part of it. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen