Rolling wonder thy power throughout the universe display and sing my soul, my Savior God to thee. How great thou art, how break thou art, and speak my door, my Savior God to thee. How great a wall, how great a went through the woods and for his leaves I wonder. And hear the birds sing sweetly in the trees When I look down from lofty mountain grandeur. And hear the throat and feel the gentle breeze And sing my soul, my Savior God to thee. Great thou great thou heart then sings my soul my savior God to thee how great thou And when I think that God his son not very sends him to To die, I scarce can take it here that on the cross my burden gladly bearing he bled and died. To take away my sin, then sinks my soul, my Savior God, to be how great I was. How great thou art, then sings my soul, my Savior God to thee. How great thou art, how great When Christ shall wish out acclamation and take me home what I shall. Then I shall however in humble adoration and there proclaim my God out. Great thou then sings my soul my Savior God to me How great thou great thought Thou art then sings my soul, my Savior God to thee, how great thou art, how great Please remain standing for opening prayer. Okay, let's pray. Heavenly Father, you indeed are great. And Lord, we are so thankful. For the love that you have demonstrated to us. And that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for the ungodly. And Lord, we are all ungodly, Lord. But through you, through your son, Lord, we can know you. We can know the love and the salvation and the grace of God. And we thank you for that, Lord. And we do humbly adore you and bow down to you, Lord. And we thank you for just your goodness and your mercy towards us, Lord. And as we move into this new year, Lord, we would just pray that uh This church would be a faithful church, Lord, that it would be one that is focused on doing your will and glorifying you, Lord, and just demonstrating the love of God. wherever we may go and into this community, Lord, and into our families and into our neighborhoods, Lord. And we just thank you again for your grace. For your love, Lord, for all that you've done for us. And we just pray that you would bless this service. That, Lord It would bring glory and honor to you, Lord. And we just pray that uh that the word that is preached this morning would touch our hearts and that it would just enrich us, Lord, and help us to grow closer to you. And we just pray all this in Jesus' precious name and for his sake. Amen. John chapter 17. John chapter 17. Verses 1 through 5. These words spake Jesus And lifted up his eyes to heaven and said, Father, the hour has come. Glorify your Son, that thy son also may glorify thee. As thou hast given him power over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as thou hast given him. And this is life eternal. that they might know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent. I have glorified thee on the earth I have finished the work which thou gavest me to do. And now, O Father, glorify thou me with thine own self, with the glory which I had with thee before the world was. Now continue learning the song of the month together, the song of Moses. Let's stand together as we sing. O Lord our strength has long, highest praise to him along, Christ the Lord, the conquering. Your name we raise, your triumph seek. Praise the Lord, Almighty Warrior, Praise the Lord, the glorious one. By his hand we stand victory, by his name we overcome through the storms of hell for you in darkest. We worship you, you divide the rainbow from death to life, you think we leave Praise the Lord Almighty. By his hand we stand in memory, by his name we overcome. All the space and angels now, also right in God, Glory, glory to the king, you reign through us. Eternity. Praise the Lord, Almighty Warrior. Praise the Lord, the glorious one. By his hand we stand in here. He thinks she did. Sing now Jesus, my Lord, my God, my all. Jesus, my Lord, my God, my all, hear me, bless your when I fall. Hear me and from your dwelling place, pour down the road. Jesus my Lord, I do want more Oh help me love you more and more It's not too late for you, I saw How can I love you as I ought? And how to pray? Your matchless name before you on your name. Jesus, my Lord, I knew I wore. Help me love you more and more. I do want to help me love you more and more It does not take you join in me and you have the Loving me, operate the joy that you have brought Sour and cleaning the war. Leave us my Lord. I do want more. Help me love you more and more. He loves my more nine to one more Oh help me love you more and more He saw some good Be my song, my heart and soul belong, all that I have in your trouble, and you listen. I feel like more. Help me love you for it more. He does my Lord, I feel like more. Oh, help me love you. Good morning, everyone. That was lame. Good morning everyone. Alright, that was a little better. I guess the cold weather has caused our jaws to hibernate or something. I don't know. Uh I do want to welcome everyone this morning. We do have a few quite a few people sick today and uh some traveling, so be in prayer for those who are. Uh I need to mention a couple of announcements. Number one, I want to institute the season of fist bumping. You might remember that from last uh previous season. So in rather than shaking hands on the way out, I will be fist bumping you. Uh and uh don't take it personally. I'm doing it with everyone. Uh my Julia is sick, she's she's been sick for a couple days now, and um And uh you don't want what she has. I don't have it, I don't think, so far, but uh just in case I think just in general, uh handshakes are about the worst way to that they're great for fellowship and not great for passing germs. So I want to mention uh something actually so pot luck we have uh coming up after the service uh and then off after that we have The second part of our annual congregational meeting that we need to elect officers as well as talk about the future of our building. So if you could uh make sure you your comeback for that. That's an important meeting. I wanted to also mention something that just might be helpful. During the the song right before I preach usually is when we um uh dismiss for junior church. And I wanted to just let parents know, don't feel like you have to go back to, unless you want to, you can. But the junior church uh teachers are almost always here up front. And if you want to just let your kids go that direction and then the kid junior church teachers can take them from there, don't feel like you have to go back. I've uh just sort of noticed that Um half the church leaves for my introduction for my sermon and uh and then I feel like I have to repreach it again. So I might shorten my no promises there, I won't shorten my message. But anyway, so I just want to encourage you to maybe do that. Um if you feel like you need to leave it's fine, but just a just an option for you. Uh gentlemen, as you come forward for the offering. If you're a guest with us, we just want to welcome you today and hope that you thank you for joining us. If you would fill out a visitor's card, you could find that And I'm welcome package as you came in or in the front of the uh in the back of the chair right in front of you. Uh so if you would be able to fill that out so we could have a record of your visit, we'd We really appreciate that. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you, Lord, just for the time that we could spend together this morning worshiping you and as we look at um the the most uh in-depth and lengthiest prayer that Christ prayed uh to you in all of the scriptures this morning. I pray that we would be sobered by the importance of prayer in our own lives. Lord, I pray that you'd help us to convict us of our own prayerlessness. cause our own hearts to realize the importance of bringing petitions before you and connecting with you. We admit before you that we get so caught up in the busyness of life that we um are not careful sometimes to um to bring our to bear our hearts to you to demonstrate our love toward you by being in fellowship with you, by assuring our own hearts that we are in fellowship with you. And by engaging in your will and the furtherance of your kingdom through prayer. We know that when Christ came to the earth, he did that constantly. He was in constant communication with you. Sometimes he would spend all night praying to you. He many, many occasions did so and set for us a perfect example. And Lord, we admit before you we don't pray like we ought to And I pray, Lord, today, that you would challenge us to be men and women of prayer. To be men and women who get on our knees first instead of last, to run to you in prayer rather than trying everything else and then coming to you. And so today, Lord, I pray that you would help us and renew our vision and our heart and our desire to come to you. And to do it often. And Lord, would you teach us even today to pray? And may we be encouraged and challenged by The Lord's own prayer to you. Lord, as we worship you this morning, may we do so in spirit and in truth. May we not be vain in our worship. May we be deliberate And how we sing these songs before you, how we recognize the message of them, how we know that how we know that we are singing of the character of who you are. How we are aware of the gospel, the great gospel of Jesus Christ, and how He bought for us our redemption so that we could glorify you once again. And Lord, may we, as we worship you today, do so from in sincerity and in truth And Lord, as we worship you with our offering, may we do the same. May we love you and demonstrate our love for you that way. And Lord, would you just we pray that you would be pleased with our worship today. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. So is it where you don't fair the white? We have code we could do. Our final song before the message, we'll sing number 70. Number 70, nine be the glory. Let's stand together as we sing, and children at this time can be dismissed to junior church. Join me the glory, risen conquering song, and less if thou could free, thou worth death at lost. Angels in bright frames drawn the stone away Camp of all the great clothes where thy boss Prison conquering song And less is the green Our death has won for Jesus Jesus risen from touch, calling me free. Jesus scatters wear and woo Let our church with gladness gives of triumph see for her Lord now, death has lost its name, blind me the glory, risen compring stone. Four yok Prince of life Light is not without me cause more than conquer. Through thy deathless laws, bring us deeper jordan to thy home of all thy. And this is obviously the war dead has won. You may be seen. Alright, take your Bibles if you would, please, and turn to John chapter 17 this morning. John chapter 17. Jesus with his disciples have has just finished What is known as the upper room discourse. It was it is that vitally important information that prepare the disciples for Christ's death and resurrection and ascension, and was preparing them for when he would depart from them. And after this prayer, or I'm sorry, after this discussion, this teaching, we find these words. These words spake Jesus and lifted up his eyes to heaven and said, Father, the hour is come. Glorify thy son, that thy son also may glorify thee. As you read this prayer, as you If you're moving from chapter 14 and then 15 and then 16 and then come into 17, there is a different tone to the prayer of John seventeen. And It's almost like if you can imagine somebody is in a room by himself praying, and you walk in on him. What do you usually do? Well, you usually are you sort of hush down and you're quiet, you're reverent toward the person who is praying to the Lord. There is this sort of reverence that occurs when you watch someone pray. Christ is here praying to his Heavenly Father. And it's almost as though what we need to do is take our shoes off. For we're standing on holy ground. God is praying to God. I was studying this passage and realizing just the significance of it and wanting to get across the nature of this prayer. And I wanted to do so in such a way that it wasn't just as we are going to go through it in the same way that we would go through the other passages that we've gone through. All of Scripture is vitally important, but this particular passage is extremely significant. For example, Martin Luther died in 1546 And on his deathbed, he had this prayer read to him three times in succession. John Knox, the Scottish Reformer. Also on his deathbred had his wife in fifth on uh year fifteen seventy-two asked his wife to read John 17, where he said, I am going to cast my anchor. Philip Melanchthon died in 1560. He was also the theological mind behind the Protestant Reformation, one of them anyway. And he stated that he received great comfort in his final sermon in John 17. His final lecture series was in John 17. And and he and he decided right before his death, or his before I mean I don't think he knew he was going to die necessarily, but he that was his final message that he preached was from this passage. So throughout church history, this passage is an incredibly important passage of Scripture because it details for us this final high priestly prayer that Christ praised to his Father. Probably one of the best treatments and most thorough treatments on this passage is from David Martin Lloyd Jones, who wrote a book that is really this thick, and it's not an exaggeration. called Assurance of Salvation, where he details the various concepts of this prayer in John 17. The entire book is written on it's actually a compiling of various sermons. And during this particular series, the first thing he did in this series was to identify the importance of prayer. It's very easy to get into this passage and to forget that this is a prayer from Christ to his Father. And so I want to do this something very similar to that. I want to emphasize today the importance of prayer and to look just at a few passages of Scripture. In anticipation and preparation for our study into this small series that's going to be within a larger series of the book of John. We're going to spend some time here in John seventeen because of the great significance of this passage. A pastor in his book, his name is David Crum in his book Knocking on Heaven's Door, A New Testament Theology of Petitionary Prayer, gave this illustration. He said, the young woman entering my church office was a stranger to me, but it took only a moment to discern that she had been crying for a long time. Her sobs were more groans than sighs, deep groans that rumbled upward from the wellspring of a fractured heart. I sat waiting and praying, asking for wisdom. After a few moments, she told me why she had come to my door Only the day before, her best friend had died of cancer in the prime of life, leaving behind a husband and several small children. But this young woman now found herself mourning not one but two shocking deaths, for she discovered that her own Christian faith had begun to die soon after her friend. Both women had attended the same church. Once the cancer was diagnosed only a few months earlier, their pastor had organized an around the clock twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week prayer vigil. He told everyone that they would storm the gates of heaven, claim their sister's death in the name of Jesus, and if they only had enough faith, then they would prove that the God who brings healing is still more powerful than the devil who breeds cancer. So the church prayed. Now this broken, deflated woman stared at me through swollen eyes and ask, Pastor, Why did God lose? How can the devil be more powerful than Jesus? Let's pray together. Our Father, as we come to you, we ask that you would help us with this matter of prayer. Christ, of course, was the prime example for us. And before he comes to you in this final prayer before his or close to his final prayer before his death Certainly the most extensive and detailed prayer before his death. We see many times throughout the Gospels that he was constantly resorting to you for prayer. And yet there is much confusion about this matter of prayer among Christians. I pray today, Lord, that you would clarify for us the nature of prayer, the importance of prayer. Renew in our hearts a fresh why we ought to pray. Lord, we pray that today you would work, as only you can do, bring conviction to our souls. Help us to see prayer as vital, not optional, as necessary. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, like the woman that came to the pastor in our illustration, some w some people tend to think of prayer as one of those things where if you'll just have enough faith then you can pray what for whatever you wish and God will answer your prayer. Those kinds of people unfortunately end up oftentimes disillusioned by this kind of approach to prayer. They sometimes question their faith, they question the nature of God, they question the goodness and the love of God. All because they did not understand what prayer is all about. There is other, on the other hand, a kind of person who thinks so much of the sovereignty of God And emphasizes in his heart and mind the sovereignty of God so much that he feels as though prayer is not even necessary. That if God knows everything and has preordained everything, well then why pray? Someone who feels as though that God is sovereign God is sovereign, but applies God's sovereignty in that way has misapplied the sovereignty of God. He does not understand his role in g in prayer. And it is something that we must address from time to time in our own lives. There are many other problems within prayer, but that really represents the two extremes. On one hand, you can be one who thinks that through prayer and faith you can do anything. On the other hand, you can think that prayer is entirely unnecessary because of God being so sovereign. And both extremes are wrong And if we slide into either extreme, we end up in a very in a place that compromises our fellowship with God. So I want to begin here by understand helping us to understand the crucial importance of prayer. When I read this prayer of Christ to his Father, I was very much struck With just the importance of prayer, and began to review various passages of Scripture. The reality is Scripture is replete with many, many examples and admonitions and explanations of prayer. You really could say that this book is a book of prayer. The whole book of Psalms is a compilation of various prayers. You look at the patriarchs in the Old Testament and you find David praying, you find Daniel praying. You find men of old praying. You find the apostles praying. Prayer is a very important aspect to the Christian life. In fact, it is vital. For example, in Luke chapter 18, verse 1, and he spake a parable unto them to the end, and he said, Men ought always to pray and not to faint. 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 verse 17, pray without ceasing. Romans 15, verse 30. Now I beg you, brethren, Paul says. through the Lord Jesus Christ and through the love of the Spirit, that you strive together with me in prayers to God for me. The Apostle Paul so emphasized the importance of prayer in his own ministry that he literally begs the Roman church to pray for him. He realizes the power of prayer. He realizes the importance of prayer. The apostles prayed to God And we find examples of this in the epistles. In Romans 1, verse 9, for instance, Paul again says, For God is my witness whom I serve with my spirit in the gospel of the Son, that without ceasing I may mention of you always in my prayers, making requests We request if by some means now at last I may find a way in the will of God to come to you Colossians, I love this verse. Epaphras, Paul says, of Epaphras, who is one of you, a bond of a servant of Christ, greets you, always laboring. fervently for you in prayers. Can you say that about your Christian life That you are laboring fervently for God's people in prayer If we think, for example, that prayer is not labor, it is not work, it is some sort of fleeting whisper. That we occasionally do where we just simply feel prayers. We do not understand what prayer really is And on the other hand, if we see prayer as something that is wrote, like saying a prayer, have you heard that before I know me people sometimes mean well by this, but I cringe a little on the inside when somebody says, say a prayer for me. Now maybe I'm splitting hairs. But very candidly, saying a prayer is not the same thing as praying. Epaphorists labored in prayer for the people of God. laboring fervently for you in prayers that you may stand perfect and complete in all the will of God. First Thessalonians 1-2 says, we give thanks. To God always for you all, making mention of you in our prayers, remembering without ceasing your work of faith, labor of love, patience of hope in the Lord Jesus Christ, in the sight of God our Father. And of course, the greatest prayer warrior of them all is Christ himself. The writer of the book of Hebrews says this about the prayers of Christ, and particularly his prayer at Gethsemane. who in the days of his flesh, when he had offered up prayers and supplication, with vehement cries and tears to him, who was able to save him from death. And was heard because of his godly fear. Surely, brothers and sisters in Christ, when we just take a cursory look at the Word of God, we see the importance of prayer. Prayer on behalf of God's people, prayer for God's people. God desires for us to be laboring in prayer It was said of John Wesley that he thought little of a Christian, unless a Christian spent at least four hours a day in prayer, which might sound a little bit extreme. But folks, if you accumulate, if you're war praying without ceasing, if you start off with prayer and you end with prayer, if you pray throughout the day, if you are communing with God in prayer throughout the day and you accumulate all of that amount, would it not be impossible to pray four hours a day or more Of course, the greatest example that we can get we can learn is from Christ Himself And when we think about how Christ prayed and when Christ prayed, we begin to understand the profound content of prayer. Christ prayed during times of importance. When Christ in his early ministry anticipated choosing the disciples the apostles, uh that the twelve that he would need to choose. He first, before he took this took on this monumental task of choosing the disciples, he went to God in prayer. Luke six twelve says, and it came to pass in those days that he went out into a mountain to pray and continued all night in prayer to God. And when it was day he called unto his disciples, and them he chose twelve, whom he named apostles. During times of important decisions, Christ went to God in prayer. All night he prayed. Can you imagine knowing The Bible doesn't record for us what Christ said to the Father all night long. What was he saying to his father all night long, anticipating the choosing of the apostles? It would be wonderful to know that, wouldn't it? It would be a really amazing thing to know that. Christ prayed during times of urgency. One of the greatest temptations that Christ faced, I believe, was setting up the kingdom before it was the right time. Now, of course, we know that it was preordained that God would send his son to set up the kingdom. And God and Christ anticipated the time that he would set up his kingdom. Do you remember when Satan went to Christ to tempt him? Do you remember in those various passages where he went to him and he took him on top of the pinnacle of the temple and he or actually was on top of a mountain to look out on the nation and he said, If you'll bow down to me, I'll give you all these kingdoms Do you know why Satan did that? Satan did that because he knew that Christ desired greatly to set up his kingdom. And Satan was trying to get Christ to do it before the time. Of course, Christ and his humanity could be tempted, but Christ and his deity could not sin. But it shows us something of the temptation of Christ. We sometimes think as though Christ was never able to be tempted, but Christ was able to be tempted. He was a man who understood as we are the temptations that are that were faced. And one of the greatest temptations is to sometimes do the right thing at the wrong time. Christ faced that temptation. In fact, there was one time where people gathered and they were going to take him by force and make him king, if you'll recall in John 6:15. And he did this during that time of temptation. When Jesus therefore perceived that they would come and take him by force to make him a king, he departed again into the mountain himself alone. And we find in a parallel passage in Matthew 14, 13, And when he had sent the multitudes away, he went up into a mountain apart to pray, and when the evening was come, he was there alone So Christ in times of urgency went to his father to pray to him in times of temptation, in times of importance. In times of urgency, he resorted to his father while he could pray. And in a sense, you would think to yourself, if there was anyone who didn't need to pray, it was Christ. Christ was God. Christ had was had the full power of God. And though as we'll we'll remember earlier, we'll recall later on He limited his glory. He did not limit his power. And yet Christ still chose to go to his father. in prayer. How much more do you and I need to pray in times of decision making, in times of importance? In times of temptation, in times of urgency, you and I must learn to go to God in prayer. Well, with that in mind, we need to ask ourselves the question: what is prayer? And although we cannot exhaust the subject completely this morning, I want to make one particular note that comes from the example of Christ As he resorted to various times in prayer, I want us to notice a particular time in the Gospel of John Where he went to his father in prayer in verse 41 of chapter 11, he says this. Then they took away the stone. Do you remember when they took away the stone from Lazarus? From the place where the dead was laid, and Jesus lifted up his eyes and said, Father, I thank thee that thou hast heard me. And I knew that thou hearest me always, but because of the people which stand by, I said it, that they may believe that thou hast sent me. Jesus says, I know that you're with me always, but I'm thanking you that you are hearing me. And I am saying this aloud, that others may know that we are connected. And by this we have a very helpful application when it comes to prayer. Prayer assures our hearts that we are communing in the presence of God. The Bible tells us that if we know Christ is our Lord and Savior, that we are positionally right with God. The Bible tells us that this position affords us the ability to have fellowship with God. 1 John 1. But how do you know that you're in fellowship with God? How do you make that connection? Prayer assures your hearts that you are in the presence of God. What privilege we have to pray? Do we do it? Secondly, prayer is asking for our needs Now, I want to hasten to say that prayer is not a matter of just petitioning him based upon what we want. Prayer is going to God and being in the presence of God and assuring our hearts that we are with God. That is what prayer is. Prayer may not always include petitions or needs. Prayer is broader than that. But folks, usually in prayer, there is a time or a point at which we begin to just express our needs to God. Matthew chapter 6, verse 8 says, Be not therefore like unto them, for your Father knoweth what things ye have need of before ye ask. Ephesians chapter 6, verse 18, says, praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all the saints. Now the Bible tells us that we need to pray for the needs, when we're when for our needs. When there are times of need, we need to come to God in prayer. Hebrews 4, verse 16, explicitly tells us the privilege of being able to do that. Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy and to find grace to help in time of need. My friend, what kinds of needs do you have in your life? Some of you have very important decisions to make. Some of you have great longings in your heart. Some of you have great temptations before you Some of you have great trials that may happen to you this year. Some of you have great decisions, and you must learn to go to God in prayer. We have the privilege of doing so. So what is a need? God says in his word that we can obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. What is a need? I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles and turn to Matthew chapter 6 to answer that question. Matthew chapter 6 is in the middle of the Sermon on the Mount, and we find an example. Of what the disciples are supposed to prayer, to pray. And I want to hasten to say that this is not the Lord's Prayer. The Lord's Prayer is in John 17. This is not the Lord's Prayer. You may have heard all your life is the Lord's Prayer. This is not the Lord's Prayer. And I'm going to prove that to you in a few moments. This was intended to be an example to the disciples of the manner in which they ought to pray. And you'll notice the difference in a few moments. But I want you to see, picking up in verse 7, it says, But when ye pray, use not vain repetitions as the heathen do, for they think that they shall be heard for their much speaking. Be not ye therefore like unto them, for your father knoweth knoweth what things ye have what? Ye have need of. Before you ask. Now, with that in mind, now a couple of things. You know, it's really interesting to me that the very Lord the very thing that people call the Lord's Prayer, which is about to come in a minute. is the very thing that sometimes some uh religious groups use and it becomes vain repetitions. Sort of interesting. It's like the worst misapplication of this verse. Not that if you quote the Lord's Prayer you're necessarily doing that. Really depends on your heart motive as you do it, but it very often becomes that way in certain uh denominations when they just say this in a rote way without thinking about what they're saying. But I want you to notice though He says what things you have need of, and now he's going to give you an example of what a need is in this prayer. He says Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. We're praying that his name would be hallowed, that he would be glorified. Thy kingdom come, that the kingdom of God would be furthered Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. So let me pause and simply say this. What is a need? A need Is something that we pray because we see that something needs to happen in order for the furtherance of God's kingdom to come to pass. We are all to be actively involved in the furtherance of God's kingdom if we know Christ is our Savior. That is our goal. That is our pursuit. That is our purpose. And as we live this life serving God, focused on who he is, desiring to glorify him. There will be times where we will see deficiencies that need to be met, things that need to be fulfilled in order for the kingdom of God to move forward. And that is how we pray, Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. And it might include physical things. Give us this day our daily bread. This is not all things that we think of as non-physical. These are physical things. Give us this day our daily bread. And forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. And lead us not into temptation. But deliver us from evil, for thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. For if ye forgive men their trespasses, your Father, your Heavenly Father also will forgive you. But if ye forgive men not their tr men their men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses. Now I told you I would prove to you that this is not the Lord's prayer. And I'll do it this way. Would you notice what it says in verse 12? Forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. Is that something that the Lord would ever need to pray? No. Christ lived a perfect life. He is God. He never sinned. He never had a debt. He never had He was never sinful. This is not the Lord's prayer because this is not a prayer that the Lord needed to pray. The real Lord's Prayer is found in John 17, and you find no requests for forgiveness in that passage. You never find Christ saying, well, I need, Father, would you forgive me for something? Why? Because he needs no forgiveness So, folks, then the real prayer, the Lord's prayer, is John 17. And I'd invite you to take your Bibles and now turn there to John 17. John seventeen, we have here then the Lord's Prayer. And with all of this in mind It all should serve us to understand this prayer a little bit better. I'm going to read the first five verses to you again. These words spake Jesus and lifted up his eyes to heaven and said, Father, the hour is come. Glorify thy Son, that thy Son also may glorify thee. As thou hast given him power over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as thou hast given him. And this is life eternal, that they might know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent. I have glorified thee on the earth. I have finished the work which thou gavest me to do. And now, O Father, glorify thou me with thine own self, with the glory which I had I had give I had with thee before the world was. This prayer is an extremely unique prayer. It is a prayer that has no confessions in it. It is a prayer Where Jesus is conscious of his own perfect obedience, according to verse 14 There is a uh and in several other places. There is the there is this is a prayer that is the mo the highest and most extensive example of intercessory prayer we find anywhere in the entire Bible. And this is a prayer that is the longest prayer of Christ anywhere in the entire Bible. It is a word where we find this key word give that's mentioned 17 times. The word given or give. Thirteen of those times is the Father giving something to his son, and four times is the Son giving something to his apostles. There is this great view of the human side of Christ combined with the great view of him being God in this prayer. And so far in the Gospel of John, we have seen claims of Christ that clearly detail his deity But on the other hand, we find claims of Christ that demonstrate his humanity and that he is separate in person from his father. He is one with his father, and yet separate in person from his father. And we find here that they how the two of those work together in this awesome prayer And with that in mind, I'd like us then to delve into, for the moments we have left, this prayer, and we'll begin in verse 1. He says, it says here with his own posture that he lifted up his eyes to heaven. That is significant because there are many times in the Bible where the saints of old and the patriarchs of the Old Testament bowed their knees and sometimes their faces to the ground. But not Christ here. Christ lifted up his eyes to heaven. Why? Because Christ is God. He is the God-man. He is the man who could the only one who could make who could satisfy the just demands of God. He is the only one who could act as our perfect high priest. And so he comes to God by looking up turning up his face toward heaven. We find also that his desire is for God's glory. This should be no surprise to us. Many times throughout the Gospel of John, we have seen how his desire is to glorify his Father. Truly, the desire of God is that all creation glorifies him. And Christ is no exception to this. He says in verse 2. Verse 1, Father, the hour is come. Glorify thy Son, that thy Son may also glorify thee. He says here, the hour is come. Throughout the book of John, we have actually seen the exact opposite of that phrase. We have seen him say, mine hour is not yet come. For example, in John chapter 2, he said to his mother, right before he did the miracle with the water turned the water into the wine, mine hour is not yet come. In John chapter 7, verse 6, he says, My time has not yet come. In John chapter 7, verse 8, he says again, that my time has not yet fully come. In John chapter seven, verse thirty, he says, uh uh he says, my hour has not yet come. In John chapter 8, verse 20, he says that his hour had not yet come. But by John chapter 16, verse 32, he says, Behold, the hour cometh. Yet is now come that ye shall be scattered every man to his own, and shall leave me alone, and yet I am not alone, because the Father is with me. That is a couple of verses prior, and now he turns to his father. The disciples will leave him alone. He will have no one of his none of his friends to console him. He will have to resort to his own father alone, and he is, and he turns to his father in this great high priestly prayer. We see then he says that he desires that the Father glorify him so that he may glorify his father. What does he mean there when he says that he desires his father glorify him? The word glory has several different connotations to it in various contexts in Scripture. But in this case, the best way to look at his glory is to think of being clothed with splendor. To be clothed with splendor. In the Old Testament, you'll find this phrase used by David. He says to God in prayer, You are clothed with majesty, you are clothed with splendor. Jesus looks back to the time prior to his coming to earth, prior to the incarnation, when he is with his with heaven, he is in heaven with his God, and he is clothed in splendor. We know that in Philippians chapter 2 it tells us that he emptied himself of this splendor. He limited himself of his own glory so that he could come to earth. But made himself, verse chapter two, Philippians chapter two verse seven, of no reputation, and taking the form of a sir bondservant, and coming in the likeness of man He being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient to death, even the death of the cross. Later on in that passage, it says, Wherefore God hath highly exalted him and given him a name which is above every name, that the name of Jesus, every knee shall bow. We find in this passage that Jesus comes to his father, and he for years now, for 33 years, it's as though he has been unclothed. He has limited his glory for the sake of humanity. He has put aside the splendor of being God. He didn't lose his deity. He is God. But the clothing of splendor he laid aside, and he is looking forward to the time where he will get again be glorified. And apparently this glory has significant meaning as he goes to the cross. Well, you notice what it says in verse 5. And now, O Father, glorify thou me with thine own self, with the glory which I had with thee before the world was. You can imagine it this way, there was a time in heaven, prior to the foundation of the world, prior to any of creation. Where you had this divine counsel between the Father and the Son and the Spirit of God. This divine counsel occurred and prior to the creation, they Came up with this plan called salvation. They were aware that man would fall. They were aware that sin would curse every man And they were aware that this ultimately would actually bring more glory, but it would require a sacrifice of the second person of the Trinity. But ultimately, because of this great sacrifice, he would be able to receive more glory, and more glory would go to his Father. It's incredible, don't you think, that the fall of mankind would ultimately result in greater glory because of the sacrifice of Christ Sometimes we think of our salvation in terms like this. God created the world. He created it perfect. He created it in order to glorify God. He created it so that he could have fellowship with man. And man made a mistake and ruined it. And so God kind of got together with the other person of the Trinity and says, okay, what do we do now? Uh we've got to figure out some sort of plan to compensate for man's mistake. Uh let's uh you've got to go down and you've got to take uh sorry you're gonna have to do this, Jesus. That is not how it happened. Now I just exaggerate a little bit more than we would ever think It's not as though God was caught off guard by all of this. No, there was this divine counsel, and based upon the death of Christ, now this is deep stuff, isn't it? But based upon the death of Christ on the cross, God, the Father, gave Christ authority. See what it says here? Verse 2. As thou hast given him power, the word power means authority there, over all flesh, that he should give eternal life To as many as thou hast given him. There was this divine counsel in heaven that gave authority to Christ. To then be able, based upon the fact that he would die on the cross someday and satisfy the just demands of God, to be able then to grant eternal life to people That's why, folks, he could grant eternal life to people, even in the Old Testament. Do you know that? Those people who knew Christ. in the old test the people knew knew of God and knew of the revelation they were given him by faith and they knew of the coming sacrifice, the coming for uh uh uh um restitution. They didn't understand all of it, but they m they had some glimpses of it and they put placed placed the their faith in the and the Bible says that Abraham believed God it was counted ever for righteousness. Why Because you had this divine decree prior to the foundation of the world where Christ was given authority to give eternal life to people. And if you come to Christ as your as your Lord and Savior, you're one of those. It's incredible. One of the greatest, Martin Lord Jones said it this way: one of the greatest problems that we find as Christianity is when we do not get this thing of salvation right. When we diminish it to something far shallow than it more shallow than it really is, when we think of it in terms of just this this plan, this compensation for sin. It does satisfy the just demands of God. It does take care of sin, but it does ultimately glorify God. And he prays for this. I want you to notice exactly how it glorifies God in this passage. We find here, verse 2, that he should give eternal life to as many as thou hast given him. But what is this eternal life? And this is life eternal. What? That they might known thee The only true God and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent. What is eternal life? It is to know God You see, the problem was because of your sin, you no longer can know God. No wonder we cannot glorify him. We have no ability to glorify him if we have no ability to know him. Eternal life is not just this This quantitative life that occurs after we come to occurs when we die, that extends our life into infinity. Eternal life is far more than that. Eternal life is qualitative. Eternal life starts when you come to Christ. Eternal life gives you an abundant life in Christ, and eternal life gives you the profound divine ability to know God that you did not have before. And do you know why we can have all this? Because Christ prayed for it He comes to God and he says, glorify me, that I may glorify you, because you have given authority to me. to give uh to give eternal life to to whomever asks or to whoever will accept it by faith. Actually what it says in this passage is toever you give it, you give to me. Which are those who accept by faith. And so we find here verse 3 This is life eternal, that they might know thee, the only true God in Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent. Now, what I want us to see is a couple of things here. I want us to see that even though Jesus had never sinned, And Jesus, being God, did not have needs in the way that we do, perhaps, at least in some way. He was human, and so he did have needs. And it was, because he was human, it was vitally necessary for him to come to God to To allow, to include, to, at least if nothing else, to show us how to be actively involved in the furtherance of his kingdom. Can I ask you a question? Are you actively involved in the furtherance of God's kingdom? And you are not, if you are not actively involved in prayer. We let's not kid ourselves. Let's not think that though we do certain things and don't do certain things, that we have a code of conduct that we have come up with with Christianity. uh over the years that we somehow think that we're we're actively involved in God's kingdom. There is a sense of which we are not if we are not praying And there is a sense of which we are when we choose to. And so I would conclude this way. There is a direct link between the level of our closeness to God and the frequency of our prayers. Now I want to make this clear. You do not have to pray in order to know Christ. Your position of Christ is secure even if you don't pray. But you are not close to God if you don't pray. And the closeness that you have with God is directly dependent upon the frequency of your prayer life. The Bible says, pray without ceasing. Very candidly, this is what it looks like. You wake up in the morning and you pray. And you go throughout the day and you pray. You're constantly, you have the presence of God on your mind. You're thinking about God being there with you. And you pray. Men ought to pray and not to lose heart. We need to pray, number two. Our involvement in God's kingdom, in God's kingdom work, depends on our involvement in prayer. It depends on it. Number three, our prayers must be occupied with what we give the Lord. With what will give the Lord the most glory. We must constantly think in our prayer life, Lord, what will give you the most glory? That is how I must pray. Number four, abundant life depends on knowing God. And knowing God depends On prayer to God. If you know God, you will pray to Him. Now I can imagine that everyone here I maybe not everyone here, but I know I was extremely convicted by all this, and I would imagine that many of you are. And what I want to do is give you a few moments just in silence before the Lord To come to God. Maybe there needs to be confession. Maybe there needs to be an admission that we do not pray as often as we ought. Maybe maybe there needs to be resolution and request That he teach us to pray. That's what the disciples did. They said, Lord, teach us to pray. That's not a wrong thing. And if we're going to be faithful, as we looked at last Sunday, with what God gives us, with His provision and His grace, we must be constant in prayer on these things. And so I want to give you a few moments in silence before the Lord, just to go to God and commune with Him, assure your hearts that you are in the presence of God, and to pray now. And just to spend a few moments with God in silent prayer, and then we will come to God in corporate prayer. And then we'll conclude the service. So I'll give you a few moments just in silent prayer before the Lord. Our Father, we come to you and admit before you we don't pray as we ought to. And We are in this flesh and we are Um so prone to jump to our own lean onto our own understanding Instead of all in all of our ways acknowledging you and allowing you to direct our paths Father, I pray, Lord, that you would make your people men and women of prayer. I pray that you would make Bethel Baptist Church a church that prays. It is hard work. It is possibly the hardest kind of work Of any ministry. I pray, Lord, that you would help us To constantly come to you in prayer. And to know, to be aware of your presence Lord, as we look at 2017 and the various decisions that may be made, whether it's individual or corporate We just come to you and realize how much we need to depend on you. Pray that we would. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Alright, let's sing together. Um