Galatians two I have lately been uh very interested in the revolutionary time period in our country. It is a time period where um where there was A great deal of excitement and a great deal of struggle and a great deal of discussion. A few weeks ago I went up to Philadelphia with our family on a field trip and visited various sites, Independence Hall and other things and been reading a book um on my on occasions I have time to read other things besides biblical and theological things. I I'm reading a book, uh a biography of John Adams. By David McCullough. I would highly recommend that, by the way. It's a great book, although it is about 600 pages long. And it's taking me longer to get through than than other books I've read. But it's it's really excellent. Um one of the things that I've learned just from looking at the revolutionary time period and the revolutionary war, of course the Declaration of Independence was signed in 1776. was that unity back then was hard fought. In fact, if you think of the Civil War, the war between between the states, see I I'm political so I got both sides of that. Those some you civil war buffs know what I'm talking about. If I say war between the states, then you'll be happy if you're from the south. And if I say civil war, you'll be happy from the north. Now I'm feeling like a total traitor to my grandfather who's probably listening right now. Anyway, he's a definitely a strong Confederate guy. Um but unity was a was certainly a problem back then, wasn't it? Unity's always hard fought. And we're actually living in fact in this in the uh in the first in the Revolutionary War, Benjamin Franklin in May ninth, seventeen fifty four, so this was small several years before We declared our n independence. He used this illustration and he to uh in his in his newspaper in order to um It was the Pennsylvania Gazette, in order to illustrate the reality that there needed to be unity in order for there to be strength. And he had the very simple slogan underneath, join or die. This did in part help to unify the colonies in order to be able to come together in the Second Continental Congress and and to establish the Declaration of Independence after much trying very hard to uh to gain the to to uh for representation from anyway, I'm talking too much about this. Bottom line is uh the unity is hard thought. Uh we're living in a day where like last Sunday was probably one of the greatest Expressions of disunity our country has seen in in modern history. America's favorite sports uh Sports um game has been met with lots of disunity. And many seem to want to comment on it, want to give their opinion on it. And though although I have an opinion on it, I'm not going to give my opinion today on that Except to simply say that I stand when the Pledge of Allegiance is sung. But I have a question Do we have more loyalty to the flag than we do the gospel? You know, there might be a day in which we actually have to choose. There may be a day in which we have to do we get more upset when we hear the name of God disdained? Or when we hear the gospel The gospel communicated in a way where it is corrupted. Do we get more upset and in arms over that than we do a flag that is not stood for? There may be a day where we actually have to make a make a decision one way or the other. When tolerance and syncretism become the moral code of the national conscience, when under God is removed from our national anthem and our currencies There may be a day where we have to make a choice. What would you choose? See, what's far more important than national unity to God is gospel unity. Far more important. I'm not sure we'll ever have national unity in the way that we would want. But we ought to be able to have gospel unity in the way that we ought. The Apostle Paul in this passage is wanting us to see his desire for the furtherance of the gospel to go forward. We have already established that there are Judaizers that are going against him. These Judaizers are really speaking lies about the Apostle Paul. And Paul has established that his gospel is true and theirs is false. He's established that he does not need to adjust the gospel to please anyone, and he has not done that. And he has established that the gospel message that he has been preaching has been self-standing because it is directly from revelation of God. Now he is going to establish the importance of gospel unity. And we're going to learn how to do this and how we ought to practice gospel unity in our day and age. Let's go, Lord, in prayer. Father, we come to you and we pray, Lord, that you would help us. That we would have the same priorities as the Apostle Paul does. That we would live for the furtherance of the gospel. That it will be seen in everything we do, in the raising of our children, in the strengthening of our marriages, In our church, in the development of our church. Father, I pray, Lord, that we would have a singular focus Of the gospel going forward in this land, in our community where God has placed us. May we gather And glean from the Apostle Paul and his heart for this, this day. I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. There was a false narrative that was going around that was being propagated by the Judaizers about the Apostle Paul. It went something like this. The Apostle Paul received his gospel message from the quote-unquote real apostles in Jerusalem. They were the true apostles. Paul was sort of a secondary lesser apostle, or not an apostle at all, maybe some would say. And they res he received a specific message from the Jewish apostles in Jerusalem, but when he went out to preach that message to Gentiles, he changed the message. Now, what Paul is going to do is he's going to explain that there is a false narrative going on here. That what has happened has been twisted. That is exactly the opposite of that. That what is actually true is that that there is no false that there is that that actually what has occurred Is that Paul began preaching by himself with no outside input. And then later on, what this message was dec declared 14 years after he came to Christ. was declared to the Jewish apostles and was agreed upon. It was a reverse of the narrative that they were propagating the Judaizers. And he's going to explain all of this in this text this morning. And I just want to say at the very beginning of this, you know, it's it's it's amazing how many times in ministry and in my experience false narratives have been propagated That Satan uses to really disrupt and to really confuse God's people Just a detail that is out of place or put out of order or things that have been confused cause God's people to be confused, and Satan is the author of this confusion. And this was causing the Galatian Christians to be confused about the truth of Paul's message of the gospel that was originally preached to them by him. Paul is going to set the record straight here. He's going to set in chronological order: here is what happened, here's the order in which it happened, and here's why it happened. And in doing so, we're going to see the pursuits of the Apostle Paul, and we're going to see the motivation of the Apostle Paul, and we're going to see Paul's heart for the gospel in all of this. We see here, for example, in verse 1 of chapter 2, we have this very simple word then. That word then connects us to the chronology that has already been going along. in this passage as he is he first was in um he was of course on uh he was the soul of Tarsus on his way to Damascus And then after a few year after three years he went to uh during three there was three years where he was uh in Arabia. And then we find that he was after after 14 years from his conversion, he was now in Jerusalem, and he wanted to make sure he had all that straight. So this is a a a chronological narrative of what occurred. He explains with very specific details, chapter 2, verse 1. Then 14 years after I went up to again to Jerusalem with Barnabas, and took Titus with me also. So Paul is in the midst of preaching the gospel in Cilicia and in other regions, other places And fourteen years after he has been called to do this, he decides to go up to Jerusalem and he takes two people with him. He takes Barnabas, which we know as a godly man, a man of great use for God's service in the the history of the of of the first century church and one who was a comforter. He was one who was an encourager. In fact his name means that. Paul and Barnabas were team members together for this work of God. And he takes another man named Titus. Titus, we're going to learn in this passage was a Gentile. He was converted to Christ. And we find in 2 Corinthians and several places that Titus was used greatly. for the furtherance of the gospel even in the church at Corinth and was comforted by the church at Corinth after their repentance in 2 Corinthians. Titus was a man who was truly converted. And Paul takes both Barnabas and Titus up to Jerusalem. to meet with, to have, to make, to have a meeting with the apostles in Jerusalem, as we see in verse 2. It says, and I went up by Revelation He's reminding them that he had revelation, direct revelation from God, and communicated unto them that gosp that gospel which I preach among the Gentiles. But privately to them which were of reputation, lest by any means I should run or had run in vain. He says that he goes up to the apostles in Jerusalem and he's he preaches the exact same gospel message that he has been preaching for the last 14 years to the Gentiles, he preaches this to the apostles in Jerusalem. And he brings Barnabas and Titus with him. We're going to learn why he brings Titus, because Titus is an example of a converted soul who was converted by this gospel. He sort of wanted to bring an object lesson, if you will, for the church Jerusalem Council or the Jerusalem apostles. And he brings them, brings, he comes and he discusses this with them. Now I want to hasten to say that he does not do this in order to get validation of his gospel message. In other words, he does not go up to Jerusalem To say, well, I hope my gospel message has been okay for the last 14 years. Let me go up and make sure it's okay with the Jerusalem Apostles. That is not at all why he went up there. He had entirely a different reason altogether for going up to the Jerusalem Apostles. Some think that this was in Acts 15, that's the great chapter where circumcision was discussed by the apostles and a council led by James, the pastor of Jerusalem. I think it's very unlikely that that's actually that what this is referring to. It's more likely that this was a council that a private meeting between some of the apostles that occurred. Somewhere around chapter eleven, an area of an uh around chapter eleven of the book of Acts. You might want to just make make note of that. He then is going to explain why he did this. Would you notice what it says? He says that I should run, lest by any means I should run or had run in vain. Now, what does Paul mean when he says, I don't want to have run in vain? Paul uses this term run several times in Scripture. And we see this throughout, there are several times, but I'll note a couple of them. For example, in Philippians chapter 2, verse 16, he says, holding fast the word of life. So that I may rejoice in the day of Christ, that I have not run in vain or labored in vain. Paul says that the way that he runs The way that he labors is to hold fast the word of Christ, to move forward the gospel of Jesus Christ. He says this in 2 Thessalonians 3, verse 1. Finally, brethren, pray for us that the word of the Lord may run swiftly and be glorified just as it is with you. He asked the church of Thessalonica, may the gospel, the word of God, the gospel run swiftly. May it have true course. May it have effect in the lives of people. Pray that this happens. When the Apostle Paul uses this term run, he is talking about the effective work of the gospel. He's not talking about the message of the gospel, he is talking about the method of communicating the gospel. As Timothy Keller says, nothing was threatening Paul's certainty, but something was threatening his fruitfulness. So the question is, what was threatening Paul's fruitfulness? What was pre threatening the free course of the gospel going forward? Well, it was the possibility of confusion. Confusion among the other Jerusalem apostles about the message that Paul was preaching. Now let me explain it this way. Paul's message of the gospel had no tie with any ethnic people group. The gospel had no ethnic ties. We actually see this in the very heart of the gospel in Romans chapter three, Paul's writing, he says, This, therefore, by the deeds of the law no flesh will be justified in his sight, for by the law is the knowledge of sin. But now the righteousness of God apart from the law is revealed, being witnessed by the law and the prophets, even the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ. to all and on all who believe, for there is no difference. If you want to see the heart of the gospel, the very crux of the gospel, There is no better place to go than Romans chapter 3, verse 21. That is the heart of the gospel. Now, a fuller explanation of the gospel will be in a place like 1 Corinthians 15. But the heart of the gospel is here. And embedded in the heart of the gospel, he says, for there is no difference. For all have sinned. And fall short of the glory of God, being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. He goes on to say the same kind of thing in Ephesians chapter 2. He says that at time past you were without Christ being alienated, talking to Gentile Christians, being alienated from the Commonwealth of Israel and strangers from the covenants of promise. have no hope with and without God in the world. But now in Christ Jesus, you want who once were afar off have been brought near by the blood of Christ. For he himself is our peace, who is made with one and has broken down the middle wall of separation, having abolished in his flesh the enmity, that is, the law of commandments contained in ordinances So as to create in s in himself one new man from the two, thus making peace And that he might reconcile them both to God in one body through the cross, therefore putting to death the enmity. We see in these passages that Paul, the gospel that Paul preached, had no tie to a particular ethnic group, had no tie to a particular nationality. And the Apostle Paul went to great lengths to explain that this is not a specifically Jewish gospel. That anybody could receive this. And they could actually retain their own culture while they receive it That the conditions of the gospel have nothing to do with changing your culture. They have everything to do with the saving merits of Christ on the cross and his grace. So this was the thing that was being potentially compromised. And we find in verse 3 Or actually it's in verse, in verse 3 it says, but neither Titus was with me being a Greek, was compelled to be circumcised. And that because of false brethren unawares bef uh brought in, who came and privileged spy our liberty, that we have in Christ Jesus, that they might bring us into bondage. There were these false brethren that were coming in, they were slipping in by the side, the Greek is the way that the Greek is put. In order to suggest that Paul's gospel, this was back, this was not the Judaizers actually that he's dealing with in Galatians, this was another group. That he was dealing with in Jerusalem. And they were suggesting that the Apostle Paul's gospel was not the same gospel as the Jewish gospel in Jerusalem. And so these false brethren was were causing confusion. Now let me let me illustrate it this way, because I think this will be helpful We were just a couple of weeks ago spent a day up in Philadelphia. And in Philadelphia, it's a very it's a pretty large city. Within the city limits, you have over two million people. And among those people in Philadelphia, you have different ethnic groups. You would have Jewish people that are in a particular community. You have, I think you have Italian, a group of Italian people. Let's suppose, I'm not sure about this, but let's suppose you have a group of Russian people and you have a group of of Chinese people that are all within the city of Philadelphia. And let's suppose you wanted to go in and you wanted to give the gospel to all of these different groups. What these people would have wanted you to do is to say that, hey, when you go into the Italian group and you go into the Russian group and you go into You need to give them the gospel of Jesus Christ, but you need to tell them that they need to adjust to this Jewish culture over here. Now let me ask you this question. If you were going to evangelize that way, which would be false, if you were going to evangelize that way in Philadelphia and you went to present the gospel to the Jewish to the Jewish group, and then you do you present the gospel to the the Italian group and you went and pr presented the gospel to the Chinese group. You you went to all these different groups and presented the gospel. What would be the result? I'll tell you what the result would be. If you attach the Jewish culture onto that gospel, the Jewish culture probably wouldn't follow you because you're believing in Christ. The Apostle Paul lamented over the fact that Jewish people do not generally receive Christ. Now, there are some that do, praise the Lord for that. But as a whole, as a group of people, as a nation, that they don't. And they don't to this day. So you wouldn't get the gospel going forward in a Jewish culture simply because Christ is an offense to them. You aren't going to get the gospel very far in the Russian culture because they're going to have to adjust to the Jewish culture. What would happen, folks, if you began to preach that kind of gospel in Philadelphia that way? You would get nowhere. In fact, the gospel would very likely go extinct in that area. In modern missions, we have discovered that what we have to do when we go into other cultures is to make sure that the gospel that we are preaching is not an Americanized gospel. It's a gospel that is free from all American attachments whatsoever. Why? Because we're not asking people to become Americans, we're asking people to believe in Christ. And they can retain their culture that is not, you know, not a sinful, if there's not sinful problems, as long as it's consistent with God's word, they can retain that So Paul was fighting not for the message of the gospel, which he knew to be true. He was fighting for the furtherance of the gospel that it would continue to have free course and be able to continue to move forward as as it had been doing and spreading. And so he said, in order to do that, I need to go up to Jerusalem. We need to make sure that we have gospel unity. That these, that we all agree on the gospel. And so he took Titus with him. And as he took Titus with him, who was a Gentile, who was a Greek or a Gentile, He took him up with him and he said, and Titus was not circumcised. And he said to the apostles, does this man really need to be circumcised in order to be saved? And it was agreed upon all of the apostles, they had gospel unity in this, that no, that did not need to happen in order for Titus to come to Christ or for Titus to be saved. They had then gospel unity. Now, there is a very important truth for us to understand in all of this Folks, you and I need to remember that we are part of the universal body of Christ. And that universal body of Christ is not tied together by culture. It's not tied together by ministry method. It's not tied together by preferences. It's tied together by the gospel. And we need to be very careful that we are supportive of others who may do things differently than we do Who may adjust methods in a different way than we do? Who may do diff we need to be be careful that we are supportive If they are preaching the true and pure gospel of Jesus Christ, there are we ought not to be tied to denominationalism when it comes to encouraging our brothers and sisters to preach and live out the gospel. There's nothing with organizing in a certain way and doing things a certain way as a local church in order to have order that needs to happen. But we need to remember that there are many people in our land that genuinely preach the gospel, and there are brothers and sisters in Christ. And we need to understand that what we need to have is unity in the gospel. There are sometimes, I don't know if you've ever had this happen before, but I've talked to people that don't know the Lord. And as I talk to them about the Lord, they sometimes say to me, well, what faith am I really going to believe in? I mean, there's so many. And they're not even talking about false gospels. They're talking about the fact that there are so many different denominations. You know what our answer should be? Well, brother, you've got to become Baptist. That should not be our answer. Our answer should be That it does not matter the denomination. The denomination is not what is important. It is the gospel that is important. And you need to receive the gospel from the Word of God. The Word of God has no denomination in it. And as soon as you say it is, come talk to me because it doesn't. The Word of God is a pure gospel. And we need to understand let unsaved people know that all we believe is what the Bible says. And what we really believe is simply the person and work of Christ and the gospel of Jesus Christ, which is expressed through the Word of God. Just believe this book and we'll be in agreement. So Paul understood the unity of the gospel. And folks, even within our church, let me just say this. There are all kinds of different opinions in our midst, different backgrounds, different ways of doing things, different sports teams that you all like. I mean we're like seriously diverse when it comes to sports teams. That shouldn't be our unity. The gospel is our unity. That is what we are unified in. That is what we partake of the table together in. It is the gospel. And we need to understand that when we divide over secondary issues, then we are actually doing harm to the furtherance of the gospel. So we see here that the Apostle Paul brings Titus to them for that reason. Now, I want to mention this. The conclusion of these people, of the apostles, when it came to Titus, was that he did not need to be circumcised. Was absolutely not necessary for him to do that. But I want to contrast it with another situation. In fact, would you take your Bibles and turn to Acts chapter 16 for a minute? In Acts chapter 16, we find a group of people. Well, it's not really a group of people, it's the Apostle Paul, that is talking to Timothy. And he asks Timothy to do something that we might be surprised about, having considered that in this passage, Titus was not compelled at all. to be circumcised. Acts sixteen one, it says, Then he came to Derby and Lystra, and behold a certain disciple was there, named Timothy, the son of a certain Jewish woman who believed, but his father was Greek. He was well spoken of by the brethren who were at Lystra and Iconium. But Paul wanted to have him go on with him. And he took him and circumcised him because of the Jews who were in that region, for they all knew that his father was Greek. Now, folks, why did Paul do that? Did Paul do that in order to just pacify the Jews? Well, we know that he is not a people pleaser. He's very clear about that. Did the Apostle Paul do that because somehow that would make him make Timothy more saved? No, of course that wasn't why he did that. Do you know why the Apostle Paul compelled Timothy and circumcised Timothy so that he could go with him? It was because the Apostle Paul wanted no barriers to the gospel message as he preached it. He wanted there to be no barriers, and so he was willing to adjust to the Jewish culture when he was preaching to the Jews, not to change the gospel, but so that there would be no barriers in allowing him to be able to communicate the gospel. And Paul's heart was like this all the time. In 1 Corinthians chapter 9, he says this: For though I am free from all men. I made myself a servant to all, that I may might win the more. And the Jews, I became a Jew. And that I might win the Jews, to those who are under the law, as under the law, that I might win those who are under the law. To those who are without the law, as without the la That I might win those who are without the law. To the weak I became as weak, that I might win the weak. I have become all things to all men, that I might be by some means save some. Now, this I do for the gospel's sake, that I may be a partaker of it with you. The Apostle Paul explains that he does adjust his practice, never adjusts the message But he does adjust the practice, his practice, so that he had there are no barriers to the gospel as he is preaching and as is going forward. And he is willing to serve. He's willing to withhold his own liberties in order for that to happen. I think sometimes in Christianity we sort of get on our high horse and you say, Well, I got a right to do this, and I don't want to be legalistic and nobody should judge me, and I shouldn't and we start we start taking liberties in areas That yes, we may have the gospel ability to take a liberty in, but folks, we're doing harm to the gospel. We're doing harm to the work of the gospel in somebody's life. What you and I do in our lives affect other people. There is no getting around it. And you and I need to remember that the only thing that we need to not think w that we might not be compromising the gospel message in what we do But folks, we can compromise the work of the gospel if we're not careful with what we do. The reason that we should be careful with our behavior and consider our our conduct is not because we're legalistic. It's because we want the gospel to go forward as with no with as little barriers as possible. The gospel itself is a barrier. The exclusivity of the gospel that it allows no other faith and no other way is itself a barrier. And if that's the barrier, fine But we need to be careful that we don't put other barriers in place by taking liberties that we should not take because it actually limits the work of the gospel. Let us folks be very careful about that. And let us understand that when Paul, when the Apostle Paul said Titus didn't need to receive the gospel, didn't need to uh Take circumcision. And T Timothy did. He was not being duplicitous. What Paul was doing was he had one thing in common with both of them. He wanted both the method and the message of the gospel to go forward as much as possibly could be. And you and I need to have that kind of that kind of resolve and that kind of heart in our lives. Would to God that we would have that Now, if we have that kind of thinking in our lives when it comes to what we do and how we live, then we will not be under the bondage that Paul was concerned about in verse 4. What do you notice here that in verse 4 it says that these false brethren were unaware and brought uh them uh and and they were coming in privily to spy out their liberty. There was concern about the compromise of liberty. So on the one hand, let me just say it this way, on the one hand, the gospel, in order for it to go forward, there need to be gospel unity But on the other hand, folks, there need to be gospel exclusion. In order for there to be gospel unity, we need to unify with those who preach the gospel. But we need to exclude those who don't. You see, that doesn't sound very nice. Well, the Bible actually teaches this. The thing that was at really at at stake here had to do with their liberty This was it is explained pretty well when we consider what Acts chapter 15 says. So if you're in Acts, you might still be in Acts. Would you turn over to Acts chapter 15? I want you to see a few verses there. Acts chapter 15, and we'll look at verse 7. In Acts chapter 15, there's a council of pastors and apostles that have met to discuss the issue of circumcision. And what Peter says here in this passage is that is explains what is at stake if they don't get this matter correct. He says in Acts chapter 15, verse 7, and when there had been much dispute, Peter rose up and said to them, Men and brethren, you know that a good while ago ago God chose among us That my mouth, uh that by my mouth the Gentiles should hear the word of the gospel and believe. So God, who knows the heart, acknowledge them by giving them the Holy Spirit, just as He did to us. And made no distinction between us and them purifying their hearts by faith. Look at verse 10 Now, therefore, why do you test God by putting a yoke on the neck of the disciples, which neither our fathers nor we were able to bear? But ye believe that through the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, we shall be saved in the same manner as they. He says, look, don't put this yoke of bondage on these Gentiles who have zero obligation. to be circumcised and to follow the Mosaic Law. Peter understood that there was a there was something to be uh there was something that was going to be threatened. It was our liberty. There is, folks, a need to maintain our liberty in the gospel. Now what does that mean? Let me illustrate it this way. Suppose you suppose I pre- I'm going to illustrate it in a very vivid way. Suppose I got up here one day and I preached on tithing. So that'd be a good idea. Or somebody's saying, don't do that. So let's suppose I preach on tithing. And I split the church in half milk. And I said to you, it is your obligation to give such and such amount of money. You need to do that. And you know what? If you don't do that, you're gonna be in in in trouble with God. God is going to judge you, and you're gonna be condemned, and you're gonna what if I did that? What would that cause some people to do? Well, it may cause some people to give more in fear. But what would be the problem with that, folks? Does God want us to give in fear? God says he loves a cheerful giver. So I would actually be in, if I did that, I would be actually encouraging you to give from a wrong unbiblical motive. Is it right to give a portion of what God has given to us regularly? Yes, it's very clear. Scripture is very clear about that. It is right to do that But is it something that you should be doing from a point of fear and and grieving over and oh let me just I guess I gotta give the. Is that how God wants us to give? The Bible's very clear about that. Not grudgingly, nor of necessity. Why? Because God loves what? A cheerful giver. Now, there's an illustration here I want you to get. Say, oh you just preached on tithing. I I really did, but I kind of did, but I didn't. Here's the point. It is very God cares very much about our motive. He wants us to give the gospel, for example, not because we fear as though someone is going to uh you know, die and go to hell if we don't do be the one to give them the gospel. I don't think it quite works that way. Their soul is going to be on our head. And we walk around worrying about whether our s their their soul is going to be attached to our No, no, no, folks. You know why we ought to give the gospel? We ought to give the gospel because we love God and we love what he did for us, and we want to tell others about what he did for us. It's out of love. It's out of a sense of freedom that we give the gospel in the way that God wants us to. Not out of a sense of fearful obligation and bondage. I hope and pray that what I preach is never received in a way, well, oh man, I've got to be put under bondage. No, folks. We need to have a sense of freedom and liberty. We get to preach the gospel. We have the privilege of doing it. We get to give to God's work. We have the privilege of doing it. Why? Because we love God and we want to see the gospel go forward. That ought to be our hearts. Do you get excited about giving? Do you get excited about serving Do you get excited about giving the gospel? Do you get excited about a coworker where you maybe have gotten a five-minute chance to explain one sh Small thing about the gospel, but do you get excited about that kind of thing? God wants us to have a liberty in these things. And that was what was at danger here You start placing the Old Testament law on people and things that are not, that Christ has already fulfilled, and suddenly everybody's going to be in a yoke of bondage instead of having liberty to be able to do what God wants them to do. Now, folks, I am in nowhere, no way saying that we should take liberty for the as an occasion for the flesh In fact, Galatians warn us about that later. The wrong bound to that is, well, I'm free to do whatever I want. And what we actually end up doing is falling into licentiousness instead of understanding that we are not to use our liberty as the occasion for the flesh. Ever. However, what God desires for us is to live in liberty and in freedom to do what God wants us to do. And that was what was at stake here. And so he warns them about this. And he he gives the theological explanation of this. It's in verses 5 and 6. It says, to whom we gave place by subjection No, not for an hour, the truth of the gospel might continue with you. But of these who seem to be somewhat whatsoever they were, it maketh no matter to me, God accepteth no man's person, for they who seemed to be somewhat in conference, added nothing to me And so verse 6 explains that God is not a respecter of persons. That is not innate in the character of God. And because God is not a respecter of persons, and God is not, He does not judge by appearances, that is not the way God determines whether somebody comes to Christ. It's not by appearance at all. And because of that, there was a determination to not even consider what these false brethren had to say. He said we didn't even consider it for a moment. Now let me ask you a question. Are you that intolerant when it comes to false gospel? See, if we're going to have gospel unity, gospel unity means that we we understand that the gospel The gospel is something that we can unify around and we're going to make sure that we love, that we cooperate with people and pray for people that are preaching the gospel and living the gospel. But folks, it also means that we exclude people that don't preach the gospel. If the gospel is compromised, And there is a false gospel being propagated. We cannot continue to cooperate with them. Why? Because we will lose the gospel ourselves. Let me illustrate it this way. So suppose we decided that there was some group in the church. They decided that they wanted to add something to the gospel. Let's suppose they said, you know what, we don't believe in the secret seven sacraments of the Catholic Church, or we don't believe in the um We don't believe in the two sacraments of the the the Methodist, the United Methodists and the Lutherans. We don't believe in those. We just believe in one sacrament. Just one sacrament is all we believe in. We believe in baptism needs to be saved. And I and and and so in order to be saved you have to be baptized. And so we believe in that sacrament. And let's suppose they came to me. Let's say Three families came to me and said, hey, you know, um we we just we we really believe that you you gotta be baptized in order to be saved. Let's suppose I said, you know what, we just need to unify. We just need to make sure we stay unified. You know what? It's okay. You know what? Just it it's alright. Okay, that's fine. So so we'll just we'll just go ahead and do that And and so these three families could continue to do that. Somebody else somebody comes in the church, they join the church. We talk about, they asked me about baptism. They said, well, I believe in baptism Uh they say, I I believe that baptism is necessary to be saved. And I say, okay, well we got a group over here for you, so that's great, no problem. Let's so they start and another c comes at I I don't believe baptism is necessary at all for salvation. And so uh and oh okay, well you can come over here and Rest of us believe that. Folks, what's going to happen over time? You're going to lose unity. It doesn't even take any time, actually, you use unity. You lose unity. See, see, gospel unity is centered on the gospel, but you compromise the gospel in even the slightest bit. You don't have union anymore. You've got to separate from those who don't preach the right gospel Unity is absolutely necessary. And folks, here's the thing. This is what's so important. It's got to be over the primacy of the gospel, not over secondary issues. As soon as you start separating over secondary issues, you will also lose the primacy of the gospel as well And so we need to have this in our minds that you and I need to really understand that the gospel must be the absolute focus. It's the foundation, it's the lightning rod, it's the it's what centers us, it's what unifies us, it's what excludes some. The gospel is the main thing. The main thing is the gospel. And you and I need to live for the gospel. Do we do that in our families? Brothers and sisters in Christ, do we live for the gospel in our families? When you think about your kids, Are you more worried about your kids' academic education than you are them living out the gospel or hearing the gospel? When you wake up in the morning and you think about your kids' role in life, are you more concerned that they have that they're equipped in some other way We have a responsibility to make sure that they're nourished. We've got to make sure we're a responsibility to make sure that they're equipped to do God's service academically and every other way. But folks, we've got to make the gospel the main thing in our homes We've got to rehearse the gospel all of the time in our families. And we've got to make sure that our kids understand the gospel. We're one generation away of gospel extinction in our families. We are always one generation away. Are you going to allow, fathers, are you going to allow gospel extinction in your home? Then you've got to preach the gospel faithfully. Rehearse the gospel. Mothers, you have the role have the same role. Make sure your kids know the gospel Make sure they understand it. Constantly rehearse it. Go over it, over and over in their lives. There are so many ways in our lives that we need and folks we ought not tolerate false gospel And we need to be very, very careful about that. I am halfway done my message, and so we're going to stop here. Home group leaders, you're gonna have fun figuring out figuring out where to start and where to stop. We need to have communion. But let's not forget the truth that's in this passage. I really, I just can't, God has God has really burdened my heart. That we cannot it is hell it is we cannot play church, folks I'm not trying to give you a guilt trip here. Please don't take it that way. But I really am asking us to really consider our priorities And to make sure that our priorities are gospel priorities. Because we get to present the gospel. We get to live the gospel. We get to have lives that are just full of the gospel. We get it. And we want to give that out to others. I can't encourage you enough to really think about that and the priority that we can set in our own homes when it comes to the gospel message. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and we thank you for the truth of the gospel. Lord, I pray that you would help us as a church. That we would set the priorities in our lives And set the priorities in our homes. And set the priorities in our activities, in our behavior, in our schedule. That the gospel comes first May we pray with the passion of the Apostle Paul that the gospel would have free course in this community through us. Use us, dear Father. Help us to have a heart to reach this community for Christ. Lord, we have the privilege together of celebrating the gospel now, of remembering what Christ did. We would be so miserable. We would be on our way to hell. We would be destined For a miserable existence for all of eternity, one of pain and hurt and torment, if it were not for the gospel Lord, may we, as we partake together, may this not be a ritual. May it not be something that we do because it's just what we do once a month. Lord, may we really can really think and remember and appreciate The gospel as we partake of the Lord's Supper this morning. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.