Um because of such and such. For instance, you might somebody might say, well that person, that guy's a CEO of a major company, he's a he makes six figures. He must be a wise person. Is that the case? Not necessarily, right? There's a lot of rich people that aren't that wise. Um and and but some people look at it that way and they say, well that I gotta follow that person because that person's rich and I He's wise, and if I want wisdom, I'll do what he wants he's doing. But the biblical description of wisdom is actually quite different. Then the world's idea of what truly is wise. And what we want to do today is to look at this biblical description in this passage. I want us to notice a few things just by way of background because it's going to help us to understand this passage a little more. If you'll pick up in chapter 9, verse 9. You'll note from last week that we talked about in verses 9 and 10, we talked about the fact that God's desire for us is that we take whatever portion he gives us, whatever he provides for us. And we enjoy it, and we live in it, and we do diligently. It says wherever thy hand findeth to do, do with all thy might. We be diligent with it. We be faithful with it. That's what God's desire for us is. And we ought not, we ought to be very, very careful about seeing God's viewing our circumstances and saying, okay, well God, God's disposition toward me is negative because I'm going through negative circumstances. Or God's disposition toward me is positive because I'm going through positive circumstances. Both of those things, you can't interpret God's disposition toward you by your circumstances. And the reason that that passage says that basically is because good things happen to bad people and bad things happen to good people. The same event. Rain happens on the just and the unjust. Storms happen on the just and the unjust. Traffic happens on the just and the unjust, right? Right, Annapolis guys people. Um th that's just the way the way it is. And so we have to be very careful about that. But I want us to notice also He says this in verse eleven I return and saw unto the sun that the race is not to the swift, the battle is not to the strong, the bread is not to the wise, the riches are to men of uh understanding, nor favor to men of skill But time and chance happen to them all. Sometimes we think that we can uh if we're just better at something, if we could just be wiser or just be better, then we'll have this better life. And the truth of the matter is, it says here in the passage that it isn't necessarily the case. From our lateral perspective, I mean God has everything in control, but from our lateral perspective, it is as though Chances at work, like it's not the case, God's purposeful, but from our perspective, there is no consistent rhyme or reason to why some people seem to be abundantly blessed. And others seem to go through difficult times. The only consolation we have in Christ is that when we go through difficult times as a Christian, God will use them The unbeliever has no he goes through difficult times too, right? Do unbelievers go yeah, they do. They have no consolation that God will ever is ever going to use that in any positive way. For the Christian, God will always use difficult times, always for his purposes in a g in in a good way. All things work together for good. To them that love God, to them they are called according to his purpose. So we so so that's really the difference. So we come to verse 13 through this passage, we're going to understand a little bit more what this illustration is as we open up and look at. The superiority of wisdom. What is why is okay, I'm trying to do this, it's not working. Can you advance that for me, Pat? I'm not sure why. Okay. Oh maybe it's not on. Yeah, it's on. That's not it. Okay, now it's working. Good. So we first want to look at the we want to look at the superiority of wisdom. We'll pick up here in verse 13. This wisdom I have also seen under the sun, and seems great to me. It's a great thing. He's looking at wisdom and he's saying, there's something very valuable here about wisdom. But it's not the kind of wisdom you expect to see. It's in fact it's not easily seen. Notice how he illustrates this. There was a little city with few men in it, and a great king came against it, besieged it, and built great snares around it. So This is the situation you have. This great king, this guy with great strength and great ability, comes into this place and he lays siege to the city and he takes over the city. Verse 15. Now in contrast, there was found in it a what? A poor wise man. So you have There's this contrast of a poor wise man, and he by his wisdom delivered the city. So you have the contrast here between this great strong Arguably rich conquering man who goes into the city and is able to conquer it, versus this poor wise man. And God is clearly going to say that the poor wise man is better than the strong great king. But he says here in this passage, and Ecclesiastes always gives us the balance of reality, right? So he does that here. He says, yet no one remembered the same poor man, that that same poor man. So if you look at history, you may note when someone conquers something else. I mean if you look at if you take a basic history of Civ course, you're going to see this king conquered this place or this nation conquered this. You see a lot of something conquering something else. But you don't know all of the background of the peop the little people in life that actually made the whole thing work, right? They're not remembered. What he's saying here is even though you have poor the the poor wise man is the one that actually delivers the people, nobody remembers the poor wise man. But it doesn't mean he's not more valuable. And you'll see this and and so he's going to explain this uh as we go on. A couple of things about, well, let's just go ahead and go to the next point. You'll see you'll see his point. Verse 16. Wisdom, he says, is better than strength. Nevertheless, the poor man's wisdom is despised And his words are heard. So he says very clearly that wisdom is better than strength. Now, have you ever made that contrast, that comparison before? Do we not often think that the strong person in life is also the wise person? Don't we often think that? I mean, I'm going to use a rather prominent figure just to give you an example. And we're out of the the campaigning now so I can talk about them. Okay. So so Donald Trump is a billionaire, right? Okay. So how many of you have ever thought, or how many people have ever thought, well, because he's a billionaire, he must be a wise man? Now some of you want I know better. Okay. Or some or but how many of you think that? Okay, well he's a billionaire, so he's got to be a wise man. Okay? There are a few people who think that The truth is not necessarily. I'm not saying he isn't or isn't. He's our president, I want to respect him, but but I'm not saying not necessarily He doesn't necessarily mean he's a wise wise man just because he's a billionaire. By God's definition of what why is he a strong man? You have to arguably say yes. I mean obviously he won the election, obviously he's the president of the United States. He's a pretty strong guy as far as power and authority, right? I mean you can't really argue that anymore. One time you may have been arguing that you can't argue that anymore. However It doesn't mean he's a wise person. My point is this, that there is a difference between biblical wisdom And strength and power. And what this passage does is it separates them. But what does it say? It says, wisdom is better. It's better to be wise than to be strong. And that is the basis with which we're going to see a lot of other things about this. Um but he says this, most people don't realize it. His words are not heard. Nevertheless, the poor man's wisdom is despised, and his words are not heard. You listen to a wise person who's poor And nobody wants to listen to him. And his wiz his words are not heard. Um The world does not recognize the value of wisdom. You talk to the world will recognize the value of strength and riches in a heartbeat. The world does not recognize the value of true wisdom. And so we need to not be that way. We need to recognize the value of true wisdom. And so that's what we're going to look at today now. is we're going to ask the question, what are then the advantages? Okay, if it's not going to necessarily make me rich, I could you can have a poor you I mean just the the reality of being able to have a poor, wise man. Some people in the world will not think it's even possible. I mean, if you're wise, you won't be poor. Not according to God. So so what then are the so the advantage of wisdom is not necessarily so you're gonna that you're gonna accumulate enough money to to do whatever you want or to be whatever you want or go wherever you don't want. That's not the value of wisdom, right? What's the value? What are the advantages of wisdom? Well, he actually is going to start off by by telling us sort of a disclaimer. He's going to use an illustration of limitation first. Chapter 10, verse 1. He says, dead flies putrefy the perf the perfumer's ointment. and cause it to give off a foul odor, so does a little folly to one respected for wisdom and honor. What's he saying there? He's saying that the person who is normally makes wise decisions and is known for being wise and making wise decisions, one foolish decision Can cause people to have the perception that he's really not wise. Is that not true? I mean it is true. I mean if you look at history some of the presidents our past presence, you know, what is Nixon known for? Okay, he's known for a very foolish decision. He's not known for anything else. He's not known for all of the other the other maybe good things, maybe not, known. But he's known for Watergate. That's what he's known for. One foolish decision can cause people to perceive that That this that every decision that this guy makes is not wise. Now, what's the difficulty with that? Do you know anybody that never makes a foolish decision? Have you? Can you say that about yourself? I sir I know I can't. None of us can say, well I never make a foolish decision. So it's just warning us that there are some real advantages to wisdom, but nobody is entirely, completely wise. And so we just he before he goes into some advantages of wisdom, he needs to to make us aware of that. He then says This, and this is one of the major advantages of wisdom. He says, and we're going to learn how this works later. A wise man's heart is as is at his right hand. But a fool's heart at his left hand. Now I read that and went, what in the world is that talking about? So I did have to look it up in the commentary. And what you find, did you have something, Mason? Well what you find so Like most people are pure dominant with the right-handed. So that's why I said why isn't that hard to be right hand? Preferred dominant right hand. That was actually what I initially thought too. I thought I thought it had to be something like that. What I found was and this is probably is somehow connected, but in them with what you're saying. But in in uh in Hebrew and Middle Eastern ancient Middle Eastern uh battle, they used to use um they used to use a shield in their right hand That's how they protected themselves. Now, I thought it would be the opposite actually. I thought you'd have a sword in your right hand and a shield in your left hand. I think that's Romans, that's the way the Romans did it. It's not how the they did it here. The shield was in your right hand. And so this is a symbol, this is a illustration of basically saying That the wise person has a shield up, or the wise person, wisdom is its its advantage is protection. It helps us, it protects us. That's what wisdom does. It offers protection. And we find that kind of idea in several Psalms, like in Psalm 16, 8 it says, I have set the Lord always before me, because he is at my right hand, and I shall not be moved. So the Lord was at his right hand. What was David saying there? The Lord is my protector. He's at my right hand. Same thing, Psalm 110, 5. The Lord. The Lord is at your right hand. He shall execute kings in the day of his wrath. And the same thing in Psalm 121. The Lord is your keeper. The Lord is your sh uh shade at your right hand. So all of these are examples of this illustration. The bottom line is What does wisdom really offer in life? It offers a level of protection in life. And we're going to understand how this works later on as we continue to go through this passage. But so far, let me ask, let's just pause, and and so far what from what you see from this illustration What does it not what does wisdom not offer? Prosperity. Prosperity. That's one thing. Wisdom doesn't offer necessarily prosperity. Something else. Anything else? Yeah, same yeah, riches and prosperity, right. Yeah, basically the same thing. Yeah, that's okay. Yeah, it doesn't offer that It doesn't offer a great life necessarily, like in our in in worldly terms, okay, in earthly terms. But it does offer a level of protection. And so that's important for us. Then let's then he you contrast that with a fool, verse verse three. Even when a fool walks along the way, he lacks wisdom. He's saying there, walks along the way, this is just does normal things. He does normal everyday things. A fool, even when he's doing normal everyday things, he lacks wisdom. And he shows everyone that he is a fool. Okay. Isn't that true about a foolish person? If you look read the book of Proverbs, you you find that foolish people are loud and they talk a lot and they're obnoxious and they I mean that this is just a fool. And you could see it you could see a fool m walking a mile away. They're always they're just, you know, making bad decisions, basically. That's what a fool fool is, is characterized by really bad decisions. And it's basically saying You know, uh uh you can be a quiet, poor, wise man, and no one will ever notice you. And that's it's like that's okay, because what you don't want to be is a fool, because everybody will know you're a fool That's the contrast. Does that make sense? It's better to be a wise man and nobody recognize it than to be a fool and everybody recognizes it. Okay? And so so he's so it's an advantage. So this is sort of a reverse advantage. It's an advantage to be a wise man so that you're not a fool and everybody think knows you're a fool. Number 4, verse 4, the advice of the fool. Now he turns, and he's going to give this is advice for somebody who's wise. Now this is very interesting advice he gives, and it indicates to us how how wisdom protects us. Would you notice what it says in verse 4? If the spirit of a ruler rises, alright. When the what does it say what does the King James say other? I'm using the New King James right. What does the King James say there say there? Does it use it the spirit of the ruler rises Rises against you. Okay, you that's okay. Yeah, that's the same as that's that's what I suggest you use. Um so and uh the idea is If if a s if a ruler, if your ruler is an angry person, you ever think of when you get angry, it's like your spirit rises, you're elevating, you're getting angrier and angrier and angrier. That's what this means. The spirit of a per of the ruler rises, particularly against you So you're in a jo workplace and you have a boss and he gets angry with you. Have you ever had that happen before? Or you, I mean that that's probably the most obvious one for us. Um maybe it would be, you know, uh you're dealing with a police officer and he gets angry at you. That doesn't usually happen. Contrary to what the media says, that doesn't usually happen. Um so so he says this Do not leave your post. A wise man does not just leave. Do not leave your post. He says, for conciliation pacifies great offenses. A wise man what is a wise man? A wise man doesn't just have to leave and get out of there. A wise man has the ability to diffuse the anger most oftentimes. The Bible says, for example, that a soft answer does what? It turns away wrath. A wise man, this is talking here about a wise man his reaction Wisdom doesn't help us figure out necessarily how to get out of the situation, how to leave when you have wrath against you It tells you how to how to m persevere in the midst of the trial. Does that make sense That's what wisdom does. It's like you're going through the trial, but you're navigating it so well it's like you're protected as you go through this thing. Rather than a lot of times we think of wisdom, well if he would just be smarter, he'd just get out of it. No. He says here, no, you you you need to Don't just leave, a wise man is able to actually pacify it, to diffuse it by his calm, steady Response. So we see something about a wise man. A wise person reacts correctly. He has correct reactions to things and responses to things. He doesn't match anger with anger and lash out against his boss. He doesn't just, oh I'm out of here, I don't have to deal with this. He doesn't even do that. A wise man doesn't do that. Now Just practically speaking, why do you suppose Solomon gives the advice here? Don't just get out, don't leave your post, don't leave your position. Why do you suppose um he is giving that advice to a wise man? Any ideas? I thought of a couple. I'm sorry? Um well that might be. That's a possibility. One is yes, Kim. 17J for yielding pacify is great offense and kind of give me the impression that if you go storming health and you're just You're supporting what you're saying, but there's a couple of different reasons I thought of. That would be one. One was is that actually the guy might get what he wants. Number two How many angry bosses are there in the world? A lot. Why do you think that people in authority tend to be angry people? I mean this is just practical. Why? Have you got angry people about them? That's true. That's probably true. But even more so, but even but along those lines, i is it not true that when you are over people there is a level of stress There is. What you do, the decisions you make, the things you say, have effect on people under you. There is this level of stress involved in any leadership position. So that's why it's so if you don't have the Spirit of God working in your life and the humility and all and God's work, if you don't have any of that, you're just an unsaved person trying to lead people. Uh I'd be blown up too. You know, I mean it's it's not e y I mean it's only by the grace of God we don't blow up, actually When you really think about it. Why? Because that stress of having this weight of responsibility is not all it's cracked up to be. The CEO that's making six figures, it ain't all it's cracked up to be necessarily. So he says here in this passage, he explains, don't just get out of the situation. Because you know you might just jump right back, I mean this is my thinking, you might just jump right jump right into another situation and be the same problem. If you're trying to escape a normal problem Which a normal problem is your boss is being angry at you. Believe it or not, that's a normal problem. You all probably know that. You're all looking at me like, yeah, it's a normal problem. Okay. So that's one reason. Another reason might w be what might be what Kim said. For all for whatever reason it is, it's clear here. That what wisdom doesn't help you do is escape the problem. What wisdom helps you do is to deal with the problem. That's really the point in this passage. Wisdom helps us deal with the problem, not run from the problem. Yes, Cam. Um along with what you're saying, uh I think also um if you say and you might even think that's where it's the problem because if you enter it in a way that um not wise that could make things worse. However, in this verse I believe in King James that says, um Leave not by place for yielding at the highest degree. So basically the idea is to stay but to stay yielding. By long forbearing is a friend persuaded and a top fun very idea is to say if you could say then uh uh from wisdom standpoint then stay humble and try to persuade in in a in a yield situation deal with spirit. Right. And it's gonna require a lot of wisdom to do that, isn't it? There's no ba no doubt about it. Um so then he says here, um verses eight through eleven. Well let's see what uh Uh we've got that's verse four. Uh we've got the application of wisdom first, chapter ten, verse five This is an interesting passage, he says. Okay, I'm just gonna read it. Let's read it together. He says, verse six, verse five, there's an evil, and the word evil there is the idea of calamity. Evil sometimes in the Old Testament means sinful. Other times it's just saying calamity. In this case, it's calamity. There is an evil or a calamity I have seen under the sun. as an error proceeding from the ruler. Folly is set in great dignity, while the rich sit in a lowly place I have seen servants on horses while princes work on the ground like servants. Here's what he's saying. He's saying, folly uh is set in great dignity. Isn't that weird? I mean why would foolishness be dignified or set in great dignity? Or Error proce or um rich sit in a lowly place. That doesn't make any sense. Verse 7, same thing. Servants on horses. That doesn't make any sense. Princess walking on the ground like servants. That doesn't make any sense. Verses 6 and 7, he is saying, sometimes life makes no sense. Have you not followed that, found that to be the case before? He's really talking about the potential in verses 6 and 7 for confusion. Is life ever confusing? It is. There in fact, there is always this potential in life for living in a confusion situation. This is just utter confusion. It's chaotic. One commentator basically said this is talking about, this is just describing chaos. The best way that Solomon knows how to describe it. And here's what's wonderful about wisdom. Wisdom helps us to know how to navigate the chaos. Are we not thankful for that? Because we live in chaos, do we not? We live where things really don't make a lot of sense sometimes. And wisdom helps us to navigate these things. Verse 8 says, so verse 8 then what it does is it tells us the potential for risks in life. So he gets into this issue of, okay, well, you've got the potential of confusion, and you also have a lot of dangers in life. Verses 8 and 9. Notice what it says. He who digs a pit will fall into it. And whoever breaks through a wall will be bitten by a serpent. Now, let me mention this. The word will be, it really could be translated maybe. Doesn't necessarily mean if you dig a pit you'll fall into it, or if you build a wall, uh you will be bitten absolutely, or if you break through a wall you'll you'll be bitten. It's saying that that is a possibility. There is this risk involved in doing these things. If you dig a pit, there's a possibility. You'll forget where you dug it, I guess, and you'll fall into it. There is a whoever breaks through a wall will be bitten. So where do where do serpent where do sl snakes live? They live in they live in under rocks. Well, walls are made of rocks, and you start trying to break through a wall, you might get your hand bit by a serpent. Why would you break through a wall? That's true, to get to the other side. That's just like a chicken get across the the other side. You break through a wall, I think a lot of times, in that those days would be to conquer something I think, probably. So you're you're getting through a barrier in order to conquer what's on the other side. He says if you do that, there might be a serpent there to be that that will bite you. He says the same thing. He says, he who quarries stone may be hurt by the stone. He who splits wood may be endangered by the wood. What's he saying with all this? Anything you do in life, there's gonna be risk. Even productive things like quarrying stone or creating heat for your house by splitting wood. All of these things have this potential danger, have this potential risk involved. You're not going to be able to run from danger or run from risk in your life. What you have to do is have the wisdom to be able to go through it. Does that make sense? And here's what he says about what wisdom helps us do. And we find this in verse 10. If the ax is dull, the one who does not sharpen the edge, then he must use more strength. But what does wisdom do? Wisdom brings success. Um let's go look at, well, let's just pause. Verse 10. What's he saying there? If you're splitting wood and you use a dull axe, it's very hard to split. You're gonna have to use more effort. You're gonna have to use more force. You get a nice sharp axe And you go and you try to split wood, it you c usually you can use the weight of the mall or the weight of the axe and it'll just come down and do it. If you don't have it sharp, you're gonna be pushing on it. with with chainsaws. You know you have a dull chainsaw if you're having to push to cut a log. It should just lay on the log and cut through. And in chainsaw safety they'll say don't push on the log when you're when you're trying to trying to use a chainsaw. That's how people get hurt. You And then you can cut right through. It'll cut like a hot knife through butter if it's if it's sharpened correctly. So he is saying here, wisdom brings success. What's the difference between using a dull blade to split a wood split wood and sharpening it first? Yes, but what are you doing differently? Yeah, it's t somebody Kim? Okay, and forethought. I think some carries it for for you're thinking about it ahead of time. You're preparing ahead of time for what you're doing. You're anticipating ahead of time. Same kind of thing in the next verse. A serpent may bite when it is not charmed. The babbler is no different. Um the words of a wise uh so he says uh so a serpent may bite but um he's basically saying if you If you don't anticipate the serpent could be there, then it'll bite you. If you know it's going to be there, if you're anticipating it, if you're preparing ahead of time. . Bottom line is you might, not necessarily, but you might be able to prevent it by charming the snake or by getting it to move out of the way for you. . And so this whole idea, the bottom line is when it comes to mitigating the risk of wisdom, it boils down to forethought and preparation and thinking through things The Bible says he that Proverbs says he that looketh ahead at something and foresees evil and hides himself, it's wise for him. And so wisdom doesn't just jump into things. It doesn't just go headlong and just run into everything. Wisdom is thoughtful and prepares and thinks okay thinks in steps okay I need to split that log but before I split that log I need to sharpen that axe So I need to go and find where I need to sharpen the axe to split the log, and then I can split the log. He a wise person thinks through this and he protects himself. So not only in that it says you you'll gain more success because you're thinking ahead But you'll also protect yourself because you're thinking ahead. So how does wisdom offer protection? Wisdom offers protection by being by the because the wise man is thoughtful. The wise man is patient. The wise man prepares. He looks ahead and he thinks through things. He doesn't just jump into things without looking. That's the difference. You know, it's really interesting in the passage. He's not saying, well, you know, since since you since there's a quarry, and you might get hurt, don't dig through the quarry. Or since there's a wall and you might get bit, don't break the wall down. He doesn't say that. He just says, be thoughtful. And the truth of the matter is, isn't it true that there is always the potential for risk and you can't always anticipate it? You can't always anticipate every danger. You can't always look ahead and see everything. We are what's that? A car right, correct. But really all we can do is be wise in looking ahead and anticipating things and preparing ahead of time. For what we're going through here. The one, the two things you don't have in this passage for the wise man is fight or flight. Neither one of them. He's not fighting his way through this. Through his difficult times or whatever things we're going through, he's not fleeing from it. He is wisely walking through it. And he is reacting correctly and responding correctly. And he is thinking through things. and he is anticipating things before they come. So that wisdom offers both two things. It offers a higher likelihood of success. And it offers a higher likelihood of pr uh a greater level of protection. That's wisdom. Any any thoughts or applications or questions about about this passage? Yeah, Mason? So like earlier we said foolish man is just gonna go right heaven first. Yeah. Yeah, the the contrast would be the fool just runs in and does whatever doesn't even think doesn't think about it, he just kinda does one thing after another and and And you can usually tell when somebody I mean you watch your kids as they grow up. I've got one my oldest child, she's become a little more thoughtful, she thinks through ahead of time. I've got one that literally does not think and the poor girl will do several things wr wrong right in a row today she was eating her food and she grabbed she was Like m really messy and like everything was going everywhere in her tape or over a plate and then she I said Look at what you're doing. And she said and then she grabbed the part up upper part of her fork and wiped it on her napkin and then she tried to wipe her napkin with her hand. I'm like, this is bad. She's doing all these things and she's not thinking about anything she's just doing. Uh and uh that's that's kinda what it is, instead of thoughtfully thinking like, you know, if I wipe a fork on my napkin then I'm not going to be able to use the knocker to wipe my hands. Anyway, um that's all very extremely simple, obviously, but that's that's uh a reasonably good illustration of what we're talking about here. Lisa? So I think the same thing applies to speaking. Mm-hmm. Oh yes. The wise person. Mm-hmm. There have been times I've just blurted out things and then What in the world is closing it? It was like that moment where you're very foolish because you just haven't thought through like how might somebody Did you read the next verse? Yeah. And yeah, actually next, but it it basically the next three verses talk about the words of a foolish versus the versus the words of a wise. So that's that's It's uh good we're thinking about. Um but no, it's it's absolutely true and we'll look at that next week. But um yeah, I like if you're angry you're not going to be through things. having wisdom to know what's coming out of your mouth. Yeah, definitely very true. Yep. And you're not reacting, you're just responding correctly with calmness and probably obedience, um, if as long as they ask you to do something reasonable. And um Anyway, good. Any other applications? Alright, let's go ahead and uh and pray and then we'll be dismissed. So the aunt we really need to just think through things. and have the wisdom that God wants us to have. And uh it doesn't offer it it it helps us to have the kind of life God wants us to have and be able to go through trials this way. being thoughtful about things and prep preparing correctly. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for the time that we could spend together this evening and we ask, Lord, that you would just be with us and give us um Give us strength and um and wisdom, Lord. Um we do admit before you that um Sometimes we do just blurt out the wrong thing or we we do the wrong thing. We don't think through what we're doing before we do it, and we're not preparing ahead of time and considering the consequences. We're not careful about things. And so I pray, Lord, that you would help us to be the to do that. Not that we become fearful and afraid of doing anything. That can be another pitfall, really a sinful pitfall as well. But that we move forward in and in being good stewards with what you have provided and what you have given us. In life. We enjoy it, that we are diligent in it, and that we wisely use it in the way that you want us to. And we pray, Lord, that uh you we we thank you that James tells us that if any man lack wisdom or ask of God, uh so we're we do ask of of you of the wisdom that we need, and we pray these things in Christ's name. What's that? Speaking of the whole axe.