So we were thinking that the beginning of the city is a good idea. I think it's And it's not very kind of problem. So you so you think that Good morning. How's everybody this morning? I couldn't hear you. Good morning. Oh, gotta let the neighbors know we're here. Uh Harry's getting techie this morning, so you might want to pray about that. We're going to be reading from Psalm 64. Hear my voice, O God, in my meditation. Preserve my life from fear of the enemy. Hide me from the secret plots of the wicked, from the rebellion of the workers of iniquity, who sharpen their tongue like a sword, and bend their bows to shoot their arrows bitter words That they may shoot in secret at the blameless. Suddenly they shoot at him, and they do not fear. They encourage themselves in an evil matter They talk of laying snares secretly, and they say, who will see them? They devise iniquities. We have a perfected, shrewd scheme. Both the inward thought and the heart of man are deep. But God shall shoot at them with an arrow. Suddenly they shall be wounded So he will make them stumble over their own tongue. All who see them shall flee away. All men shall fear, and shall declare the work of God. For they shall wisely consider his doing. The righteous shall be glad in the Lord and trust in him, and all the upright in heart shall glory. Please take your Bibles and turn to Exodus chapter eleven. Exodus chapter eleven Well it's not uh not super warm out here, but it is a little bit humid. I don't know what crazy guy decided to have church outside today, but I know. Yeah Anyway. But uh hopefully we'll get through it without too much of a problem. I think I'm a little more warmer than everybody else that I've been running around. So Anyway, Exodus chapter eleven is where we are this morning. Uh apparently we have a lot going on today as far as birthdays and anniversaries. I'm sure they don't want me to say this, but I'll say it anyway. Jeff and Joy's birthday anniversary is today. And Julie, uh Julie Mullins, who came Can't uh isn't here today, can't be here today, but Josh texted me and said uh to let me know. I don't know if he w he texted me to announce it or what they're streaming it, I'm not sure, but anyway, her birthday is today and she's turning the big four oh so four decades. That's a long time. And uh I'm I'm not far behind. Not far behind. Yeah, exactly. So anyway, uh so lots of things going on. And there are ants on my screen this morning. That's always fun. So you never know what you're going to end up with with your outdoor when you're outdoors. But anyway. Another thing that's happening is a lot of you, or not a lot of you, a few of you actually are getting ready to go to college. Uh s several of you are going de back down to Bob Jones University, a couple of you anyway. And uh I've been down there once or twice. And uh actually I've made that trip either to that point or like way beyond that point. Like twice the the the the trip probably over fifty times. And I've learned a few things. So I wanted to give you a little bit of a I wanted to give you a little little little instruction as you drive down. those of you so so you can make this trip in about seven and a half uh hours. Okay, seven and a half hours. And people say, ah, I've never done it that that quick. Well let me explain how you do this. So like how many of you are ki the kind of people that when you're when you're taking a trip, you're really always trying to make good time. You're one of those types. I gotta make good time. Okay. Yeah, I am, I raised my hand with you. That's the way I am. I gotta make good time. And so so I figured out if I'm driving by myself down to Bob Jones, I can do it in seven and a half hours. You ready? Here's how you do it. You guys ready? Because this is I mean if you Number one, you get up at 4 30 in the morning, and so you're gonna beat all of the DC traffic and all of the Richmond traffic. Number two, you start on a full tank and you don't fill up till you're almost empty. So then you only have to stop one time. And when you stop, you look for a Chick-fil-A, because they're always fast, and you make sure that a gas station is right next to it And you go to the gas station, and if there's any laws against this, I don't want to know about them, don't buy my conscience. But basically you go into the gas station. You you start filling up, you run over the Chick-fil-A, you uh you order, while they're making your food, you go use the restroom. Then you come back, get your food, go back, the gas is done by then, take it all uh put it back and and uh and then you're on your way and then you can make it all the way back. You're fueled up, you've used the restroom, everything, and you can do the whole thing in seven and a half uh seven and a half hours. There is a little glitch though. So as you go down south, you see meat more and more Chick-fil-A. So you have lots of opportunities. One opportunity after another you'll notice. If you to put it in little your little uh search on your uh on your GPS or whatever, you can find it find different Chick-fil-As. But you can't stop too early or you're gonna have to stop again because at least if a around four I got about fifteen point nine gallons to work with and I can't stop too early. I'm gonna have to stop again. And so I'm always trying to sort of gauge it that way. Okay, well, well, there is a little bit of a problem. And the problem is, is that if you miss the opportunity because you're trying and then you just have to stop. So this one this time happened to me. One time this happened to me. I had to stop and uh my light, you know, the little light turns on. You know you're you don't have much time if the light turns on. So the light turned on, and I had to stop at what had to be the worst gas station I've ever been to. I thought to myself, how in the world does this thing stay open? And the only thing I could I could conclude it it's for fools like me who basically waited too long, had got the light on and had to stop the gas station. So I'm trying to find the restroom. The restroom is uh unusable. Yeah, I'll just put it that way. So that doesn't work. And then there there was no food to speak of, so I couldn't even get any a snack or anything. So I had to I had to stop again, which was a horrible thing. And it took me like fifteen, twenty minutes out of my trip But really, it really messed everything up. Why? Because I missed the opportunity. I missed the opportunity. So you guys don't miss your opportunity. But make sure you get t uh close enough to E that uh you don't have to fill up again. So so what we have in Exodus Is we have opportunity after opportunity after opportunity. In fact, nine opportunities. Every judgment, every plague judgment is actually an opportunity For Pharaoh and the Egyptians to repent, to turn from their ways and turn to the living God, and yet they never do so. And now we have come to the tenth and final plague. And now God is going to very clearly, He is going to intervene in this final plague. The opportunities are over. There's one more warning he's going to give, and then he is going to intervene. This is God's sovereignty as he directly intervenes in the situation. This is important to understand the difference between this text and the previous text that we've looked at. In Exodus chapter 11, verse 1. It says, and the Lord said to Moses, I will bring my bring one more plague on Pharaoh and on Egypt. And Exodus chapter 11, verse 4, it says, about midnight I will go. God says, I will go out into the midst. This is in contrast to how he has dealt with the other plagues. The other plagues he said, Moses, you go and you tell this to Pharaoh, and then you execute the plague. But now God This final plague is going to intervene himself. And he is Moses has been in the forefront as God's instrument. He's coming back, he's stepping back, and God is now going to be in the forefront. And so we're going to look today at what it looks like when God chooses to end Let's go ahead and go ahead and pray first. Father, as we come to you this morning, we pray, Lord, that you would give us just a a clear understanding of your word, that as we go through this text, you would help us to understand more of who you are more of who we are, and Lord, that we would be rightly related to you. And Lord, I pray that your work, the Spirit's work, would work through your word this morning to convict where conviction is needed to encourage where it is needed as well. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. So, how does God intervene? Well, we begin first by seeing that God intervenes by moving the heart according to his will. Notice this about this passage. Look at verse 2. It says, speak now in the hearing of the people. And let every man ask from his neighbor, and every woman from her neighbor, articles of silver and articles of gold, and the Lord gave the people favor in the sight of the Egyptians. Moreover, the man Moses was very great in the land of Egypt, and the sight of Pharaoh's servants, and in the sight of the people. God is going to directly intervene, and he is going to do so as a fulfillment of his previous promises. In Exodus chapter 3, verse 19. You remember this? He says, but I am sure that the king of Egypt will not let you go. This is all the way back before the plagues. No, not even by my mighty hand. So I will stretch out my hand and strike Egypt with all my wonders, which I will do in its midst, and after that he will let you go, and I will give this people favor in the sight of Egyptians. And it shall be when you go that you shall not go empty-handed. He says, you won't go empty-handed. And then in Exodus chapter six verse one it says that the Lord said to Moses, Now you shall see that what I will do to Pharaoh, for with strong hand he will let them go, and with a strong hand He will drive them out of his land. God is now going to very specifically intervene in these circumstances. And let me uh before we get to the next part of this and understanding what's going on here, I want us to think for a few moments about the most difficult things in life. What are the most difficult things that you have to go through and that I have to go through? Just think back maybe to your job or maybe to your family. Think back to maybe some ministry situation, whatever it is. Think back to those times and think about what would be the most difficult kinds of things that you've had to go through in life. And I can almost guarantee you that those difficult things have something to do with people. Am I right? They have something to do with people. Usually the most we had a hot water heater go up this morning. Leaked all over our basement. Uh not not flooded thankfully. The Lord was gracious to us, let us catch it. Uh Caitlin went down to get something, saw it immediately, and we caught it and we shut the valves off and we'll deal with this after So so that but that's dealing with mechanical things are not nearly as difficult as dealing with people. Why? Because you can't move people people to do what you want them to do. People want what they want and you can't change what they want. And people have their heart the way they want and you can't change the way they have their heart. You ever notice that? Even motivation. I gotta be honest with you, the idea of motivational speaking, you've heard like TED Talks and motivational speakers and things like that. Motivational speakers are kind of like here let me give you let me give you something to talk to think about and you know, it'll it one day and after you listen to a TED talk for one day or two, maybe a week, and you're done and you're back to where you were were before. I heard a half of just a little piece of a TED talk this week on intermediate fasting. And it was not motivational. I thought that is just like just suffering. Um anyway, so so that's hard, but do you know that God is so powerful that when he intervenes, when he chooses to, God is able to change people's hearts. He's able to turn their hearts. Now think about the setting for a minute. You've got one plague from the God of Israel, one after another after another, that is pummeling the Egyptians. It's going after them. It's it's they're they're suffering. They're losing their livestock. They're losing lives. They're losing their land. It's being destroyed. And the Egyptians look at Israel, and the Bible says that Israel was favorable to them. In other words, the Egyptians looked at Israel and they said, What wonderful people. Does that make any sense at all? That the God of Israel has been making all of these plagues. And they look at Israel and they say, wow, what wonderful people. Doesn't make any sense at all. And beyond that, they actually look at Moses, who is the main instrument in all of this, and they say that Moses is a great man. Why? It's because God chose to directly intervene. And God chose to change the hearts of people. Notice this word favor is an interesting word. This word favor, God promised that this would happen. and that that that uh there they would bring favor. In fact in in in Exodus chapter 12 verse 35 it says now the ch children of Israel had done according to the word of Moses, and they had asked the Egyptian articles of silver, articles of gold, and clothing, and the Lord given had given the people favor in the sight of the Egyptians So that they granted them what they requested, thus they plundered the Egyptians. I mean, they they really got a lot of money and spoils and cattle and everything from the Egyptians. This word favor is actually sometimes translated grace. It's translated favor or charm. It's translated loving favor occasionally. And we find several places in Scripture where it says that God brings people into favor. In 1 Samuel 16, verse 19. 19 this word is used and it actually says that that David was brought into favor with Saul. This is the beginning. In Ruth chapter two, verse ten, it says, So she fell on her face, bowed down to the ground, and said to him, Why have I found favor in your eyes that you should take notice of me? Since I am a foreigner. Ruth who was humble, Ruth who went to the land, had no own land of herself of her own, and was poor. Went to a field to glean from the corners of the field of Boaz, and Boaz took notice of Ruth, and Ruth says, Why have I found favor? I'm a foreigner. I'm a poor person. I have no m means here. And Daniel. Daniel, you remember Daniel? It says in Daniel chapter 1, verse 9: Now God had brought Daniel into favor and goodwill of the chief of the eunuchs. Now, this is the kind of favor that Egypt had toward Israel for no apparent reason except that God gave them favor. And it also says that God gave Israel favor with their perception of Moses, with Egypt's perception of Moses, that he was very great. This is in contrast. It says, moreover, the man Moses was very great in the land of Egypt, in the sight of Pharaoh's servants, and in the sight of the people. This is really almost in contrast to what it says about Moses in Numbers chapter 12, verse 2. It says in Numbers 12, 2, so they said, Has the Lord indeed spoken unto only through Moses? Has he not spoken through us also? And the Lord heard it. Now the man Moses was very humble, more than all men who were on the face of the earth. Moses had a meekness. and the humility about him that the Bible says was matchless during that time. Why is it that God could exalt Moses To the extent that Egypt looked at him and said, This is a great man. It was because Moses was humble. Moses had humility. In Psalm chapter 10, verse 17, it said, Lord, you have heard the desire of the humble. You will prepare their heart. You will cause your ear to hear, to do justice to the fatherless and the oppressed, that a man of the earth may oppress no more. This actually helps us to understand what humility is. It is the person who is oppressed. It is the person who is destitute. The person who is poor is the person who is humble. And God had brought e uh brought Moses, who was a prince of Egypt, and moved him into a place where for forty years, as you'll recall, he was He worked underneath uh Jethro, and he just became a shepherd, and was content doing a menial task day after day after day Doing what God had given him for him to do, Moses had learned to be humble and meek. So much so that when God told Moses that he was going to be used as an instrument of God's hand in the most incredible ways imaginable, Moses through that process remained humble before God. Now that is so different than the way we are, isn't it? You know what happens to us? In times of difficulty, in times of struggle, in times of problems, we get real humble. In times of distress, we cry out to God for help. But in times where there is no distress, In times where things are good. In times where God prospers us, we are very tempted to say, you know, I did this by my own work. I'm a hard worker, and that's why I have what I have. How often do we attribute our successes to our intelligence, our giftedness, or our hard work? How often do we do that? Rather than giving God the credit. This is something that James deals with in James chapter 4. See, when you in the business world, when you become this way, you begin to think that what you do and how you do it in such a way will bring a profit. And you begin to count on that as a that you somehow have control over your own destiny. It's an illustration of this, the difference between how we think of it and how the e the uh Eastern world thinks of this. Back when a tsunami hit back in 2004. in Japan, uh a huge tsunami when many, many people died. Uh people from our country, the United States Uh many many social workers and the and s uh and therapists went over to help with what they believed to be great trauma for uh um on the on behalf of the people. People were were traumatic, were traumatically affected. Well, they went over and they found they were not nearly as bad off as they thought. Well why was this? It was actually because they needed help, they needed some therapy, they needed some some attention, that kind of thing. It was actually because that in the Eastern world The the mentality is not that they realize that there are f forces beyond their control. And And they realize that they're at the hand of forces beyond their control, even though they're false religions, they understand this It's really only in our Western world and perhaps particularly in our country where we think something bad happens and we m we end up blaming we gotta blame somebody because it's a matter of our control. It's a very different mindset than what they have over in the East. And the reality is, you and I have got to realize that we just simply are not in control like we think we are. If we have success. You know, we may have handled the opportunities that God has given us, but it's like 95% Him and 5% us. Like, okay, yeah, we handled it well But it's really all about what God has done. We are simply instruments. We're tools for his use. This is a problem back in James's day, and so James chapter 4, verse 13 says this Come now, you who say, Today or tomorrow we will go to such a s such and such a city. Spend a year there, buy and sell and make a profit. Whereas you do not know what will happen to tomorrow. For what is your life? It is even a vapor that appears for a little time and then vanishes away. Instead, you ought to say, if the Lord wills, we shall live and do this or that. But now you boast in your arrogance. All such boasting is evil. Brothers and sisters of Christ, it's evil to think that we are in control. It's evil to think that our success is as a result of merely or primarily even our hard work Or are something that we have done. We must come to the point, as Moses did, of being humble before God and really We're coming to God, as the hymn writer says, Nothing in my hand I bring. Simply to thy cross I cling. Naked come to thee for grace. That should be our mentality as we go through this life. In times of struggle and in times of success, we realize that God is in control and we are not. And we look to him. Secondly, God intervenes by acting thoroughly and precisely. There are two things that we see in this passage in verses four through nine. The first one is that we see that God says that He is going to wipe out the firstborn of everyone in Egypt. There's no exceptions, with the exception of Israel, which we'll talk about All of the Egyptians, from the poorest of the poor to Pharaoh's own firstborn, are all going to be wiped out. He is very thorough. And we see this throughout, and we see this clearly in Scripture. And this really is as a as a just uh response to what Pharaoh did all the way back in E fe in in Exodus chapter one verse twenty-two where it says, So Pharaoh commanded all his people, saying, Every son who is born you you you This is a response to that kind of thing. Now the Bible actually says in verse 6 of this passage that there was a great cry throughout all the land of Egypt. Egypts, such as was not like any before, nor shall it be again. The cry was immense But we see this kind of crying back in Exodus chapter, uh we see this crying previously in chapters two and three. It says, behold, tomorrow about this time I will c it actually says that there was crying, that God heard the crying of Israel. previously. This was very unique, and just like the hail and the locusts, and there was uniqueness about the there was hail as never before, and locusts as never before. So the crying now of the people Is never is as never before. But there's a contrast here. There's a clear contrast in verse 7. It says, But again, none of the children of Israel shall a dog move its tongue against man or beast, that you may know that the Lord does not does make a difference between the Egyptians and Israel. And all these your servants shall come down to me and bow down to me, saying So this passage in verse 7 says that Israel will be saved from this, that the firstborn of Israel will not experience this. He says a dog will not even move its tongue. Now all of you dog lovers out there, I just have something to say to you. The Bible actually never depicts, to my knowledge, never depicts a dog as a good thing. Everywhere in the Old Testament, everywhere in the New Testament, a dog is a mangy, dirty animal. It is a despicable creature. It's like vermin. It's like a rat. That's the kind of description that you see about dogs. Like in Proverbs, where it says that a dog uh just like a fool returns to his folly, it uses illustration of a dog returning returning Turning to its own vomit. That's the kind of thing that you see about a dog throughout scripture. And don't shoot the messenger. I mean today now you have like dog ice cream shops. We were walking in Annapolis and they actually have ice cream shop for dogs. It's incredible. Uh the uh transport transport people back in that day to today and what we do with dogs, they would think was absolutely crazy. Well, this passage is saying that not even a dog who was considered to be something that was violent or dangerous would even move its tongue against Israel. They would be saved. There's this clear distinction between Israel and Egypt in God's intervention and God's final judgment. Folks, the question that I have for you is very simple, simply this what side of God's judgment are you on? That really is the question. What side of God's judgment are you on? And some of you may be saying, you know, God's judgment is so severe here. He takes the firstborn of every child. The truth of the matter is this really sets up a picture of what's going to happen in the second coming of Christ. The second coming of Christ He is going to intervene again. Christ is going to come down to earth and he is going to make all things right. Why is it that it's so necessary for God to intervene? Well, look around. Look at the world as you see it. Read a news article on uh and and news updates and look around at the world. God has to end the wickedness. He has to deal with the corruption. But understand this, that although God will one day end all this, through his own son Jesus Christ, he provides a way that we don't have to be ended. That we can be saved, even though everyone, even though the world will end. And there's a reason for this. Because God's ultimate goal is resurrection. And we find this clearly in Revelation chapter 21, where it talks about the the fact That in Revelation chapter 21, verse 1, it says, Now I saw a new heaven and a new earth. And then in verse 4 it says, And God shall wipe away every tear from their eyes, and there shall be no more death, nor sorrow, nor cruel. nor crying. There shall be no more pain, for the former things are passed away. Then he who sat on the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. Are you looking forward to the day where all things will be passed away, where there will be no more crying, where there will be no more sorrow, there will be no more death, where Jesus is going to make all things New. That's Christ's goal. That's the future. And the question that you have to ask is: what side of the judgment are you on? What side of it are you on? You know, in our lives, we we our hearts, the problem with our hearts is not that our hearts tell us that God loves us. The problem with our hearts is that God tells us, or that is that our heart tells us that God hates us Our hearts internally tells us that God is against us. Did you know that about your heart? The heart is deceitful, it's desperately wicked, and it's constantly condemning us And there's a reason for that. You know why our heart constantly tells us that God hates us? Because he should. Because we are so evil and so wicked that God should And yet, because of Christ, God doesn't. And so when our heart tells us and our heart condemns us If we will place our faith on Jesus Christ and what he did for us on the cross, our heart might tell us that we are wicked and that we deserve judgment. But Jesus took on the judgment of God on himself. He paid for our sins in his own body on the tree, Jesus says. So that we can have his righteousness and we can stand righteous and uncondemned before God. Our heart tells us our condemned, that we are condemned. But by faith, in our minds and in our emotions, in our will, we choose to accept Christ as our Savior. And the Bible says that if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. And so I ask you again, what side are you on? There are several things we can learn from this. Number one Will you come to the place where you recognize the greatness of God's work and the smallness of your own work? We must learn to remain in meekness. And humility. We must remain there as Moses did so that God can use us the way He chooses to use us. Number two There is a final judgment coming. Which side are you on? And number three, will you be part of the resurrection? Or will you be part of a destruction? Ultimately, that is how things will end. It will end in destruction. And it will end in resurrection. And those who embrace Christ, the Bible says, will go to resurrection, will rise from the grave But those who don't will go to their destruction. There will be a day where every knee shall bow and every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. Will you be one who willingly bows? Or will you be one who is forced to bow and will end up in destruction? The Bible says there's nothing you can do to save yourself. There's nothing you can do in your own self-effort. It's not a matter of the fact that you just one day prayed a prayer. Sometimes you're some of you are depending on that. You're actually depending on yourself to do what only Christ can do for you. No, it is only as you place your trust in Jesus Christ to pay the punishment for your Sin, that the Bible says you shall be saved. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you this morning and we thank you for the provision that you have made through Christ. We thank you even for your justice and for the many, many opportunities that we have seen over and over and over again for Pharaoh and for the Egyptians to repent. But we see here, dear Father, that now your final intervention has come And we look forward to the day where Christ will come again and he will be in the forefront. Right now, we are his instruments. But one day Christ will come. He will set all things right. He will there will be some whose end will be destruction, and there will be some whose end is resurrection. And Father, I pray today to whomever that whoever is listening, that today would be a day that they would have assurance of knowing that their end will be resurrection. Because of the blood of Jesus Christ rather than destruction. And we pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen. This uh this verse uh in in the song to the praise of his glorious grace, I think last Sunday. I'll read it for you here. Verse two of this song says, With despicable self-love and rage, we rebelled and fell under the curse. Yet, God did not rip out the page and destroy all who love the perverse. No, he chose us to make a new race Aren't you thankful that while we rebelled, we are wicked. We do go against God, naturally speaking. God didn't decide to just start over. He didn't just decide to wipe us out. No, he chose us to make a new race through the sacrifice and the gift of his son, Jesus Christ. Let's go ahead and sing together, starting our singing today with to the praise of his glorious grace. Let's stand together, we see. What a start of she mercy and poor. In accord with his pleasure and will, he created each planet, each floor. Every galaxy might grow and him. He suspended this planet in space To the praise of his glory us. To the praise of his glory us. To the praise of his glory with the speaker balls Self-love and praise we rebelled and fell under the curse. Kita did not rip out the page and destroy all who love the fur No He chose us to make us To the praise of his glory, us, to the praise of his glory, us. To the praise of his glory us, Providentially willing all things to conform to the end. And he designed, he mysteriously governs and breeds in eternal vice plans into time. He works out every step, every trace to the praise of his glory spray, to the praise of his glory. Glory us to the praise of his glory, us praise. Long before the creation began, He foreknew those he'd ransom in price, Long before times told our For glass ridained the supreme sacrament. In the cross he removed art his praise to the praise of his glory, a spray, to the praise of his glory. Your sprays, of his glory, us praise, we were blessed in the heavenly realm. Long before being included in Christ, since we heard the good news overwhelms. We reach forward to these paradights. See him ourselves face to face to the praise of his glory. To the praise of his glory, us praise, to the praise of his glory, us praise. And I will sing, Be thou exalted, God of eternity. Be thou exalted forever and ever, God of eternity, the ancient of days, wondrous in wisdom, majestic in glory. Perfect in holiness and worthy of praise. Be thou exalted by terrorists and angels. Be thou exalted with heart and with soul, Satan their entoms of rapture authority, thy mean of glory forever amen. Be thou exalted, O Son of the High Yes, Savior of sinful men, Redeemer in H One with the Father, call equal and glory. Humbly we come to thee. Our arms to bring. Be thou exalted by service angel, be thou exalted with parking with So there and thumbs of rapture adore thee. Thine be the glory forever. Amen. Be thou exalted, O Spirit of power, dwelling within our hearts to keep us from sin. God of the ages and Lord of salvation, ruler of heaven and earth, thy praises we seek. Be thou exalted by serifs and angels. Be thou exalted with farming with soul. Saints in their homes of rapture authority, thy need of glory forever. Amen For our last song, we will sing to our great God, we will sing, Oh great God. Oh bring God of my step arc by my low leaves. Or it all and rain bring hunger every rebel. You have loved and purged me, make me yours forevermore. I was blinded by my sin, had no ears to hear. Hear your voice, did not know your law within, had no taste for heaven's voice, and your scary gave me life. Open up your word to me through the gospel of your Son. Give me endless hope and peace. Help me down. To live a life that's dependent on your grace. Keep my heart and guard my soul from the evils that I face. You are worthy to be praised with my every voluntary. Glorify your name through me Pray together. Father, we thank you for being a great God, who while you do enact justice, you also enact mercy. And you are long-suffering to those who rebel against you. I thank you, Lord, that you were merciful to us. And I pray that we would have these things as an ever-present reality on on our minds that you have given us what we do not deserve, and you have withheld from us what we absolutely do deserve in separation and hell from you. We pray these things now in Jesus' name. Amen. So there are ten options