In this room today, but they texted me and they said, Enrique, how did he put it? Anyway, uh so I'm just thrilled to be able to uh to to have people in our church that can handle the word well and I really appreciate Enri An Enrique and his his preaching ministry when I'm uh when I'm gone. So that's a blessing. Blessing. Philippians chapter four and uh we are in verses fourteen through twenty-three this this uh morning. Actually we're gonna to finish up this passage. And it's interesting that I don't recall a time in the last six years that I have preached on giving. I've actually had people suggest to me that I preach on giving on several occasions and I've said, well, when it comes up in the text, then I'll preach it. And uh at so far it hasn't come up In fact the two really key passages in the New Testament on on giving, we'll look at both of them today, is Philippians chapter four and also second Corinthians chapter nine. And um and so this is just an area that I think uh we have a lot of confusion about, and biblically today, I hope that some of these things will be cleared up today. And I want us to note that in this passage in Philippians chapter 4, that the backdrop of this text is the fact that Paul has been preaching on contentment. You'll recall from a couple of weeks ago. He had been telling the church at Philippi that in whatever state he was in, he had learned to be content. And he was entirely concerned not about his own needs, but on the needs of others. That was Paul had God had brought Paul to that place by this point in his Christian life. I was um reflecting on this a little bit and I thought of a probably our most senior saint in our church. I went to visit her a couple of weeks ago. And I I think it's probably appropriate for me to mention her by name. You already know who it is by by saying that, Miss Mary. And um I was visiting Miss Mary Seaton and and uh I wanted to see how she was doing, that's why I went and I can report to you that I have no idea how she's doing. And you say, what? Well, when you ask Miss Mary how she's doing, she usually gives you something like, well, the Lord is really good, and then she tells you about some other need of somebody else. Um almost every single time. She'll say, Well, I've been praying about so-and-so or s or a family member or just somebody I met that's unsaved or something like that. I mean every time I've asked her, how are you doing That is really her response. She will respond that way. In fact In fact, uh I had visited her in the hospital. She had just had pretty major surgery. Her face was had been sewn up and she She looked like I mean she had to have been in some discomfort, certainly uh some pain and and some discomfort and I asked her how she was doing and she said, hey, how is that couple that you asked me to pray for last time? I didn't didn't mention them by name, but I had a couple that asked for Prayer. This was several years ago. And I mean that that is that's her. And uh if you want to go and and uh learn about prayer requests of people outside of Miss Mary go visit her and ask her how she's doing. And that's usually what you'll find is she's all the people that she's praying for and how we can pray for them too. Uh she is doing okay, I think. Um she's she's um she's d doing well and spiritually doing well, uh of course, and she really is a testimony. To what a mature Christian looks like. One of the attributes of a mature Christian is that they get to the place where they're just not occupied with their own needs. They are just really much more preoccupied with the needs of others than their own needs. Have you ever met a Christian like that? And she is a great example. That was the Apostle Paul here. The Apostle Paul says on several occasions, I'm full. I'm I'm content. I don't uh I'm not speaking from a point of need. I'm not it wasn't as though Paul was in prison chained to a Roman soldier. Uh from our perspective, Paul was in great need. But from Paul's perspective, he had such a maturity about him that he was just unconcerned about his own needs and preoccupied with the needs around him, with the people of the needs around him. And he was concerned about the Philippians. needs and how they were doing spiritually and even how how their giving would affect not him but them Which is kind of an amazing thing when you really actually consider the fact that he was in need, and he was in need of financial support, and yet he never he never said that way, uh said that, uh and you're gonna see that in the text, never indicated that he was in any need at all. That was the that's just the maturity of this man. Now I'm not saying that Paul Paul Paul would mention when he had gone through suffering. I don't want to say that he was ignorant of the fact that he ever went through suffering. If you read 2 Corinthians chapter 12, you're going to find all kinds of difficulty and problems and suffering that he went through. But when he was speaking to a church, he had such, particularly the church of Philippi, whom he had a special friendship with a special relationship. He was really occupied with their needs rather than his own. And it really sets up for us a great example of maturity. It really sets up for us a great example of the real spiritual value of giving. I don't know about you, but I have heard various missionaries in various times throughout my Christian life, in various churches, And sometimes when a missionary comes, they present the ministry and it's wonderful and you're ready to get on board. You want to part partner with them. There are other times where it is though they they give a sob story about how terrible they're doing and how they need you and you and and and all those kinds of things. And I can just tell you that that would not have been the Apostle Paul's approach. If the Apostle Paul, as a missionary, had come to report to our church, the Apostle Paul would never have mentioned any needs that he had at all. The Apostle Paul would have simply reported and he would have said, I am perfectly fine doing God's work, being supplied by God in his way through whatever means he chooses. And that was that was his approach. You know, and it's interesting, I've had there are certain missionaries that we have even now that we support our church and um that never asked for money. Um and w that we supported in the past. But I actually was so interested in what they were doing for the sake of the gospel. It's like I I wanted us to be part of that. I wanted to partner with them. And I I remember when um when it seemed like a good time to bring Matthew Conrad on. I um he had never asked for m and he's we're we're pretty close. He could have asked for he never asked for in fact I called him And I said, hey, you know, it looks like we could we could expand our emissions budget a little bit. Could you uh would you do you need support? He said, ah, we're we're okay. We're we're we're doing pretty well. And uh and and I said, Well, what percentage are you at? And he said, Well, we're not we're not technically at a hundred percent And then I I said, okay, well we can help out a little bit here. But I I mean I just wanted to partner with him in the work that was going on over there. even beyond his own scope there, which I can't explain because for various reasons. But anyway, uh so all that to say But as we go into this passage in Philippians chapter 4, understand that we are hearing from a man who is entirely mature in his outlook on this whole subject of giving. And so we can get God's perspective on giving from this passage. And I pray that we will be able to do that today. Let's go to him in prayer and ask his help as we do. Father, we come to you this morning and we thank you for the privilege of being able to go to your word and to see exactly what you say about this area of generosity. And the Philippians were a prime example of a church that was generous toward their friend and wanted to partner with with the Apostle Paul In the work of the ministry. Father, I pray, Lord, that you would help us to see what we need to see when it comes to this area of giving and the spiritual investment that we can have in the work of the gospel in laying up treasures in heaven rather than on earth Would you teach us and remind us this morning of these things? And may we see from the passage and from Paul's own lips that are inspired by your spirit, may we see truly how you desire for us to have be working with you and the privilege of giving to your work. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, we pick up here in verse 14. Remember verse 13, Paul says, I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me. And now we pick up in verse 14, he says, Nevertheless, I have done well that you shared in my distress. Now you Philippians know also that in the beginning of the gospel that I departed from Macedonia, no church shared with me concerning giving and receiving, but you only. For even in Thessalonica, you sent aid once and again for my necessities. Not that I seek the gift, but I seek the fruit that abounds to your account. Indeed, I have all and abound. I am full, and have received from Epaphroditus the things sent from you, a sweet-smelling aroma, an acceptable sacrifice, well pleasing to God. My God shall supply all your needs according to his riches in glory by Christ Jesus. Now to our God and Father be glory forever and ever. Amen. Paul begins by using this term shared or sharing or fellowship. He says, You have shared in my distress. When the Church of Philippi gave to Paul on several occasions The way that the Apostle Paul describes this is that he was partnering or sharing. It is literally the word that we get our word fellowship from, poinia And in this particular case, there is a preposition, a soon preposition on the front of it that usually means together. So he's really emphasizing that what we are doing, we are doing together for the cause of Christ and for the sake of the gospel. This same word is mentioned in Ephesians chapter 5, verse 11, where it says And have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather expose them, this idea of participation or fellowship It's interesting that it actually says that they are participating and fellowshipping in his affliction, in his distress, in his trouble. They're participating in that. Now I want to pause and just mention this, that that when we give, the Bible describes it this way, when we give to God's work What we are doing is we are partnering in service to for the gospel to go forward, both in this area and around the world. And that is our goal. It's a partnership. And we're going to see a lot about giving in this text today, but at the very core of it, what is giving? It is a partnership, it is a sharing, it is a fellowship in the gospel. That is what giving is Now we we participate in in uh in the gospel in various ways every Sunday morning when we do whether you're in a greeter or whether you're in a nursery or all these different things, we're all all of these are we are all together participating so that the gospel can go forward, so that can we can worship together But a clear, another very clear area that goes with that is generous giving. And the church of Philippi did this. He says they participated in his affliction and his distress because the reality is the church of Philippi was distressed themselves. The Church of Philippi, they were poor. They were going through suffering themselves. In Philippians chapter 1, verses 29 through 30, we see this back several chapters ago. It says For to you it has been granted on behalf of Christ not only to believe in him, but also to suffer for his sake, having the same conflict which you saw in me and now here is in me. Yes, and if I am being poured out as a drink offering on the sacrifice and service of your faith, I am glad and rejoice with you all. That's Philippians 2. 17. Paul talking about the Church of Philippi in 2 Corinthians chapter 8 says this, verse 1. Moreover, brethren, we Make known to you the grace of God bestowed on the churches of Macedonia. Philippi was one of the primary churches in Macedonia. That in great trial of affliction, the abundance of their joy and their deep poverty abounded in the riches of their liberality. Now that is a kind of a complicated way of simply saying that in their poverty, they felt liberated to give generously to the work of the Apostle Paul as he went to other churches in Macedonia to share the gospel. In other words, the Apostle Paul, as we know, went to Philippi. He led people to Christ in Philippi. He planted that church, and after that church was established, He moved to other places, Thessalonica for one, and other places of the Macedonia. And the Church of Philippi paid Paul as he was in church the Church of Philippi And then after he left, the Church of Philippi continued to support Paul and his work. And Paul points out to the church of Corinth that didn't support him. That this other church, Philippi, was doing it out of being actually poor. They were really, this is called sacrificial giving. The Church of Philippi, on many occasions, and we're going to see how often, they sacrificially gave for the furtherance of the gospel, for the work of Christ. And that really brings up what is God's goal for the New Testament believer in this area of giving. The Old Testament concept of tithing. What is our responsibility as Christians? Really, to understand this, the key passage in the New Testament to understand this is found in 2 Corinthians chapter 9. You may want to turn there, but I want to just give you three principles that are from that passage that will summarize what New Testament giving is all about. What is it supposed to look like And what does God say about this area? Three important principles for New Testament giving. Number one, God rewards in proportion to our generosity. He rewards in proportion to our generosity. It actually says this in verse 6, but I say, he who sows sparingly will also reap sparingly. And he who sows bountifully will also reap bountifully. There is, the Bible says, but there is a proportion to our generosity that God rewards. I want to mention that sometimes I think that God rewards, and we actually are going to find the emphasis in Philippi in Philippians The emphasis on the reward is not only a physical reward that you get rewarded physically for a physical giving. But when you give in partnership for the furtherance of the gospel, there are sometimes God chooses to reward spiritually Sometimes it's a spiritual reward. And when that reward is a spiritual reward, it is proportionate to our generosity. That is a New Testament biblical principle of giving. The second New Testament biblical principle of giving is that God wants us to give purposefully and cheerfully Now we're the primary focus today is the very purpose in which we give for the partnership, the sharing of the gospel. But in 2 Corinthians chapter 9 it says, So let each one give as he purposes in his heart, not grudgingly or of necessity, for God loves a cheerful giver. The point of this passage is not that we would come and we would give of our offerings to God with a grudging spirit, with a with a, oh, I've got to do this because it's just what I'm supposed to do as a Christian. No, that we that this is actually a privilege that we get to partner for the sake of the gospel in this area and around the world. that we are to purposefully and cheerfully give, not grudgingly, nor of necessity, where I feel like I've got to give God loves a cheerful giver. The Bible tells us in other places that it is more blessed to give than to receive. I've said this before, I've illustrated it like a marriage. If you go into marriage wanting to give rather than receive, then you'll receive probably more than you give But if you go into marriage and the primary purpose of your marriage is to receive, receive, receive, you're going to always come up short. Each person in uh uh uh in my premarital counseling, I I go over this, each person has got to go in giving a hundred percent and expecting nothing in return, so that when they receive things, it's gratefulness that results as a result of that. And you'll find in marriage when that happens, when you are in a giving kind of a relationship, you're constantly receiving as you give. And it goes back and forth, giving and receiving in that way. And frankly, it's the same way with God. The more we give to the Lord cheerfully because we want to, because we just love him, the more we receive. It's like there's a sense in which you can't outgive him. Now God chooses how he rewards. Often he does reward monetarily, physically, but it's his business how he chooses to reward. But God does reward in proportion to our giving, and he wants us to do it purposefully Number three, number three, we will give when our sufficiency comes from the Lord. We will give when our sufficiency comes from the Lord. We're going to talk a little bit more about this in the text, but I'll just mention in 2 Corinthians 9, verse 8, it says, And God is able to make all grace abound toward you That you always having all sufficiency in all things may have an abundance for every good work That the way that we are to give is understanding that our sufficiency comes from God. That as we understand our the more we understand our sufficiency, And our sufficiency comes from Him. That He is abundant in that, then we have the freedom, the joy, the cheerfulness to give. God wants us to give regularly, purposefully, cheerfully, and He wants us to understand the sufficiency. comes from him. Now that is a s a summary of giving in the New Testament. We're going to go into more detail in Philippians chapter 4. And we're going to see how this all works and is played out in the life of the Church of Philippi. But it is something that we need to be aware of. part of the Christian life is giving to the Lord's work and partnering in that way. Then we're back in Philippians chapter 4. And we'll pick up here in verse 15. It says, Now you Philippians, know also that in the beginning of the of the gospel When I departed from Macedonia, no church shared with me concerning giving and receiving, but you only He points out that the other churches that were in Macedonia did not really give to him, Thessalonica and the Church of Corinth particularly, but it was only the church of Philippi that did this. Well, what is he saying here? He's pointing out that when he went to Thessalonica, he actually worked as a tent maker in Thessalonica. So he worked Making tents and as well, and then and then uh he actually receives support from the Church of Philippi to supplement that And he did this something similar in the Church of Corinth. In Second Thessalonians chapter three it says this verse seven, for you yourselves know how you ought to follow us For we were not disorderly among you, nor did we eat anyone's bread free of charge, but worked with labor and toil night and day, that we might not be a burden to you to any of you Not because we do not have authority, but to make ourselves an example of how you should follow. For even when we were with you, we commanded you this. If anyone will not work, neither shall he eat. And then in 1 Corinthians 4, verse 12, it says, And we labor working with our own hands, being reviled we bless, being persecuted, we endure. The point that the Apostle Paul is making in these other passages and as we work through what he's talking about, what he's talking about here, is that the church at Thessalonica and the church at Corinth were not mature enough to be expected to give. That when he went into the church of Thessalonica when he went into Thessalonica and planted that church and then he went into the to Corinth to Corinth and and helped those people They were in a place where they were not in a place of maturity to be able to be expected to give without having a suspicion when it comes to the motives of the Apostle Paul. So when the apostle in fact what was happening in the church of of Thessalonica was that they actually had begun to quit their jobs thinking that the second coming was that that Christ was coming back in their lifetime. And so they'd started quitting their jobs thinking of the eminency of the return of Christ and Paul has to explain that he's it's imminent, but we don't know when, so you know keep your jobs, keep working, don't stop working. And in in as an example, he was willing to work in that particular case. What he is pointing out here is that the Church of Philippi was a more spiritually mature church because they were willing to give. And they give gave they gave regularly. They gave to him while he was there. And then they gave to him after he left so that he could do this work in more immature situations. He could continue the work of the gospel, and they would support him in that way. And there is some application for us to understand. What the Bible is teaching here is this: that an evidence of spiritual growth and health in the life of the believer is that he will be regularly giving. For example, there is an evidence of regeneration in giving. You remember the story of Zacchaeus in Luke 19, verse 8? Before he came to Christ, he was certainly a taker. He wanted to receive and take. In fact, he would take more of a tax collector, he would take more than he should. When he came to Christ, that changed around, it turned around completely, and he wanted to give. In fact, he gave to reimburse and actually an actually fourfold of what he had taken. There was this new heart to give when he had received forgiveness from Christ and was given so much by him It's evidence of an eternal perspective. In the Sermon on the Mount, Christ says in Matthew chapter six, verse nineteen Do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth where moth and rust destroy, and where thieves break in and steal, but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys, and where thieves do not break in and steal What do we need in order to be able to give in a way that is cheerful and purposeful? Well, it is to have an eternal perspective. An eternal perspective that it is far better to invest in eternal things than to invest in physical things that are fleeting and will be here today and gone tomorrow. And when we have the kind of perspective that God wants us to have, then we will cheerfully give, knowing that what we are dealing with is a spiritual investment. This is continued in Matthew 6, verse 21, where we see that where our treasure is is an indication of what is in our heart. In Matthew 6 verse 21, it says, For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. If you and I want to understand where our heart is, number three, evidence of where our heart is, if we want to understand that, we need to understand that where our treasure is, there our heart is If it's been said before that if you want to know where somebody's heart is, look at that look at their checkbook. Well you don't do that too much. Look at their credit card ledger or their debit card ledger or whatever you're doing uh electronically because nobody balances a checkbook anymore And so and so look at whatever ledgers except I know there's a few of you that said we do. Anyway, um and look at whatever ledgers you have and see where you spend your money and there's where your heart is That's what the Bible says, essentially. Now that doesn't mean that everything you you like you need to give a hundred percent of everything to the church. No, actually when you s when you when you so Support your family, you are doing it. You can do it as of the Lord. So that everything you have is God's, and everything that you you give, whether it whatever you pay for, is also for the Lord. It's all the Lord's Whether I'm receiving it or giving it, it's all his. That's the kind of perspective. And God wants us the key then is to be good stewards of what he gives. But if we want to see what is on our hearts, we need to ask the question What is what are we giving? And it is something that is very personal. The Bible is, I'll just mention this, the Bible is not not indicating that we should be policing this or knowing what other buttons in fact the Bible says don't let your right hand know what your left hand is doing. There is something very personal about this when we are examining our own hearts and seeing what our attitude is. For example, if you are living out of duty. Rather than out of love, you might find that to be the case in your giving. I'm doing it out of duty, so I've got to give because it's out of duty If you're doing it, if you're living because you just love God, because He's done so much for you, out of gratefulness for all that He's done for you, that you're going to give out of a cheerful spirit, out of love for Him. Then then you'll find that your giving is done that way. Where your treasure is, the Bible says, there your heart will be also. And then really what this is then indicating Is that all of this, the giving and how we give and why we give and all of this is an evidence of spiritual maturity. In 2 Corinthians chapter 11, verse 9, it says this. And when I was present with you and in need, I was a burden to no one. For I laxed brethren who came from Macedonia supplied. And in everything I kept myself from being burdensome to you, and so I will keep myself. He was saying to the Church of Corinth, this was kind of an indictment of the Church of Corinth, he said You, I didn't want to be a burden to you who were too immature for me to do that. Didn't mean the Church of Corinth didn't have money. In fact, interestingly enough, the Church of Corinth had far more money than the Church of Philippi did. There wasn't any question about that. They were rich The Church of Philippi was poor. But when he went to the Church of Corinth, he said, I didn't want to be a burden to you. Why? Because they just didn't have the maturity to understand the purpose of giving. It indicates, folks, then that one of the evidences of spiritual maturity is that we are giving, giving regularly, giving purposefully, and giving cheerfully to the Lord. Now, as you might, and and we need to, I'll just mention this as well. Um as I've rubbed shoulders with Christians for years now. I have I'll just mention this, that one of the things that I have that mature Christians have explained to me, and I can honestly say that this is this has been the case in my life as well, is that There seems to be a time in the spirit in spiritual growth where the Lord really works on your heart to just say, okay, I'm just going to give regardless of what my circumstances are. I don't mean loss of job, that might change some things. But as long as I have the income that I'm supposed to have that uh that that I have that regardless of what breaks down or what circum whatever it is that I'm just going to give regularly and I'm just it's just something that's going to come up first fruits of what I get it's just something that's going to be settled in my heart about And I have rubbed shoulders with mature Christians that have explained that that does tend to happen as you grow as a believer, and that you just become settled about that. That's consistent with what the Bible is saying about this area of giving. And I guess I would just say it this way. If you if you are here today and you're listening to this, of course you are, you're here, you're listening to this. Um Perhaps you would you the Spirit of God would work in your heart to have that settled conviction No matter what else is happening, I'm just going to give regularly of the first fruits of what I receive and trust the Lord that he's going to supply in his time. That would be a decision that would be consistent with what the Bible says. Now I'm not going to have a come forward service and everybody come here that's going to do that and on the, you know, I'm not doing that. That is something really that's a private decision between you and the Lord, or maybe you and your spouse. But it is something that you might want to consider that the Spirit of God might be working in your heart. Now, you almost might be hearing in my voice a sense of awkwardness about this subject. It is a little awkward for a pastor to talk about giving. I I uh I have never chosen as a topical message to to preach on this subject. Uh uh like I said, I've had a few people that have suggested it and I've said, uh, when we come to it in the text, we'll we'll cover it. Apparently the Apostle Paul was a little awkward about this. When he was, notice what it's what happens in the text, if you pick up here in verse 17. You'll see this. There's there he wants to make sure that they do not misunderstand what he's trying to say, what he's trying to get across. He says, verse 17, very clearly, he says Not that I seek the gift. That's not the point. And I want to, I just feel like I should say as a pastor, I am not preaching, I hope you know, and I think you know, that I'm not preaching this message so that we get more gifts so that I can be paid or something That was not the Apostle Paul's perspective, and that's really not my perspective. Not that I seek the gift, he says, but I seek the fruit that abounds to your account. And indeed I have all and he says I'm abounding. I'm I don't need it. And says he almost it's almost as he says, don't give me anymore. He doesn't exactly say that, but he comes kind of close to that. Because he wants them to understand that that isn't the point. It's not because I'm in need. I'm not asking I'm not thanking you for this gift so that you give me more. I'm full. I'm content. I'm not saying these things uh for that reason. It does give the right perspective for those who are in ministry. I have I I remember being in the ministry in the beginning, uh the first couple of years I was in ministry and having a family, having a new family and everything and and and sort of making the connection between the fact that I needed to provide for my family and also the fact that you know what I get comes from the generosity of God's people. And you know, it's it's sort of interesting to to to m make those connections as a young pat y younger pastor, I'm still young, right? Maybe not. I don't know. I don't feel young. Today I don't feel young. I ha I I I I I'm sore. Anyway, um but uh but really It is something that you have to, somebody in the ministry, missions, or pastor, you have to sort of come to this realization that I serve the Lord And I I look to God for provision that He provides for me and my family, and that God's people will will uh as the Spirit of God works in their lives will support his work and that but I'm working for the Lord. I'm serving him. Um it is it is it uh and it's It's an interesting way to you have to really think of it that way. For example, if the pastor doesn't think of it that way, he can be very um keenly aware of who might be giving more than who else. Some people give more and some people don't, that kind of thing. And I want you to know that I try my best not to know who gives what. But even if I did know, uh the the the perspective is I'm serving God and I in fact I'll illustrate it this way. When I was up in Pennsylvania, I was pastoring up there, uh, they actually forgot to give me a paycheck. And um uh there was just some clerical error or something. And uh I did I did go ahead and let them know that that was the case. I didn't I didn't I wasn't begging for it or upset or anything like that. I just let them know that there was a one skipped I actually let it go for about three or four weeks and and uh I didn't have a lot of extra savings. I just wanted to trust the Lord, but then I thought maybe I should let him know 'cause the books are gonna be off eventually and that kind of thing. And and the treasurer said to me, that was up here, treasurer said to me, Oh man, well we we I don't want I want you to be able to preach next week. I sort of thought to myself, really? Like like you think I'm not going to preach because I didn't get paid? But do you know that their previous pastor did that? Their previous pastor, they couldn't pay him or something happened financially. Weird things happen in Pennsylvania, that's all I gotta say. But but the treasurer sorry, anybody from Pennsylvania, but the treasurer was uh wanted to hold like like hold the pastor at bay, he was upset or something, so he didn't write the check or something like that And the pastor decides he wasn't going to preach that week because he didn't get a get a get a check. That is utter nonsense. You know what would happen if the church couldn't pay me here? I would get up and preach the same way as I normally do, and I'd go out and get a job, honestly. And uh now please, you know, don't don't make that happen, but anyway. But uh because I really do not I do I do work more than one day a week. That's a whole nother subject Uh we had a somebody a a a teacher uh not a teacher but a uh a former co-worker that came and did an estimate on our property for tree uh tree removal and I had worked for this company in the past and He was looking, he he said to me, he goes, uh he says something like, hey, you know, pastors are expensive. I said, pastors are expensive? Why you say that? He said, well You can pay 'em a whole salary and they work one day a week. It's like my w my wife was standing next to me and she was I don't get she she's not one that gets angry very often But she was starting to get a little hot under the collar when she said that 'cause she knows that's far different uh than I mean she knows how much how much I work. Anyway, all that to say, now I'm getting nervous, so I better get back to the text. We're seventeen Not not that I seek the gift, but I seek the fruit that abounds to your account. Paul's real concern for them was that they would seek that when they gave that there was going to be spiritual fruit or physical fruit, but probably spiritual fruit is what's in view in this passage, that abounds to their account. It's as if when he received the gift from Epaphroditus, he's overjoyed, not because he can eat now. But he's overjoyed because the church of Philippi, he knows that there are greater rewards for them in heaven because they gave to him. That is a very spiritually mature way of looking at it. And that was the that was the love of the the Paul is loving this church so much he's just thrilled that they gave out of their poverty because he knew that this was going to be an exponential reward him. This word abound is like an accounting term that means exponentially multiplied. And he says that your reward to me, your reward for giving to my to the work here, is exponentially multiplied in spiritual work And spiritual reward to God. And that's what the text is saying. And he wants them to understand this. He says, I seek fruit that abounds to your account. He wants them to increase in that. And he again says, as sort of a sandwich method, to remind them, I I have not need I have not what I I have what I need, I don't need any more This is not what I'm writing, essentially. I'm full, I have received from a powerful dice the things that sent to you, but I am very thrilled that you gave for your sake. And then he says this in verse 18. He says It is a sweet-smelling aroma, acceptable sacrifice, well pleasing to God. The Apostle Paul is referencing the fact That in the Old Testament, in the book of Leviticus, you have burnt offerings that were given in consecration to the Lord. It was a symbol of consecration of that burnt offering to God. In fact, there was a laying on of hands ceremony there when they gave in order to symbolize a full giving of this burnt offering to God. And when it was done in the right way, it was said that there was this sweet aroma that lofted the heaven that pleased God. It's interesting that in Scripture, as you work through the book of, as you work through the Old Testament and into the New Testament, you begin to see a different focus. In other words, God set the symbol up of a sacrifice this way, and then we see a different focus as we go through here. And for example, in 1 Samuel 15, verse 22, it says Has the Lord as great delight in burnt offering and sacrifices as in obeying the voice of the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to heed the fat of rams. If sacrifice pleases the Lord, how much more would obedience please the Lord? Samuel explains David says in Psalm 51, for you do not desire sacrifice, or else I would give it. You do not desire a burnt offering. The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit. A broken spirit and a contrite heart, these, O God, you will not despise There are other passages that we could go to, but the primary emphasis is this. And we find this emphasis in several places in Hebrews, but we'll just go for sake of time to Romans chapter 12, verse 1. And you'll recall that passage The word well-pleasing here is the same word in Romans chapter 12. In Romans chapter 12 it says, I beseech you therefore by the brethren, by the mercies of God. That you present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable, well-pleasing, same word to God, which is your reasonable service. And do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, that you may prove what is good and acceptable and perfect will of God. What is when we get to this idea of burnt offerings, we get to the New Testament, and now Paul explains that this Old Testament sacrifice of pleasing God is a symbol Of the New Testament idea of giving yourselves to God. And when we give ourselves to God, when we do that, we just say, Lord, I'm yours for whatever you want to do with me. When we do that It is a sweet-smelling aroma to God. And one of the ways we know we're giving of ourselves to God is when we give of our finances to God. We are giving ourselves that way, and God says very basically: it really pleases God. God enjoys, he loves a cheerful giver. And I would say I think that when we give into the offering plate, or when we give to our g give uh to the Lord's work It would do us well to just think that what I'm doing is truly pleasing God. He loves to see this And out of a gratefulness for all that he has done for me, I want to give to him. I love to give to him. And the reality is when I do that, he's actually going to exponentially put more in my account. Whether it's spiritually or otherwise. And understanding that that is the principle that God gives. Now, with all of this in mind, we then move to chapter 4, verse 19. And Paul assures these poor believers that have sacrificially given. He says to them in verse 19, And my God shall supply all your need, according to his riches in glory by Christ Jesus. Now to our God and Father be glory forever. Amen. He says, my God will supply all your need. Now the point the Apostle Paul is making is that these people gave sacrificially out of their need. But he wanted to assure them that as they gave, God would be pleased with them and God would supply all of their needs. He wanted to assure them of that. There was this love for them, and he said, look, God's going to supply your needs, all of your needs And it says, according to his riches and glory in Christ Jesus. And by the way, that doesn't mean from his riches, but according to his riches. If I have a million dollars, which I assure you I don't, if I have a million dollars and I give you $100 out of that million dollars, that's $100 from my riches. But if I give you a blank check, that's according to my riches. That's the phrase here. He says, I will give, he will supply what we really need according to his riches. Folks, what that puts us then is in a place where we can give. When we realize that God's Sufficient and secure, not in our bank account, but in God. Do you know that is one of the reasons that sometimes it hinders us to give? Doesn't mean that we ought not saved. We have in the book of Proverbs a illustration of the ant saving in times of plenty for times of famine But the reality is sometimes we get so occupied with saving money and actually what we're doing in saving money is is we are building a security net for us and it becomes our security. Rather than God being our security. And we have to be careful about that. I'm not at all saying you shouldn't save money But what I am saying is that our heart should be that we always find our security in God, that God will always supply our needs. And when we have that perspective, then when we give, it's not grudging, it's cheerfully, with freedom, because we know God's going to supply, and we know that our security is not in our bank account. Our security is in him. He says, according to our riches and glory. And then we see in this passage, he sort of breaks out into doxology here. He says In verse um twenty, now to now to our God and Father be glory forever and ever. in realizing this this economy that God has explained explained here, that Paul explains about God's economy, that when we give, that there's more added to our account, that you can't outgive God, that God is so benevolent in that way. That that when this when we have this kind of mindset, it just blows our mind. I mean if you think about it, we're sinful, we're we're we're we're deserving of nothing, we deserve hell, that's what we deserve And then God in his grace saves us and God provides for us. And then if we give from God's provision Then he gives us more. Like, how great is God? Now I want to say, I am not talking about this health and wealth movement. I I talk about a sickening thing is watching most TV preachers. Be careful about watching TV preachers. If they tell you to put their hand on a television and give money, don't do that. It's a bad idea. We don't decide how God rewards us. It may be spiritual that God rewards us. Sometimes it is physical. But to understand that God will. And like you can't outgive him. This is a concept that Paul goes now to God and Father be glory forever and ever. And then he says, Greet every saint in Christ Jesus. The brethren who are with me greet you. All the saints greet you, but especially those who are of Caesar's household. And I will mention this for this reason. The significance of him saying Caesar's household is he's in prison. He's in he is around Caesar's household, and because he is imprisoned at this point, the indication is that he's able to lead even Caesar's household to Christ. At least some of them. He is essentially saying, you want to know where your gifts are going? I'm leading people in Caesar's household of Christ. He doesn't say it that way. He sort of implies that. But that should again give us great, great motivation to give that this goes for the furtherance of the gospel around the world So, just in concluding all of this, and I know I'm over time, including all this, number one, faithfully, just to summarize all this, faithfully, purposefully, and cheerfully partnering with those who preach the word by giving to God's work evidences spiritual health and growth. Faithfully, purposefully, and cheerfully partnering with those who preach the word by giving to God's work evidences spiritual health and growth. Number two, faithful giving is investing in eternity and the rewards are exponential. Just understand when we give, the rewards are exponential. And number three, faithful givers can be assured that God will supply their needs. Now I just want to mention very quickly, some of you are saying, well, you haven't mentioned tithing very much. How what is the percentage? And I'll just say this very quickly. Um the the Old Testament has this indication of 10% The New Testament does not give us percentage. But I will just simply say this about that. When Christ in the Sermon on the Mount talks about the law, he doesn't say do less than the law In fact, he says, if you uh hate in your heart, then you've already committed murder. If you look on a woman with lust in your heart, you commit adultery. He is actually He is actually not he he is dealing with the heart of the matter. And what I've just would just suggest to you that that that whatever the proportionate regular giving that you choose It's most Christians have come to the conclusion that they should give that or more. That's just a thought there, but it does seem to be that that's the indication in the New Testament. The point is what we see in the New Testament is not a percentage. He's far more concerned about portion proportions, or far more concerned about proportion and spiritual emphasis. And giving cheerfully with a right heart attitude and giving faithfully. And when we have the kind of spiritual maturity in relationship with the Lord, that that will come. It will be a byproduct of that. May we understand, and I think I would just leave it this way, giving is a privileged blessing. That's the point of this passage. Paul wants us to understand that giving is a blessing. It is not something to begrudge. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and we just thank you for this passage. Thank you that we can go through a passage like this together and see your perspective on it. And I pray, Lord, and in that the that your spirit would work in our hearts to to understand that there is this there is this blessing of giving. It's more in fact it's more blessed to give than receive. Help this to just be embedded in our minds. Help us to realize this and to think about this. And to understand that there is an exponential spiritual reward when we give to you. And we I thank you, Lord, for those in this church. That have faithfully given to support this work for many years. You've always provided for this church, and I just thank you, Lord, for continuing to provide in your way. And I pray, Lord, that you would help us to be able to partner together and continue to partner together for the sake of the gospel. And for the work of Christ, both in this area and around the world. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.