You said one thirty, right, Pastor? I gotta be done by one thirty. It's good to be in the house of the Lord this morning, isn't it? Okay, well we are going to be in the third epistle of John this morning. But before we go there We're talking about hospitality this morning because one man was recognized for it in this chapter. And we're actually going to be looking at three different men and their response to God. And uh hopefully we can uh glean something from that. But I got a question before we start. When company is coming to your house Whether they're invited or whether they come by surprise. You know, in the day that this book was written and then in that time It was a common thing, hospitality, to open up your home. It was very common. It was actually expected of us uh of you. And uh so now I wonder what that might look like today. So I thought if you allow me to get just a little bit crazy here this morning. I want to give you a little example what it might look like. You see, honey, you remember Pastor talking about the Joneses, the new people we were thinking of taking on, the missionaries up there in uh Maine? You remember that? Well I got an email this afternoon and it was from them And they want to know if they could drop by our house tomorrow at noon and stay in the night and go to church with us in the morning, and then they're going to move on What? What? They're coming tomorrow morning? I gotta clean the house. I gotta dust everything. I gotta scrub down the bathroom. I gotta wash the kitchen floors. I don't have no groceries. We gotta go get some groceries. Why don't you know what they like? What are we gonna do? This is so inconvenient. Why did you agree to that Oh my goodness. What are we going to do about the kids? We got two kids that got to go to basketball practice in the morning. You're going to have to take them to basketball practice I can't take him to basketball practice. I got my friends coming over. We're going for a bike ride and I'll be back three o'clock sometime tomorrow afternoon. Well honey we gotta do something. You got the front yard to clean up. You got leaves laying everywhere. Let's get the leaves cleaned up. You gotta paint the front door Honey, I'll tell you what we'll do. What we'll do is we'll ask the Joneses, I'll leave some uh bags out there and some rakes, ask the Joneses if they'll rake up the yard. That'll pay for their staying with us and putting us through all this trouble. And maybe even maybe even I can get them to paint that front door. But what about the kids? They got six children. What are we gonna do with those children? Well, I don't know, maybe we could put a pin up in the back and they can go out there and spend the night out there. Our kids would love that. We can't put 'em out there. You remember your brother brought those four dogs over here last week? I ain't had a chance to clean it up So there's no way they're gonna be in the backyard. Hey, maybe we can get the Joneses to clean the backyard too, huh? Well, I tell you what. What we could do, honey, is we could uh call Pastor. He would love six more children over there. And uh, you know, dog would love it. I mean he'd be all over 'em. And uh we could do that No, we can't do that. He's got to prepare for the message. Well somebody volunteered us. We can volunteer him. Hmm. What are we gonna do with them kids though? I know what. We can send them to your mother's house My mother lives in Virginia. So what are we gonna do? Well, honey, I hate to tell you this, but I mentioned that the Joneses were coming to the new neighbors down the street And now they want to come over and meet these people. You want to bring them over here? They're going to bring their kids. They're going to bring their dog They don't even oh we don't want them in the house. They'll have this house tore up in no time. So what are we gonna do? Hmm Now that I got your attention. Does that sound kind of familiar up today? Maybe some of that is a little bit exaggerated, but sometimes it's an inconvenience for people to come to our home and open it up. So if you would turn to uh 1 Peter chapter 4 just to get us sobered up here. First uh Peter chapter four, verse seven through nine, it says, But the end of all things is at hand. Be ye therefore sober, and watch unto prayer, and above all things have fervent charity among yourselves, for charity shall cover the multitude of sins Use hospitality one to another without grudging. Without grudging. What does that mean? Without complaining, without grumbling, and for you little ones, without whining, we are to have people in our home. So now it might go like this. Hey honey, you remember the Joneses up there in Maine that the pastor was talking about? That they I heard they're coming down this way. Why don't we email them? Ask them if they would like to come and stay at our home. We'd love to have 'em here. We'd love to have them come and stay with us and you know what? We could put all those children out in the living room with sleeping bags and all of our kids out there they can just have a camp out right in the living room. This would be great. And you know what else? We could invite our new neighbors down the street who don't know the Lord. Maybe this would be an opportunity for them even to get around some people that know the Lord and are out in the mission field. You know, another thing we could do is we can get some groceries and all. I'll tell you what, I'll cancel my motorcycle ride tomorrow. And I will take the kids to basketball practice. You can clean the house, get that ready and do a little grocery shopping. You know what would really be nice if you went out and you got a little box and you filled it up with all kinds of goodies and uh uh little books and little games that the kids could do while they're riding down there and and you know what else? We could go by the bank maybe and get a couple hundred dollars out and put it in there for their gas and their food. This would be great. I'm so excited about them coming. You know what? When they come for dinner, they love seafood, so maybe we can get some seafood together and have dinner. And after dinner we could go by the piano and we can worship God with them and just enjoy their time here and then we could do after that get together and pray with them. That would be really wonderful, wouldn't it? Notice the difference. Notice the difference there. You know, the world when it entertains, it's about the host and not the guest. But in the Bible, when we entertain and open up our home to hospitality, it's about the guest, not about the host. And so as we are getting ready to go now to John, the third epistle of John, a couple things about hospitality. Hospitality really is a blessing and a privilege. And the other thing about hospitality is we are commanded to show hospitality to all and especially to those who are brothers and sisters in Christ. And Hebrews 13, 1 and 2 it says, Let brotherly love continue. Be not forgetful to entertain strangers, for thereby some have entertained angels unawares. And in Romans 12, 13 it says, distributing to the necessity of the saints, and given to hospitality It was something, a standard that was set down by God. And it's something that we need to be reminded of. And I think we were talking uh in Sunday school this morning about how we show this love one to another Or maybe it was in a conversation. But one of the things about showing love one to another we're going to learn today is a little different than the way the world loves one another. And we all are aware of that. So why is hospitality so important. If you would just for a moment turn over to Matthew chapter ten, and we will see what Jesus was saying here in Matthew chapter ten. He was getting ready to send out the disciples. And uh he makes this comment here in uh verse 9 of chapter 10 of Matthew. Provide neither gold nor silver nor brass in your purses No script for your journey, neither two coats, neither shoes, nor yet staves, for the workman is worthy of his meat And into whatsoever city or town you shall enter, inquire who is worthy, and there abide till you leave. And when ye come into the house, salute it W and bless it in other words. And if the house be worthy, let your peace come upon it. But if it is not worthy, let your peace return to you And whosoever shall not receive you, nor hear your words, when ye depart out of that house or city, shake off the dust from your feet. And look at verse 15. Verily I say unto you, it shall be more tolerable for the land of Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of judgment than that city. And I think Jesus takes it very seriously that we are hospitable, and especially to the brethren and to those who are traveling, those who are in uh ministry, leaders and all, and and not only that, but In the church itself, there should be that fellowship. There should be that openness. And we find that uh practice throughout the scripture uh several places you can see it. Paul himself in Acts 28, 30, rented a house for two years and he welcomed folks in and he received them in and they had fellowship there. Lydia, Justice, Aquila and Priscilla, others, all had opened up their home to invite those in who were traveling, or even uh brothers and sisters. And we remember in Acts All through Acts they were meeting in the houses. They were breaking bread together in the houses and all, because they didn't have a church building most of the time. But the fact that they w love getting together and having that camaraderie around Christ And their new faith in Jesus Christ. So in uh we're going to be now in the third letter of John, and uh this was written by the Apostle John. And probably around 90 A. D. , uh John was one of the twelve as we know. He probably wrote from Ephesus. This is a personal letter that John was writing to a very dear friend. And he was writing this letter to this dear friend Gaius to uh commend him, and not only to commend him, but also to encourage him. And uh one thing I see here about uh John. John was probably one of the closest to Christ. And uh one of the things that I think he received from Christ was this charity, this agape love, how he loved John and how he loved people. And John seemed it seemed to ingrain in John. And if you read most of John's uh writings, he's always talking about love there one for another. He always is talking about truth. And uh so we find that no different here and he's call uh calling upon or writing a letter to his friend Gaius And uh it's a personal letter of nature. And one of the things we find out that he truly loved this man, uh Gaila uh Gaius. And um He said, I love you in the truth. And one of the things that we find out about this love that it was a um Just a great joy for John to share with this man. Uh he was a young man and uh we don't know much about Gaius uh at all. We don't know his background. We don't know what church this is at that he's writing to. Doesn't give us that information here. But we do know that the uh name Gaius was a very popular name in the Roman uh world at that time. So he's believed to be a Gentile. And uh so being this being a uh personal uh letter to a very dear friend, we can learn about this love that he had for Gaius that we should have one for another. And we also see this same love in Gaius. So if you would uh before we get started, I'll say a little prayer to the Lord and ask for his help. Father, we are grateful and thankful that you give us your word. And Father, I know that in myself there lieth no good thing. So I ask, Father, that your spirit would be in complete And I pray that you would uh bind away all distractions this morning. Help us, Lord, just to draw near to you. And I pray that in all things your spirit will lead us and guide us, and that in all things you would be glorified in it. In Jesus' name. Amen. So as we begin here, can you just imagine getting this letter from the apostle? uh John. I uh to me it would just be very humbling and exciting at the same time. Here's a man who walked with God. He's a man who walk with the Lord, he was chosen by the Lord personally. Not only that, but he got to see things that most people didn't get to see. He saw the miracles and the uh different things, seeing Lazarus being brought back from the dead. I mean all these things that He embodies and he becomes a leader in the church. And if most of the time John doesn't use his name, here he's using elder, the elder. And uh so In uh John, I think he uses uh the one whom Jesus loved. There was a closeness there with him and the Lord, and uh also a closeness for uh believers that we see in John. This this agape love. And uh so in this, I can just imagine, I mean I I it it uh Uh it's amazing to see this little letter put in right here at the end uh before Jude and uh Revelation. But Just seeing these signs and wonders firsthand, I think it to me it would have been a great, great encouragement to Gaius to receive this letter. And so as we get into this We see John's closeness to Jesus. But one of the things we're going to learn here in the scripture, I believe, is that how we treat others Reflects our love for God. How we treat others is going to reflect our love for God. And so as I'm going to read the first um eight verses again, and then we'll get into it The elder, unto the well beloved Gaius, whom I love in the truth. Beloved, I wish above all things that thou mayest prosper, and be in health, even as thy soul prosperth. I rejoiced greatly when the brethren came and testified of the truth that is in thee. Even as thou walkest in the truth, I have no greater joy than to hear my children walk in truth. Beloved, thou doest faithfully whatsoever thou doest the brut to the brethren and to strangers, which have borne witness of thy charity before the church, whom if thou Bring forward on the day on their journey after a godly sort, thou shalt do well, because that for his name's sake they went forth, taking nothing from the Gentiles We therefore ought to receive such that we might be fellow helpers in the truth. As we look here at this uh eight passages here. How we treat others reflects our love for God. And a lot of times uh it's kind of hard for us to kind of get a grasp on this love that John shows towards Gaius. We are so involved in everything today, we're so busy. And we also get into this thing where instead of visiting and talking we We email, we text, we call on the phone, and we don't want to go out of our little comfort zone to go and visit and be a part. But Here you see this great love, and he was writing a letter to a man whom he loved dearly. And see you can see his love for God showing through this. And here we find in the first part It says that the truth that is in us in verses 3 through 6, he says, For I rejoice greatly that the brethren came and testified of the truth that is in you. Gaius, even as you walk in that truth, I have no greater joy than to hear that my children walk in that truth the Lord. You know when you think about that, isn't it a great joy when you see your children growing up to walk in the Lord? Can you imagine this? And this is kinda where John is. You know, these are his little children that he had a part in their salvation and ministering to them. But here we find that one of the things about how we treat others and how it reflects God, evidenced by the truth that is in us. And you see that there mentioned in uh verse three. Evidence by the truth that is in us. And he says also that we walk in this truth by showing love one to another And this is what Gaius was doing. He was showing love to those who were passing through that town. He would open up his home to them. He didn't even know some of them. They were strangers. But uh I want to want to turn over to John thirteen, if you would, the Gospel of John, chapter thirteen. And we want to look at something here. John thirteen, and we want to look at verse thirty-four. and thirty-five in John chapter fourteen. And it says here soon as I get to it. I'm sorry, it's John 13. John thirteen. John thirteen, verse thirty-four and thirty-five. A new commandment I give unto you. This is Jesus speaking. That ye love one another as I have loved you. That ye also love one another. And by this shall all men know. that you are my disciples if you love one to another. This love that he's speaking about here is a It's called charity in some in the King James a lot. And we're all aware of what the uh the difference between agape love and and uh the world's love. But This is a love that's selfless. It is about the other person. And uh we're gonna find that out as we go a little further. But here you see Jesus talking about people are gonna recognize that you are mine, you are part of me. by your love that you show one to another. And 2 John, if you turn back, 2 John mentions here in verse 4 and verse 6. In 2 John 4, he says, I rejoice greatly that I found of thy children walking in truth, as we have received a commandment from the Father. What was the commandment that was given from the Father? Love. Love one another. The first commandment is to love God with all your heart, might, and strength. And then the other one is to love one another as yourself. And so this is the commandment he's speaking about here. And if you look at verse 6, he says, and this is love. That we walk after his commandments. This is the commandment that as ye have heard from the beginning, that you should walk in it And we see this evidence here in Gaius that he walks in that love. He walks in the truth. Jesus is the way. the truth and the life. And so this truth that he's walking in is is a reflection of the gospel toward us. And I see here in 2 John 4, 6, that he makes it very clear that we are to walk that way. that we are to love one another. In this church right here, we are to love one another and other believers also. And then he goes to 1 John chapter 2, if you would turn there real quick. First John chapter two, and we will be looking at verses three through six. And hereby we do know that we know him if we keep his commandments. So it's reflected by the fact that if we are loving one another as we ought, It shows that we know that we are his, that we are Christ, we are in Christ. And he says in verse 4, He that saith, I know him, and keepeth not his commandments is a liar. And the truth is not in him. Very clear, very uh very clear in the scripture here. And then he goes on to verse five. He said, But whosoever keepeth his word In him verily is the love of God perfected. I love that passage. Hereby know we that we are in him If you want to know if you're in Christ, do you have this love that John has for Gaius, that Gaius had for those who were passing through that town, that he would open up his home. One of the things that we notice here That is the opposite of what we started with about cleaning a house and a bathroom and all those things. Never is it mentioned anything about Gaius' home or anything else. It's about Gaius' love for the brethren. And I think that it's a better reflection for us to see this great love. And we it's not something that's easy. We need to work at it, that's for sure. People are hard to love, aren't they? And uh so but if we have God's spirit and we are growing in Christ, that love should become more and more evident in our lives. And so as we look on down to verse 6, he says, He that saith he abide in him ought himself. Listen to this. Ought himself also to walk as he walked. If we say we abide in Christ, we should be walking the way Christ walks. Now this is a lifetime thing. We know that we are already Secure in Christ, but as we are growing, you're not gonna be able to walk in Christ if you are not growing. If you are not in God's word, not in the truth, you are not gonna be able to grow. You will be falling down on your feet all the time. You'll be doubting yourself. You'll be wondering what is wrong with me? Why can't I do this? Why can't I do that? We are to be walking as Christ walked. And here is a man who has been evidenced by the other believers who came through there and said, this man walks in Christ. The truth is in him. It's very evident. And so I think it's important for us to catch that. And it also in uh It's exemplified also by putting others' needs before our own. This is what we're talking about here. It's not so much that I'm opening up my home I don't want to show off my home and all that stuff. I'm opening up my home because someone needs to come there. Someone needs a place to stay. Someone needs food to eat. Someone needs uh provisions. So in verse six and eight we find uh where he's talking about uh back in uh third John. In 6 through 8, he's talking about this. And so it is exemplified by putting others' needs first. And this is what Gaius was doing. He was putting other people's needs before his own. And he would take care of them and give them what they needed on their way. And when it talks about over here, uh in uh verse uh six, it says, After a godly sort. In other words, in a way that's worthy of God that we help them. And that's what that basically is saying there. But in uh we see this evidence and if you have your Bibles open there, turn to Philippians real quick. We all probably be aware of Philippians. Chapter 2. But I want to look at two things here. In Philippians chapter 2, we're going to look at verses 2 through 4. But I want to start in verse 1 actually. Chapter 2 of Philippians. It says, if there be therefore any consolation in Christ, if any one comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any vows of mercy Fulfill ye my joy, that ye be like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord. Now look what he says in verse three. Let nothing be done through strife and vainglory, but in loneliness of mind. Let each esteem others better than himself. Look not every man unto his own things, but every man also on the things of others. This is the sharing part. This is the part where we see a need in a brother's life and we reach out to help And it's the same thing when people are coming through our town or our community, people that we know are coming here. Now I will say that uh uh we uh Uh have pretty good hospitality here for people who are passing through. We normally find a place for them to rest and uh be re um restored and all for their moving on. But It should be evident not only for those passing through, but it should be between you and I. We should have that same uh uh ability. If we see a need of a brother or a sister in this sanctuary that are our brothers and sisters, we should be reaching out to help them and comfort them and encourage them. So we see that here. And it's also evidenced in Christ here when we see verses 5 through 11. I'm going to take a time just to read a couple of verses. But it says, let this mind be in you, which was in Christ. So in other words, we've got to get this mindset. uh here that he's talking about. And he says, who being in the form of God thought it not robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation. And took himself of the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men. And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself, and he became obedient unto death, even death on the cross This humility is one of the things that will help us to see the needs of others. Sometimes we're too busy with our own life. We got too many things going on. We don't see the need of our brothers and sisters. And here it's very evident that humility plays a big part in our love one for another. We can't boast in ourselves. We have nothing good in ourselves, so we should boast in Christ. But a lot of times we get it wrong When we w wanna invite people over, everything's gotta look perfect. Everything's gotta be clean. Don't do this, don't do that. We've got to have everything right. No, no, no, no. Humble yourself before God. Humble yourself and allow these people to come in. Don't I mean you know you don't want the house to be a wreck, but at the same time we should as Christians should be keeping our house fairly normal. that she got kids and that sometimes goes a little bit by the wayside. That's okay. People understand that if you have children, right? But it's not the concern of what the house looks like. It's the concern of the brother that's coming. And then um you see this here and you see this charity that he had given and and John seems to be encouraging him even more when he talks about down here he says that uh If thou bring forward on their journey. In other words, if you're sending someone out from their journey, do it after a godly sort, something that's worthy of God, and you will do well. And I think sometimes uh we can get overwhelmed and we can become weary. And uh when I think about weariness, uh it definitely happens to all of us. There are times when we become a little weary. But the Bible tells us, and if you would turn over to Galatians chapter 6, And we will look at verses 9 and 10 in Galatians. And Galatians chapter 6, 9, and 10 says this. And let us not be weary in well-doing. For in due season we shall reap if we faint not. In other words, brothers and sisters, don't lose heart. That's what it's talking about here, being weary. Sometimes we lose heart. We get overwhelmed. But this faint part is not a physical faint, but it's to lose courage. And kind of fall back and give up. We he doesn't want us doing that. And if you go into verse ten, he says, As we have therefore opportunity, let us do good to all men, all men, and especially to them who are the household of faith. You know, when you when we invite people over to our home, Christian brothers and sisters, it would be a wonderful thing to invite a neighbor who may not know Christ. That would be our strangers coming in It could be an opportunity to let them see this great love that Christ has shown us when we show it between each other. And I think it would be a good thing for us to learn that and not to lose that um Don't become weary in it. Don't lose the joy of opening up your home and sharing it with brothers and sisters. And the other thing I think of is Isaiah 40, 31 Which I have on a uh poster in my office, which I can't get into right now. We have all our kids' stuff there that they leave behind so we can uh enjoy it But uh in verse forty uh I mean in chapter forty verse thirty one he says, but they that wait upon the Lord Shall renew their strength. They shall mount up with wings as eagles. They shall run and not be weary. And they shall walk and not faint. Don't give up. Don't get anxious. But keep your hope and your strength in the Lord. It's a joy in serving the Lord. The joy of the Lord is our strength. So I'm going to move on down. Now we find a different man. Deotrophes. It took me a little bit to figure that name out, but I don't know if I have it right or not, but it it slides off the tongue a lot easier than what I was thinking. So The atrophies. Here is evidence of one who is not walk walking in the truth. So if you want to look at your life and look at Gaius and then look at the atrophies One of the things we find out here in verses 9 and 10, it says, I wrote unto the church, but the atrophies who loveth to have the preeminence among them receiveth us not. Can you imagine denying John, the apostle, from coming to your church? This man was a man who was probably a self-made leader. He loved being the man in the church. Everybody comes to. Not necessarily he's a pastor. But he has this preeminence and he wants to be the boss. He's a prideful man. He loves the lofty position This is a man we do not want to be like, and we do not want to follow. And he tells us that here. He's also a gossiper and a slanderer. In verse ten it says, Wherefore if I come, I will remember his deeds. I wouldn't want to be in his shoes if John was coming. He has the authority, by the way. John is an apostle. He has the authority. And we'll remember his deeds which he doeth, praying against us, saying bad things, with malicious words. And not content therewith. And here's a man who won't receive them in the church. Because he's the guy. He's the man. And it's about him And he says here that and forbiddeth and forbiddeth them that would, and casteth them out of the church. So if someone in the church wanted to do right And allow someone to come and stay at their home, this man, Diatovies, threw him out of the church. So it kind of gives you an idea and a focus of where this man was. He refused the brothers, forbidding others to do so. He would cast true servants out of the church. So here We go into verse 11. Now verse 11 kind of goes between what we just read and heading towards Demetrius here. But it says, beloved, follow not that which is evil. But that which is good, he's talking to Gaius here. He that doth good is of God. And he says, but he that doth evil hath not seen God. And one of the things here, it's very evident that he who does good is of God, such as Gaius, such as we're going to learn about Demetrius. But we would not say that about theotrophies Here, I want to share, turn with me, if you would, to John chapter 12, real quick, John chapter 12, and we are going to be looking at verses 43 through 48. And it says here in John 43, he mentions here, for they love the praise of men. More than the praise of God. This is the atrophies. This was also the Pharisees who he was talking about. But this is the atrophies. He loved the praise of men more than the praise of God. And Jesus says in verse 44 He that believeth on me, believeth not on me, but on him that sent me, talking about God. And he that seeth me, talking about Jesus here, if anybody looks at Jesus, they will see him I come a light into the world, that whosoever believeth on me should not abide in darkness. And if any man hear my words and believe not, I judge him not For I came not to judge, but to save. And he that rejecteth me, and receiveth not my words, hath not that judgeth him? The word that I have spoken, the same shall judge him in the last day This man is heading for judgment that he's not gonna like. But he did not see Christ. He did not know Christ in God. And one of the things that we see in Gaius is you see Christ in him. The way, the truth, and the life, the truth was in Gaius. He was in Christ. Christ was in him. And then we go to John, uh, first John, real quick, to verse um first John verses one through three. Behold Yeah, okay Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us that we should be called the sons of God Therefore, the world knoweth us not, because it knew him not. Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it doeth not yet appear what we shall be. But we know that when he shall appear, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. And every man that hath this hope in him, purified himself even as he is pure. So there is a process going on in our lives if we truly are Christ. And we are in him, we will be like him, we will reflect Christ. And then one more verse that I want to mention here also is 10 and 11. 10 says, and this the children of God are manifest, and the children of the devil. He's showing the comparison here. And we're seeing it between Gaius and Deatrophes. Whosoever doth righteousness, whoever does not do righteousness is not of God, neither he that loveth not his brother. Here is Theosophes wouldn't allow the brethren to come into his church And anybody that tried to invite them into their home, he would put them out. So it kind of reflects who The Atropies is For this is the message that ye heard from the beginning that ye should love one another. Here it again, John is bringing out this agape love And so as we go through this now, we're going to look at another young man. His name is Demetrius. And it's believed that Demetrius was the man that they sent the letter with. And he was encouraging Gaius to welcome him. And he even gives a testimony about him. He that doeth good is of God. And this is where I'm thinking about this that God here is speaking also about Demetrius. And it says here, Demetrius in verse 12, hath good report of all men. Everybody that met him or knows him. Now you know when we're talking about everybody, it's not every everybody, but here he's saying most people that met him Uh they have a good report and of the truth that's in himself. The truth itself uh re is revealed in him. Yea, and we also bear record, talking about John and his church. And ye know that our record is truth. I like that authority of an apostle. And uh his confidence in Christ and knowing Christ. And so here we find The truth itself is witnessed. And if you would turn back to John chapter 14, and it says in John chapter 14, verse 6, and this is Christ speaking. In John chapter 14, verse 6, it says, I am the way, the truth, and the life. And no man cometh unto the Father but by me. This truth that is in uh Gaius, that truth that is in Demetrius is Christ. Christ in him and them in Christ And we learned this a few weeks back. But just to give you an example of how this takes place, turn with me to Second Corinthians. And uh we are going to be in chapter um five in 2nd Corinthians. And in Second Corinthians chapter five, if I can get there, I'm using a big large print Bible that I don't normally use, and the pages are like little thin pieces of paper hard to turn. But anyway, uh here we find in 2 Corinthians chapter 5, and we are looking at verse um verse 15. Let's go to verse 15. Oh, second Corinthians. Second Corinthians, chapter five. I was in the wrong one. Okay. 2 Corinthians chapter 5, verse 15, where it says, And that he died for all, that they which live should not henceforth live unto themselves. But unto him which died for them and rose again. So we are living for Christ. A person who is truly in Christ is living for Christ is kind of the picture we see here. And then it goes on to talk about that in verse 17. Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things pass away, behold, all things become new. There is a change in a person's life when they come to Christ, and it is Christ's image that's being revealed through us And uh so it's an important part of uh what we're learning here. And one last uh passage I want to go to is John chapter 17, which we have learned from Pastor Jim a few weeks ago. And I so appreciated the uh uh chapter seventeen. And I'm glad we spent a few weeks in there. But in chapter seventeen here, it mentions in verses twenty-one through twenty-three And uh 21 says, Jesus speaking, that they all may be one as you, as thou Father, art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be one in us, that the world may believe that thou sent me. And the glory which thou gavest me I have given unto them, that they may be one even as we are one. I in them. Thou and me, that they may be made perfect in one, and that the world may know that thou hast sent me and hast loved them. And thou hast loved me. This whole thing about the love and this how we are brought into Christ's family and that we are part. and of of Christ. And Christ is in us. We're in Christ. I just love that passage because here you see that He that doeth good is of God. And we see that this truth itself is witnessed in him. And so now at the conclusion Um, I just put a couple things out there. Showing hospitality is a blessing and a privilege, but without charity, it is like the world. It is just a selfish ambition. And here we see this with theotrophies, even though he would not open up the church or his home to the brothers who were coming through. But also uh in First Corinthians, uh I just want to touch that one I thought was uh really uh appropriate for what we're everybody knows about uh uh 1 Corinthians chapter 13, which is uh the love chapter. And in that uh chapter, in verse uh what am I looking at Well look at verse three in chapter thirteen. Again I'm going through these little pages. If you turn two, you turn thirty pages. So chapter thirteen and we are looking at um verse three. Verse three says And though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned, if I have not charity. it profited me nothing. So we can invite people into our home, give them everything, but if it's not done in a love for them and seeing their need, and it's more for our benefit or our recognition then it's wrong. It's the wrong way to go. And so here we find that it's if it's a selfish ambition, it'll be about you. It'll be about your house. It'll be about everything you have. But if it's about the person you're inviting there and you want them to be loved and comfortable there and supply their needs, be able to help them, it's all about them and not us Then we have true hospitality. The second thing is that they walk in the truth. It will be recognized by their charity one for another. If we are walking in the truth, It will be seen in you and I because of our love one for another. That's important. How do we love one another that way? We've got to stop being so busy for one. We're very busy in life. And I want to show you at the end here what Christ says about this whole thing of hospitality. It to me it was an eye-opener. I know the passage is there. I've been there before, but it really brought it to light. If you would turn to Matthew chapter twenty-five and we'll close there. Okay, Matthew 25. And we're going to look at verse 31. We'll begin there and we'll go to verse 46. I want you to listen closely. When the Son of Man shall come in his glory, and all the holy angels with him, then shall he sit upon the throne of his glory. And before him shall be gathered all nations, and he shall separate from one another as a shepherd divideth his sheep from the goats. He shall set the sheep on his right hand. and the goats on the left. Then shall the king say unto them on his right hand, Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. For I was hungry and you gave me meat. I was thirsty and you gave me drink. I was a stranger and you took me in. I was naked and you clothed me. I was sick and you visited me. I was imprisoned, and you came to me. Then shall the righteous answer and say, Lord When did we see you hungry and feed you? When did we see you thirsty and give you drink? When did we see you, a stranger, and took you in? When did we see you naked, Lord, and clothe you? Or when did we see you sick or in prison? Come to you. And the king, the king of kings, shall answer and say unto them, Verily I say unto you, inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it. Unto me. And he moves on. Then shall he say to those on his left, Depart from me, ye cursed, into eternal lasting fire. Everlasting fire. Prepared for the devil and his angels. For I was hungry and you gave me no meat. I was thirsty and you gave me no drink. You were too busy You were too much about yourself. I was a stranger and you took me in not. I was naked and you didn't clothe me. I was sick and you didn't come and visit me. Then shall they also say Well Lord, when did we see you hungry? When did we see you thirsty? When did we see you as a stranger or naked and sick or in prison? And did not minister unto you. Then shall he answer them. Verily I say unto you, inasmuch as ye did it not to one of the least of these, my brother, ye did it not to me. So we see here that there is a blessing in hospitality. There's several blessings. Number one, the person who is walking in the truth, the one who is opening up his home and has that good testimony, is blessed because his future is going to be with Christ. He will be the one that will hear, well done, my good and faithful servant. John was blessed by Gaius because John was his teacher. was his overseer, was the one probably who led him to the Lord. So you never know when you're having people in the effect you may have. But that love that you show them is gonna make a difference how you show And then you find that the people that were passing through who needed help were blessed. So we see here the blessing of hospitality. And I think that it really opened my eyes to how much I lack in that area of hospitality. You know I always had this mind, I need to fix the house up, I need to get it clean, I need to make it look presentable. I don't want people coming here thinking I'm a hoarder or thinking that I'm a sloppy man. I want it to look nice. So I spend my whole life doing that instead of inviting them in. And that would be to my shame. So if you are convicted this morning, and uh as I was, uh think about what Christ said in Matthew. We are actually opening up our hearts to Christ when we do that one to another. Let's close in prayer. Father, we are grateful again that you are a merciful God, a loving God, that you are full of grace and love. You are almighty, all powerful, all-wise. And Father, I thank you this morning for your Holy Spirit. Father, I realize the being willing to take your responsibility. Is no small matter. So I am grateful for your spirit. I'm grateful for your word. Giving me an ability that I have not in myself I thank you, Lord, for those that you sent here today. And I pray as we think this through, Lord, as we mull over it, as we meditate upon it, as if we don't meditate, Lord Lord, I know we're not going to apply. So help us to think this through and how we can apply it. Help us to get those things out of our way, Lord, that are holding us back from showing. this great love that you have shown us, that we may show it to others. Therefore, bring praise and honor and glory to your name I thank you this morning for your goodness and your kindness. Thank you for your blessings. May you be with us now as we go away. And help us, Lord, to do all for your glory. In Jesus' name. Amen.