And we're actually going to be picking up in verse two, John chapter fourteen. Some of you don't have to look too far for this, but I'd like you to think of the time, the last time that you were really stressed out about something, that you were in a very stressful situation. I thought of when I was thinking about just different folks in our church and the different stresses that you all are facing, I thought of the amount of people that moved in our church over the summer. I mean I think I it feels like half of our church moved to a different location, like in another house basically during the summer. Maybe not half, but uh quite a few. And uh and moving can be extremely stressful. Some of you are transitioning in job situations. Some of you are just there's different needs that you have, different physical needs. There are stressful situations. I think one of the most stressful situations I can think of is like for a bride like a day before her wedding. Is that stressful? I think that's usually pretty stressful. This uh yesterday I was at a uh I was at a soccer game, a Caitlin soccer game. We have them involved in soccer. I think they're it's just helpful for them to learn some things that uh learn teamwork and how to listen to instruction from coaches and those kinds of things. And I was a little nervous about um the first day being there with all the other parents and the reason I was nervous is because I tend to get into things. Um and I was I was sort of nervous because uh because we we live in Howard County, which is kind of a liberal county and And I was afraid there were going to be a bunch of people that, you know, patty cake their kids and um didn't didn't really try to uh you know But I was totally wrong of that about that. In fact the first the first game we they played. I one of the parents was like, if you don't score two goals, you're not eating today. And uh of course he was she was joking completely. Uh I was I looked over and she said, I I'm joking, really, I'm joking. I thought I thought that I said, Well that's good though. I mean at least you know I can be myself here and I can say Caitlin, you know, eye on the ball, whatever. Uh Where's Kaylin? There you are. Do what you need to do. And she was funny yesterday. She said, uh, Daddy, you're pretty calm most of the time until you're at my game. So anyway, we were having a having a good time and And uh but yesterday there was a lady there who sh it was cl it was a close game. They ended up tying the uh the their opponents were about a head taller than the rest of them And uh than than our folks, uh our kid kids and our team. And uh the lady was, she said, I am so stressed out. I am so stressed out. She looked at me, she said, are you stressed out? And I thought to myself, well I'm excited, but I'm not stressed out. And and actually what I really thought to myself was, I care, but not that much. Okay. And the reality is, you know, the truth is, the more you care, the more tempted you are to be what? To be stressed out about a situation. If you don't care, you're not stressed. And if you care a little, then you probably still won't be stressed. I cared, but I didn't care as much as that lady did Um and the whole I mean she's the whole time she is just stressed out. She's like they get a point. The other team gets a point. She goes, Oh she's really traumatic. Um it was it was quite interesting. Um and I thought to myself, um You don't have a lot in your life to stress you out because this is kind of relatively not that important. Anyway. But we do get stressed out of things that we really care about. Now, let me ask you this question. You got that stressful thing in your mind that you've been through? Maybe you're over it now, or maybe you're not. Imagine yourself right in the middle of it, and somebody comes to you and says, Listen, don't worry about it. I'm going to take care of everything. I'm going to take care of everything. Don't even think about it anymore. I'm going to don't don't worry about it. I will take care of everything Now, how many of you would struggle with letting somebody take care of everything? What would be the determining factor as to whether or not you would allow something, you really care about this, whatever it is What would be the determining factor as to whether or not you would allow somebody to just take care of everything? Folks, wouldn't it be on how much you trust them? If you really trust somebody and they come to you and they say, I got it, I'll take uh care of everything, and you know that they've got the knowledge and competence and ability and faith and character to be able to accomplish that, then you can sort of let you can you can be not stressed anymore and you can say, okay, he's got it. I'm going to trust him And that's why you have in this particular passage an emphasis that Christ is going to be placing on the ye believe in God, you've got to believe in me too. You've got to trust me. Let not your heart be troubled. He's later on in John 14 going to say, peace I leave with you. My peace I give unto you, not as the world give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. He does not want us to fear. He doesn't want us to be troubled. And so he is going to emphasize in this passage who he is. Christ is who he is. He is all sufficient. And because he is all sufficient, we can trust him. And our level of troubledness is going to depend upon our level of trust. If we can say, okay, Christ has it. He's got it. He's got it taken care of. Then we don't have to be troubled. And by troubled, I don't mean concerned. We have concerns, but there is a level to which we become troubled and stressed and over over Whatever. And we we get to a place where it's really it's really traumatic for us. The reason that the disciples are so, let's put it this way in our vernacular, can I do this? Are so stressed out. is because they're really confused. If you remember from last couple of weeks, they're confused because they expected for Christ to lead them into a revolution where they would overflow the Roman government. Over overthrow the Roma Roman government. And they expected that they were going to be able to take care of things. With him leading them in that way, and Christ says, I'm leaving you. I'm going a place you can't go. They're very confused by this. And so this discussion is all based around helping the disciples to settle down and to be comforted and to not be troubled in anticipating Christ's departure. Now, I need us to know a couple of things about this passage, but before we do, let's go to the Lord in prayer, ask his blessing on our time together. Father, we pray as we get into this passage that you would really help us Just to see and to be edified and to be exhorted by the reality that Christ is our all-sufficiency. We know that in our head, but we often forget it in our hearts. We know that in the way that we think But we we neglect to really see the beauty of that. And to have the confidence of knowing that you have prepared and made provision for everything for us to be able to live. For the furtherance of your kingdom unto life and godliness. And I pray today that you would help us to see from your word that Christ is all-sufficient. We know that, but may we really Realize that in a fresh way today. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. We need to pick up here in verse 2 of this passage to recover a couple of very important things in order to really understand what Christ is driving at in John chapter 14. By the way, in John chapter 14, sometimes we we miss some of the subtleties of this text. And don't see the significance of it, but I'm going to tell you today that we one of the most beloved texts in all of Scripture is John chapter 15. And I don't think you can rightly understand John chapter 15 unless you really understand John chapter 14. There are people that have isolated John chapter 15 without really considering the truth in John chapter 14, and I think you're going to miss a whole lot if you do that. And so the truths that we learn today are going to be vitally important for us. We need to understand what Christ says here when he says in verse 2, In my father's house are many mansions. He is saying that he is going to go to his father's house and to prepare a place for us. The significance of that is that the nation of Israel was Their focus was to be in the presence of God. The entire sacrificial system, the tabernacle, and the temple after it All centered around the presence of God. And when Christ says here, I go to prepare, in my father's house or many mansions, this is really alluding to the temple. Of course, it's not the we find we know the book of Hebrews that the physical temple on earth is a is a after the after a pattern of a heavenly temple, Scripture says. And we won't get into all of that now. But what we do need to understand is that the most significant thing about the temple is the presence of God in it. And yet the nation of Israel had not experienced the presence of God for many years at this point. The Bible says, for example, in Leviticus 26, 11, it says, I will set my tabernacle among you And my soul shall not abhor you. I will walk among you and be your God, and you shall be my people. Ezekiel thirty-seven, twenty-six through twenty-eight says, Moreover, I will make a covenant of peace with them, and it shall be an everlasting covenant with them, and I will establish them. and multiply them, and I will set my sanctuary in the midst forever. My tabernacle also shall be with them. Indeed, I will be their God. And they shall be my people. The nations also will know that I, the Lord, sanctify Israel when my sanctuary is in their midst forever. The focal point for the nation of Israel is that God was with them. The glory of God was in that temple. Most people don't realize that the sacrificial system was there in order to maintain undefiledness. so that the presence of God would be able to remain with the nation of Israel. All of those ceremonies were for that purpose. It had to remain pure. There had to be a a that had to occur in order for the presence of God to stay there and remain there. And so the focus for the disciples as they hear these words is Ultimately, they're wanting the presence of God to be there. That's the greatest, the most, let me put it this way, the most holy motive that they have They have a lot of other side motives that are not so great, like like they're debating over who's gonna be greatest in the kingdom of heaven But when it comes to this great motive of wanting God to be with them again, that is a very a very admirable motive, isn't it? It's very honorable And so when we are thinking about what Christ is going to do and telling his disciples that he's going to prepare a place for them, They're understanding this to mean that he's going to the presence of the Father to prepare a place for them, and he's going to come for them, and he's going to receive them so that they can be there. And that's exactly the case. But they are very concerned about this because they thought this was going to happen very soon, and now they don't know what to do. There is a great confusion about these things. Something else to consider when we're thinking about this is also the fact that in John chapter 2, verses 19 through 22, you remember the passage where Christ has gone through and he has cleansed the temple. And do you remember in that passage that he tells the religious leaders, the Jewish leaders of that day, that he says, You destroy this temple, and in three days I'll raise it up? And his reference was actually to himself. In other words, he is saying, I will replace the temple. Christ, the Bible says in another place, the Father is in Christ, and Christ in the Father, he's going to later say that in this passage. And so what we have here is that Christ is causing them to learn, go further in their understanding of who he really is. And so he says to them in verse 3, I go to prepare a place for you, and I will come again and receive it into myself that where I am, there you may be also. Look at verse 4. And whether I know, and whether I go, ye know. He says, you know where I'm going. And the way ye know. He says, you know where I'm going, and you know the way. Now at this point, the disciples are thinking, what? I don't know where you're going, and I don't know the way. And so we find that then it says in top Thomas says in verse 5. Then said unto him, Lord, we know not whither thou goest. And how can we know the way? He says, How can we know the way in which to go if we don't know the destination? They are still preoccupied with that final destination of where they are going. They're preoccupied with the result. They want to know where that final destination is. And they want to know how to get there. Okay, Lord, if you're going to leave us, we need to know how to get to where you're going. And he says, you know. And Thomas says, we don't know. There are two ways, if you just think practically, there are two ways to get to a destination. One way is to take a map or a phone or a GPS these days. And to map it out. And if you're going to use that method, you have to know what? You've got to know the destination. You've got to know where you are, and you have to know the destination. Now that's really hard for some people It's amazing how hard that is for some people to be honest with you. But anyway, um you have to know the destination and you've got to know you've got to know where you are There is another way to know get to where you want to go, and that is to follow someone, right? If you follow someone very closely, you don't need to know where the destination is, right? And you don't even need to know the way. All you need to do is what? Follow the person. Trust in who you're following. How many of us don't always trust that? If you ask me to follow you I am I'm really bad about this. If you ask me to follow you, I'll say, okay, but give me the destination anyway. And I'm gonna look it up on my phone and I'm gonna track it, and then I'll follow you, but then if you go somewhere that I don't think you should go, I'll just go my own way. I'm really that's terrible, isn't it? Uh there is a practicality of that, I will tell you this when it comes to this area with traffic cutting in and out, sometimes sometimes you lose people as well. Um so that that's a possibility either as well. But what Jesus is saying, you know what Jesus is saying here? He's saying, you don't need to know the destination, and you don't need to know I'm the way. I'm the way. Follow me. So he says here in this passage, verse 9, Jesus saith unto him, oh I'm sorry, not verse 9, verse uh verse 6 six Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. If ye had known me, ye would have known my Father also. And from henceforth Ye know him and have seen him. So Jesus says this. He says, I am the way, the truth, and the life. He is telling the disciples, you need to follow me, because I am the way. In John chapter 6, verse 45, it says, It is written in the prophets. And they shall be all taught of God. Every man therefore hath heard and hath learned of the Father, cometh unto me. What he's saying there is that if you have learned of the Father at all, if you know anything about the Father, when you see me, you'll follow me. And part of what he's saying here is if you know the Father at all, if you know anything about God, you will be directed toward me. Christ is the test. He's the litmus test as to whether or not someone knows God. We find that also in 1 John chapter 3. He says, Test the spirits, see whether they're of God, and he says, Christ is the test. If you don't know Christ, you don't know God I am the way, and no one comes to the Father but by me. Jesus says, I am the all-sufficient way. We also find many times in the book of Acts that there was this phrase that people started saying that the Christians were of the way. And what they were really saying when they were saying that, it's it's several times in the book of Acts, they're really saying they're of Christ. It indicates that there is this lifestyle. That when we follow Christ, we're going to take on his lifestyle. What is the way to the destination? It is this lifestyle that we are going to take on because we want to follow Christ in Christ's likeness. We want to follow his lifestyle. But he further explains that he is the way because he is the what. He is the way because he is the truth. And we find in John chapter 1, if you recall from that passage, that it says that the word became flesh. and dwelt among us. When he says that he is the truth here, he is saying that he is the revealer of God. He is the revelation of God to the world. I am the way, I am the truth, he says. It says in John chapter 8, verse 31 through 32, and Jesus said unto them, the Jews who believed him, If ye abide in my word, ye are my disciples indeed. Ye shall know the truth, and the truth will do what? Will set you free. The people were in bondage. The people were in bondage to their sin. The people were in bondage to the Old Testament law that they could not follow, that they could not, they couldn't, they had no hope of being able to do so. They were in bondage to the pharisaical external impositions of the law, of what they thought the law was saying. They were in bondage. They were in, and Christ says, follow me, I'm the truth, and if you find the truth, you'll be free. He says he is also the life. When he says he is the life, John's idea here, when he writes this gospel We could go all the way back to John chapter 1 again, where it says that Christ is the life. In John chapter 1, verse 4, it says that. But do you recall when it says in the beginning was the word, the word was with God, the word was God in that passage? It noted notes then there that it that Jesus Jesus is in the beginning. So he was creator God, and it sort of draws us our minds back to creation. Well, part of the whole creation account in chapters in Genesis chapters 1 through 3 is this idea that God breathed into his nostrils mankind into his nostrils the what? The breath of Of life, and man became a what? A living soul But when they sinned, that was compromised. What we find later on in chapter 3 of that passage is that they were sent out of the garden. Do you remember that? Why were they sent out of the garden? It was because they could no longer take partake of the tree of what? The tree of life, and the passage says in Genesis chapter 3, verses 22 through 24, they could no longer take of the tree of life to eat and live forever. And so that was compromised at that point. Did you know that the Bible says in Deuteronomy chapter 30, verse 20, that God is our life? That ye may love the Lord your God, that you may obey his voice, and that you may cling to him, for he is your life. And the length of your days, and that you may dwell in the land which the Lord swore to your fathers and to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob to give them. The Bible says, folks, that God is our life. That's why it's so significant when Christ says, I am the way, the truth, and the Life. He is saying, I am the manifestation of God. I'm God manifested to mankind. I am the way, the truth, and the life. And he says, Nobody comes to the Father except by me. He gets right to the point. The point is not the destination. The point is not where you're going. The point is you need to go to the Father. You've got to come through me. And only through me, because I am the way, the truth, and the life. And if you recall in John We find that John, it says in John chapter 11, verse 25, Jesus said, I am, said, I am the resurrection and the life. He that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live. So God, when Christ says, I am the way, the truth, and the life, he is saying, I am your all-in-all. I'm everything to you. He is trying to get the cross to the disciples, but don't worry about the destination. Don't worry about how you're going to get there. Just understand it's me. It's all about me. I'm gonna I'm gonna you you're gonna trust me. I love the words of Thomas the Kempis. He said this, Follow thou me. I am the way and the truth and the life. Without the way there is no going. Without the truth, there is no knowing. Without the life, there is no living. I am the way which thou must follow. The truth which which thou must believe. The life for which thou hast must hope. I am the invaluable way, the infallible truth, the never-ending life. I am the straightest way, the sovereign truth, tr life true, life blessed, life uncreated That's Christ. Now, are you and I not much not like are we not like the disciples? We get so preoccupied with the destination and how to get there. But Christ is not preoccupied with that. And Christ doesn't want us to be, He wants us to be preoccupied with Him. He wants the preeminence in our lives. And when he has the preeminence, and we are trusting him, then we will no longer be troubled. We will no longer be afraid. We will have peace. Now, what we then find in verse 8 is this. Well, first of all, verse 7, he says this. If ye had known me, ye should have known my father also, and from henceforth ye know him and have seen him. He says this: if you know me, you know my father. Now, it's interesting then how Philip still doesn't quite get it. And so Philip says, and I really think that these are all representations of what the disciples, all the disciples are thinking at this point. Philip says this, Lord, show us the Father, and it is sufficient for us. Philip now in representing the rest of the disciples comes this sort of comes to grips with the fact that this is not going to be play out the way that they thought it was Jesus is not going to be taking over the Roman government. Jesus is not going to be setting up his f his his throne and mediating his kingdom right then. Jesus is going to be leaving them. Okay, I got it, Philip says. Sort of. He says, I've got it. So the bottom line is, would you just show us the Father? Would you just show us him? You know what this is reminiscent of? It's reminiscent of when Moses said in the Old Testament, Show me thy glory. Show me thy glory, as he said in Exodus chapter 34, or chapter 33. In that passage, Jesus or the Father, God says to him, I will make all goodness pass before you. I will proclaim the name of the Lord before you. I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious. I will Have compassion under whom I will have compassion. But he said, You cannot see my face, for no man shall see me and live And the Lord said, Here is my here is a place by me, and you shall stand on the rock, so it it shall be while my glory passeth By that I will put you in the cleft of the rock, I will cover you with my hand, I will pass by, and I will take my hand away my hand, and ye shall see my back, but the face you shall not be shall not be seen That did occur in Exodus 34, verse 6. The Lord passed by before him and proclaimed the Lord, the Lord God, merciful and gracious, long-suffering. and abundant in goodness and truth. So Christ responds this way to Philip Philip. Verse nine. Have I been so long a time with you, and yet thou hast thou not known me? Philip, he that has seen me hath seen the Father. And how sayest thou them, show us the Father? Do you hear in Christ's voice a tinge of disappointment here? Is there this sort of Sadness in his voice as he says, you've been with me all this time and you're asking me asking to show me show you the Father? He has said before in other places of the book of John, if you've seen me, you've seen the Father. I am in him. He is in me. Those things have been said before to the disciples. And the example, his works, all those things that he has done, has surely been demonstr- a demonstration that this is no mere man. This is God. And yet These disciples have been with them for three and a half years, and he says, You don't realize who I am? Now there is a sense in which they did realize who he was. He even said, You know the way. And Philip did follow him, according to John chapter 1. But on the other hand, they did not really grasp All of who Jesus really is. And do you know what? I don't think we do sometimes either. But I want to show you today, or at least remind you, of who Christ really is. Before I do that, I want to point this out. Is this not a perfect illustration of the depravity of man? Here the disciples are with them for three with him for three and a half years. They walked with him, they talked with him, they saw his work, they listened to his prayers, they they heard his preaching. They're with him for three and a half years. And for three and a half years, every day they're with them. And yet they still did not really grasp completely who Christ is. And you know why that is? It is because their natures, as ours are as well, apart from God's working, are so depraved. That's why it says in Romans chapter 3, as it is written, there is none righteous, no not one. There is none that understandeth. There is none that seeketh after God. They are all gone out of the way. They are altogether become unprofitable. There is none that doeth good. No not one. There is nothing within ourselves that will ever be able to respond to to in faith to Christ the way that just in our own strength somebody comes to Christ it's not because of him It's not because of his own understanding or his own perception or his own under own ability. It is entirely based upon the ability of God and his spirit. And that's why Jesus is later going to say, in this passage, I'm going to send you someone to help you understand some things. Because right now, you're not really getting it. The Spirit is with you, but he's not in you yet, and he will be in you when I leave. Now, with that in mind, I want us to see two passages. I'm going to have you take your Bibles, if you would, and turn first to 2 Corinthians chapter 3. And this is going to be absolutely important for us to understand later what Christ is going to say, and so we've got to get this. He says here in 2 Corinthians 3, verse 12, Paul is talking here about Christ, and he says this. Therefore, since we have such hope, we use great boldness of speech. Verse 13, unlike Moses, who put a what? A veil over his face, so that the children of Israel could not look steadily on the uh on the end of what was passing away. If you recall from that story, Jesus did see the backside of God, but when he came down from the mountain, his face glowed so much that the people couldn't handle it. And so he had to, Moses, I'm sorry. And so he had to veil his face. Verse 14, but their minds were blinded, but unto this day the same veil remains unlifted in the reading of the Old Testament, because the veil is taken away in Christ. In other words, you have a veiled understanding of who God is in the Old Testament. It isn't until Christ comes that is the fullness of who God is revealed. But even to this day, when Moses is read, a veil lies in their heart. Nevertheless, when one turns to the Lord, the veil is taken away. Does this not help us to understand the significance of what happens when we come to Christ? Our mind is illuminated. We see God as though we've never seen Him before. We see him because of Christ. Would you notice then when you turn to Hebrews chapter 1, what it says here? Hebrews chapter 1. We'll look at what verses 1 through 3. The writer of Hebrews is trying to get across the same message that that Paul was in 2 Corinthians to the nation of Israel, that cr that Christ is superior to all things. And so he says this, God, who at sundry times and in vi various ways spoke in time past to the fathers and the prophets has in these last days spoken unto us by his son, whom he has appointed heir of all things. Through whom also he made the worlds, who being in the brightness of his glory and the express image of his person. Did you get that? Who being in the brightness of his glory and the express image of his person, and upholding all things by the word of his power, when he had himself purged our sins, sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on High. Christ is the revealer of God. Christ is God in the flesh. Christ is the one to which we can, if you know Christ, you know the Father And so he says to them, Have I not been with you for three and a half years? If you know me, you know the Father. Verse ten says this Believest thou not that I am in the Father, and the Father in me? The words that I speak I speak not of myself, but of the Father that dwelleth in me. He doeth the works. Believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father in me, or else believe for the very works' sake. Now here's what he's saying here. He is saying that there are two ways that you can come to an understanding of who Christ really is. He says you can either believe my words Or for these disciples, you can look at my works and tell. He's going to later on, if you recall, when he speaks to Thomas. He's going to later on after the resurrection, he's going to say, Blessed are those who believe and don't see So based on that, which so you have two possibilities in believing on Christ. You've got one possibility because of experience. You experience Christ and therefore you believe on Him Perhaps by way of application, God puts certain circumstances into a person's life where they begin to understand who Christ is because of their experience. God does have a way in his sovereignty and his providence of directing our circumstances so that our minds are directed to who Christ is. The second way, though, is that we understand the Word of God. And the Word of God shows us who Christ is, and we believe it. Now, let me ask you this question. Which one out of those two is the higher form of faith? Is it that we trust based upon our experience, or is it that we trust based upon the Word of God? And there is no question, by Christ's own teaching to Thomas, that it is that faith based upon the Word of God is a higher form of faith. In other words, when somebody comes to Christ, they may come to Christ because God has directed their circumstances. But the Bible says faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. And whether it is an initial introduction to Christ or those of us who know Christ well, folks, we have got to move from experiential faith to basing our faith on the Word of God. And do you know why that is? It is because this. Sometimes our circumstances are not going to affirm our faith. Is that not true? If we do not have a strong grip on faith in the Word of God, there are some circumstances that are absolutely going to shake us to the core. That's why it is incredibly important for a Christian to move in their faith from experience to faith in the Word. And by the way, when you have faith in the Word, your experiences will be able, you'll be able to see what God is doing more. Not always, by the way. Sometimes you'll go, I have no clue what he's doing. But my faith is still rooted and anchored in the word. This is what he is saying. He's saying, look, if you can't believe just what I say, disciples, at least believe The experience that you've experienced to me, and then eventually he's going to tell the tell Thomas and the rest of the disciples, look, ultimately I'm about to ascend to my father. You better believe in what I say. The words are important. And I've got it, and you've got to believe based upon the truth of the Word of God. Now, all of this so far has probably been a bit Esoteric. You may be saying to yourself, well, I don't know really, I mean, how does this really affect my life? How does this really, how, how, how do I, what does this mean for me? Of course, really the truth is any truth of who Christ is does affect our lives. But it does very directly affect our lives according to this passage. Would you notice then what it says in verse 22? Verily, verily, I say unto you He that believeth on me the works that I do, shall he do also Did you see that? Not only that, and greater works than these shall he do, because I go unto my Father. Did you get that? He says, those who believe on me will do the works that I do. And he says, those who believe on me will do greater works because I go to my Father. Now, think about all the things that Christ did. He turned the water into wine. He fed thousands of people. He raised someone from the dead Can we who believe in him really do greater works than Christ did? What is he saying here in this passage when he says that we will do greater works? When you take your Bibles and you'll see the really the key to this is back a few chapters over in John chapter 5. We see a real indication here in verse 19 of John chapter 5. Would you look at that with me? John chapter 5, verse 19 Then Jesus answered and said to them, Most assuredly I say to you, the Son can know can do nothing of himself. But that he sees the Father do. For whatever he does, the Son also does in like manner. For the Father loves the Son and shows him all things that he himself does. And he will show him what? Greater works than these, that ye may what? Ye may marvel. For at and then notice this is the key, verse 21. For as the Father what? raises the dead and gives life to them. Even so the Son gives life to whom he will. Do you know what he's talking about here? He is saying that after Christ rises from the grave, and after he goes and ascends into his father, and he sits on the right hand of the throne of God, he says that he is going to begin to put life in people. And that is going to become very significant. And that's what you find in the book of Acts, isn't it? Lots of people start getting coming to Christ. They start being part of this way. And what Christ is saying here is that during the three and a half years that he is here, He is saying that there will be even more significant works that I will do in the sense that you'll have full view of what's going on. And certainly the apostles and the disciples do that, don't they? When they they know what's going on with full view in the book of Acts, it's like the veil, the veil has been lifted from them. And that's exactly what we found in 2 Corinthians, isn't it? That that's what Christ does. He lifts the veil. He lifts their sight, faith because He lifts the veil. And so the greater works is not that they're greater in in multiplicity of works. It's not that they're greater in intensity of work. I mean there's not much more intense than raising somebody from the dead But the spiritual work that Christ is doing, because he sits on the right hand of the Father, he is doing, and people, and there is just a great Working that happens because of where Christ is and because of the completed work on the cross. And you see people coming to Christ Where those who are dead are living in Christ. And do you know there is a sense in which the greatest miracle that ever happens is any of us is able to come to Christ. The Bible says that we are dead in our trespasses and sins, but alive unto God, the Bible says. God, Christ makes us alive. And you know why He can do that? Because He is the truth and the what? He is the life. Now, here is what is incredible. Folks, this is incredible. We get to be a part of this. Do you notice what he says in this passage? He says here in this passage. You will do the works greater than mine. Now, to get the whole picture, we need to read the rest of the verse, though the rest of this passage. He says verse 13. And whatsoever ye shall ask in my name, that will, what does it say there? That will I do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. If ye shall ask anything in my name, I was he there, is he there? I will do it. Okay. He first says, you will do it You'll do greater works if you believe on me. And then he says twice here, I will do it. Now which is it? Folks, the only answer we can come to is this, that Christ does it through us. And that sets us exactly up for John chapter 15, where Christ is going to say, What? I am the vine. You're the branches, and I'm going to bear fruit through you if you abide in me. This sets that up perfectly. Now, folks, what it's saying here is that when we know God, Christ, and when we are involved in the working of Christ, which he invites us to be involved in, Then we are able to see Christ doing what He does in the lives of people. He invites us To be involved in his work and those who truly believe on him, the Bible says will be involved in his work. It's incredible that we get to be involved in what God is doing. It's incredible that we get to we get to have the fellowship of Christ in working with him to serve him for and to see him work. And there is one clear practical way that we are able to do this, it says in this verse. Do you see what it says? What are we supposed to do? What is our responsibility or what is our involvement in this work? We're to ask. Folks, we're to pray. I think that you and I are very we very easily serve the Lord and we very easily forget to the role of prayer in our serving. Prayer is must be absolutely intricately involved in our serving God. He says, you want to do great works greater than I've done? Well, first of all, it's actually me that's going to have to do them through you, and the only and what and your role is to pray and to ask. And he says specifically that you need to ask in my name. Now, what does it mean when it says that we need to ask in Christ's name? This is going to be repeated several times in the in the Upper Room discourse. It's going to re be repeated again in chapter 15, verse 16, and again in 16, 23 through 24. He's going to say those times again, you've got to ask in my name. What does he mean? Well, there are two things he doesn't mean here. One thing that he doesn't mean is that he we're not this is not about claiming Christ's authority here. There's some that will believe that when we when we um when we evoke Christ's name, we are claiming Christ's authority. Folks, that's really not what's involved in this passage. The other thing that's not involved in asking God's in Christ's name is some sort of mythical or magical use of his name. For example, in the book of Acts, chapter 19, we don't have the time to look there, but you can write that down. Acts 19 verses 13. through twenty there's some people that were that were using his name in the for performance of miracles and they were exhorted, don't do that. Why? Because Christ's name is not to be like a gene in the bottle. Well, if we just use his name, then he's gonna do what we we ask him to do. Folks, that is not at all what is in picture in view here. What it is talking about is this. If you could imagine the picture of a king. And a king, because of the vast amount of subjects that he has, has to limit his access. And so there might be people that are in the way in order the barriers of people that screen in order for people to get into access to the Father. I'm sorry to the king, I just messed up my illustration, but you'll you you're already seeing it seeing how it works. But Christ is saying that if you use my name you'll have access. In other words, when we are in Christ and we believe in him, because of who Christ is, we have access to the Father. In other words, it is we are you it's used here as assuming that we are Christ's representative. Now let me just explain this by way of of of an example. It's going to have to be a non-specific example, but I think those will help. A lot of times we talk about answering prayer. Different ways we pray for certain things and they're answered certain ways. People ask me occasionally, can you think of certain things that uh of answered prayer in your own life? And I can think of many But can I tell you can I tell you the vast majority of answered prayer in my life, and I'm going to get kind of personal here, but the vast majority of answered prayer in my life, if I can pinpoint and I can say I prayed for that and that happened. It nearly always has to do with service to God. It always has to do, nearly always has to do as I am, as I am focused on serving the Lord. And as I am focused on serving the Lord, there is something that comes into my path that I realize really needs to happen for the furtherance of God's kingdom. And I am a and I am and I am impressed that I need to pray for that And I can think of many, many times where I have fervently prayed for something. And I'm not lift th this is not I I'm just telling you my own personal experience because I don't I'm just hoping this will help illustrate this. And I fervently prayed for it because I knew that it I believed it needed to happen for the furtherance of God's kingdom, and I could think of very specific answers to prayer when it was based on that. It presupposes that we are thinking of ourselves as Christ's representatives. Paul says, I am an ambassador of Christ in bonds in Ephesians. If we are not, in other words, folks, if we're not involved in the work of God, then we're not going to be able to see God work. Did you follow that? And I'm not saying this is no guilt trip on anybody. I think most of us are involved in the work of God. And by the way, that doesn't mean necessarily only within the four walls of this building. If you are a mom at home and you are serving your kids and you're gr raising them in the nurture and admonition of the Lord and you want them to grow spiritually, then God Then get involved in this prayer work. Or you are a spouse and you're serving your spouse. Or you are at work and you are doing what you do as unto the Lord, whatever you're doing, whatsoever we're doing, we're just we're supposed to glorify God in everything. All of what we do is to be for the furtherance of God's kingdom. All of what we do is to glorify God. And when we are living that way, and something comes into view that Lord, it would seem that that would need to be done in order for your work to move forward. That would need to occur in order for the furtherance of your kingdom. When we pray that way, I listen, it will happen. Because we are going to be praying according to the will of God. And he says, if you ask according to my will, I'll hear you and I'll answer, it will happen. That's why he further reiterates in 1 John chapter 4. And this is the confidence that we have in him. If we ask anything according to his will, he heareth us. And if we know that He hears us whatsoever we ask, we know that we have the petitions that we desire of Him. And there is nothing more encouraging than a prayer life full of answered prayer, and there is nothing more encouraging than seeing God work his things out, his way in his time when I'm I tried my way and it didn't work. Boy, wouldn't it be better if we just went to him in the first place? So he says here, and whatsoever ye shall ask in my name. That will I do. That the Father, what what's the goal? That the Father may be what? Glorified in the Son If ye shall ask anything as my representative for God's glory and for my purposes, I will do it. And I would just really like to ask you this question. When is the last time you've very specific specifically seen God working through you? We don't think about that every day, do we? When is the last time you've seen God working through you? We get so busy doing our own thing our own way. And we accomplish a lot. But Christ says, this is going to make a lot more sense now. Christ says, John chapter 15, without me, ye can do nothing. And Christ says to his disciples, I want you to know me. Why? Because when I'm gone and until I come back for you, when I'm gone, I want you to continue to see the works that I'm doing that you're going to marvel at. You're going to be amazed. When's the last time you've been amazed at what God has done in your life because you're work he's working through you? And when we experience that in our lives, there is a joy that comes. There is a satisfaction that is just beyond understand beyond compare. When we see that happening in our lives, There is this kind of peace and joy and satisfaction because we are continuing to be aware of what the Word of God says, that Christ is the way, the truth, and the life. And we get to know him more as we serve him faithfully. It all works together this way. I just have a couple of things for us to think about. Number one Are we giving our all-sufficient Christ the preeminence he deserves? It really starts there. Are you, uh is Christ your all in all? Is he your all-suff is he all sufficient? Is he your the preem does he have the preeminence of your life? You know why sometimes we don't see him do what we want to to see that we don't see him working in our lives? Because he doesn't have first place. Because he is not our all-in-all. Because he is not all sufficient. We think to ourselves, if only I had that that, if only I could do that, if only let's put all of the dreams on Push it all away and see Christ as our all-in-all instead of having our own goals. May Christ be our goal. May He be our destination. May He be our way. Are we in pursuit of Christ in order to see God? You want to know God? You've got to pursue Christ. And number three, are we serving God with prayer as our primary method? This is just a good check for us. We know the importance of prayer. But in the various services that you do for God, is prayer your primary method? That needs to be in our church. We could think of all kinds of things that we need to do and things that we could be involved in, different ministries that we can be involved in. But you know, I'll tell you, we we gotta be careful, we gotta make sure that our prayer life, that that we're that we're that the primary method of our church is prayer. That's extremely important for us. Somebody asked me uh uh too long ago uh not too long ago, I I was talking with some people that ha that have um there were uh members quite a while ago when we were church was um uh several years ago. And they've moved on. They they live uh outside of the area now. And they have noted that that we the Lord is help helping us and blessing us and things. And uh they said, Well what what would you say? Why why how did all this happen? And I basically said to them, because God wanted it to. I mean it's really that simple I can't really point to any I I I have prayed a lot, I thought but sometimes I I should have prayed more. Sometimes uh if I'd have prayed more maybe think you know, I don't know, but the you always I don't know if you You're like me, I always go through that. If I'd have prayed there, maybe maybe I should have prayed there. If I'd have prayed there, maybe things would have been different than they are or something. But the point is simply this. If Christ can be our all-in-all, if he is our all-in-all, if we make prayer our main focus, that's our method. You're struggling and however you're serving the Lord, pray. And be specific about how you believe God wants you to pray in that area and see God work through you. When we do, we will be able to continually understand and know experientially that God, that Christ is the way, the truth, and the life. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and We admit before you that um our our hearts are so drawn easily drawn away from you. We're so occupied with our own thoughts and our own ways and our own methods. And yet, if we're going to see you do your work your way, it has got to be through prayer. Lord, I pray, Lord, we need help with this. Lord, I pray that Instead of the last resort, prayer would be the first resort. But as we are serving, there would just be this constant communion with you. There would be this constant need, no knowledge of our need and knowledge of your ability to meet those needs in big and small ways I pray Lord that it would it would we would just be really you really help us in this area It might be very amazing what you could do if your people would turn your turn their hearts we would turn our hearts to prayer. We pray, Lord, that you would keep us from the distractions, that Christ would have the preeminence. And that he would be able to work through us, have he'd have free course to be able to work through us, we would get to see and marvel at his working in our lives. And I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. It is a one