Turn to Ecclesiastes chapter four tonight. Ecclesiastes chapter four. And we're going to be looking at verses one through six. One of the questions that you will find that people who are antagonistic to the gospel ask is how can there be a God who allows so much injustice in the world? It doesn't take long as you watch, you turn on the news for just a few moments. Or you read the newspaper, nobody does that anymore, so you go online and you you see it there. Um just um all of the the reality of injustice and problems in the world. And we see in this, we see here that as Solomon observes creation, and we have mentioned many times before, What he is doing is he is a he is at with being equipped with the wisdom of God that God has given him, a very special wisdom, he is going through uh the and observing creation. He's observing how the world is. And most of the conclusions he makes doesn't have much to do with special revelation from God's Word, but it primarily has to do with his observation of creation in general. and what he can gather from observing creation, experiencing different things, pursuing after different things And this does, this book does have a great, we were talking about apologetics forum, this has very significant apologetic value to it. Because as you look at the world, you see those kinds of problems of injustice in the world. And to see someone who is inspired by God to pen down the same things that we see empirically today is very significant. And as you read these things, you will be able to identify with observing the same things that he is observing. Structurally in Ecclesiastes, we should note that he first observes injustice in the world in chapter 3, verse 16. where he says, uh, moreover, I saw under the sun in the place of judge judgment or justice Wickedness was there, and in the place of righteousness, iniquity was there. In other words, there's a mixture with every with everything that seems to be right in the world. There is wrong attached to it. There is corruption. There is injustice. And now, and so he explains his his uh observations about that. But when we come to chapter four, verses one through six, he now is going to deal with a particular kind of injustice. He's dealing He's focusing in on a particular problem that we find in the world today. And this is a problem that that if you listen, even if you listen to the elections, if you listen to the to the both sides of the of the uh political debates, you're going to hear proposals for dealing with problems of injustice in the world. You're gonna hear proposals like, for example, the government should be the one to take care of all of these problems. Or on the other side, no. It ought to be private citizens that takes care of those problems or some sort of confluence of the two. There's all kinds of possibilities of of what people propose as the problem of injustice in the world, particularly the problem that we're going to look at here. But let's look at the wisdom of Solomon and let's see his conclusions about these things. Chapter 4, verse 1 says this, then I returned and considered all the oppression that is under the sun. And look, the tears of the oppressed, but they have no comforter. On the side of the oppressors, there is power, but they have no comforter. Now, he begins by saying that there is a great deal of oppression in the world. He observes, even as the king, he looks at his own kingdom. And of course, he is not one who is oppressed. He is, if if you're going to put people into two categories, he would be one that is actually on the oppressor's side. But he's observing the world, and he's observing even his own kingdom, and he is noticing that you have two kinds of people in the world, it seems. You have the oppressor and the oppressed. And he's observing all of the oppression in the world. Have you ever listened to even unsaved people talk about the oppression in the world? Or maybe you see on an advertisement of of of uh a people group that is being oppressed or an ethnic group that's being oppressed or or whatever. There is all kinds of there are some people that feel they're oppressed that perhaps aren't oppressed. There are some people that are oppressed that don't realize they're oppressed. I mean you have this problem of oppression in the world. And Psalm is saying that is a real problem. Now, let me just mention this. Sometimes in our political views We we sometimes are so politically conservative that we don't we don't even want to think about the fact that there's oppression in the world. Just gonna be very candid with you on that. We need to we we sort of say, well, um we we we it's like well we don't we don't want to deal with that part of the the problem. Really, and I'm you you I might get in trouble for this, but true political conservatism doesn't really deal with the problem of oppression in the world. Not really. Now don't get too upset at me. You'll understand all this as we go go through this. But sometimes we look at the Bible through our political views. instead of just looking at the Bible for what it is. And understand when Solomon is writing this, he's writing this not from a political, conservative, or liberal perspective at all. He's just looking at the world and he's saying, there is a massive amount of oppression in the world. And there are people that are being oppressed, and he says there's no comforter comfort for them. There's nobody coming alongside of them and helping them. There's nobody that is that is working with them and and there's they have no comfort. And the oppressors are ones who seem to be continue to oppress despite the fact that the people that are are oppressed don't have have comfort. He says they have tears. These are people that are weeping over their own oppression. And so he finds and he says that the oppressors, why are the oppressors the oppressors? Because they have what? They have power. The people that have the power are the people that are oppressors. The people that are oppressed, they're the ones that have no power. Is that true? You say, well, that person deserves the power because he had he pulled himself up by his own bootstraps, so he deserves the power, and he, you know, that's just the way our our world works He's just making this observation. He's saying the oppressors have the power, the oppression don't have the power. Now let let's let's put this into perspective a little bit. Even in the best, so we would most of our us in this room would probably consider the best case scenario to live in a free enterprise system. Okay. That we can't that at least someone potentially would have the opportunity from to go from rags to riches as it would as you Say it that way. To go from having nothing then to be able to work hard and be diligent and then to be able to to have something at the end of the and of the day. But even in our s society, do you think that somebody who is born into a wealth wealthy van uh family has an advantage over somebody that doesn't, even in a free enterprise system Well sure they do. They grow up. Now if they're lazy they may not make it, but they grow up if they have they have advantage because what might be paid for them? A good Education. Somebody that doesn't grows up in a poor family, they may not. Somebody that grows up in a wealthy family, they may have their education paid for them And if they're working hard, they're going to be able to potentially find what? A better job because of their education. Just all things being equal. I'm not saying this is always the case, but just practically speaking, I have some I have not that many good uh wealthy friends, but I have a couple and and uh that I grew up with and they are very successful but very candidly they they grew up with a lot of advantage And so even in the best case scenario, you do have sort of this people that are more powerful than other people in the world. just by virtue of the fact that they they were born into a certain kind of family. And you certainly have that even more the case in in other kinds of systems besides free enterprise systems. I mean in socialism or in communism or in a kingdom like Solomonism, you certainly have that even more to an extreme. And in some cases, in some systems, you have no opportunity at all for the oppressed to ever become someone who is going to be able to have any kind of uh to get out of the oppression. So that's the situation that we find ourselves in as we look at at this at this whole situation. Verse 2, therefore I praised his conclusion is this. He says, I praise the dead who are already dead more than the living who are still alive. What is he saying? He's saying that there is so much evil in the world and so much oppression in the world and so much injustice in the world, the world is, there is more evil than there is righteousness. There are more problems than there are good things. And so he says it's better to be dead than alive. In fact, he says verse 3 It is better both uh yet better than both is he who has never existed at all. This is really depressing, isn't it? Okay? He says it's better not to have existed at all. Who has seen the evil work that is done under the sun? In other words, he's saying he's saying the person who's never been born never has even had to experience the evil work that's done on this side of heaven. Now You just think about this from an unsaved person's perspective as they look at the world. Are there people that look at the world, see the injustice, see all the problems? And they commit suicide because of it. They are so despondent and so depressed that they are just they they just end up in absolute Absolute disillusionment that they can never seem to get out of. If you read some of the poets of our of our uh you know of uh in English literature and and American literature, you're gonna find that kind of you ever read John Steinbeck? How many of you read John Steinbeck? You know John Steinbeck's philosophy? Read any of his books. They all say the same thing. Life is hard then you die. I mean they all that's what they say. You read The Red Pony, that's what you find. You I mean you you just find life is hard, it's a pain in the neck, it's disgusting sometimes, it's uh and then you just die. That's really his I don't know how we ever thought he was a great literature writer, except why. There's some truth to what he is saying this side of heaven. And so that's what you find in this uh i and it's basically what Solomon is saying. It's amazing that you can put John Steinbeck and Solomon in the same in the same category. Certainly I would do that. John Steinbeck is is is um has a um well anyway I I don't care for him very much. But um In fact I are I I s I I shouldn't have done this. I was younger back then, but I questioned my English literature teacher no my American literature teacher when she had us reading a lot of John Steinbeck and suggested that perhaps there was other twentieth twentieth century literature that we could be reading and she said uh She said like what? And I said the left behind series. So anyway, she didn't like she didn't like that very much. And I was really joking. But anyway. Um so verse four So the question then is, how do you deal with this? How do you respond to the problem of oppression in the world? All right. By the way, left-bind law series is not good literature. But anyway, okay. So how do you deal with this? What are some possible ways that you you look at the oppression, you look at the oppressor, you look at the oppressed, and you say, I here's how we should respond. What are some possibilities? Any ideas Fight for the oppressed. Okay, we're gonna fight for the people that are oppressed. That's one possibility. What's another possibility? And you are Okay. I'm oppressed and I'm gonna f don't we love the stories of the people that are start out oppressed and they somehow conquer their situation. Okay. If I'm a pre okay, good. What else? Kim? Okay. Alright, we fight for socialism where everything is equal. What else? How about are you ever nervous, scared about being falling into oppression, being a being like you're not oppressed, but you could end up being oppressed, and so what do you do? I'm gonna work really hard to make sure I don't ever get into a place where I'm oppressed. Right? That's a possibility. Any idea does somebody else raise their hand up? Yes, you shouldn't? No. We we're not interested in that here. No, I'm kidding. We will be we will we will be very interested in that. I'm just looking You c uh yes, we're we're not looking at the believer's standpoint at this point. We're just looking at practically how if you don't under the sun, how do you deal with these different things? Yeah. Insulate ours let me insulate myself from the possibility of oppression. Um either from the Richer side and the poorer side find something to escape to. Okay. Alright, escape from oppression. Yes. Some people might know for the same. Right. You do you you have that a lot, uh actually, and I think a lot of now I'm gonna get political here, but I think you have a lot of reason you have political liberalism is people that have a lot that just have a guilt complex. But anyway, so that's I mean that is a possibility as well. Yes? What about those who just don't deal with it Thank you. How about apathy? How about just I can't do anything about it, I'm not gonna do anything about it. Is that a possibility? Okay, yes. Good. Okay. So po yeah, I'm gonna control this. I'm gonna be you got two choices, I'm gonna be the oppressor, not the oppressed. That is a lot of people's thinking in the In the in our country. Um we touched on it last week, but a moralistic view that I am going to end Okay. Alright. That's exactly right. So so I wrote down, I mean they're basically you have kind of a couple of different choices. You can either take a a I'm going to control it I'm going to try to control it somehow, or through through either saying I'm going to be an oppressor, or I'm going to try to Fight for the oppressed, I'm gonna control it somehow, or I don't care, apathy, or you're gonna insulate yourself. It's like one of those three. As a possibility outside of the possibility that we're going to look at in a few moments. So Solomon puts it this way. He gives us three possible responses. Number one, we're going to look first at the competitive workaholic, verse four. So I'm going to work it, I'm going to make it happen. Verse 4, it says, Again I saw that for all toil and every skilful work a man is envied by his neighbor. This also is vanity and a grasping for the wind. He says, by toil and every skillful work, a man is then envied. There's rivalry. He says, somebody who is a competitive worker is one that causes rivalry in other people. It's a kind of the doggy dog world kind of and I'm gonna come I'm gonna be a competitive I that's what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna make it happen and I'm gonna rise to the top and I that's I'm gonna work work my way out of this problem Okay. That's one possibility, verse four. What's the problem with that What's the problem? Well the problem is is that if everybody is doing that, somebody's gonna get not going to be able to rise. Okay. Um the the other problem that you have with that is that it causes The rivalry causes a very bad thing in society. I'm going to sound like a liberal for a minute here. Okay. I'm really not trying to, but I'm just telling you that practically what he's saying is it causes envy. It causes this this um Yeah, so competition, we would all agree that competition is helpful. Aren't you glad there's more than one gas station around? Okay? Because if there was only one gas station, the gas would be high sky high Okay. So we w so comp competition is okay, but when you have a particular kind of I'm gonna step on you to compete Then you have a problem. Like a win-win thing is fine. I'm gonna create a win-win deal or win-win scenario. That's what you want. But when you have this I'm gonna win and you're gonna lose That's a bad problem. And this in it to its extreme will cause that problem to occur. Alright, so that's one option. The other option, look at verse 5. The fool folds his hands and consumes his own flesh. What is a fool does what? He folds his hands. What does that mean? He doesn't do anything and he destroys himself in the process. So the exact opposite of that is the impoverished sluggard. He's the one that says a a little sleep, a little slumber, and Proverbs it says a little what? Folding of the hands. I'm just gonna, I'm going to be late. So the other extreme to this, he says, is the foolish person who says I'm just not going to try. I can never be an oppressor. I can never, I'm always going to be oppressed or whatever. I'm just going to be s I'm going to be lazy. And I'm going to destroy myself of the process, basically. He says, if you do that, you're going to eat your own flesh. It's just basically this idea that you're going to destroy yourself. A lazy, and you think about it, somebody who is really inherently lazy will end up destroying themselves. So that's another possibility. Verse 5 tells us that. Then we have his, what Solomon says there is another possibility here. Verse 6. We have the contented laborer. He says, better a handful with what? Okay. He says, better a handful, just a handful, not like the world, just a handful with what? with quietness, then both hands full together with toil. What does he mean by toil, do you suppose? He means the the the number one possibility, this I'm gonna toil stress compete Get mad when people get over on me. I mean that kind of an attitude. That's so he says, better is one handful with quiet quietness. You know what he's saying? He's saying the same thing that he has said before. If you'll look, this is very consistent with what he's already said He's saying, for instance, he said in 322, so I perceive that it is nothing better than a man should rejoice in all his own works. For that is a heritage. For who can bring him to see what will happen after him? It's basically saying, you know what, I'm going to take what God gives me and I'm going to work hard. and serve faithfully and sort of steadily, faithfully serve God with what He chooses to give me, that's gonna be I'm not gonna in other words, I the competitive workaholic says, I'm in control, I'm gonna take control, I'm gonna fix this. And he's not going to be able to. Have we ever fixed the problem of oppression in the world? Not in 2,000 years have we ever fixed that problem. Who is the only one who's going to be able to fix that problem? Christ is the only one who's going to be able to fix that problem. And let me get to my conclusion here. Number one, let me just conclude it this way. We must gratefully receive what God gives us. We just we should take every day and gratefully receive what God gives us. Number two, we must work and serve where God has placed us. We should work and serve where God has placed us. It's not a matter of trying to get what God has not given us. We need to work and serve where God has placed us and allow God to give us more when he wants to. We must work and serve where God has placed us. Number three, we must help where possible. So it's not as though we never help the oppressed. We certainly should. If we have the ability to be able to do that, we're not going to fix the problem of oppression. That's never happening this side of heaven. So we're not going to fix that problem, but if we have opportunity to help with that problem, we certainly should help. We should help where there where possible And we must trust God's ultimate plan. Thankfully, we have the rest of the New Testament. And the rest of the New Testament tells us that Christ does have a plan. He's going to come back. When he his second coming, he is going to solve the problem of oppression. He's going to solve a problem of injustice. And so, apologetically, you have two possibilities. You either keep trying to fix it yourself, and for two thousand years we've never been able to, or eight, ten thousand years we've never been able to. Or we say, okay, God will in his time fix this. I'm simply going to fulfill my responsibility to him. I'm going to do what I he wants me to do one day at a time And I'm going to be content with what he gives me, and I'm going to work hard for him. Do you see how this really just it it lends itself to the whole message of the New Testament when it comes to this? And so that's why we have in 1 Thessalonians chapter 4, when it says, picking up in verse 11, it says that you also should aspire to live to lead a quiet life. To mind your own business, and to work with your own hands, as we commanded you, that ye may walk properly toward those who are outside, and that you may lack nothing. We are to walk properly with those who don't know the Lord and to to help and to serve and to do those things, but there is this steady serving God the way that He wants us to, kind of an attitude that doesn't take the lazy approach and doesn't take the workaholic approach like it all depends on me. That is the right approach to work with, to study to be quiet, to work with our hands, to do the business that God has given us to do. That is the approach that God wants us to take as we observe the oppression in the world. And that is the lesson that Solomon has learned. And so it's important for us to sort of be a to settle ourselves on that. There are times where I'm tempted to think that I if I will just work harder, I'll make it happen. And there are other times where I say, I'll never make it happen. I'm just going to throw my hands up. Both extremes are wrong. We need to do what God wants us to do one day at a time, fulfilling the responsibility that God has given us. Let's pray. Father, we thank you, Lord, just for the time of looking at your word and seeing what it he has to say about this issue. And I pray, Lord, that you would help us to just follow you One step at a time, do what you have us to do, to be faithful to you, that that would be our resolve. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.