In Isaiah. But before I do that, I want to sort of this set this set it up this way. This past week um has been an interesting week for most of us probably but um I'm no exception to that. This time of year are is full of all kinds of distractions and there's sort of a a disruption routine oftentimes and all kinds of things like that. And um that uh for a pastor there really is no i I try to have a routine, but it doesn't it it doesn't usually uh work uh out that well. Um and it's fine. The Lord sort of provides the time and the place and everything for everything and he's puts everything together the way that he wants it to be and that's a blessing. Uh so at the beginning of this uh uh on Monday, um I uh Jared uh climbed Came over uh and we worked on his car we worked on his car together and he wanted to he needed to change out a uh steering assembly uh steering uh uh bearing on the right side of his car, the the passenger side of his car. And I said to Jared, I said, look, I've never done this before. Full disclosure, I don't know what I'm doing here And um he sort of indicated that I'm not sure he knew exactly what he was doing either. But both of us were were uh I mean he uh uh does really well with cars, but um none of us then I don't think you'd ever done it before, right? I mean yeah, at least And it's a it's an all-wheel drive vehicle, and so that makes it a little bit more difficult. We couldn't even find uh anything on the online about how to do it as far as directions because of its uh because it was all wheel drive. And so we began to work on this vehicle. And and we had you can go ahead and show the show that now. We had this is what it looked like when Now actually that's a picture off the internet that's not the actual vehicle, but um it is it is the same model and everything. And uh we had one I I just gotta be honest, we had one problem after another after In fact I counted eight different problems that we had uh trying to get trying to get this wheel bearing um uh on this car. Now uh some of you would have gotten this done in probably a few hours and Jared in the middle of this we were we got the wheel off no big deal we got the brake caliper off no big big deal. We're we're getting into the into the inner workings of it, no big deal. And Jerry said we should be done by lunchtime. And I looked at him I went Uh don't say that man. Anyway. And so we began to work on this thing and we had one problem after another. We uh the first problem we had was just removing the wheel bearing itself and accessing the bolts from behind and trying to decide what we needed to pick apart in order to be able to access the bolts and then trying to put sockets on the bolts because you can actually feel them and That was very, very difficult. And finally we we started taking one thing off after another. One of the things uh we took off was the tie rod um uh uh uh uh there and and we had to we had to dis there was a bolt that was sticking up uh that we had to pull all off to get the tie rod end off And um so that was really hard. And I will tell you this, um Wisconsin cars are just a whole, they're they're their own they're their own thing. As far as everything gets seized up because all the the s there are three things that I think of when I think of Wisconsin now. Cheese. Uh cold or snow and now salt. Uh because I've uh worked now twice on a car that was that made it that w made it through actually twice. We worked on your truck at w from Wisconsin that you had up in Wisconsin. for a long time too. So anyway, all these Wisconsin folks that um have lots of issues with their cars. But anyway, so so we were we were trying to fix all this and I I I finally said, hey I can get this bolt off I worked carpentry for a summer and um I took a hammer and I just banged on that thing. And uh you know when you when you're I mean it it was all on the wrist man and it came right loose. So it was like I said, see, it it all came apart. And Jerry looks uh he was kind of impressed with that and I was kind of impressed with that. And um I said, see, I told ya I got you know, we we gotta we gotta so anyway, so we get this whole thing apart and Then we had a problem with the puller to pull the steering that was right in this oh you can't see that right in that area to pull this hub off. We we we had the the puller and we couldn't get it threaded right And that was a problem. We're trying to figure out how in the world we're going to do this without the the the right um the right thing to pull this this steering hub off And finally we got it after a long time we finally got the thing threaded and when we pulled it off or we yanked on it and only half of it came So the bearings were s were still there and and Jared looked at it and goes, that's not supposed to happen. And and I went I'm w I don't know. I I okay. I'm glad I'm glad you knew it wasn't supposed to anyway, so we ended up having to take the entire um what's that thing called? Spindle. Take the entire spindle off, took it downstairs to the bac basement, and took another hammer and hammered the whole thing out of it. Get got the whole hub out of it And then we put the new hub back in and we thought, okay, it's downhill from here. In fact we even said that. We got to stop talking. But we we said um We said, okay, it's all down here from here, it's just assembly. We we we started assembling the whole thing back back together and you remember that tie rod that I banged Well, I I mushroomed the the bolts basically and and so when I began to try to screw the nut back on it was not happening So then we had to get a tap and die set. I had never used it before. I I don't know why I bought it. I thought it was just the cool thing to have. So so I I got this tap and die set and I'm pulling this out and trying to figure out how to use it. I said, well Jared, just full disclosure, I've never used this before. And so I'm I finally figured out how to tap the nut and that worked fine. And then I tried to tried to use the die to to to to uh r re thread the the bolt and that didn't work. Uh I couldn't get get it on there. I literally could not get it on there and of course that was because why It mushrooms. I banged on the thing too too much. Well I didn't realize that was why. I thought we needed a larger die set. So and all we're in the middle of this and trying to get it all together and it goes d everything's dark I mean like it daylight is gone. So I said uh okay, well we lost our daylight, let's just put things away here So I sent Jared out, I said, look, we've got to go get a larger die set. So he I sent him to two different places to try to try to get a larger set. And and then it dawned on me that morning Uh he got he went and got it and came back the next day where we started early in the morning and I got out there a few a few minutes before they got there and uh it dawned on me I sort of said, wait a minute If I can tap the nut, I ought to be able to re-thread the b f re re re thread that bolt. So I finally figured out I took a flat file and filed it down real good and and re-threaded it and was able to it all it all put and and so it was about two hours the next morning. All I could say is what we had to do was we had to be very relentless about every problem we had just fixing the just just pushing through. It took double the time we thought it was going to take. And of course that was part of primarily because of me. But anyway, so now none of you will ever ask me to work on your car, probably. Actually I I enjoy working on cars sort of, but I um I had never done that before. Anyway, so so it was one problem after another after another as we went through this. Now, for a mechanic who knew what they were doing with and I'm not talking about Jared here, I'm talking about me. I messed the thing up Up. Um Jared knows what he's doing. He's do he does a real good job of this stuff. But but for for s somebody who's done this before and knew what he was doing, I mean this wouldn't have taken probably that long a deal It took me a long time to do. But the only way it was going to get done was we had to keep compensating for the problems And do you know, now with all of this in mind, what I want you to do is take your Bibles and turn to Genesis, and I want you to begin to see here God's original plan in Genesis chapter 1, and picking up here In Genesis chapter 1, and looking here at verse 26. When God created us, in verse 26, He created us for a very specific purpose. It says, and God said, let us make man in our image, after our likeness. And let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all of the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth God created us so that for because he wanted to establish a kingdom. He wanted to give us dominion. The Bible says over in Isaiah 53, or 43, it says, Even every one that is called by my name, for I have created him for my glory. I have formed him. Yea, I have made him. God created us to glorify himself. He created us to magnify his character, and he was going to do that by establishing a kingdom. Until you and I messed it up. How did we mess it up? Well, if you look at chapter three, you find that we mess it up through sin. The Bible says over in Genesis 3:6, and the woman saw that the tree was good for food. You know the story, and it was present and it was pleasant to the eyes, and the tree to be desired to make one wise. She took of the fruit thereof and did eat, and gave also unto her husband with her, and he did eat. So they they had this forbidden fruit that they ate, and you know the story, and when they did that, they compromised the the image of God that was And they fell. We know it as the fall of mankind when they sinned. And the Bible actually tells us that man fall fell short of God's glory. Romans 323 says, For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. All of this great plan that God created at the beginning of creation for us to glorify Him by the establishment of a kingdom was totally disrupted. And forfeited by the fact that you and I, that Adam and Eve sinned. The Bible says in Romans 5:12: wherefore as by one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin. And therefore, death was passed upon all men, for that all is sin. The Bible explains, folks, that all of us have a have are spiritually dead. We are in sin. because of of Adam and Eve's fall. So this whole plan was absolutely compromised Now at this point, most of us in our throwaway society would have discarded ourselves If we have a plan and nothing is working out, and everything is going wrong, and there is no reason to continue because the things with which we're working are valueless, we discard it. God did not do that. Even though it was going to take great wisdom and great effort on God's part to bring him back to ourself, back to himself, God was relentless. And we're going to see this in Scripture. God was relentless in his pursuit of mankind. It is incredible when you look at all this. So after the fall, you have some time in the book of Genesis where God develops a family. And in the book of Exodus, God creates a nation from that family. And that nation, of course, as you know, is the nation of Israel. God narrows his scope of working to the nation of Israel, and he wants to develop the nation of Israel into a nation that will be a light to lighten the Gentiles. He wants to s he he he he he narrows his scope to work with this nation and and if they're going to be a light uh like or he wants them to be a light to the world And he works very directly with them. He gives them his presence. The sacrificial system is set up for everyone to know that God is with them. The Shekinah glory is there in the temple and in the and then later on in the tabernacle first and then later on in the temple. to demonstrate that God's presence is with this nation, and God is going to use this nation to bring forth his kingdom. in the world and to glorify himself and to do what he ultimately desired to do from the very beginning with all of creation. Of course, as as you know, the story of the nation of Israel They were a rebellious people because they had that sin nature that was still in them that they could not fight on their own. Even with the presence of God right there they still were people that could not be ruled by God, though he was right there with them with them. It wasn't long or it wasn't too many years. until they finally decided that they looked around at the other nations and they wanted their own king. Their own human king. They God was their king. But instead they wanted a human king because all the other nations had a human king. Now you would think at this point that God would simply say no. That God would reject this idea and just simply say, look, you are a rebellious people. I'm just going to wipe you out and start over again. But God is so relentless in his pursuit of man that he decided to adjust to their desire for a king. And she gave them their choice for a king, which was, as you know, Saul. Saul, however, was not a good king, he was a bad king. overall. And he was he he was self-serving and he was corrupt ultimately, he was driven. uh to do his own will rather than God's will. He did not honor the laws of God and he began to rebel in all kinds of ways and and and and and disobedience But God decided to work within this kingly line, and he would produce his choice for the nation of Israel, and we know that person as David. David was God's choice. Saul was man's choice, and it was a failure. David was God's choice And in fact, he didn't just put David before all the people. God anointed David before the people even knew that he would be the next king. In fact, he had Samuel anoint them really under subterfuge. Saul didn't even know that he was going to become king. And David began to grow with his knowledge that he was going to be one day to be king, and God gave him favor among the people And he came to the throne and and and and for a long time he was overall a good king Of course, he there was a failure in leadership with David as well, a very significant failure, and it would result later on in the split of two kingdoms. It was not as there was lots of consequence as a result of David's failure. But he did repent, we find in in Psalm 51. And there was a great repentance on the part of David because David was, even though there was a failure of leadership, David was a man after God's own part. He loved God. And David remained king for and and then there came a point where he looked around, and God had gave him given him victory over the over the nation of Israel. uh and gave him victory over his enemies and there was relative peace and people began to build go from tents to houses and there was establishment of the nation and a conquering of the nation and David looked around and said, you know, everybody else is in the house. We ought to build a temple for God, a more substantial place for Him. This apparently really clearly pleased the Lord. And we find in 2 Samuel chapter 7, you can take your Bibles and turn there. 2 Samuel 7, verse 12, we see that God makes a covenant with this man, David. David was not a perfect king by any stretch. But in his desire for God's presence to remain with the nation of Israel forever And in his desire to build for him a great temple, God said to David that he could not build the temple because he had shed too much blood, but that but that he that he he granted and And he was grateful for the desire that David had. And picking up in verse twelve, we have a covenant that God makes with David. 2 Samuel 7:12 says, And when the days be fulfilled, and thou shalt sleep with thy fathers, I will set up thy seed after thee. Which shall proceed out of thy bowels, and will establish his kingdom. He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. I will be his father, and he shall be my son. If he commit iniquity, I will chasten him with a rod of his of men and with the stripes of the children of men. But by me mercy shall not depart from o away from him, as I took it from Saul, whom I put away before thee. And thine house and thy kingdom shall be established. How long, folks? Forever before thee. Thy throne shall be established forever. So as time went on, David died, and Solomon took the throne. And after Solomon, Solomon's descendants Um Solomon retained the throne and um continued to prosper, but after Solomon's death there was a split in the kingdom. And so you had, and of course I'm making I'm skipping a lot of details here, obviously. So you have Israel and Judah, Israel in the north and Judah in the south. And this very likely, this split in the kingdom, had to do with David's unfaithfulness. But God began to work with the better of the two kingdoms. He began to work with Judah. Judah out of the two, and now there were evil kings. Kings on both with both Israel and Judah, and majority of people kings were both. But he began to work through the line of J through the nation of Judah that was uh in the southern kingdom. And and began to work very very very closely with them. And there was one king after another, and for the and the majority of the king's folks had all kinds of problems And they would often slide into idolatry or be overt in their idolatrous practices. There was one particular king that was particularly evil. His name was Ahaz. Would you take your Bibles and turn to 2 Kings chapter 16? I want you to see this man Ahaz. And really, the extreme wickedness of this man, by all accounts, this man was very, very wicked. And so we see in this passage. that he is going to we're gonna have sig we're gonna see a man who is is very much um well let's just see what happens here. Verse uh chapter six sixteen verse one in the seventh year of Pikah the son of Ramalia, Ahaz the son of Jotham, king of Judah, began to reign. Twenty years old was Ahaz when he began to reign And reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem, and did not that which was right in the sight of the Lord his God, like David his father. So he did not do he did not do what was right as David did But he walked in the way of the kings of Israel. So he did follow after the other kings of Israel. Yea, and made his son to pass through the fire. According to the abominations of the heathen, whom the Lord cast out from before the children of Israel. What he is talking about there in verse three was that uh Ah Ahaz was so evil That he sacrificed his own son on an idolatrous altar. He placed altars all over the kingdom And one of the altars, one day, he sacrificed his own son to honor this false god, one of these false gods. That there there really is, I mean, you if you could just sort of think as a father, there there can't be much worse than that, than to sacrifice your own son For the sake of a false God. And the evil was great. It is interesting, by the way, it's just a thought occurred to me while I was studying this. God sacrificed his own son on our behalf. And it was not evil, it was good. Um but anyway, uh as we continue on here, verse four. And he sacrificed and burnt incense in high places and on the hills and under the the evergreen. So this man was ev this man was really bad In fact, he was so bad that there were two kings that wanted to get rid of him. They were not good themselves, but they were not as evil as this man. Uh they Rezin of Syria and Romalia of of Israel, the nort northern Israel, wanted to get rid of this man. And so they got together and decided that they were going to lay siege on the Judah area. Verse 5 says, Then Rezin, king of Assyria, and Pekah son of Ramaliah, king of Israel, came up to Jerusalem to war, and they besieged Ahaz, but could not overcome him. Now at this point you're probably wondering what in the world does this have to do with Christmas? We have gone through we have discussed all kinds of things, but how in the world does this have anything to do with Christmas? So we're talking about this evil Ahaz king who is now going to be attacked and we're frankly rooting by now probably for Israel and Syria to go to go after him. But God is so relentless in his pursuit of us and his pursuit of his own glory that he does something that is quite incredible. We're going to see that in a moment. But what Ahaz does, he looks at these two kings and they've laid siege to his to his uh to his area, and they're quite concern and he's quite concerned that they're going to eventually overtake him. So he decides that he is going to establish uh uh an alliance with a man by the name of Tiglath Pelezer And so he's going to establish this alliance to sort of even the odds here so that he can overtake these two kings and push them back. In fact, you probably wanted to overcome them And what he is going to what he plans to do is he's going to take take the valuables from the temp from the temple in order to pay Tiglach Pelezer in order to establish this alliance. And God is so concerned about this that he sends a man by the name of Isaiah. You know Isaiah, of course The prophet Isaiah he sends to come and to deal with this very evil king Ahaz, to plead with him not to establish this alliance. And that is where we find ourselves when we come to Isaiah 14. Would you take your Bibles and turn now to Isaiah 14? Isaiah chapter fourteen. Ahaz is about to establish an alliance with an evil king Tiglath Bleaser and a nation that would adulterate the nation of Judah whom God had chosen to work with And we find in Isaiah fourteen, picking up in verses one through thirteen, we find that Isaiah goes to this man. For the Lord will have mercy on Jacob, and verse four uh chapter fourteen, verse one, and will yet choose Israel and set them in their own land. And the strangers shall be joined with them, and they shall cleave to the house of Jacob, and the people shall take them and bring them to their place. And the house of Israel shall possess them in the land of the Lord for servants and handmaids And they shall take them captives, whose captives they were, and they shall rule over their oppressors. And it shall come to pass in the day that the Lord shall give thee rest from thy sorrow. and from thy fear, and from the hard bondage wherein thou hast made to serve, that thou shalt take up this proverb against the kingdom of King of Babylon And say, How hath the oppressor ceased in the golden city? The Lord hath broken the staff of the wicked and a scepter of the s of the rulers. He who smote the people in wrath will continue continual stroke he that ruled the nations in anger and persecuted, and none hindereth The whole earth is at rest and is quiet. They break forth into singing. Yea, the fir trees rejoice at thee, and the cedars of Lebanon, saying, Since thou art laid down, no feller is come up against us. And what he begins to do in this pat in this passage of Scripture is we begin to see what God is uh I I'm gonna I I think I'm in the wrong passage actually. Uh Isaiah would you turn over to Isaiah 7? I think I've got the wrong one. I apologize. Yes, Isaiah 7. Isaiah 7, beginning in verse 1. This is going to make a little more sense now. And it came to pass in the days of Ahaz. Oh yeah, there's our man. Okay. I'm reading this and going, I don't remember reading Anyway. And it came to pass in the days of Ahaz, the son of Jotham the son of Uziah, king of Judah, and Rezin the king of Syria, and Pikah the son of Ramaliah, king of Israel, went un went up toward Jerusalem to war against it, but could not prevail against it And it was told the house of David, saying, Syria and confederate with Ephraim. And his heart was moved, and the heart of the people as the trees of the wood are moved with the wind. Then said the Lord unto Isaiah, Go forth now to meet Ahaz, thou, and share Jashab, thy son. at the end of the conduit of the upper pool in the highway of the Fuller's Field, and say unto him, Take heed and be quiet, fear not Neither be faint hearted, for the two tales of these smoking firebrands, for the fierce anger of Rezin with Syria, and the son of Romalia Because Syria, Ephraim, and the son of Ramaliah have taken evil counsel against them, saying, Let us go up against Judah and vex it, and let us make a branch therein with for us and set a king in the midst of it, even the son of Tabiel. Now what he begins to do then is God tells Isaiah that you need to go to this king. And you need to tell him and convince him that he is not to make this alliance with Tiglac forezer. And you need to t tell this man, Ahaz, that I will give him a sign of any kind that he wants. To demonstrate that he will have the victory without making this alliance. Now, just follow this for a minute, folks. I mean, really think for a minute. Why would God do this? Ahaz does not deserve this kind of grace on him. He doesn't deserve in any way to have the victory. He doesn't deserve God's working through Judah. But the reality is God wasn't doing it for this man Ahaz didn't deserve any of this. But God was so relentless in his pursuit of Israel that he was going to work in spite of Ahaz, and he was going to preserve Judah in spite of him. And so Ahaz rejects God at this point and even rejects wanting any kind of sign at all. And God chooses to give him a sign anyway, a sign, a prophecy that he would not be defeated by these two other kings. And that is where we come to when we come to verse 14 of chapter 7. Wherefore the Lord Himself shall give you a sign. Behold, a virgin shall conceive and do what? And bear a son. And his name shall and he and uh And bear a son, and shall call his name Emmanuel. God says that there's going to be a one who was born of a virgin. That's going to come from the line of David. And and Ahaz, you don't need to worry. These men will not be able to conquer you. Because it is through your line that God has already promised that the seed of David will produce this virgin-born son. This is incredible. That is this context in which we have this great prophetic revelation about this man, about about uh this virgin-born man that is going to come come that is going to come and save his people from their sin. Now, with that in mind, I want us just to just to apply this here. I want us to understand by way of application that although, you know, sometimes we think of God in terms Of him being inflexible. And he is. God is God, and he is immutable. And he is holy. And he desires his people to be holy. That's why he says in the New Testament: be holy, for I am holy. God is one who must not compromise his character. And the reason for that, well, one of the realities is that you and I are created to glorify his character. For God to compromise his character on behalf of you and I would reduce our ability to do what God called us to do, which is to glorify him and exalt his character. But do you know what? God is so wise and so loving. He is so providential that He in His providence And he, in his wisdom, these things work together so that he compensates for the problems of sin. He compensates not by adjusting his character, but by adjusting circumstances and people and situations And all of these kinds of things so that we have everything necessary for us by his grace and mercy to adjust to his character. God is so awesome and holy that He can't, we can't, He we have to adjust His character. But He's given us everything we need to be able to do that, and we see that. The Bible says in script that the Old Testament was given to us so that whatsoever things are written before time are written for our learning. That we, through patience and comfort of the scriptures, might have hope. And the application for us today, one of the great applications of this, is for you and I today, folks. Is there are times where we feel so defeated and as though we will never be able to match up to God's character? The greatest need for you and I is not to figure out some some necessary strategize and things, but not necessarily to come up with some strategy, but to learn to know God. And the more that you and I learn to know God, and we understand His wisdom and His mercy and His grace and His providence, And all those things that God affords for us, we begin to have hope, which is a confident expectation, that God will do what we cannot do for ourselves. That's the message that we have of the virgin birth. Who would have ever thought of a virgin birth? For years and years and years and years, that never happened. In the history of all of civilization, of all of mankind, never, ever was there a virgin birth And yet, God, to compensate for the problems of sin, allowed this or caused this to occur. Obviously, you and I have sinned. And for there to be a perfect substitute, there had to be someone that did not have the connection with Adam that we have. Someone who was not born with a sin nature. Someone who was not able to was not already corrupted by sin. And so that's another reason that God compensated for this. See all of this wisdom and working and providence in the Old Testament through the Scriptures in order for you and I to have established for us redemption. The prophecy doesn't end there though. The Bible tells us, oh, I do want to mention Luke 1, 34 through 35. We see the provision made here. Then said Mary unto the angel, How shall this be, seeing I know not a man? And the angel answered and said unto her, The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee, and the power of the highest shall overshadow thee Therefore, also that holy thing which shall be born of thee shall be called the Son of God. God, by his masterful wisdom and incredible providence, caused a virgin birth to occur, and that is why we celebrate Christmas. Because of the incarnation of Christ through the virgin birth. This virgin born son that was prophesied in Isaiah 7, not 14, Isaiah 7. This same man also is prophesied to rule as king. Isaiah 9:6 says, For unto us a child is born, and unto us a son is given. And the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, the Mighty God, the Everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. Isaiah 9. 7 says, Of the increase and of his government and peace there shall be no end. Upon the throne of who? The throne of David, and upon his kingdom, to order it and to establish it with judgment, with justice, from henceforth even forever. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform this. We see that the same virgin-born person that was prophesied was also going to be God in this passage, the mighty God, and he was also going to rule on the throne of David. Now, there became there there so from this point Ahaz was not defeated. He did go ahead and have uh an alliance with Tiglath Blazer. But because of God's great, relentless providence, He and patience, frankly, He continue to work with this nation of Judah. One sinful king after another, this man God worked with and was patient with. Until we come To a point at which God's patience ran out. God was done with these kings. And we find that the final person that really I think was a represent representative of all the previous failures in kingship We find in Jeremiah 22. Would you take your Bibles and turn there? Jeremiah chapter 22. In Jeremiah chapter 22, we find this man, Jechoniah. He goes by the name Koniah in some cases as well. We find here that in verse 22, verse 21, we find that this man was also a very evil king. God says to this man, I spake unto thee in thy prosperity, but thou uh would thou did not hear. This hath been thy manner from thy youth, and thou obeyest not my voice. So here was another king and a long line of kings that were disobedient to God Jeremiah 22, 30. Look at that, and you'll see here what God says about this King Jechaniah. Thus saith the Lord, write this man childless, a man that shall not prosper in his ways. For no man of his seed shall prosper, sitting upon the throne of David, and ruling any more in Judah. Folks, what we find here in this passage is that the fulfillment of these two prophecies, the fact that there was going to be someone who was virgin-born, and there was going to be someone that was going to sit on the throne of David. This these prophecies were threatened by this chastisement of this man Jekoniah. Did you see what it said here? In verse 30, it says, For no man will sit with the for no man Seed shall prosper. God says about this man that no that none of his descendants will sit on the throne of David. Or will sit on their throne. The problem, folks, is that he is a descendant of David and in the kingly line. How in the world is God going to compensate for this? On one hand, God says, David, your throne will be established forever. The kingly line will be established. And now he says to Koniah, Jeconiah, this man, you, your descendants will not sit on the throne anymore. How in the world is he going to compensate and to deal with this? Well, you and I all know that he does, doesn't he? That we do have Christ that comes. And we do have the virgin birth. But how does he compensate for it? And seeing how he compensates for it, you're gonna have to come back tonight. We're gonna look and see exactly how this is compensated for. My point in all of this, folks, is simply to show you more of the background of the Christmas story. Because it really, in the background of the Christmas story, you see the great wisdom of God. The great providence of God, God's sovereignty. You see all of this playing out, and what we learn from it is to appreciate this great God Who is both just and can't compromise his character, but is relentless in his offerings of grace and mercy so that we can adjust to his character And the key to all of this without question is the person and the work of Jesus Christ The Bible tells us that Jesus is God, and Jesus is man, and as this God-man, he provided the perfect substitute for you and for I. The Bible tells us that our sin, the wages of our sin, is eternal separation from God, is death. The Bible also tells us that Jesus is He, what did he do? He died, didn't he? He died to take the punishment for the punishment that we deserve. He substituted himself where we should have died and gone into a Christeless eternity. You and I, folks, all we have to do, we can't work for our salvation. We all we have to do is accept the death of Christ on the cross and the fact that he rose from the grave victorious over sin and death. And we we embrace that, and we depend upon the death of Christ and who he is and what he did and living a perfect life and dying on the cross and being rose from the grave. That is what we accept. for our our character then first, actually our position first to be adjusted to a righteous position. Do you realize you and I, the Bible says our righteousnesses are as filthy rags to God That is how we are born. We have no ability to be able to be right in right standing with God. But Jesus Christ, because of his great sacrifice for us Imputes, the Bible says, his righteousness on our account, because our sin was placed on him on the cross. And that is why we can stand righteous before God. John 1 12 says, But as many as received him, to them gave he the power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. Unless you and I think that we can somehow, through our own self-effort, attain this grace, the Bible tells us that it is not of works of rights, not by works of righteousness Which we have done. But according to his mercy, he saved us by the washing of regeneration, the renewing of the Holy Spirit. You and I have this great gift. And the message of Christmas, the message of the incarnation, the message of the virgin birth, is that we ought to adore him because he is truly Christ the Lord. Maybe there's somebody today, and you're listening today, and you would say, Well, I have never trusted Christ as the substitute for my sin. I've never done that before. Or perhaps you've made some sort of profession. You've prayed a prayer, you've gone through some motions, but you never actually you never actually placed your full dependence on Him. Let me just encourage you to really think about this. The Bible tells us that all you have to do is, number one, you've got to understand what Christ did for you. Number two, you've got to agree that Christ did it for you. And thirdly, you've got to accept this gift by faith. The Bible says if you do that, the Bible says, if you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God hath raised him from the dead, you shall be saved. That's the message that we have. The message that you and I all have that are that is the hope of glory. And for those of us who do not know Christ is our savior if there's somebody here that does not know Christ as their savior, would you come and talk to me afterwards? Or talk to somebody else that you're comfortable with so that we can take a Bible and show you exactly how you can accept this gift of eternal life for yourself. the person and work of Christ, so that you can be rightly related to God, you can be adjusted to Him, you can be in good right standing with God, not by your own works But by Christ and his finished work on the cross. The rest of us need to adore him. Sin compromised God's plan. We must be readjusted back to God's glory. But because of God's great love for us, God wanted to go, He went to great lengths for our redemption. And what we want to do is thank him and adore him. Let's pray. Father, we come to you and thank you for who you are. We thank you for the great wisdom. And the providence, the incredible work. And Lord, although we the sacrifice of Christ is free for us, it was not free for you. Not only did Christ have to condescend to become a mere human being, though he retained his deity. And he had to live a life surrounded, though not internally, but surrounded by corruption and uh the effects of the fall And then died a death of an execution and rose from the grave. But Lord, you through the throughout history And your relentless pursuit of us demonstrate time and time again, though we are weak, you are strong. And I pray, Lord, that you would, this really is grace that is unmerited And we are undeserving of. That gives us the ability to do your will and to serve you faithfully and to worship you in a way that is pleasing to you and to honor you and glorify you and to live for the furtherance of the kingdom. I pray that you would help us to do just that. And if there are family members that we'll rub shoulders with or friends that we'll rub should shoulders with during the Christmas season, I pray That they would see a difference in our lives, not just by the words we say, but by the life we live, because of the grace that you have given to us. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.