I want to tell you that it isn't I believe it is in God's sovereign plan that I am feeling un under the weathered. You're gonna see this, this is not in you're gonna see this in the message, uh in the in the um in some of what Christ talks about. and the importance of emphasizing spiritual things rather than physical things. And so um this has not caught God by surprise and frankly it didn't catch me by surprise. And it and it will go it the Lord is going to use this um to focus our hearts on what is really important in life and it's not the physical. And so I'm I'm thankful for that. that um and we'll just see how the message goes but I'm sure the Lord's going to give me strength to be able to to do what he wants me to do uh in this message this this morning You all have probably heard it before. Put on your oxygen mask first when? Before you put help someone else. Um most of us have heard that on a plane, you get on the plane and they go through all the different things that you gotta do when you're uh in case of an emergency, but they always say put put your own oxygen mask on first. Of course, why do they do that? Because if you're dead, you can't help somebody else. And so the the logic is just un unmistakable. There's no question about it that that is the best thing to do. It would not always be our first inclination to help st to But of course if we're dead we can't help them. And so that's why they have the statement that they have. They want us To make sure that we're equipped to be able to help others. But I would ask, and so we learn, we can sort of gain in life a principle about the importance of Of taking care of ourselves in order to be able to take care of others. But if you look at all of life And you look at things from Christ's perspective, what would He say Is the same thing as putting our mask on first. What would he say is the most important thing in life? And I would suggest to you that it is going to be very different, in fact almost diametrically opposed to what we would think would be the most important important and most urgent thing in our lives. And I hope that we can see this today. When if Christ when Christ is in a situation Where he is under great exhaustion and hunger and physical need, what does he see as the most important thing? What does he see as putting on his mask first? And we're going to see this, but we need the Lord's help, so let's go to Him in prayer. Father, we do come to you and we ask your help with this. It is going to, it could potentially Potentially, certainly I hope it encourages us in our hearts as to the nature of spiritual work. But I pray, Lord, that it would also encourage us to To and that we would have the courage and the strength to change our thinking when it comes to what is truly important as we look at all of life. You have made us spiritual beings and emotional beings and physical beings. But I pray, Lord, that you would help us to see. What is not important entirely, but what is most important and what must take priority in our lives as Christians. And I pray, Lord, that we would you give a spiritual eye. It's obvious that as we look through the book of John, we have seen Christ deal with one person after another, whether it be Nicodemus. or the Samaritan woman or the Pharisees in the temple, and each one is preoccupied with physical things. And they have a hard time seeing what is spiritual. And I pray, Lord, that through the preaching of your word this morning, strengthening, you would cause us to be able to see what is most important. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, we are in the midst of a narrative in John chapter 4, where the Samaritan woman being told by Christ that she can have living water. And if you'll recall, last week or two weeks ago, we talked about the importance of a right understanding of worship. An understanding of what it means to really worship the Lord in spirit and in truth. And how Jesus injected that conversation, that idea, into a conversation that was talking about how the Samaritan woman could come to Christ and the connection that was made there. And now the Samaritan woman is now going to have a chance to respond to all that she has heard, as we pick up in verse 25. And it says this. The woman saith unto him, I know that Messiah cometh, which is called Christ. When he come, he will tell us all things. Jesus saith unto her, I that speak unto thee am He. What Christ finally, at the end of his conversation with the Samaritan woman, explained Was that he is Christ. He is the Messiah. He finally stated who he was. Now this woman was ready to hear. This woman had seen her own not only physical need, but spiritual need. She had seen her own confusion when it came to religious Matters. And Christ had straighten these kinds of things out, had removed the barriers in her life, and now she was ready to be able to accept the fact that Christ is the Messiah. He is God. He is the one foretold in the Old Testament by the prophets. He is the one to establish truth in the hearts of the people that he was ministering to and serving. And so we find that this is the statement that she makes. But in the middle of this discussion, you have another, you have a group of disciples that are now going to enter the scene. If you can imagine from the disciples' perspective, they're walking up to a man and a woman who are sitting in a well. They know the man being Christ. And this strange woman, this woman is Samaria. Culturally, as you'll recall, it is entirely unacceptable for a man to be talking to a woman culturally, even of its own gen uh of its own um nationality. She was a Jewish woman, that would have been unacceptable in that situation. But it was entirely unacceptable because she was a Samaritan. And it would have been further unacceptable because of her sinful background. And so when they come to him, they are marveling. They are surprised that this man, Jesus, is talking to this woman. However, they don't say anything. It's interesting that John inserts two questions that they could have asked. Notice what it says in verse 27. And upon this came his disciples and marveled that he talked with the woman. Yet no man said, What seekest thou? They didn't say this. Or, Why talkest thou with her? You can imagine perhaps why they didn't ask the question, why they didn't say anything. They were wondering, they were surprised, but they certainly respected Christ at this point. And they also did not want to create an awkward situation by asking these people kinds of questions. And so they just sort of kept them in their mouth, but John as he as he is writing this is sort of implying that this was what was in their mind. What are you, what do you want? What would you What would you seek from this woman? And why would you be talking to her? Well, it's it's it is interesting, and we won't take a lot of time with this, but it is interesting. That just a few verses back, he says that he was that this that the Father, in verse 23, the Father was seeking people to worship him. And so the answer to that question would have been That the Father was using Christ to bring a woman to himself as a true worshiper of Christ. But of course, they didn't ask the question. It seems that they just came on the scene, they sort of marveled, and at that point, maybe simultaneous to this, the woman realizes who Christ really is. And it says in verse 28, the woman then left her water pot and went her way into the city, and saith to the men, Come see a man which told me all things that ever I did I did. Is not this the Christ? Now, it's interesting as we look at this. The woman left her water pot and went and told others. I would suggest to you that this was her first evidence of a true conversion. Before this point, she was, the Lord was working on her heart. In obvious ways. The Lord was drawing her to himself. The Lord was showing her her needs. But at this point When she gets up and she goes and she acts on what she knows to be true, that he is the Messiah, that is really the point where she is evidencing that she is She is evidencing her conversion. It's interesting that she didn't have to pray a prayer. It's interesting that she She didn't have to have some sort and it doesn't tell of some sort of euphoric experience or something like that. She just went up and she acted on her faith And it is true that it is only by works, I mean it's only by faith alone that we come to Christ, not of works. But as James says, you don't know true faith until you see work. You don't know what true faith is. It's not true authentic faith unless it results in doing something. And you can't know whether someone has come to Christ unless there is genuine evidence that they have come to Christ for some kind of fruit. We see here that the Samaritan woman exhibits that she has faith in Christ as Messiah, not just through some prayer that she's praised. But by acting on it, by going out and trust and telling others about Christ and about her experience. We also learn from this The great example that a person's personal testimony of how God has affected their life Can be a great bridge to causing people to come to Christ. We're going to learn later on in the narrative that they ultimately had to hear the words of Christ themselves. They had to know Christ in a personal way for themselves. They couldn't piggyback on her faith. But they could piggyback to get to a personal relationship with Christ. Christ. They could it could be a bridge to them coming to Christ. And that is true for us as well. When we are sharing our faith with others When God is using us, He is going to use our experiences with God, our joy that perhaps we have in the midst of difficult circumstances. Our fortitude to be able to move on in life when we have difficult things that come to us He uses those things in the lives of others to draw them to himself But ultimately, they must make a decision for Christ for themselves alone, not a decision based upon the faith of someone else. So we see here the testimony of the woman and how God used that. The primary purpose, though, of this narrative is now going to turn to a lesson that Jesus Jesus wants to give to his disciples, and that's going to be our focus this morning as well. In verse 29, uh I'm sorry, verse 30, it says this. Sorry, verse 31. In the meanwhile, so the Samaritan people are coming toward Christ as a result of the testimony of the Samaritan woman. In the meanwhile, verse 31, while his disciples prayed, him saying, Master, eat. So they come to Christ and they ask Christ to please eat some food. Of course, we already know that they had been away to retrieve from food. And Christ had and the disciples had been on a long journey from Jerusalem to Sikar, which was about forty miles. That was by their standards about two days' journey walking. And yet it doesn't seem like they ever stopped, at least in the narrative, it doesn't look like they ever stopped between Jerem uh Jerusalem and Jerusalem. And Sikar. And so this was a very strenuous uh walk. In fact, uh if you think of the topography, Jer uh Jerusalem was up on a mount and they were going down, they were going north, but they were going down in elevation. And then they went up. Saikar is also on a mount. And so we're talking about a strenuous physical exertion that they would have had to have. So Jesus by this time was very tired and very hungry. And Jesus exerted great emotional and spiritual power and strength by talking to the woman and engaging her on some very serious subjects. And so you can imagine by this time, when the disciples are looking at Christ, he is weary. The disciples probably saw Christ and saw a weak, emaciated man at this point. Point, a man who was tired and fatigued and hungry. And so the disciples urged him: look, you need to eat. It's also interesting the focus of the disciples here. John in writing this gospel constantly Constantly points out the focus of the people that Christ is interacting with, whether it be Mary, as he asks uh Christ for wine that had been run that had run out, a physical need. Or Nicodemus, who was preoccupied with trying to go back into his mother's womb to be born, when Christ was talking about a spiritual rebirth. Or the Samaritan woman, who earlier on could not in the beginning understand the concept of true spiritual living water. Or the the sa or the Pharisees when Christ said, Tear down this temple in three days I'll raise it up. But the he had they uh what he was talking about was his own physical body. They were ha in each one of these situations there's this theme that runs across where people just have a really hard time getting past their physical circumstances, their physical needs, they tend to be preoccupied with what is right in front of them, what is practical, what is physical, and they have a very hard time seeing beyond that They didn't ask Christ about this woman. They didn't ask Christ. I mean she literally literally gets up and leaves her water pot and goes out just suddenly. And they don't say, hey, what was going on here? What kind of conversation Did she come to Christ? Is she a follower of Christ? Now they didn't ask any of those questions. They're just preoccupied with the need of the physical. There is a sense in which I think the Lord understands I don't think necessarily that the disciples were wrong in being concerned about their friend and their lord's spiritual or physical need. And in that way they were probably there, they were they were there to assist him. But on the other hand, Christ, though he is weary and certainly wants to take in food at this point and water and refresh himself. From the long journey that he has had, withholds at this point from partaking of the food that they brought to teach them a very important spiritual lesson. And this lesson is one that you and I have got to understand if we are ever going to have the kind of relationship and worship that God wants us to have. And so we see from the text what Christ says next. He says this. My verse 32. And he said unto them, I have meat or food to eat that ye know not of. He replies to them, in like manner that he replied to the woman that I have water you don't know of, and he wasn't talking about physical waters. So he says to these disciples, I've got food you don't know of. It's interesting when he says this. The disciples, of course, run to the physical conclusion, wondering who gave him food. Did anybody do that? It's also interesting how he puts this, though, that the disciples had no idea of what he was talking about. He said, I've got food you don't know of. So what was he talking about when he was talking about this physical or talking about this food? He wasn't talking about Christ's teaching of a disciple. disciples, or the preaching of the Word of God, or the Word of God Himself. He wasn't talking about that. The disciples knew of those things. They knew God's Word. They knew the teaching of Jesus to them to them. They had hurt been under the preaching of The disciples weren't talking necessarily about just uh Christ wasn't talking necessarily just about going out and and and and Teaching people. In some ways, it wasn't just about serving people. There had to be more to what Christ is talking about because he says to the disciples, You don't know of the food that I'm partaking of. But it is, but but it whatever he is talking about is going to include this. That whatever food he was partaking of was in the absence of his food. Physical needs. Christ was going into his spiritual reserves, if you will. Christ was, thank you. Christ was in a place where He was working hard to help them to understand the necessities of what is truly spiritual. Now, with this in mind, let's look here at the passage and see what he has. He says this verse thirty-three that the disciples of course are wondering about what what they uh uh what who would have brought him food But verse 34 says, This saith unto them, My meat is to do the will of him that sent me, and to finish his work. He says, My need is to do two things. It is to do the will of him who sent me, and also to finish the work of the Father. It's interesting, though, that Christ was doing this under great physical strain. And it is for us a great example for us. He was tired and hungry and fatigued, and yet he continued to serve. He was more concerned about his spiritual needs And it's interesting to note that we would not think of Christ having spiritual need. But his great spiritual need was to do the work and will of God. I'd like you to take your Bibles, if you would, and turn to 2 Corinthians chapter 4. 2 Corinthians chapter 4, and we're going to look at verse 15 here. The Apostle Paul is writing to the church of Corinth, and he talks in verses 9 through 11 about the suffering that he and the disciples are going through, the physical needs, the physical suffering. And if you'll recall from the book of Acts, many times as as the Word of God spread and the gospel spread, God called on his people to the early thing. To withdraw from the physical things that they needed in order for the spiritual needs to be met This was something that was very common and very frequently God asked both the nation of Israel in the Old Testament and the church in the New Testament. And the Apostle Paul, when he's talking to the church at Corinth, says this in verse 15 For all things are for your sakes, that the abundant grace might through the thanksgiving Of many redound to the glory of God. He says, What has happened, I desire may just propel God's glory. For which cause we faint. Now let me pause and tell you what faint means. When the New Testament uses the term faint, It's talking about losing heart. It's talking about discouragement. And so he says, for which cause we faint not. In other words, they had been under great physical suffering, but they were not going to lose heart. They were going to keep going. They were going to be strengthened by God. Why? He says this. But though our outward man perish, Yet the inward man is renewed day by day. For the light affliction, which is but for a moment, worketh for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory. While we look not at the things which are seen, but at the things which are not seen. For the things which are seen are temporal, but the things which are not seen are eternal The Apostle Paul said that he was willing for his body to perish. He was willing for his physical stamina to be diminished. He was willing. to withdraw from the physical needs so that the spiritual could be met, because he knew that that was what was truly being renewed day by day. So I would ask you again, what do you suppose Christ would say about what is most important in our lives? If we are going to put on the spiritual oxygen mask first, what would be that spiritual oxygen mask? Would it be something that is physical, or would it indeed be something that is spiritual? I remember several years ago, I was was um working in a job I really didn't like. Most of you know what I'm talking about. But because we're uh live streaming I won't use the name of the job Because the company is a good company. It just wasn't a job I like. And uh I was struggling. I would I was coming from a very difficult situation. And uh had come down to to Maryland and I was working in a job I didn't like. I was traveling using an old uh Buick Lasabre that was really low to the ground and it was a good And um we had um we were traveling thirty minutes to church and back, roughly thirty minutes to church and back, twenty-five if we hit the wind right and traffic right. And um I rem I absol I will tell you one there was uh it all sort of I uh we were I would have to close on Saturday nights and I had to teach Saturday Sunday school uh on Sunday mornings and their Sunday school class or Sunday school classes was at an unearthly hour and I got there at an even uh no, it wasn't really unearthly. hour but I got there had to get there very very early and so I usually got about four hours sleep on uh Saturday nights and I had to teach Sunday school on Sunday morning And uh was driving I was driving there and realizing I had a headache and I was very tired, and I was driving this little this this car that was um uh to explain why it was an interesting thing. So so we parked. I I I parked and I got out and I don't know if anybody else feels this way, but I'll tell you there's just something I absolutely hate. I can't stand it. I really can't stand it. I just can't stand car seats. Now I know they serve a good purpose But I'm telling you, though there's got to be a w better way to design those things. I uh seriously. It's like every time I use the car seat, I go, what numskl designed this thing? And um and And it w it definitely was not a tall person um who had to bend over halfway over to get into his l la saber to try to try to then we had at the time had two car seats and they both were in the actual car seats, not the booster seat. Which were substantially easier. And um and you know m my my my dear wife always says, Yeah, so it's so simple. It's every time I it's I am ra fairly mechanically inclined, but when it comes to those car seats, they are is and anything else with me, they're frustrating. Come on guys. They're just really a pain It's really frustrating piece of c yeah, okay. Anyway, you can drive my family to church. Anyway, so so I was I I I you know had four hours sleep, I was bending down I was getting acid reflux from bending over so long. I was trying to get these kids out of the car without hurt, you know, breaking their arms from getting them out of these car seats And um and I and on the way out I hit my head, I bumped my head up against the side of the the the the roof of the I got out and I just was like, I was really frustrated. I'm about to have to teach Sunday school and I'm just so i'm thinking, is this worth it? And I was frustrated about all this. And uh I I I just you know I sort of I thought to myself, you know, I don't need we I need to buy a new car, but I don't have any money to buy a new car because I'm working I'm sort of going through all this mind, I'm grumbling in my mind, I'm frustrated in my mind, I'm getting all agitated in my mind. And at some point in the whole experience The Spirit of God just worked on me. And it wasn't audible. The Holy Spirit energized the in my inner my inner uh spirit to cause my mind to say to my mind, um, Jim, your problem is not your circumstances, your problem is your attitude. You just have a stinking attitude. And so as I talked to myself, I realized I wanted to change all my circumstances. I wanted to change my job and I wanted to change my car and I wanted to change these car seats and I wanted to change everything. And I realized that what I really just needed to do was to take these different obstacles That were, I thought, were in the way of my serving the Lord, and see them as something that gives me greater greater value in serving the Lord. That's the kind of thing that caused William Borden to say, obstacles are the glory of my life. What he meant by that is that when it becomes difficult to serve the Lord, if that just means coming to church, Church, by the way, is a service. That's why we call it a service. It is to come. It's to come and to serve God. When we sing, we ought to be doing with everything we've got. We ought to be giving all of ourselves to the Lord. Or if it is to serve the Lord in various capacities. We are such a society, and I am guilty of this. I am not in any way speaking uh in judgment of somebody else. But we are such a society that it's like we've got to have all our ducks up lined up, we've got to have our T's crossed, we've got to have everything convenient and we have to have everything comfortable in order to serve God. You know, if the missionaries in the last century would have had the same kind of attitude that we have today Can you imagine how China would not be reached at all? You would have entire right now we are we are situated in a time period where there are very few nations that are entirely unreached at this point. There are few. Mo mostly in the Muslim uh nations. But for the most part, if you look around the world, most things are have been there has at least been the gospel that have been reached. But I'll tell you, it was by people that had the resolve, Christians, God's people that That had to resolve that despite whatever came their way, whatever circumstances caused them to go under great suffering or duress or problems or struggles They were going to continue on and to serve God faithfully. And I dare say that if service to God. Is all is convenient and comfortable, it's really not service to God. It's service to ourselves. That the reality is, what Christ is saying here is that whatever it is that God wants me to do, I will do. My meat is to do the will of the Father. Now we know that Scripture calls the Word of God itself spiritual food. We know that the Word of God tells us that we need to partake of the Word of God as our necessary food. But have we ever thought of doing the will of God as our necessary food as well? That God wants us to follow the will of God and do the work of God. And there isn't any way to get around it. We can try what we may, but necessary spiritual food is both receiving, feeding from the Word of God, and doing the work of God with faithfulness. And with a resolve that no matter what we're doing, no matter what the physical struggle, no matter what the problem, no matter what the difficult circumstances You know, if if William Borden can can can can give his entire life to reaching the Muslims in China and has to actually go over to Egypt to learn how to speak Arabic and Mandarin before he ever gets to China. And he could say obstacles Obstacles are the glory of my life. Well then I ought to be able to deal with some of the difficulties that I struggle with because they're nothing compared to that. And as I read these various missionary biographies that the Lord has really just inclined my heart toward, it causes me to realize just how just how comfortable we are. Just how complacent we are. I mean I imagine that there were a few of you that were grumbling a little bit as you came in this morning because there was no place to park I was grumbling this morning because I had a place to park because I get here early enough, but um I was looking around going, there's not enough places to park. And I thought to myself, well Maybe the Lord has this for a reason, because I knew I was going to preach this morning and I thought to myself, well, the Lord knows what he's doing with all this Obstacles are the glory of my life. I wonder what it would do to our lives if we took on that phrase That William Borden came to realize in his own life. And he said, instead of looking at every obstacle and saying, this is in the way of me serving God, we would say to ourselves, is this is the opportunity for us to serve God. What would our lives look like? How different might they be? When Christ says, my meat, my food is to do the will of the Father. This term, will of the Father, Christ talked about a lot in the Gospels. But I want to mention four different areas, four specific applications for us. When we're thinking about spiritual food, which Christ says is more important than physical food, when we're thinking about spiritual service, which Christ says is more important and must be sometimes at the expense of what is physical. He is saying that we've got to do the will of God. But what exactly does that mean? Well, number one, we find in John chapter one, verse thirteen, John chapter six, verse thirty-nine, and John chapter six Verse 40, that when Christ describes the will of God, he is describing one who is involved in the salvation of souls. He is involved in the salvation of souls. What is one who does the will of God? Well, he is involved in the salvation of souls. Now I'm going to get, lest you get really concerned because you didn't lead somebody to Christ last week, I will talk about how various ways of involvement. But a person who is doing the will of God is involved in the salvation of souls. Number two. A person who does the will of God is in complete submission to God. John chapter 6 verse 38 through 538. A person who does the will of God is in complete submission to God. John chapter 5, verse 30 says, I can of mine own self do nothing. I hear, I judge, and my judgment is just, because I seek not mine own will, but the will of the Father who hath sent me. Number three, those who are doing the will of God possess doctrinal discernment. Sometimes we think that the application of scriptural truth is completely separated from understanding doctrinal truth. And you could say, well, I'm really good with doctrine, but I'm very poor with application. But Christ describes the fact that he says this. If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God or whether I speak of myself. It seems as though what God is Christ is saying there As we do the will of God, he helps us to navigate what right doctrine is. He helps us to navigate discern have a discernment when it comes to right doctrine. And number four, doing the will of God. Someone who does that is a true worshiper of God. He is a true worshiper of God. John chapter 9, verse 31 says, Now we know that God heareth not sinners. But if any man be a worshiper of God and doeth his will, Him he heareth. But let us not think that we can do the will of God without actually doing work. Because it's interesting that it says in John chapter 4. He says, my meat is to do the will of God and to accomplish his work. Well, what is the work of God? John chapter 6, verse 29 says, the work of God is that people would believe on him. John chapter 10, verse 25 says, That uh if ye believe not the works that I that that I do in my Father's name, they bear witness of me. He he did work, he served, he did what he did in order for people which would be would be turned to Christ. And so he gives for us a clear a clear uh example. on what it is to do the will of God and to do the work of God, which God says is our necessary food. Our spiritual food, that meat that the disciples at that point knew not of. But to get more specific, He's now going to give very clear application to his disciples. Sometimes when we think of these things, we might think, well, that's just Christ's food. That isn't apply to us. But it does apply to us. Because it applied directly to his disciples, and so Christ is going to do that in verses 35 through 42. Would you notice what it says picking up here in verse 35? Say not ye, There are yet four months, and then cometh harvest. Behold, I say unto you, Lift up your eyes, and look on the fields, for they are white already to harvest. And he that reapeth receiveth wages, and gathereth fruit unto life eternal, that both he that soweth and he that reapeth may rejoice together And herein is the saying true: one soweth, and the other reapeth. I sent you to reap that whereon ye bestowed no labor Other men re-labored, and ye are entered into our labors. This is no doubt a passage that you have heard other times preached. at a missions conference. And the thrust that you often hear at a missions conference or uh mission preaching on missions when it comes to these kinds of things Has something to do with the idea that the fields are white already into harvest, and so there are many souls that all they need, they're just ready, they're just wanting to hear the truth. And if we'll just go out and we'll present the truth Then they're ready to hear it and they're just going to get saved. Let me ask you a question. Has that been your experience? I mean, just really think about it. Are the fields white already to harvest? I mean, really Just think about it. As you have rubbed shoulders with people and presented Christ to people, if you have taken the opportunity to give the gospel to people, Has it been your experience that the fields are just light and all I gotta do is just present the gospel and they just can't wait to receive it and get saved So is that that would not line up with our experience And although we get all riled up at missions conferences over somebody saying, Brother, the fields are why in the harvest, and all we've got to do is go and find the ha find the harvest, and we'll reap the harvest, and there will be lots of people saved You know, sometimes I sit there and listen to an emissions conference and hear that preach and I go, well, that's not me. I guess I'm doing something wrong I guess maybe I'm not spiritual enough or I don't have the you know the right force things to say or you know maybe I'm not presenting things quite right or what because that's not been my experience. I've led people to Christ. I'm thankful that I've been able to do that. But, you know, it's not like every week I'm leading somebody to Christ. And so this becomes a little bit of a guilt thing for me when I've heard these different messages. But let me ask you this question. Is that the intent of Christ when he says these things? Is that his intention? First of all, we need to ask ourselves: what was Christ's specific intention for the disciples? And he specifically said to his disciples, Yes, the fields are white unto harvest. And of course, then he says, there were people that sowed. And you're going to reap. He is telling his disciples that that time, as Christ was walking on earth and doing his miracles, and teaching the people, that there were going to be droves of people That would come to him. He is saying that. And he's saying that the disciples are going to be involved in that. And we are going to see that the Samaritans in great number are going to come to Christ in a few moments as an example of that. And so specifically in this context, there's no question that the command of the disciples were, look, you need to go and you need to reap Because there's been people before you that have been sown. For example, John the Baptist. He could then even be talking about the Spirit of God. Christ might be talking about the prophets in the Old Testament that foretold of the coming of the Messiah that would reap as the prophets have been infusing scripture all along uh in into the lives of the nation of Israel to prepare them to receive the Messiah. He might have been talking about that. But whatever he's talking about, he is talking about a specific time for these disciples to reap what they have sown, reap what has been sown. But is this necessarily applicable for every time period? Well, let me ask you, was it applicable to the time period of the Old Testament? Was it applicable before Christ came? Is it necessarily applicable 2,000 years later? I really think that we've we're off When we look at the passage this way. Let me tell you what I believe to be the key to this passage and understanding this passage. There is one particular phrase that I think is absolutely key to this, and it's found in verse 36. He that reapeth receiveth wages, and gathereth food unto eternal life. That both he that soweth and he that reapeth may rejoice together I think if you're going to pull one phrase out, the the phrase that we usually pull out of that entire passage is the fields are wine to harvest. Pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest that he send forth labor. or something like that. That's what you usually hear. But what he's saying in this passage, I think the key, the interpretive key to this passage is his conclusion, which is both he that soweth and he that reapeth may rejoice together. The application, folks, for us is this. What is our involvement in the salvation of souls? Well, very candidly, it's up to God. But very practically, you and I ought to be involved in one of two things. Either we are sowing or we are weeping. And I would just suggest to you that that's God's decision. And that's up to Him whether we sow or whether we reap or whether we do some of both. If you look at church history, there are times where there have been great sowing, but little reaping. And there have been other times where there have been great reaping. But folks, we need to understand that we ought to be involved in one or the other, or we're not involved in the will of God. That is true. In other words, what I would suggest to you is that there ought to be a level of conviction here without beating ourselves over the head of what is impossible. We are so inclined to try if we you know we can kind of take this passage, if we take it wrong, we think the fields are way to harvest, we suddenly get all these fake fake uh decisions so that we can we can apply the verse correctly I mean, if you take the right impressionable person, usually under the age of twelve, you take all kinds of of of conversions, of quite quote unquote conversions Folks, what I'm suggesting here is this, that there ought to be a balance between, well, I don't witness at all because I don't need to Or I am needing to have X number of people come to Christ in a particular week or month or year. There needs to be a balance between those two extremes. And all of us ought to be asking ourselves: how are we involved in the salvation of souls? Am I sowing or am I reaping? And God says that that is necessary spiritual food. Now, with all of that in mind, I'd like to really sort of capture all of what God is saying, or a lot of what God is saying here, by taking your Bible, by asking you to take your Bibles and turn to the book of Hebrews. Would you take your Bibles and turn to Hebrews chapter five, verses eleven through fourteen? Hebrews chapter five, verses eleven through fourteen. The writer of the book of Hebrews is talking about a a he's actually talking about deep matters, talking about the the priesthood of the order of Melchizedek and going over all kinds of deep matters for the for the Hebrew pe uh the Hebrew Christians that he was writing to. But he has to sort of abruptly stop And in verse 11 he says this, of whom we have many things to say. He says, I have more to say here, but it's hard to be uttered, seeing you are dull of hearing. So the problem that he is facing with these people is he says they are dull of hearing. It's interesting, he doesn't say you're dull of doing, he says you're dull of hearing. Verse 12. For when for the time ye ought to be teachers, ye have need that one teach you again, which be the first principle of the oracles of God And are become such as have need of milk and not of strong meat. But now he's going to tell the root problem. For everyone that useth milk is unskillful in the word of righteousness, for he is a babe. But strong meat belongeth to them that are of full age, even to those who by reason of what By reason of use, have their senses exercised to discern both good and evil. You know what he's saying in this passage? He is saying that your reception of God's word. is dependent upon your application of God's word. Most people don't ever think of it that way. Most people, they think of it in terms of, well, I need to receive God's word, and I can just sort of keep receiving God's word. But he says that the problem with these folks was because was that they had heard much of God's word. But at some point they stopped using it, they stopped applying it, they stopped doing it. They stopped applying the word. And they became dell of hearing and had to be taught of the first principles of the oracles of God. They had to be start, they had to be taught the mirror the milk of the word. Because they lost their spiritual senses. They lost their spiritual discernment. They were no longer able to receive the rich meat of the word. Not because they lost their intellect Not because they just couldn't comprehend it mentally. It was because they were not using it. We have always run into the danger of not being able to receive the Word of God if we stop using the Word of God, if we stop applying the Word of God to our lives. That is always a danger. How many of you, I just would be curious, how many of you have ever traveled to the nation of Israel? Ever traveled the Palestinian area? You e you've actually been there. Okay, not many. I I w w I have not my myself. I one day would love to to do that. But I know this. How many uh I guess Kevin you're the only one in the room. Uh but I could do a a personal interview with you, but but um the Dead Sea, uh did you float in the Dead Sea while you were there? Yeah I figured you probably did. Um what what we know about the Dead Sea is that it it has a good name. I mean It's pretty much there's nothing in it. There's no life in it. It's dead. The reason it's dead is because of the high salt content. And the reason for the high salt content is because although there is good inflow from the Jordan River, there's not good outflow. And so you get deadness. And I think, frankly, that is a very good illustration for what happens for our in our lives as Christians. We can get all kinds of inflow of reception. We can receive and receive and take in and feed and get more and more and more and more. But we run a great risk. We can have two possibilities of risk. One is we're not receiving enough. Or the other risk is we're receiving all we can, but we're not giving out. There's nothing flowing out. Contrast with the sea with that with the Sea of Galilee, which is full of life because it has both an inlet and it flows in and out, and you have a situation where you have true life going on. You and I as Christians, it can be very easy for us to come to the place where we are receiving and getting. You know, we have no we have no um No, we have all kinds of ways of receiving spiritual food. You can go online and you can listen to sermons all day long. You can watch sermons all day long. You can read books. We've got books, all kinds of books. You can read Kindle books and you can read articles and you can read blogs and You can receive and receive and receive. You can do all kinds of feeding and receiving. But folks, there does come a point where the reception will not be of any use to you It will be as though you're like the dead sea. We're like the dead sea, where we're receiving and receiving and receiving, but we're not giving out. We're not doing things. We're not Flying, we're not using what we have And we have to be very careful of this. It is interesting, isn't it, that the Bible depicts food as both the Word of God and the application of the Word of God. And the will of God. And so Christ says my meat is to do the will of the Father. Let me just ask you this question. Number one, do you view service to God? As necessary food? Do you view it as necessary spiritual food for your life? Number two, are you living out the will of God in your life? Well, I want to know the will of God. Those four things, folks, if we're not doing those four things, we're not in the will of God. Are you living out the will of God in your life? Number three, are you involved on either sowing or reaping or both? Are you involved in one of the two? I'm not suggesting you folks, I'm really not suggesting that you've got to go out and you've got to be a bull of a china shop and just knock everybody down with a gospel But our lives have got to be a reflection of Christ if we are going to be doing the will of God and spiritually if we're going to grow Christ-likeness. They've got to reflect Christ. There's got to be a sowing that occurs, not just by our words, but by our actions. There's got to be that if we are truly going to say we are doing the will of God in our lives. You cannot have for a Christian the will of God working out in your life if you're not involved in either sowing or reaping to some degree. And I just want to say this that it would be wrong, frankly, for me to judge any other uh any other individual on this. I don't have any individual in mind when it comes to this. Sometimes we we could, you know, we we can have that where we we're we're thinking well that person all that no no this is really a personal thing that each one of us and I need to do my own self-examin I gotta be reminded of this I can sit in that office and study till I'm blue in the face. And I was blue in the face a couple times this week. But um But I you know, and and I ought to study, I gotta labor in the word. Scripture says that. But I I ought to serve others too. I need to show Christ to others too. I need to exp I need to To have a Christ-like manner that does both sowing and reaping too. It isn't enough for us just to gain and to glean. We must give out. And I really would ask you to think through these things as I have done and need to continue to do, that we can we can have the right priorities in our lives as Christians. Let's pray Our Father, we do need to understand the necessity of doing your will, which must include either the sowing or the reaping of of the gospel and of Christ in the lives of people. Lord, I pray that we be very balanced on this. That we would not go to extremes where we we're trying to look for fake or uh artificial results. Or that we were com or were coming under Under undue guilt that is just impressed upon us, but I pray, Lord, also that that if there's conviction and there's an adjustment of thinking that needs to happen And I pray that it would in all of our lives, that we would not settle just to be comfortable and complacent. That we would continue to do the work that you have called us to do in service to you. We thank you for the example of Christ who just poured out his life. Not even before he went to the cross, he just poured out his life for everyone else. He withheld from himself. He he he sacrificed in ways that we can't even imagine. And that we fall so short of. We thank you, Lord, though, that we can see and we know that the fulfillment, we just can be so satisfied when we have this kind of life that is giving of ourselves to you. When we have the kind of life that Jesus is talking about, it's all our gain. The immediate gratification may not be there, but the eternal reward and fulfillment will be there. And it will be satisfying to us as food is. I pray, Lord, that you'd help us to understand these things. I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. All right, let's sing our final hymn. May the Lord find us faithful. Certainly that is a prayer that we might all