We're going to begin by reading from well we're going to let's open with a word of prayer, let's do that first, and then we're going to read from Genesis chapter 3, where it all begins. in the in in the scriptures. Let's pray together. Father, we praise you because the whole reason we hear we are here today is because of Christ. Lord, we're just grateful because we understand that we have fallen because of our sin. You are a holy God, you are a just God, but you are also a loving God. And your justice does not allow us to be in your presence with sin. And yet because you are a loving God, you sent your only Son, Jesus, who is God. To be born of a virgin, to live a perfect life, and to die to pay the punishment for our sin And we celebrate that this morning. And I pray, Lord, today, that our hearts would be warmed as we worship you today And if there are those who don't know you, that are listening today, either by way of being here in the audience or by way of streaming, I pray today that they would understand the gospel, their sin, and their need of a savior. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. We'll pick up here in Genesis chapter 3, where it says this. And they heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day. And Adam and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord. Then the Lord God called to Adam and said to him, Where are you? So he said, I heard your voice in the garden, and I was afraid because I was naked and I hid myself. And he said, Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten from the tree which I commanded you that you should not eat? Then the man said, The woman whom you gave to me to be with me, she gave me of the tree, and I ate. And the Lord God said to the woman, What is this you have done? The woman said, The serpent deceived me and I ate. So the Lord God said to the serpent, Because you have done this You are cursed more than all cattle and more than every beast of the field. On your belly you shall go, and you shall eat dust. all the day of your life. And I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your seed and her seed. He shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel To the woman he said, I will greatly multiply your sorrow and your conception. In pain you shall bring forth children, your desire shall be for your husband, and he shall rule over you. And then to Adam he said, Because you have headed heeded the voice of your wife and have eaten from the tree of which I commanded you, saying, You shall not eat of it, cursed is the ground for your sake, in toil you shall eat of it. All the days of your life, both thorns and thistles, it shall be bring forth for you, and you shall eat the herb of the tree. In the sweat of your face you shall eat bread, till you return to the ground, for out of it you were taken, for dust you are, and to dust you shall return. Luke chapter two, verses one through fourteen. And it came to pass in those days that a decree went out from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be registered. This census first took place when Corinneus was governing Syria So all went to be registered, every one to his own city. Joseph also went up from Galilee, out of the city of Nazareth, into Judea, to the city of David, which is called Bethlehem. because he was of the house and lineage of David, to be registered with Mary, his betrothed wife, who was with child. So it was that while they were there, the days were completed for her to be delivered, and she brought forth her firstborn son. and wrapped him in swaddling cloth, and laid him in a manger, because there was no room for them in the inn. Now there were in the same country shepherds living out in the fields, keeping watch over the flock by night. And behold, an angel of the Lord stood before them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were greatly afraid. Then the angel said to them, Do not be afraid, for behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy which will be to all people. For there is born to you this day in the city of David a Savior who is Christ the Lord. And this will be the sign to you. You will find a babe wrapped in swaddling cloths, lying in a manger. And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly hosts praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men. From the Gospel of John chapter 1, verses 1 through 14, the scripture reads, In the beginning was the word. And the word was with God. And the word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things were made through him. And without him nothing was made that was made. In him was life. And the life was the light of men. And the light shines in the darkness, and the darkness did not comprehend it. There was a man sent from God, whose name was John. And this man came for a witness, to bear witness of the light, that all through him might believe. He was not that light, but was sent to bear witness of that light. That was the true light, which gives light to every man coming into the world He was in the world, and the world was made through him, and the world did not know him, and he came to his own, and his own did not receive him. But as many as received him, to them he gave the right to become children of God To those who believe in his name, who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God And the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we behold his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and full of truth. Reading from Galatians four, verses four through seven. But when the fullness of the time had come, God sent forth his son. Born of a woman, born under the law, to redeem those who were under the law, that we might receive the adoption as sons. And because you are sons, God has sent forth the Spirit of His Son into your hearts, crying out, Abba, Father. Therefore, you are no longer a slave but a son, and if a son, then an heir of God through Christ. I certainly want to thank all of those who participated in the service and put many hours of work uh into doing so. But now we want to turn to the Word of God, and really this is going to be a continuation of what we've already been meditating on and hopefully thinking about. And considering as we've as we have been contemplating and thinking about the fact that man fall fell In the book of Genesis, and then we find the prophecies of the Messiah in the Old Testament, and then we see the fulfillment in the New Testament, in the book of Luke, and in Galatians, and in John, as we read And now we are coming to Luke chapter 2. And I want to begin by asking this question. Have you ever been so amazed, so affected by something? That you just really wanted to get that thing, that person, whatever it is, across to somebody else. There's a man in the first century who had that kind of a heart. And he wanted to tell his friend. His friend was a man who was probably high up in the Roman government. His man was named Theophilus. This man was a man who was inquiring, probably inquiring about the things of Christ and what he had come to do and all of that. And Dr. Luke, maybe Dr. Luke was the physician, was the physician of this man, who knows, Theophilus, but Dr. Luke was so affected by what he had heard. That he decided and he'd heard about other uh eyewitness accounts of the birth of Christ and the life of Christ and the death of Christ, the resurrection, all that But he realized there were some details missing that needed to be that needed to be filled in. And so he writes this book of Luke, and in chapter one, He says, just as those who from the beginning were eyewitnesses and ministers of the Word delivered them to us, it seemed good to me also, having been had per perfect understanding of all things From the very first, to write to you an orderly account, most excellent Theophilus, that you may know with certainty of those things in which you were instructed. Luke wanted Theophilus to know with certainty. about the things that he had been instructed in, the things of Christ. And the goal of Luke Toward Theophilus is the same goal that God has for us. He wants us to know with certainty What Jesus came to do. He wants us to know that Jesus came to be the Savior. And I think probably one of the most the most important phrase in all of this passage in Luke chapter 2 is actually found in verse 11. When the angels come to the shepherd and make the announcement, and they say For there is born to you this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ, who is Christ the Lord. A Savior who is Christ the Lord. What does God want us to know about the Savior? Well, he wants us to know first of all that the Savior is real. This is not a fictional story. This is not some story that is just sort of a nice thing to tell at Christmas time. This is a real story. And as you go through the book of Luke, if you go through Luke chapter 2, you're going to find that there are details in here that demonstrate that this is not a story that's just some sort of fable or some sort of fiction. It says and it came to pass in those days that there w there was a decree that went out from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be registered, and you have the census, and it says specifically it was a time when when Cry Cirinus was Governor of Syria, you have all of this going on. And then it says in verse 4, Joseph also went up from Galilee out of the city of Nazareth, unto Judea, unto the city of David, who is called, which is called Bethlehem Because he was of the house and lineage of David. It goes over the details of the story because Luke and frankly God want us to understand that this was real, the Savior is real. We see the different circumstances that happened here. Of course, uh it was in Bethlehem that that Joseph went to be m registered along with Mary and we know, of course, that Christ was born in Bethlehem in a manger They wrapped him in swallowing clothes and all of those details that that Luke gives us. It's actually a lot of details that we wouldn't otherwise know We have all these circumstances, and then it tells us in verse 6: so it was that while they were there, the days were completed for her to be delivered, and she brought forth her firstborn son, wrapped him in swelling clothes, and Laid him in a manger because there was no room for him them in the end. But let me ask you this question. When you read that story every single year after year after year, does it ever get old? Do we ever take it for granted? What is the significance of this story? This is an incredibly important story. Well, to really see the significance of the story, you actually have to go back to Luke chapter 1. Because in Luke chapter 1, the angel comes to Mary and explains. He gives Mary the details of what is about to happen and the importance of it. He says to the angel says to Mary, do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God, and behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear and bring forth a son. and shall call his name Jesus. He will be great, and will be called the s the Son of the Highest, and the Lord God will give him the throne of his father David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there will be no end. Mary's confused. How is this ever going to happen? She has never been with a man. She doesn't understand how in the world this is going to happen. She says, How is this possible? And the angel says to her, The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the highest will overshadow you. Therefore, also the Holy One who is to be born will be called the Son of God. And then he says in verse 37, for with God nothing will be impossible. He says, the Son of the Highest is going to come. He says you're going to be conceived of the Holy Spirit, or Jesus is going to be rather conceived of the Holy Spirit, and he was going to be born absolutely perfect. Why was this important? I mean, why is the virgin birth so important? Do you really realize that the virgin birth is actually an absolute fundamental of our faith? It's important for this reason. Because Jesus came to be a savior. He came to took ought to take our sin on himself. Well to be qualified to do that, he could not have sin. In Romans chapter 5, verse 12, it says, Therefore, just as through one man sin entered the world, that's Adam, and death through sin, and thus death spread to all men because all sinned. Every one of us have sinned. We have inherited our sin from Adam. It's been passed down from one generation to another But then you have Jesus who is born of a virgin because he is God. He came to earth Took on human flesh, did not get rid of his deity. He retained his deity, took on human flesh And it says in Romans chapter five, verse seventeen, For if by one man's offense death reign through the one, much more those who receive abundance of God's grace And of the gift of righteousness will rot reign in through the one Jesus Christ. Paul says it this way in 2 Corinthians chapter 5. We implore you on Christ's behalf, be reconciled to God, for he made him to be who knew no sin. To be sin for us that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. He knew no sin, so that he could be made sin for us. He could take our sin on himself. And he could die in our place. You know, this is hard to understand, is it not? How in the world I don't you know I don't really get all how in the world can there it is he it doesn't make sense that uh uh you know Jesus could be born of a virgin and And he takes on our sin. And I don't understand all of this, you might be saying. You know, there is an element of this that we really can't understand. We can accept what the Bible says. There are things that we can delve into to understand. But do you realize that the reason that God gives us so many details in Matthew and in Luke about the birth of Christ. was to show us, hey, he's real, even though you may not fully understand. It's like this iPad I'm holding in my hand. I'm preaching from an iPad. If you'd asked me 25 years ago if I were going to preach from a computer screen someday, I'm pretty sure I would have said you're nuts. I mean think about it, 25 years ago, or let's go even 35 years ago, what kind of computer screens do they have? They have these things called CRTs. And yes, I know what that stands for, it's cathode ray tube. And so this big these big things, these big things that that that that's what a computer screen is. Well, that's not what this is, but it's a screen It's got my sermon on it. It's working today, which is good. Do I understand how this works? Let me just tell you, I don't. I really actually don't understand how a computer works. It's not like I understand exactly how this always uh how this works, but can I say, well, it's not real Oh, this isn't real because I don't understand it. You know, there's certain there are people out in the world that are holding out in their in their acceptance of Jesus as Savior because they don't fully understand everything. They say, if I fully understand everything, then I'll accept him as Savior. Well that's like saying this iPad's not real just because I don't understand it. Real is and so what you find in Luke chapter two is you find all of these details to show this Old Testament pr uh prophecy. You have all of these things that happen And in all of this fulfillment, and you have angels and you have shepherds and you have witnesses to everything that happened in great detail. Why? Because the point is it's real Jesus is the Savior. He is real. You have prophecies like Mike, Micah chapter 5, verse 2. It says, But you Bethrahem, Ephrah, though you are little among the thousands of Judah, yet out of you shall come forth to me the one to be ruler in Israel, whose goings forth are from old, from everlasting. Isaiah 7. 14 says, Therefore the Lord himself will give you a sign. Behold, a virgin will conceive and bear a son, and he and shall call his name Emmanuel, God with us. And then you have Isaiah 53. Isaiah 53 actually gives us exactly why the virgin birth happened, exactly why Jesus happened. Hundreds of years before it ever happened, it says this. And you can think of the words as Handel's Messiah. You think of the songs that go on during this time of year. I hope you list the handle's Messiah during this time of year. There's just chalked full of scripture. It says this, surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. Yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten of God and afflicted. This is Jesus. But he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities, and the chastisement of our peace was upon him, and by his stripes we are healed, all we like sheep have gone astray. We've turned everyone to his own way. And the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. He laid on Jesus the iniquity of us all. Before you ever get to the New Testament, you have the gospel in the Old Testament. All of this comes to a perfect timing in God's mind for a very important reason. As Enrique read Galatians 4:4 But when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law. Why? Well, 1 Peter tells us, chapter 1, verse 10. For this this salvation the prophets have inquired and searched carefully who prophesied the grace that would come to you, searching what or what manner of time the Spirit of Christ who was in them was indicating When he testified before the sufferings of Christ and the glories that would follow, verse 20 then says, He indeed was foreordained before the foundation of the world, but was manifested in these last times for you. You don't have to wonder about this mystery that's going to happen, about the Messiah that's going to come one day. It's happened, it's verifiable. There are detail after detail after detail to show you that the Savior, the Savior's real. And what you and I need to do is accept the reality of the Savior. We need to believe it. In fact, the Bible says: he who believes in the Son has everlasting life, and he who does not believe in the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abides on him. You've got two options: you believe it or you don't. Well, the Savior is real, but then we find this announcement in verses 8 through 13 that the Savior is here. The Savior is here. Verse 8 says, And now there is in the same country shepherds abut living in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night, and behold, an angel of the Lord stood upon them, the glory of the Lord shone around about them, and they were greatly afraid. And then the angel says to them, verse 11, for there is born to you this day in the city of David a who is a who is Christ the Lord, a Savior who is which is Christ the Lord. That is such an important phrase. A Savior, which is Christ the Lord. Do you know that that's actually the only time in the entire Bible that phrase is used that way? You have times where the word Christ is used. You have time where the word Christ and Lord are used together. You have times where the word savior is used with one of those two. But you never have any time in the Bible except for this time with these shepherds, this Savior which is Christ, or Savior who is Christ the Lord. It's really, really significant. He came to these humble, lowly shepherds You could say that they were actually some believe they were really actually very oppressed. They were some actually suggest that they were enslaved. And God comes, God chooses them, and he says, you're going to have a savior, which is Christ the Lord. The word Christ is used 530 times in the New Testament. It means the Messiah, the anointed one, the one who is chosen. In 1 Timothy 2, verses 3-4 it says, For this is good and acceptable in the sight of God, our Savior, who desires all men to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth For there is one God and one mediator between God and man, the man, Christ Jesus. Christ is the one who is God and is chosen to be the Savior. We have this word Lord. This word Lord is used 714 times in the in the New Testament. That is a lot, by the way. You look at um up at any if you have done any word studies at all, that is a massive amount of times in the New Testament for one year word to be used. 714 times this word is used. What does it mean? Well it's it's a it means master. It means someone who is powerful, someone who is important. It's the equivalent in the Old Testament is Yahweh. This is the I am. He is the master. That's Christ, the Lord. You know what's interesting, this whole idea of master-slave idea? In Romans chapter 6, it actually tells us That we are slaves to sin, that we are actually born slaves to sin. It says this, you were freed in regard to righteousness. And then he says in the same passage, but now having been set free from sin and having become slaves of God. You know people like the free from sin part, but they don't like the serve God part. They like the oh you're free from sin, but they don't like that you're slaves of God. Do you know that there in God's mind there's not like Okay, okay, you can be freed from sin, but now you can just live for self. That's not possible. Living for self, according to Romans chapter 6, is still enslavement to sin. There's no way around it. When Jesus came to the shepherds, he said, Lord The Savior, which is Christ the Lord, because the shepherds would understand, oh, he's going to be my master. And that's why they're going to come later and bow down and worship this baby. Because he's my master and my lord And then in Romans chapter 10, verse 9, it says this: that if you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, you'll be saved from your sin. For with the heart one believes unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation. You know what this passage is telling us? It's telling us that you have to confess that Jesus is the Lord and Savior. That to believe in your heart, true belief, is going to result in I confess him as my master. There's not there's not one or the it's not like you could say, okay, I've got I'll like the middle ground, you know. I could be s I could I could go from being a slave to sin to kind of being a slave, you know, being doing what I want. No, a slave to sin and a slave to self are the same thing, the Bible says. You know the wonderful thing about being a slave to God? He is so loving and benevolent. There is no one better to serve. When we truly give our hearts over to the Lord, that's the only thing that's necessary. It's just faith alone. Can't do anything to earn salvation. But when we give our hearts to the Lord and we say, Lord, do what you want to with me. When we give our hearts to God that way, and we become his servant. And he does what he wants to with us, and he becomes our savior. The word savior Is used several times, not nearly as often in the New Testament as these other words. But in Matthew chapter 1, verse 21, it says, And she will bring forth a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sins. In 2 Timothy 1, verse 10, it says, But has now been revealed by uh by the appearing of our Savior Jesus Christ, who has abolished death and brought life and immortality to light through the gospel. In 1 Timothy 4, verse 10 it says For to this end, we both labor and suffer reproach because we trust in the living God, who is the savior of all men, especially for those who believe. He's the savior of all of our sin. He is the savior of death. He came to abolish death. He came to abolish sin. How should we respond? Well, we respond in belief, but there's another way we could see in the passage that we're to respond to this. It's found in verse 19 of Luke chapter 2, and we actually find a great example of a man of a person, of a woman actually, who who who responds in the right way. It says, but Mary kept all these things and pondered them in her heart. She pondered them. She's thought about them. She's going over and over and thinking through them. What do you think what do you think Mary was thinking? Well, an angel had appeared to her, said, God's going to be born in your womb, and he's going to be the savior of your sin and the savior of the world. I mean, she had a lot to think about, didn't she? And you and I do as well. She has so much to think about that back in Luke chapter 1, she writes a song, and the song says, My soul magnifies the Lord, and my spirit has rejoiced in God my Savior. For he has regarded the lowly state of his maid servant, for behold, henceforth all generations will call me blessed, for he is mighty uh he is mighty, has done great th things for me And holy is his name, and his mercy is on those who fear him from generation to generation. You know, we just don't I let me say it this way, we just do not take enough time to ponder. To really think about what Christ has done for us. We are too busy and too distracted. I wonder, this is just in my thinking, this is just for free, and maybe not, but I wonder if this whole COVID year, 2020. . Where we had to be locked down in our homes. I wonder if in God's sovereignty He allowed that so that we could have a few less distractions. I mean after a while there's only so much Netflix binge watching you could do God says of his word in the Old Testament, be still and know that I am God. You ever felt strapped, like like just totally drained, like you're just you're done. You're like totally whipped. Like you you you're just going through the motions and you don't know why you're doing what you're doing, and you're just sort of You're out of energy, you're out of passion, you're just out of it. You know what God says to do? He says in Psalm 1 to meditate on the things of Him. And when we do that, to meditate on who he is and what Christ is and all of that, when we do that, it says we'll be like a tree. planted by the rivers of water, who brings forth fruit in his season, his leaf is not going to wither, he's not going to wither away, and whatever he does will prosper. And I gotta tell you, there have been times in 2020 where I wanted to throw in the towel. How about you? In fact, there are times where I'm like, is this ever going to end? Is are things ever going to be that back to normal? Even this past week there was a point in which I'm going like, I feel like I'm spinning my wheels. And you know what I needed, what I had to do I had to take a half a day and I had to put my phone on airport mode and I just needed to meditate on God's word. And know it and study it and think through it. Say, I don't have half a day. Well, take an hour. Take some time and ponder what Christ has done. Well, we find finally the Savior is here, but also in verses 15 through 20, the Savior is worshiped. The Savior is worshipped. The angels leave them, they make the announcement, they leave them, and the shepherds immediately say, Let's go to Bethlehem and see this thing which has come to pass that the Lord has made known to us. You know the story. And they came with haste and found Mary and Joseph and the babe lion major. There's the first Christmas rush. They came with haste. Now when they had seen him, they made widely known the saying which were told him concerning the child, and all those things and all those who heard it marveled at those things which were told them concerning the shepherd. They they they wanted to go see him. And when they saw him, they went and published and broadcasted what they had seen. They worshiped. And then they told others. In Romans chapter 10, verse 9, we already mentioned that if you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus, well, two chapters from that, it actually says this: when you come to a place where you truly know that you're a sinner. That Jesus Christ had died for your sin, that you choose to turn from your sin and turn to Christ It actually says something quite interesting in Romans chapter 12, verse 1. It says this, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice. wholly acceptable to God, which is it's just reasonable. And do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind that you may prove What is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God? The natural response to belief is to present yourself to God. To worship him, to bow at his feet, and to serve him with all of your heart. That is what is just reasonable. So how do we Think through all of what we need to think through during this time of year. Let me just suggest three things. Number one, the evidence for the Savior is undeniable. It's undeniable. Trust Him. We need to trust him. Some point, at some point, we need to stop saying, well, I don't understand this, and I don't understand that, and I don't understand this. There Look, there are lots of things in the world that are real, even though we don't understand them. And we just need to trust him. The reality of the Savior is incredible. We need to ponder it. Don't allow yourself to go one day after another and another and just to distract yourself. We distract ourselves with phones, we distract ourselves with all kinds of different things. Don't allow yourself to do that. Think and ponder. Who you are, who God is, and what Jesus has done for you. Number three, the response to the Savior is inescapable. Worship Him The response to the Savior is inescapable. You can't say that my Savior, but I'm not taking him as my Lord. Those two things do not work in Scripture. He is my Savior and He is my Lord. It is by faith alone, it is not by any works or self-effort that we come to Christ. But when we come to him, we are to repent. We are to turn from our sin, and we are to turn to Christ The Bible says, without repentance, no one, there is no salvation. Luke 13 And if we do these things, then this will be the kind of Christmas that God wants us to have. This will be a reflection of the birth of Christ that God wants us to reflect on. And it will be a joyous and blessed time for us. Let's pray together. Before we pray, I'll just mention this. If you're thinking, if you I I I'm sure there's no doubt in my mind that there are people listening today that don't know Christ. And what I would just say to you is that maybe there's something that's happened in the message that's caused the, or in the singing, and all of what we've done has been entirely centered on the message of Christ. And if you don't know for sure whether or not you are genuinely, truly a child of God, a servant of God, maybe you're saying, you know, I've just been servant sin and servant self. You can't serve sin and serve self and serve God at the same time. Say, I don't really, I just really don't know. I'd love to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure. That you have a genuinely true relationship with God. In 1 John chapter 5, it says this. These things are written that you may know that you have eternal life. He came here so that you may know. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for your word this morning. We thank you for your truth. We thank you for just the blessing of being able to listen to the the singing of your people and um just the to be able to just sit and meditate on on what Christ did for us and The beautiful music that we heard. We thank you for all of those who took the time to and all of the effort that was put into this. And Lord, I pray that you'd help us to do what Mary did and what the shepherds did, and to genuinely worship you this time of year. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.