Be worthy of worship. Let's stand together as we sing. First, worthy of worthy. Praise worthy of honor and glory, worthy of all the same worthy. We all be offering preen, you are worthy, Father Creator, you are worthy. Savior, sustainers, you are worthy. Worthy and wonderful, worthy, all worship and praise. Worthy of preference, worthy of fear, worthy of honor and glory. Worthy of the wing and bending of me Worthy of all this and addict you are worthy Worthy of the creator, you are worthy. Save your sister, you are worthy. Worthy and wonderful, worthy of worship and praise. Almighty Father Man. Center and war king of king and refor Savior and for solve our life without end to a creator you You are worthy, save your sustainer. You are worthy worthy and wonderful worthy. Please remain standing for opening prayer. Okay, let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are indeed worthy, Lord, of our worship, our praise, our adoration, Lord, and we Come here this morning just to worship you, Lord, and to glorify and honor you and all that we do. And Lord, we just pray that you would bless this service, that you would Bless the pastor as he brings your word to us, Lord, that we would have open and eager hearts, Lord, for your word. Lord, we ask your blessing on the song service as well. And that uh Lord as we sing these songs we would just rejoice in the knowledge of you and Lord we just pray for those that uh can't be here this morning because of illness or uh other reasons, perhaps traveling or something, Lord. And We just ask that you would bless them and be with them, bring them back safely to us. And Lord, again, we just want to thank you so much for being our intercessor, Lord, for making a way. for us, Lord, though we are sinful and undeserving. And Lord, we thank you for your grace and your mercy and your love towards us And we just pray again, Lord, that everything we do today would bring glory, honor, and reverence to you. And we pray all this in Jesus' precious name and for his sake. Amen. You may be seated. We're in John chapter 18, verses 1 through 11. John 18, 1 through 11. When Jesus had spoken these words, he went forth with his disciples over the brook the Sedron Where was a garden into the which he entered and his disciples? And Judas also, which betrayed him, knew the place, for Jesus oft times resorted thither with his disciples. Judas then, having received a band of men and officers from the chief priests and Pharisees, cometh thither with lanterns and torches and weapons. Jesus, therefore, knowing all things that should come upon him, went forth and said unto them, Whom seek ye? They answered him, Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus said unto them, I am he. And Judas also which betrayed him stood with them. As soon as he had said unto them, I am he, they went backward and fell to the ground. Then he asked them again, Whom seek ye? And they said, Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus answered, I have told you that I am He. If therefore ye seek me, let these go their way. That the saying might be fulfilled, which he spake, of them which thou gavest me I have lost none. Then Simon Peter, having a sword, drew it and smote the high priest's servant, and cut off his right ear. The servant's name was Malchus. Then Jesus said unto Peter, Put up thy sword into thy sheath. The cup which my father hath given me, shall I not drink it? Then the band and the captain and officers of the Jews took Jesus and bound him, and led him away to Anas Anas first, for he was father-in-law to Caiaphas. Which was the high priest the same year. Now Caiaphas was he which gave counsel to the Jews that it was expedient that one man should die for the people. And Simon Peter followed Jesus, and so did another disciple. That disciple was known unto the high priest and went in with Jesus into the palace of the high priest. But Peter stood at the door without. Then went out the other disciple, which was known unto the high priest, and spake unto her that kept the door, and brought in Peter. Then saith the damsel that kept the door unto Peter, art thou not also one of the man's disciples? He saith, I am not. And the servants and the officers stood there, who had made fire of the coals For it was cold and warmed themselves, and Peter stood with them and warmed himself. Continue worshiping now by singing our song of the month. How can I keep from singing? Let's stand together as we sing. And if I burn to this My life rose on in endless on above lamentations, I cast the sweet or of him. The tale's a new creation. No storm can shake my inmost home. While to that rock I'm clinging since Christ did. Lord of heaven and earth, how can I keep from singing through all the tumult and the strike I hear that music ringing. If finds an echo in my soul, how can I keep from singing those storm? Can shake my inlow's form while through that rock I'm clinging sin Chris in the Lord of heaven and What though my joys and comforts die, the Lord my Savior live, what though the darkness Gather round songs in the night he given So storm can shake my inmost calm While to that rock I'm clinging Since Christ is Lord of heaven and earth, how can I keep from singing? The peace of Christ make fresh my heart. Count ever springing all things are mine since I am his How can I keep from singing? And shave my inmost home while through that rock I'm clinging Sith Christ the Lord of heaven and earth. How can I You may be seated. Now we'll sing number six eighty-five. Number six eighty-five, his way is perfect. When my ways me dark and clear, and the future I don't know. My heart feels so empty as the tears begin to glow when my heart raises so roll and attempt Press with my soul this one thing I know for sure my God is being controlled Way is perfect, in way is perfect, though I don't understand. His wise and loving plan, his way is perhaps his way is perfect. God makes no mistake in the way is well. When thought for life are come and my heart is worn with care I bring me the burden Of a cross I cannot bear when the joy has departed from my sorrow break and so It's one thing I know for sure. My God is in control. His way is perfect. His way is perfect. So I don't understand his wiser and loving plan his way. Take my life and make there's no replies. God makes no myth. This time we'd like to take Zach Roth into membership. I'm thrilled to be able to do that this morning. I was very blessed as I read his application for membership. just to see how God has been working in his life and um just thrilled to be able uh to to to see how the Lord is adding to his church uh and Zach is one of those one of those fellows. So I'm glad to glad to have glad to uh be able to do this. Actually I should give you that I already have one here. This uh every time I have this thing I I I wanna as soon as I put it on this I wanna say uh welcome to Chick fil A what do you like Or something like that. Anyway. Um so Zach, um, can I we just need to ask you a few questions, obviously. Have you do you know the Lord as your personal Yes. And uh have you been baptized by immersion? Yes. And you're in agreement with our doctrinal statement and agree to follow our constitution. Yes, sir. All right. Can I have a motion from the floor to accept Zach into the membership. He sham and uh cliff. Um any discussion? All in favor say aye. Like sign opposed. Motion carried. Zach, welcome aboard. Glad to have you today. All right. Um here. Be in prayer for those who are not able to be with us today. We have some people that are sick and uh not feeling well, so just be in prayer for them. And take a look at your bulletins, a couple of different things. If you kind of last call for vacation Bible school workers, if we have we we we're we're Very blessed to have a good amount this year. I'm very thankful for that. I'm excited about what God's going to do in our VBS this year. But if you uh would like to work in our vacation Bible school, if you'd please uh let me know as soon as possible. Shoot me the email or something and uh we can get get working on that and um and putting all of that together. Somebody asked uh about a teen thing. We won't be doing the teens with uh the VBS, but we are looking into doing something like a team rally or something as well probably later on in the summer. So just uh be in uh take take that and keep keep that in mind. And also uh We do have a potluck right after the service. All are welcome to come to that. I just really encourage you to come. There's always more food than than there are mouths to feed it, to eat it. And uh so uh please come come to our potluck. And if you're a guest with us, we're just thrilled to have you uh with us today. If you would fill out a visitors card for us, uh we can have a record of your visit. I was telling somebody in our in our orientation class this morning, uh I am vis I'm a visual learner, so it helps me to remember uh when I actually see it on paper, so I'm always gra grabbing for those membership card those those uh not membership those visitor cards just so I can see the names and then I can remember remember names. So if you fill that out and place that in the offering plate or hand it to me after the service that would be great. Gentlemen if you come forward for the offering. And let's pray together. Father, we thank you just for the time that we can spend together worshiping you, and we are grateful that your way is perfect. Lord, we admit before you it doesn't always seem that way. When we look at life and we look at circumstances and we look at our world, it really quite requires faith for us to be able to affirm that your way is perfect. We know that that is all because of Christ. He is the only one that can make right what is otherwise wrong. That can declare righteous the one who was born sinner, that can rule right the world that has gone astray from you. And we lift up the name of Christ this morning. He is our rock. He is our head. He is our foundation. And he is our Lord. And Lord, as we look at your word today and we look at the account of John as he depicts Christ and his disciples being in that garden of Gethsemane so many years ago. We want to see Christ. We want to see it from your perspective, and we certainly will today from your word as we rightly understand your word. And I pray, Lord, that it would Cause us to just look at you and your greatness and your control and your sovereignty and worship you. And I pray, Lord, it also helps us to respond in the right way to your will. To doing what you want us to do and to seeing you in the midst of difficult circumstances and realizing that you've already won the war There are so many times we get tunnel vision, we look at life circumstances, and we are confused and concerned and perplexed And we don't understand why things are happening the way that they are. It doesn't make sense to us. But if we'll step back and look at the big picture, we'll realize That you are in control. You are orchestrating the events of life according to your will. And you will have your way. You will glorify yourself even through this old, dark, sinful world. Father, I pray, Lord, that we would simply be submissive to your spirit and to your heart. And we do think of many of the ones that are not here this morning, that have different illnesses of different kinds. We of course, when they're not here with us, we miss them. And we just pray, Lord, in different cases, that you would just heal where healing is needed. And we pray, Lord, that you would just give us your strength this day. Help us to worship you in spirit and in truth, pleasing you. I pray that we would be careful with our motives, that our heart would be to do what we do out of a love for you. And I pray, Lord, that you would help us. with our focus, that we would put away the distractions that are that so easily invade our minds and just see Christ this morning. And Father, I pray also that as we give of our offerings, we would do that in worship to you because we love you. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. So super sensitive. For our final song before the message, we'll sing number 309, 309. There is a fountain. Let's stand together as we sing, and children at this time can be dismissed to junior church. Very Is a mountain filled with blood on me, manual thing. And since one before to All their guilty stay lose all their guilty say lose all their guilty. And there's one meeting that's what loss all there will be great joy to see thy father. And there may I fall my length before my sins away. All my sins away, wash all my sins away, and there may I know while as he was. So my things always years on England thy present blood shall never lose his And all the random turns of God, we say to say no more. We say to say no more. Will all the ransom church of God be safe to say no? Love has been my king, and I die, and I die, and dying. Call me till I die. Living love has been my peace, and call me till I die. When this for this becomes silent in the cream and in a nobler meeting I'll sing thy cartoon. I'll sing thy park to say, I'll sing thy partooth. And in on the wheel songs, I'll bring thy partners. You may be see this. Take your Bibles if you would turn to John chapter eighteen this morning. John eighteen. We are not that far away from Easter Sunday, and by God's providence, we are going to arrive at the resurrection. in the book of John just in time for Easter Sunday. It's going to work out pretty well. And I didn't even plan it that way exactly. I did plan the next few weeks actually, but Um other than that, I haven't I didn't really plan that. So I just noticed it uh actually I noticed it a little while back and really sit down and kind of plotted it out this past week and uh that's really really a a neat thing So we're going to be able to see the death of Christ and the resurrection of Christ from John's perspective. How many of you all like superheroes? Like some s like superheroes. You know, I don't know if I didn't know that there were nearly as many superheroes as there really are. There are a lot of su seems like every I'm constantly hearing about this new superhero uh through the DC comics or Marvel comics, constantly hearing about these different ones. And occasionally I'll see a new one I've never seen before and I'll ask my dad, hey Dad, was that in the real comic books? Because I don't remember those I guess like before my time. Um hey, were that was that the real comic books? And he's like, yep, that was that was in the real comic books. So I did a little research to see how many com how many superheroes there really are. Did you know that according to the DC database, that more than ten thousand characters 10,000 DC comic characters. Disney, according to Disney, Marvel has 7,000 characters. That is a lot. Some people are going, you know, this is getting ridiculous. How so you got, you know, years and years to come of new episodes and new series of of superheroes. I remember my favorite one of my favorite superheroes was one that I don't know if you call him a superhero actually because he didn't have any like extra human powers. It was Ranger Bill. Do you remember Rang Anybody else remember Razor Bill from Moody Radio back in the fifties? Raise your hand if you remember Raiser Bill. Okay, we got like three, four. That makes me feel They still play it. Really? I did not know that. I did know that you can go on YouTube and go and look it up. You type in Ranger Bill on YouTube and it'll come up. Ranger Bill, Warrior of the Woodlands Struggling against extreme odds, traveling dangerous trails, fighting them in the enemies of nature. This is the job of the Guardian of the Forest Ranger Bill, pouring rain Freezing cold, blistering heat, snows, floods, bears, rattlesnakes, mountain lions, yes, all this in exchange for the satisfaction and pride of a job well done. I remembered the whole thing. I liked Ranger Bill when I was growing up, and Ranger Bill was a good Christian man who never did anything wrong. Ever. And he was always right about everything. I'm not sure he was very realistic. But anyway When we come into difficult times, like not just you know, rain and floods, bears and rattlesnakes, uh other things in our lives that we come into difficult times in our lives. Do we try to act like the superhero? Are we thinking to our when when maybe there are even evil intentions? Are there evil intentions in our world? Are there people that want to go against the name of Christ? Do we think to ourselves, we've got to fight like a superhero? I'm going to win the day, you know, like Peter did in this passage. He lops off the guy's ear, real effective. Is that how God wants us to respond to difficult situations? I'm gonna fight, I'm gonna be the superhero. I'm gonna, you know, go against extreme odds. John is going to describe this scene in the Garden of Gethsemane when the people come, when the when a great multitude of people come to to arrest Christ. And he is going to do this from a different perspective. If you were notice from Kid Kim's reading, there are a lot of things that are missing. from in John chapter 18 that are in the other gospels. John mentions nothing, for example, of that prayer where It was where Christ prayed so intensely, he sweated, as it were, great drops of blood. That's not in John. Or the the the deceitful kiss of Judas, that's not in John. There are all these details that are left out of the book of John. John was very well aware, pretty well substantially, that he was very well aware that there are other um that the other Gospels, at least two or maybe all three of the other Gospels were were already written and he probably read probably at least one or two of them. So he was aware of the details that were already written. But what he wanted to do is show a different perspective than the other Gospels. And he does this in this passage. And the perspective that he wanted to show has to do with his whole intention of the writing of the book of John. This is absolutely important for us to understand when we think of Bible study. We need to figure out what the purpose or the intention of the original writer is in order to understand the passage that we're dealing with. So let's remember what that is, if we would. Would you look at John chapter 20 for just a moment, flip a couple of pages over? And we're going to remind ourselves of why John wrote this book in the first place. John chapter twenty And would you notice what it says, picking up here in verse 31? But these are written that ye might believe. That Jesus is who? The Christ, the Messiah, the Son of God, and that believing ye might have life through his name John wrote this book so that you would come to the end of the book and you would say that Jesus is God. And he is Christ. He is the Messiah. He is Lord. He is God. He is Savior. And what the other gospel writers in Matthew and Luke and Mark depict a very dark scene, a very evil scene, and certainly it is. John wants us to see that God, his perspective, has it all figured out, and that Christ is Lord over the whole thing. He wants us to see this. For example, would you notice chapter 4, chapter 18, verse 4? Would you go back to chapter 18 and look at verse 4, the first The first phrase. Jesus therefore knowing all things that should come upon him, it demonstrates that Jesus knows what's going to happen. And it says actually, he went forth. He went forward. And we're going to look at that in a few moments in more detail. Then would you look at 9a, the first part of verse 9? That the saying might be fulfilled. He understood that what was going to happen needed to happen in order for there to be a fulfilling of what he had already said. Of which he spake before in John 17. In other words, John is demonstrating through this text that Christ is Lord over all of this. He is sovereign over all of this. He's in control over all of this. And we're gonna see Christ As we look at this passage this morning. But before we do that, let's go to the Lord in prayer and ask his blessing on our time. Father, as we come to you, I pray that you would help us to see Christ. Help us to see who he is. Help us to see just for his children who he really is for us. And may we maybe see this scene in a different way this time. And may it cause us to be able, when we go through difficult things, when we see the evil intentions of people, or when we go through situations we don't understand when we go through those kinds of things in life, would you help us to be able to see your perspective and help us to know how to respond? And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, we pick up here in John chapter 18, verse 1, and it says this Jesus had spoken these words, Jesus had spoken these words, he went forth with his disciples over the brook Kedron. Where was a garden into the which he entered and his disciples? And Judas also, which betrayed him, knew the place. For Christ Jesus oftentimes resorted thither with his disciples. Judas then having received a band of men and officers from the chief priests and Pharisees. Cometh together with lanterns and torches and weapons. We find that John very specifically identifies the location where Jesus was going. It says, when Jesus had spoken, we see that he had just said this, he had just prayed this awesome high priestly prayer. And as that came to an end, they began to travel to this place called the Val across the Valley of Kidron. Now I wanted you to go ahead and see a visual of this. If you go ahead and put that map up there, you'll see here that you'll find here on this map that this is the Temple Mount. You'll probably recognize that as the temple. Christ was in the upper room around this area in Jerusalem, and so he traveled from here all the way past the temple, and he crossed over into the over across the valley of Kidron into this place called Gethsemane. The other gospel writers tell us this is a place called Gethsemane. It is in the area of the Mount of Olives. This is a stream that flowed through, and sometimes there was water there, and sometimes there wasn't, depending on the time of the year and the amount of rain that they had. And so they crossed down into this valley and up across into this Mount of Olives where Christ often resorted to in Gethsemane. About two miles like this way over here was Bethany, and that was where Lazarus and his uh Lazarus, his good friends Lazarus and Martha and Mary were Christ did not go there. He went instead to Gethsemane, where he spent much time, and he went with his disciples to prepare For what Christ God the Father had for him. And he went to pray at this garden of Gethsemane. The reason that these this is a very specific John speaks of this very specifically. is he wants us to realize that this truly is a true, a real event. This did happen. And as we come to God's word, we find here that he is that he has entered this place and it says here that he has done so with his disciples Now this area was an interesting area. And it had a lot of significance. For example, you can go ahead and go to the next point there. We'll finish with that. For example, this particular location was a location that they resorted to often And we find actually in John chapter 7, it says at the very last verse that everyone went into his own house, and in John chapter 8, verse 1, it says, But Jesus went to the Mount of Olives. This was a place that Christ very well may have considered to be his home. You'll recall from the book of Isaiah we find that the fo that foxes have holes and the birds have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head. Christ had no home. But if there was one place on earth outside of perhaps Bethany with his friends If there was one place on earth where he would commune with his father, where he would be at home, it was this place of the Mount of Olives in Gethsemane. Gethsemane was a garden of olive trees, and back in those days uh there was there was that most of those areas were privately owned. They would have fences or walls that would divide these various gardens And they would be owned by various people. Perhaps Christ had maybe a key or had access, certainly he had access to one of these areas to be able to go into the garden and just be alone with his father to pray. This time he takes his disciples with him. One of the things that we need to understand about this is that Jesus was very deliberate in going there. Jesus understood what was about to happen. He was well aware of it, and John points this out very clearly in the passage. He goes across town into the uh the other side of the city to go into this place because he anticipates that Judas knows where he is going and Judas is going to plot. And so Jesus was very intentional about going to this place, and John wants us to understand this. John wants us to understand also that Judas verse 2 was there and he betrayed him and he knew of this place. It says, for oftentimes Jesus resorted with his disciples. This was a place that they would go to be with each other and to go and to pray. This is the place where we find the setting for the betrayal of Christ by Judas and the arrest of Christ by the Jews and the Romans. We find also in this passage that we have here a band of men. This is a band of men of both officers from the chief priests and of the Pharisees. The chief priests and Pharisees are often combined together. They're known as the Sanhedrin. We also find from this text as well as the Matthew and Luke account. that the Roman guards guard was also involved, and we find that that the band of men here is talking about a cohort of men. That is, this is probably roughly between 200 and 600 Roman soldiers that came. The book of Matthew tells us that this is a multitude of people that came to get to arrest Jesus. Probably this was because in previous verses, in chapter 7, for example, the Jewish leaders tried to arrest Jesus before, but they were unable to because the great crowds that were around him. This was much better planned because now they had a man on the inside. Judas knew of the of the of where Christ and his disciples would likely be. Judas was on the inside and he was going to be able to deliver the the Jewish uh leaders to Christ. And we find in this passage that that that that is the case, and also the Roman guard was now involved. Nothing was going to stop them this time. This was truly going to be the arrest of Christ. And as they came, one would think that they finally had had the victory, that they finally had success in getting this person that they wanted to get for so long that was compromising their own leadership and their own authority. John wants us to see a different picture though. He doesn't emphasize this group of people so much as he wants us to see that Christ is Lord over all of it Now, if you can understand that these people and a great multitude of people were crossing over the Kitchen Valley as well, going up into the Mount of Olives. Christ is praying there alone, trying to get his disciples to pray with him. That was of no avail. He prays that, Lord, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, not thy will, but thine be done. He does that twice, actually, we find in the book of Matthew. And after all of that, finally They are coming upon him. And if you can imagine this great massive amount of people that were thronging at him to come forward to him you would think that the response of Jesus would have been to shriek back, to back away from this. But that is not the response of Christ at all. What John tells us that is a little different than the other gospels, although it doesn't contradict, it's just it's just add information. It tells us in verse 4 that Jesus, therefore, knowing these things that should come upon them, what does it say he did? He went forth toward them. He didn't back away. He didn't run. He didn't flee. He went before them. You see this great throng of people, and Jesus is coming that way, knowing exactly what they're doing. Jesus had no fear of these people. Why? Because Jesus is Lord over all. Jesus planned this. You see, Judas, who was Taken over by Satan according to John chapter 13. He with possessed by Satan according to John chapter 13 J Judas thought that he was the one that was betraying and Satan thought that he was the one that was that was taking Jesus. Jesus knew what was going on and he went forward for forward uh after them and notice what it says here in the passage he asks them a question whom seek ye That was not what they expected, I suppose. Maybe they expected that that there would be a chase or that they would be a fight. No, there's a simple question. Who do you seek? Who are you here for? Verse 5, the answer to him is Jesus of Nazareth. Then Jesus saith unto them, I am he. I am he. Now some commentators suggest that what he is simply saying here is he says, I'm the guy you're looking for. But folks, there is far more here in those three words than just self-identification of the person that they're looking for. He is claiming here to be far more than that. And we know this. Because the book of John has used this phrase before. John has used this phrase a couple of times over in John chapter 8. For example, in verse 28 it says, When ye have lifted up the Son of Man, then shall ye know that I am He, and that I do nothing of myself, but as my father And again in verse 56, Jesus said unto them, Verily I say unto you, before Abraham was, I am. Jesus was claiming to be the person that we find described in Exodus chapter 3 when Moses said to God at the burning bush, What name should I say you are? And he says, I am that I am. Jesus is saying he is that I am. He is claiming here to be God. That's why it says in Philippians chapter 2, he thought it not robbery or a thing to be grasped to be equal with God. Jesus is God. He claims to be God. And in the midst of this great throng of people that were after him to arrest him, he goes forward and he says, I am. And they knew exactly what he meant. We know they knew what he meant because of how they responded. Notice what it says. And Judas also, by the way, he mentions here, Judas also, which betrayed him, stood with them. Now can you imagine this? You you this is un unthinkable That Judas standing here would have, Jesus would have gone forward toward them and said, I am, you'd have thought at that point Judas said, Oh man, I made a big mistake. Whoa, he is God. He is who he claims to be. Jesus just stood by. Judas was the incarn he was evil. Judas was full of Satan. He was uh there was this in fact Another account, I believe it's in the book of Luke, it says that the power of darkness was being used during this time. But when the people heard, I am he, verse six As soon then as he had said unto them, I am he, they went backward and fell to the ground. If you can imagine, they're all moving forward. Christ is moving forward toward them. He says, I am he. And they are so Overwhelmed by his declaration of deity, they stop in their tracks and they fell to the ground Now some would suggest that what he is doing here is displaying his glory as he did in the Mount of Transfiguration. But I would and there are others that would suggest that Though we go too far the other way and say that this really isn't even a declaration of anything, it's just identifying that it is him. I think what this is here, and this is just my view of this, but He is claiming, there's no question in my mind at all that he's claiming to be God here. I think what happened here is that they were so overwhelmed by the fact that Jesus is claiming to be God under these circumstances That you have this group of people, you know, over probably over four or five hundred people that are there, and this group of people, and they all sort of stop in their tracks and they all bump into each other and they fall down. They're just overwhelmed by this. I'm not sure that he is displaying his glory in the same way that he did in the Transfiguration. But they were very well They were very well aware that he was claiming to be God in this passage. He was displaying his confident power to them. You see how John wants us to see this? He wants us to see Christ's omniscience. He knew what was going to happen, and he goes forward. He wants us to see his confident power. In the midst of all of this. And then we find that as they drew back and they fell to the ground, he asks the question again: Whom do you seek? Now why do they say why does he ask it again? See what he's asking here is a question of whom they seek. He's asking it to verify whom they have authorization from the Roman Guard to get arrest for. In other words, he is aware of the fact that there has been there has been a um a a collaboration, if you will, from of the Jewish leaders with the Roman government to arrest him And he is going to submit to that authority. But he wants to be very clear about who exactly are they going for. And the answer is this very formal legal term, Jesus. of Nazareth. That is, that's where he was from. It would be like saying uh it would be like saying someone's full name. Why did Jesus do this? Well, we find out why in verse 8. Jesus answered, I have told you that I am He. If therefore ye seek me, let these go their way. He says, These disciples are with me. You don't have any authorization to get them. All you have authorization for is to arrest me. You've got me. Let these disciples go their way. But folks, the interesting part, this was more than just a valiant sort of was not a martyr's complex on Christ's part. This is not what he was doing there. He was doing something far more pr profound here. He was giving us an illustration of how he protects and keeps his own. Would you notice what it says in verse 8 or verse 9? That they might be fulfilled, which he spake of them, which they gave us, of them which they gave thou gavest me, have I lost none. This he has already said in his prayer to uh to crut to his father in John 17, verse 12. Where it says, While I was with them in the world, I kept them in thy name. Those that thou gavest me, I have kept. And none of them is lost but the son of perdition, that the scripture might be fulfilled. And now come I thee, that these things I speak in the world, that they may have joy. They have my joy fulfilled in themselves. This is a fulfillment of this. Christ just prayed this, and now Christ protects them. He is showing his protective love for disciples in this passage. Now, this kind of brings up a question, doesn't it? This is a similar idea to what Christ said in John 6, verses 37 through 40. When he declares that everyone that the Father gives him, he preserves for for himself And we find something similar in John 10, verse 28, which says, I give them unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. My Father which gave them me is greater than all. And no man is able to pluck them out of my Father's hand. I and my Father are one. What Christ is saying here is not that He is protecting them from physical harm, He is actually in this passage saying that he is protecting them from spiritual harm. We know that from from verse nine, when he says he is he is fulfilling John seven what he's already said in John 17 about preserving them. He is preserving them spiritually. Now let's just pause and think about this for a moment. Hypothetically, when if the disciples he would have allowed the disciples to come with them him Hypothetically, would they have undergone so much suffering, and Christ at some points would not have been with them? Would they have gone so gone through so much suffering that they would have lost faith and lost their salvation And the answer to that hypothetical is yes. They would have. That's why Christ preserved them. Now that brings up another question. Is it possible for a Christian to lose his salvation? And the answer is that if it were up to you and me, Yes. Now remember I added that conditional part. If you it is up to you and me, we lose it every time. If it was up to me to retain my own faith and my own salvation, I would lose it. Aren't you glad it's not up to you? That's why Christ could say in John 10, My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me, and I give unto them eternal life. And they and nobody can pluck them out of my hand. My father which gave them he is greater than all, and no man can pluck them out of my father's hand. That's why he it could say that's why Hebrews tells us I will never leave thee, nor forsake you. I'll never forsake you. That's why Scripture tells us that Christ is ever interceding on our behalf, ever living to intercede for us. Look, folks, the reality is if you think you can preserve your own own salvation or somehow keep the faith yourself, you are mistaken. The only reason that we have eternal security is because Christ is preserving it for us. And by the way, I said that present tense on purpose. When Christ said it is finished, the payment has been made. But folks, Christ is continuing to preserve our faith for us. You say, well, sometimes I don't feel like I have faith. Aren't you glad Christ is preserving it? Aren't you glad it doesn't depend on what you feel? Aren't you glad it has nothing to do with what you feel? Sometimes I don't feel like I have the faith. But that doesn't mean I don't. Christ, I have to believe what God's Word says, and God's Word says that Jesus will preserve my faith until the day of redemption. Aren't you glad about that? And by the way, there is this confidence that you can have going through life. Really, is there anything else that really matters? I mean, think about it. Do you ever fear in life of circumstances? Do you ever look ahead to life and say, I don't know how I'm ever going to get through this? I don't understand what is going to happen. Do you realize how short life is? And life is going to be confusing, and there is going to be battles, and there is going to be problems, and Satan is going to have his look like he's having his way. It's going to look sometimes like Satan's having a head. But Christ has already won the war. It's already won. The victory is already secured. That's why you and I do not have to go through life in fear. We don't have to go through life in fear. We can go through life in faith. Why? Because my faith isn't dependent on me. It's dependent upon Christ who will preserve it for me. What a wonderful illustration we have here Of Christ's preservation of his own disciples in this passage. And that promise, because of other New Testament texts, is true for you and for me as well. You would think then, based upon all this, that Peter would be standing by and saying, Wow, thank you for that. You would think perhaps the disciples would be looking at Christ and going, What a great truth. You are preserving us. But you know what Peter and the disciples do? Peter and the disciples say we need to fight. Now, in this passage, it only identifies Peter, but in the Luke passage, Luke 22, 49 through 50, We find that that all the disciples actually asked the question. When they, the disciples which were with him, saw what would follow, they said unto him, Lord, shall we smite with the sword? And then it says, and one of them, which is Peter, smote the servant of the high priest. So Peter was acting in accord with the sentiment of the rest of the disciples as he goes and he lops off this guy's ear. To be more specific, it probably it may have just been his earlobe actually if you look at the the the the way that the ver the word is is rendered there. But either way, it's Uh he he he aims for something. And maybe he just misses. Maybe he's not a very good aim. Probably he did not have this big, big, huge sword next to him. Probably it was a little small dagger that he pulled out and he reaches forth and he just lunges forth, and he doesn't even hit somebody that's any that's significant. He doesn't even hit somebody that like is a soldier or somebody that's actually going to arrest this is the servant of the high priest. Like like this this guy's really going to, you know, let me take this guy out and everything will be solved. It doesn't really make any sense what he did here, does it? These 11 disciples are going to take on a multitude of hundreds of people. Makes no sense whatsoever does it. Why do you suppose Peter did this? Why did Peter go after him? You know, it's interesting that in just a chapter later, or actually just verses later, a little girl is going to ask Peter if he knows Christ, and Peter's going to deny it. The irony is amazing to me. On one hand, he's ready to take on a cohort of Roman soldiers. And on the other hand, a girl asks him a qu a young lady asks him a question, and he denies knowing Christ at all. You know what Peter has? Peter has a fear of man. We see that in both of these situations. Because what a fear of man will do, it will cause you to shriek and fear when you don't need to And it will cause you to be overly aggressive when you uh when you need to actually be careful. The Bible says that the fear of man bringeth a snare, but he who trusts in the Lord shall be safe. The key to living the life the way that God wants us to is not to fear man, to fear circumstances, to fear everything around us. The key to living the life the way that God wants us to is to trust. Christ. And folks, those two things don't go together. If you fear man, then you're not trusting God. If you're trusting God, then you're not fearing man. And what we find in this passage is an example of a man whose faith is not very strong. Peter's faith will later be strong. It will continue to be strengthened. When he sees the risen Christ, we will see a strengthening of Peter's faith in John and chapter 20. And as Peter continues to be used of the Lord throughout his life, we see an increase of faith throughout as he is a very prominent apostle that God uses in great ways. But at this point, Peter has very weak faith. And by the way, Christ had told them that you're going to deny me twice three times, sorry, thri thrice Do you suppose that perhaps, and I'm not sure about this, but do you suppose that Peter was trying to go against what Christ said here? I'm not going to deny you. I won't do that. I'm going to lop this guy's ear off to show how loyal I am The problem was that Peter was doing this in his own strength, in his own way. He wasn't considering God's way, what God was doing here. He wasn't considering what God was doing from his perspective He was just looking at his own personal perspective, and he feared what he saw, and he lashed out in reaction rather than godly response. So Jesus turned to him and Jesus says this to him. Then verse 11, Jesus uh then said Jesus unto Peter. Put up thy sword into thy sheath. The cup which my father hath given me, shall I not drink it? Jesus says to Peter, Uh Peter, don't you expect that I'm going God's this is God's sovereign will Don't you expect that this is what needs to happen here? Should I not partake of and submit to the will of the Father? He had just prayed, Lord, if this cup passed from me, let this cup pass from me, nevertheless not my will but thine be done. And now he says to Peter, essentially in a rhetorical question, I need this we need to submit to this How does Jesus deal with Peter here? What Jesus does is he begins to show Peter his perspective on life. He shows Peter what he sees, what God's will is, what the Father is doing, and how they ought to submit. And folks, that's exactly the answer to dealing with the fear of man in our own lives. We've got to see the big picture. We've got to see what God is doing. We've got to excuse me see his sovereignty in our lives. We've got to see what he is doing. What did John want these want us to see He wanted us to see that Jesus is all-knowing, that Jesus is all-powerful, that Jesus is the protect loving protector. He wanted us to see wants us to see Jesus And frankly, when we go through life and circumstances and difficulties, God doesn't want us to be the hero. God wants us to see Christ. And that's who we need to see. Our word, God's word, the word tells us that our future is secure. Our destiny is set. Christ is the victor. As we go through this life, our goal is to see Christ. Doesn't matter what we're going through. And by the way, this passage teaches us that no matter what you're going through, Christ will preserve you. He says in this passage, he preserved the disciples. You don't need to worry about your future. It is secure in Christ. And that ought to give us a sense of freedom to be able to see what God is doing in our world, in our circumstances, in our life as never before. We've got to see what see God and see Christ in the midst of all that we are doing and all that is happening around us This cup here is a cup of the suffering of Christ. We see this cup referred to several times, but in Matthew chapter 20, verses 17 through 23. We find that Jesus is commissioning his disciples, and particularly the sons of the mother of Zebedee, come to uh Jesus. And they ask some questions of him, and Christ responds this way: Are you able to drink of the cup that I should drink of and to be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with? They say unto him, We are able. And he said unto them, Ye shall drink indeed of my cup, and be baptized with a baptism that I am baptized with But to sit at my right hand and on my left is not mine to give. He says, you will go through the sufferings of life. You'll go, you'll drink my cup, and the cup here is the sufferings of Christ. Christ looked ahead and he saw the fact that he was going to be separated spiritually from his father, and that was suffering to him. Christ, being human, realized he was going to suffer in his own humanity. And he looked ahead to all the suffering and he says, I've got to drink the cup that Christ has that my Father has given me. But I want you to realize, folks, the disciples didn't go through the same suffering at this point because they weren't ready. Now that tells us something. Number one, you and I as disciples of Christ will go through suffering. Boy, that's very encouraging, Pastor Jim. Thanks a lot for that. But number two, you won't go through suffering without being preserved by Christ. And Christ does know exactly the amount of suffering that your faith can handle. as he brings you through it. There is a sense in which on one hand God will give you more than you can handle. Why? So that you can trust him. But there is a sense on the other hand that God won't give you more than you can handle. In other words, folks, you don't need to worry about the suffering ahead. It will be there. But as the suffering comes Christ will measure it in his circumstances with you that it will bring you forth to be conform to the image of Christ It will bring you forth to be closer to Him. It will bring you forth in a way that you will be able to see Christ more. When we look at the life of Job, what was the point? God's sovereign point in all of this is that when he when Job experienced loss, God replaced it with himself. And when you experience loss in your life, God can replace that with Himself. The fear of loss will result in the fear of man, and the fear of man will result in reaction to man. But trust in God that He will preserve you will result In seeing God and God filling in that loss with Himself so that you can continue To grow in Christ and to see what God wants you to see, and to live the way God wants you to live, and He will preserve you thoughtless before His Himself one day. And all we could say is, praise Christ for that. Now, with all of that in mind, we need to be reminded of a couple of clear applications here. Number one, when we are discouraged by the evil intentions of others We must remember God is controlling them for his ultimate purposes. You know the truth is you had you had uh Judas that was just a puppet on a string. You know who was controlling him? Satan was. But Satan's a puppet on a string too. And you know who's controlling him? Christ is. And we need to understand it. We look at this world and we look at our circumstances. Maybe we look at our own families. We see all these evil intentions and problems and difficulties. And we get fearful. And you've got to understand that at the end of that chain is Christ, and He is controlling it all. And we can trust Him. Number two, God wants to show us more of Himself through the troubling situations we find ourselves in. God's already won the war. He wants us to see him in the midst of the battle. And number three. The fear of man occurs when we find ourselves afraid of loss, reminding ourselves of God's overall victorious plan. will cancel out our fear. Folks, anytime you have the fear of man, you need to just think about God's plan and how He is the victor and He has control of all things. And you will begin to lose that fear of man. That is such a snare. The fear of man bringeth a snare, but he who trusts in the Lord shall be safe. And we see all of this in this text. We need to see Christ in our circumstances the way that John depicts it in this passage. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you, and we are grateful for your sovereign working in our lives. Lord, we're thankful that we don't have to be the superhero. Because Christ is better than any superhero. And your ways are not our ways, which is why we can't always figure it out. And why we must trust you. I thank you for a passage that with great brilliance shows Christ to us. Using the evil for good, using the circumstances of life for his purposes And teaching us all the while to trust Him. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.