We're aware of the uniqueness of this book. It is wisdom literature, and yet it is it actually expeaks of the limitations of wisdom And of course, Solomon wrote the book, as we have learned before, and he is writing from the point of one who has been given divine wisdom from God. When you think about our world and the possible pitfalls of society and And the things that people tend to get into, I I often um can recall many times parents s lamenting from time to time, boy, I hope my kids don't get into what I have gotten into before. Or things of that nature. And usually we we want our kids to be um We want our kids to do better than we did because we really don't want them to experience the trouble that we went through. But um and and of course the Bible is pretty clear in the book of Proverbs that if we pursue pleasure and we just keep pursuing pleasure and that's our main pursuit. um then its end usually leads to destruction. And you can think of many illustrations of this. I I don't know a lot of names in pop culture, but I tend to know the ones that are that are crashed and burned. I d I know that's probably weird. But like I know the name Lin Lindsey Lohan and Britney Spears and Miley Cyrus. What do these guys what do these girls have in common? Well they all blew away Be they experienced extreme uh success and fame and they could pursue anything they wanted and they could have anything they wanted at a very early age. And there are many other dames like that that we could mention. And eventually they all just ended it ended in close to destruction. And uh most of the time ruin careers and those kinds of things. And there are other names I could I could mention as well. And the truth of the matter is when our pursuit is entirely of our own pleasure and not considering any of the consequences of our action It will end up in ruin. And of course, parents want to warn their kids about this possibility. But what if you could completely pursue pleasure, unfettered, unlimited pleasure? And you could do it in such a way that you knew you would it would not end in your ruin Well, the reality is that is, I think that's probably impossible for any of us. However, it was not impossible for Solomon. So the so the situation that we have here in Solomon's life as he as he is writing the book of Ecclesiastes is he is is as though he is recording an experiment. Um we were just uh mentioning we were pr uh praying over here that uh I think Eric's gonna be taking biology this year. And how many ki uh how many teens, how many of you have taken biology so far in your high school careers or anticipating taking biology soon, maybe next maybe this coming year. Okay? Few of you, all right? Well, in biology, as you know, there'll be times where you're going to be examining different kinds of things. I remember in biology it w where we dissected a fetal pig. Uh that was fun. And um actually I did it a couple of times and we dissected the frog and um all kinds of things like that. And what we had to do was we had to record um information um about as we as we dissected these things. And then we had things like collect different kinds of plants and bring them in as specimens and examine them under m under a microscope and we rew we would record those things. So there are different experiments that you can do. And what you have here in verses 1 through 11 of Ecclesiastes chapter 1, I mean sorry chapter 2, is really an experiment. And in verses 1 through 3, he's going to set up the experiment. Just like you would set up some beakers and some test tubes, and you'd get ever all the chemicals ready to set up an experiment. He's going to set up the paramers of his experiment in verses 1 through 3. So let's look at how Solomon does this. Verse 1 says, I set in my heart By the way, that means I said in my heart it's something where he is contemplating this. This is he's giving careful thought to about what he's about to do. This is well planned out. Go to now, I will prove thee with mirth. He says, prove. The word prove there means to test. It means to do a thorough investigation. So this experiment that Solomon is going to perform has to do with something that he has thought through, and it's going to be a thorough investigation in a particular area. And then you see this word mirth. Well, the word mirth means self-indulgent pleasure. This is what he is going to do a thorough investigation of He is thoroughly going to investigate self-indulgent pleasure. Now you think about it. Are we not living in a world that would like this experiment? That would be thoroughly pleased with just indulging themselves with all kinds of pleasures imaginable. The more you look at I mean it doesn't take long to look at s at social media or look at commercials or look at the news even And you find that people we are we have got to be the most hedonistic society in in recent civilization history of civilization. We are constantly pursuing our own pleasure and constantly exploring different inventions in order for us to be able to continue and to enhance our own pleasure. This is something that is is that is all over our culture and all over our society. And Solomon is saying here he is going to do an experiment, and this experiment has to do with investigating Pleasure and the pursuit of pleasure. He says, therefore enjoy pleasure, and behold, this is vanity. Now, the word here also, this idea of verse 2 actually, if you'll notice verse 2, then it says, I said of laughter It is mad. And of mirth, what doeth it? The word when it says I said of laughter, it actually could be translated as a rhetorical question as well. Basically what it's saying there is what does it boast? So here there are two basically two rhetorical questions Number one, what does laughter boast? And number two, what does pleasure do? So in a in an experiment, in a biological experiment, you would have questions that you would need to answer. And he's got his questions all set up. His two questions are: what does laughter boast? And what does pleasure do? Now, when you think of laughter, help me out here a little bit. When you think of laughter, when you think of laughter, what do you think of? Or when you hear someone laughing, what do you think of? Any ideas? Having fun, happy, joyful? Let me ask you this question. Is it attractive? Is it um it Do you like to laugh? Let me put it that way. Well, of course we do, right? Why do you like to laugh? When you s let's say you're you're sitting reading a book and off in the distance you have three or four people around you three or four people not too far from you and they're all laughing. What is your thought usually? Yeah, I want to go what they're laughing about. I'd like to go over there and find out what they're laughing about and laugh with them. So in that sense, when they're all laughing, it's telling you That I want to go that direction. I want to go that way. I want to laugh with them. In other words, laughter laughter boasts something. And the question is basically, is laughter all it's made up to be? And is pleasure all it's cracked up to be? That's really basically what he's asking. Is it really all it's cracked up to be? And so he says in verse 3. So he continues now in this experiment. We see the initial his initial conclusion by by the way, these are rhetorical questions, are that Well, you know what? Let's just find we'll find out. We'll keep going here. Then he says in verse three, I saw in mine heart to give myself in unto wine. Yet acquainted mine heart with wisdom. Alright, so we're setting up our experiment. We've got our questions. We've got the goal. We've got this pursuit. We've got our questions. We then have also, he says, okay, now I'm going to, here's some of the things that are going to happen. He said he's going to use wine. Why is he going to use wine? What does it say in the passage? What purpose is is he going to use wine for? Well, what do you use wine for? Let me give you a hint. This is not just the kind of wine that you would use if the water is rancid and you need to drink something. That's not what he has in mind here. So what is he using wine for? What does wine do? All right. Okay, you basic so so wine we we all agree, even though I ha I personally haven't experienced this and don't intend to. Um, wine will cause you, at least if you drink enough of it, it will cause you to lose your inhibitions. Is that accurate? Okay. In other words, if you want to have pleasure that is uninhibited, drink wine. And so he's this is not a he's not he's not making a moral judgment call at all by the way on this. The Bible says wine is a mocker and dr strong drink is w raging if you're deceived by it you're not wise So the Bible actually doesn't say in the Old Testament that wine is wrong, it just says you're foolish if you take too much of it. Okay? So that's that but he's not what he's saying here is that he is going to use this in his experiment to ex to to gain a higher heightened sense of pleasure. But at the same time, he says this. He says, yet acquaint acquainting my mine heart with wisdom. So on one hand He is going to use wine in his experiment to be able to have uninhibited pleasure. But on the other hand, he is going to be able to stay rooted in wisdom. Now, let's first of all we need to define wisdom here. When Solomon says He's going to stay rooted in wisdom while he's do while he is being unfettered in his in his pursuit of pleasure because he's wanting to do that What is he saying? What is it how are how is wisdom being used here? Any idea? Well, let me help you with this. Let's define wisdom this way. Wisdom is the skill to apply truth. That's what wisdom, in its very essence, that's what wisdom is. It is the skill to apply truth. Now, let me ask you this question. What truth is Solomon in this passage going to be applying? And I'll give you two options. Is he going to be applying biblical truth, or is he going to be applying truth that he has learned from his own experience and from creation? And obviously, folks, the latter is true. This wisdom that he's wanting to apply is not wisdom that he applies for biblical truth. It's not wisdom that he's applied. It's not skill in applying biblical truth. It's skill in applying truth that he has gained from his experience. But folks, let's also remember this. Who has given Solomon divine wisdom according to what we read in 1 Kings? And God did, right? Let me just suggest to you that it's very unlikely, if not impossible, to do what to to re um To set up these conditions for this experiment. So, in other words, he's gonna do this and don't try this at home. Okay? Be very clear about that. You and I are not wise enough to be able to do this. Okay, and ultimately it doesn't say anything in the passage, just so you're aware, it doesn't say anything in the passage about what he is doing being being sinful or not. That's not in it certainly is sinful. Some of the things he's doing later on in the passage is clearly sinful. But that's not what he has in view here. And there is a point to this I get that's very going to be very, very helpful for all of us. So verse 3, I saw in my heart to give myself unto wine, it acquainted my heart my heart with wisdom. And the advantage that Solomon is going to have in this experiment is he is going to be able to hold on to wisdom. At the same time move into unfettered pleasure, which I don't think is really possible today. This is because he has divine wisdom. What it's going to allow him to do is to accurately evaluate this experiment at the end. At the end of his experiment, because he has been able to be tethered to wisdom, he's going to be able to accurately evaluate this experiment Because folks, is it true that the vast majority of people, if not all people, that pursue pleasure to the nth degree, they pursue pleasure, is it true that they lose wisdom? That is true, folks. I'll just tell you right now. Okay, teenagers, if you pursue pleasure in an unfettered, uncontrolled way, you'll lose wisdom, you'll fall immediately into foolishness. So the idea that he could do this is not something that you could re that you could you could set up the conditions for again. He says here Uh and to lay hold, what is he going to do? He's going to lay hold of folly uh till I might see what was the good for the sons of men which they should do unto the heaven to the days of their life. He says then here, number the objective is I want to lay hold I'm going to lay hold of folly. In other words, I'm going to lay hold of pleasure. Why? What's his goals? He wants to see what advantage someone has in doing this. What advantage does someone have in pursuing wholeheartedly pleasure for himself in this life? That's the qu that's what he's going to try to find out. And he's also going to ask the question, and he's also identifying this reality. And none of us like this, but this is the reality that life is short. Okay, now let me ask you, have you have you never heard a commercial that says life is short, play hard? We've all heard the commercial, right? Life is short, so you better just grab all the guts that you can. Life is short, so play hard. Let's see if Solomon would agree with that at the end of his experiment Okay, so verse 4 then moves into the next next portion of this. That's his plan. He's got this plan of his pursuit figured out. And now he begins to execute this plan. And he does this first of all by accumulating property. He says in verse 4 this I made me great works. I builded my house, I planted me vineyards, I made my gardens and orchids, orchard, and planted trees in them of all kinds of fruit. Alright, so he built houses he built houses. He built huge, massive gardens, he had all kinds of trees that had all kinds of fruit on those on those trees. Now let me ask you this question. He has already said that his goal is to pursue pleasure. So why is he pursuing property? Any ideas? Why would he pursue property? What's the connection between property and pleasure? Okay. All right. Security. So he is not the unwise, foolish person who goes out and pursues pleasure. and to his own ruin because he has no property, he has nothing to show for it. He that's not Solomon. Solomon's not doing that. That's true. What else? Any other ideas? Let me ask you this okay, yes, yeah. Yeah, so he's not just interested in having all the the the the lust kind of fruit. He wants to make it himself. And he's not interested in just drinking the wine, he's gonna make the wine. I mean he he's he's interested in producing all this so that he can have what? An abundance of it. never ending, constant, never having a pr having a worry about ha getting more. And so he is laboring hard in order for for him to get this kind of pleasure he wants People, do you suppose live for their retirement? You find people do that? They work and work and work because one day they'll retire. Now, I'm not saying it's wrong to retire, I'm not saying it's wrong to save up for retirement, I'm not saying that. But if that's all you're living for, then you might have a problem, right? Because why why? You might kick the bucket before then. Sorry. Okay. So don't live for retirement. Alright. So he says here in this passage, uh I made the great works build okay and and oh n one other thing. If you if you take a um a ba let's say a two year old and you put a two year old in a room And they have nothing in their hands, there's nothing around them, they're in a white room with carpeting on it, and you walk away, what do you suppose is going to happen? They are going to cry. Do you think they're gonna be very happy? Okay. You take a two year old and you put something in their hands And if it's something that that intrigues them, they suddenly become happy about it. Even a two-year-old knows that p possessions bring pleasure, in other words. And so and so if you have nothing, you're not going to be able to have pleasure. And so he in in this experiment that he does, he says, the more property I have, the more possessions I have, the more pleasure I'm going to be able to have. And so that's the case. Then also not only does he have all this great stuff, he says in verse um Verse six, I made the pools of water to water therewith the wood that bringeth forth trees. Not only did he have not only did he have fruit, but he had the trees to make the fruit. And not only did he have the trees to make the fruit, but he also had what? He had the irrigation system, the aqueducts, the the he he really m it's very likely he invented some of this. He invented the irrigation system and the aqueducts necessary to be able to go in and to supply all that was necessary for these trees, which is for this fruit. But I tell you what, is this not an elaborate plan for the sake of getting pleasure? This is extremely elaborate. All of this planning for what purpose? Just for the pursuit of pleasure. But does this not sound like our world? I mean, if you really think about it, something to keep in mind there. So let's continue. He says, verse 7. Not only that, but I've got somebody to walk I I've got somebody to take care of all this stuff. Verse 7, I got me servants and maidens He's talking about slaves here and servants born in my house. So his servants bore servants. He's got a lot of people working for him, right? To do all of what he wants. Also I had great possessions of great and small cattle above all that were in Jerusalem before me. Okay, so he has cattle. to supply everything he needs for all of his servants, and he has all of these servants to be able to do everything he needs in maintaining all of his property and maintaining the gu he's set, isn't he? He's got everything he needs. And so all of this and then on top of all that he's got money. Now you would probably assume that, right? But he he m he points out he's got silver and gold, verse 8. I gathered me also sil on top of all this other stuff, I've got silver and gold and a pecu and uh and the peculiar treasure of kings and of the provinces. So he had so much gold that the kings and provinces around him were just just enamored by this great great accumulation of of of wealth that he had he had occurred. And of course we know that even from the Queen of Sheba that went and visited him and all that. I got me then he says this and now from this point on he is now going to move into the pursuit of pleasure. Okay. And the first pleasure that he now this is just amazing. He got, what did he do? He said, I got me men's singers and women's singers. He had an America to Idol show. And he got the best of the best for the American Idol Show and they had this whole competition and he got the best out of them and they could just sing to him all the time. Okay, not exactly American Idol Show. However, what? Because music is pleasurable, isn't it? And so he begins this whole s this whole pursuit of pleasure by saying, I am now now I got everything I need and I'm gonna be per begin pursuing pleasure and one of the things I'm pursuing is just just all the music I want because music makes what does music do? Okay, let's take it outside for a minute of of the Christian realm. Okay, of hymns, for example What does good or bad what does music changes your mood? Okay, changes your mood. Okay, if you're gonna do it more technical change I'm not sure it changes your Yeah. Some somebody said emotion? Yeah, it makes you feel good. Or bad. You can you it could make you feel bad, that's true. But in this case, he is using music to make so fo so far, so far folks, what two things is he using to make himself feel good? Wine and music. Using those two things to make him feel good. Now is there anything wrong with make let me just make be very clear about is it anything wrong with listening to music? that causes you to feel good. In moderation it isn't wrong, depending on what music you're listening to, and depending on what kind of feeling you're feeling when you're feeling good. To be honest with you. Okay? Um and I won't go in any more detail than that. But there is some kinds of music. I would just suggest, and this is a suggestion, there is some kinds of music folks folks that do lend themselves to to a kind of feeling good that should only happen in marriage. That is a caution for you teenagers. I'm not Preaching on the bandwagon of every kind I mean you know, it's up to you I there's a lot of anyway, there's some flexibility there. Okay. But just I think there probably is some, we can all admit that. That I think So he says here he pursues these pleasures, and then he says this, it doesn't stop there at all. And the delights of the sons of men. as musical instruments and that of all sorts, all kinds of music he's listening to, and he's got all complete access, uh absolute access to any music he wants at any time. Kind of like having an iPod. Okay. I mean I'm not saying it's an iPod an iPod is wrong or having an i a phone is wrong. I've got a phone and I've got music on my phone. Okay So I'm not saying that's wrong. But it is kind of interesting that here here what he considers to be the height of pleasure is being able to have access to all kinds of music. I'm not suggesting at all that we need that you ha is anything wrong with having access to music. I'm just it's just a sort of an interesting thing Well we can at least say can't we at least say that moderation is important in life and he's not showing any he's not he's not pursuing moderation here. So then he says here verse nine So I was great and increased more than all uh that were before me in Jerusalem. Also my wisdom remained with me. So he says I was great and I continued to increase. And he wants to identify something in verse 9. He says, My wisdom, I did retain my wisdom through all this. Now, that first of all is an amazing thing, isn't it? Okay. It's kind of amazing that he was able to do that. Let me also mention here in the text, I I need to mention this, he says, When I got me men singers and women's singers And the delights of the sons of men, when it says delights of the sons of men there, that is a very tactful way of saying I accumulated concubines. And of course we know he did that, didn't he? He had seven hundred wives and three hundred concubines. Okay, and that is a reference to that there. So we have all this pleasure going on, unfettered, unlimited pleasure, and he says here then. That he continued to increase in his property and his value, at least in man's eyes, but and he was able to retain wisdom through all this, he says. Now, why would that be important in the verse nine? Why would he want to remind us that he was able to retain his wisdom through all this? Okay, that's true. For sure most people wouldn't Because the next state the c his conclusions he wants us to make sure we get them. He has the ability to evaluate These things, because his wisdom has stayed intact. Alright? And notice what he says here, verse ten. And whatsoever mine eyes just so you understand the extent, he goes back to this, whatsoever my my eyes desired, I kept not from them. I withheld not my heart from any joy, for my heart, rejoiced in all my labor And this was my portion of all my labor. So he says this, I saw it and I did it. I kept myself back from nothing. I pursued everything Whatever my eyes saw, I got it. The Ferrari's outside, I'm going to buy it off the guy for t double the money. I mean that that just he he pursued whatever he wanted to pursue with it was absolute unfettered pleasure. And he says his heart rejoiced in his labor. He said that he un there there was this this internal result in his heart as a result of because he worked for it didn't he? This is not working for no pleasure I mean this is not pleasure with no work. That's why how you get Lindsay Hello, hands of the world, by the way. Okay? Not a lot of work, a lot of uh uh and a and and a lot of pleasure and and no maturity and no wisdom. Okay. But he says, do you see here he says he rejoiced by his labor, and he says, and this was my portion of all my labor. When he says this is my portion of all my labor, he is saying that the measurement of my enjoyment is not equal to the measurement of my ability to labor. In other words, I can't the proportion of my pleasure is not equal to the por proportion of my labor I had to labor more than the pleasure that I that afforded me. And you know, that's true in life, isn't it? You're gonna have to work more than you play. Right? Good good practical lesson here. That is definitely the case. We've got to work more than we're gonna be able to play. And we're going and and he says there. And he also there's this idea of a temporary thing to this. He's going to lay it, lay the conclusion down here in just a moment But there's this temp the only he's not saying that he had no delight in any of this. In other words, if somebody has a pursuit of pleasure and they had all have all the wealth and everything, it's not as though they are never happy. There is some happiness, there is some enjoyment, but rest assured that the enjoyment is never proportionate to the labor. Does it make sense? Now, with all of that in mind, here's the conclusion of this of his experiment in verse 11. Then I looked. So he takes this hard examination. He steps back now. This whole experiment is done, and he's looking at the experiment, and he says, I looked. On all the works that my hands had wrought, and all the labor that I had labored to do. And behold, what is his conclusion? He said it's all vanity. This the experiment, the conclusion of the experiment, is that it results in absolute emptiness. It was all feudal emptiness. And it says vexation of spirit. Another way to translate that it actually is flapping in the wind. He's saying it's all vanity and it's like it's like it's like just the wind blowing in the wind. It there's no productivity to it. There's no Final outcome to it. There's no eternal advantage to any of this. Did you realize that at best Our pursuit of pleasure is going to end up in emptiness. It's going to end up in futility. It's going to end up in In vanity. And then he says this, and there was no prophet. There was no advantage for man under the sun. Now, let me ask you, before we get into the applications that I put here, let me just ask you this question. What how is this helpful for us today? How is this helpful? Yeah. I mean basically what you have here is a guy who lived the life and is saying, by the way, don't pursue this. Because if you do, if all you do is pursue pleasure, you're going to come to the end of your life and say, it was an empty life. That's helpful, isn't it? It helps us to remember that when we want to just pursue pleasure for our own gain, when we want to be selfish and just not even consider other Considerations like pleasing the Lord, those kinds of things, that that really, if we live our lives that way, we will live our lives and it will be a waste for us. So let me give you a couple of applications for this, four applications. Number one, unfettered pursuit of pleasure, I just want to reiterate this, usually leads in ruin. Now that's not what the what Ecclesiastes tells us, but if you look at the book of Proverbs and you see those who pursue their own pleasure without consideration for anything else, they end up in ruined lives. That's the usual thing. If sin does not lead uh to immediate consequences, well that should have a Um I should should have finished that, I'm sorry. If sin doesn't lead to immediate consequences, which it usually does, sin does lead to consequences. Sin at its very best will give you, if you sin, and of course we've got lots of sin in this passage. Sin at its very best will give you a life wasted. Does that make sense? At its very best. Now it may ruin your life and you may be totally crash and burn. How many how many people, how many rock stars commit suicide? How many rock stars die in early death at age forty or something? Okay. Those and I'm not picking on rock stars specifically, but those who are their end result is not very good. If the pursuit of pleasure does not lead to ruin, it will lead to a sense of emptiness and worthlessness at best. At best, that's what it will lead to. It is possible to be wise and yet still waste your life. Just because you have the skill to navigate life doesn't mean you have this the ability to fill that life with meaning. Now, let me explain this this way. In the world, and among unsafe people even, you have all kinds of people. You have people that seem to live a very clean, well-ordered, seem to live a good life. But they don't know Christ. You ever met somebody like that? Maybe they're up in their fifties or sixties. They seem that they really got life figured out. They're they're they seem to live a clean life, an orderly life. Everything everything's going well for them in life. Those kinds of people may have wisdom in the sense of they have a life experience that's teaching them how to navigate life in a in a reasonably uh reasonably well But they're going to end up in emptiness. Because wisdom in and of itself and life experience in in and of itself and all It all of that in and of itself, apart from something else outside of this passage, is going to end up in a place where we you don't have meaning in life. You cannot apply meaning to your life by wisdom. It's a very, very important point. Alright, so those are the applications to all of this. And the point that that decle that that Solomon is making here is be careful about living your life to pursue pleasure. But isn't it interesting that we went usually when we think of pursuing pleasure, we usually we usually think of pursuing pleasure as immediate pleasure. But he didn't do that. He was per he did all kinds of things to build and to work and all those kinds of things to to end up with pleasure. He said even that is vanity. Now, all this is going to lead us eventually to a place where we we begin to understand what truly is important in life, isn't it? And and when we we're going to see it's not going to be too long, believe it or not, it's going to be a couple one a couple more weeks, and we're going to see God entering the picture on all this and how everything changes on all this. And by the way, I'm going to give you a little bit of a tip of information. Solomon's conclusion is that you you should enjoy life. I just want to put that out there. I'm not suggesting that you should just You should just um ignore any kind of pleasure at all. But the sole pursuit of pleasure in and of itself is something that we need to be very, very careful about and something that will end up in vanity And vexation of spirit. Now let me ask you any qu any questions on this, because it's not a really easy passage. None of Ecclesiastes is actually. Any questions on Ecclesiastes? Anything I need to clarify? All right, let's go ahead and go to Lord in prayer. Father, we thank you, Lord, just for the time that we could spend in your word tonight. We thank you for the book of Ecclesiastes, and we thank you for It's truth. Um it is certainly written in a way that is different than than some of the other books of the Old Testament and certainly the books of the New Testament. But Lord, may we learn to uh have the right philosophy of life and may we avoid the pitfalls uh that th of a of of of the Solomon went through um and brought us these truths, may we be able to avoid them in life and may we gain godly wisdom through all of this And ultimately may we understand that all things must come under your headship. And we must submit to you in all things for us to be able to have kind of meaning in life that you want us to have, and ultimately we want as well And we pray, Lord, for the rest of our week that you would dismiss us with your blessing. Help us to honor you. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.