Oh, you're aware of that. That'll be next Sunday night. And I think that's all the announcements I have at this time. Let's sing together, Almighty, Unchangeable God. Majesty Oh my god. Who makes the nation tremble? Who is Lord overall? Lord hold in majesty emuls and race all holy community. Almighty, unchangeable Okay. Lord you have been saved to your land, to your father architect, Jacob. You would forgive them in the people. You would cover all their sins. You've taken away all your back. You have earned the piercings of your angels. Restore us, O God, of our song. Salvation and cause your anger toward us to cease. Will you be angry with us forever? Will you prolong your anger for all generations? Will you not provide us again that your people may rejoice in you. Show us your mercy, Lord, and grant us your salvation. Always hear what the Lord is please. For he will seek peace to his people and to his saints. But let them not turn back upon him. Surely his salvation is near the will of your hands. And the Lord be dwelling on them. Mercy and truth have met together. Righteousness and peace have peace. Truth shall spring out of the earth and righteousness. Righteousness shall go down to heaven. Yes, the Lord will give what he'll do, and our land will yield with the righteousness will go before So maybe these footsteps are not going to be able to do that. What are you doing? Slowly turn out the You Rob and Joy, that was a blessing. Thank you for ministering to us through. What show? Alright, Exodus chapter nine. We're gonna be looking today at verses one through nineteen. There are a lot of people that are skeptical about about just the existence of of God. And as they think about the existence of God, one of the questions that they will often ask is how can there really be a God with so much inequality in the world And um throughout history that there has been inequality. It's not as though every individual has been treated equally in various cultures. And I that's really not something that's debatable. So people will have angst over this. How can there be so much oppression? How can there be so much injustice and there really be a God? That's the skeptics response to the things that they say Around them in the world. But the Christian has a very different response. The Christian's response is: because there is so much inequality and oppression in the world, aren't you glad there is a God? Because there is, aren't you glad there is a God? And our hope and our faith is not in the circumstance. circumstances that we find ourselves in in this life, but we find our we our hope is in what God's Word says has happened And what God's Word says will happen. And as we've been going through this study of Exodus and been looking at justice. Looking at the role of justice, looking at what justice is, I I hope that as you contrast the justice of God with the way the world is, especially in 2020. you notice that this year has been like I'd like to hit the reset button on this year? I mean that's not I'm not novel to that. You see that all over Facebook now, you know, reset the reset the but they're really worldwide and talking about this and talking about how um there just seems to be the rate at which evil seems to be Um seems to be really uh taking over. Exponentially in two thousand twenty. Christ will come back and deal with all of the evil in the world. But it does seem to be uh right now that we are dealing worldwide and nationwide with a lot of different problems. And I gotta tell you, as I you know This, as I've said before, as you look at the plagues, the world looks at the plagues and says, How can a God be how how can the God of Exodus be truly God? God. And I I look at the plagues and I look at the justice that God has has um shown uh uh has has displays in this passage in these passages passages and I have come to just find great solace and so and great comfort in the justice of God. In a world that is unjust, we can rest in the justice of God. Have you come to that place? You come to that place where you say, Well, I am just so thankful the contrast between whatever side you are on various issues, the contrast between the injustice in our country and And God who is who is just and all wise and perfect. Have you come to the place where you just say Man, I am just so thankful for that. I trust that that is the overall response that you as a Christian I as a Christian would have as we go through these things. And I trust that if you don't know Christ as your Savior, as we go through these narratives, these stories that you would come to the realization that God in his justice is loving and God in his justice is merciful and God in his justice is patient. And and you actually when you actually look at the details of all of this, God gives gives opportunity after opportunity after opportunity to for Pharaoh and and Egypt. Egypt to repent. So we've learned so far this. That God's justice, there's six things we've learned so far. God's justice is often prophetic. It works in response to unjust actions of people. It includes repeated warnings to those who are unjust. It will demonstrate unparalleled power. And last week we learned it works with his love, not against it. Lord willing, if we have time, we'll look at three more three more aspects of God's justice. But one of the things that we haven't seen so far yet is what are the goals of God's justice? We've seen the character of God's justice, we have seen how God's justice works, but we really haven't begun to s begun to see yet the goals of God's justice, at least not clearly And today we want to look at that, and we're going to see that in this first plague. Let's go ahead and pray very quickly and then we'll go. Get into the Word together. Father, we ask, Lord, that as we get into your word this morning, I pray that it would be helpful and that we would just see your character and that we would know how to respond to the character that we see. as your people. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well we pick up here and we begin to see in verses one through six of Exodus chapter nine. The warning in nine chapter one chapter nine verses one through two it says, Then the Lord said to Moses God in Far God go into Pharaoh and tell him, Thus says the Lord God of Hebrews, let my people go that they may serve me. For if you refuse to let them go and still uh hold them. And so so we have this warning. We've had warnings before, not in every plague, but we've had warnings before, and we have a warning again But you'll notice in verse 3 that there is this increased severity of this plague. And you'll actually see that in each plague there is an increased severity of the plague. It gets worse and worse. Verse three says, Behold, the hand of the Lord will be on your cattle in the field, and the horses, on the donkeys, on the camels, on the oxen, and on the sheep, as a very severe pestilence. But God is again, as he did with the last plague, he is going to distinguish his people from Egypt. He's now going to distinguish them again. And the Lord will make a difference between the livestock of Israel and the livestock of Egypt So nothing shall die of all that belongs to the children of Israel. Then the Lord appointed a a set time saying, Tomorrow the Lord will do this thing in the land. And then in verse 6 we have the execution of the plague. Verse 6 says, so the Lord did this thing Indeed, not even one of the livestock of the Israelites was dead, but the heart of Pharaoh became hard, and he did not let the people go. Now, what is it that we learn from this? Well, we learn this truth that God's justice distinguishes between people who follow God. and people who don't. Now when it says all the livestock, it's actually talking here about all kinds of livestock. We know that because in a future plague and the plague of hail, more livestock are killed. So it's not every single livestock uh uh animal. It is all of the livestock The Egyptians, though, valued livestock greatly. It represented wealth to them. It represented a status symbol, as it does most farming and agrarian cultures. Uh that's, you know, if you think of a BMW of a roar or a Rolls-Royce, that's the that's the status symbol. How many heads of cattle do you have? And God's going after this. And he is going to send, and he does send a plague to them. Douglas Stewart said in his commentary, for them to have lost livestock while the Israelites retained all their representative all theirs represented a nationwide humiliation This was intended to humiliate the people, to humble them. And you'll notice a very clear distinction before you saw the distinction between in in in the plagues before the the last plague that we looked at between Israel and and uh and Egypt, but now it's even more pronounced In in the results, you'll notice in the passage that Pharaoh actually sends people out. The very sending out that he should have done with the nation of Israel to let them go, he actually sends people out to look at what happened to the nation of Israel and he finds Of course, that as God said, Israel's no no cattle was died, not one died from this plague, showing a clear distinction between the people that follow God and the people that don't. And that is really one of the things that we learn from this, that God's justice distinguishes between the people that follow him and the people that don't. And there is a clear distinction between those two. This is something that really only God can do. I'd like you to take your Bibles and turn to Matthew chapter 13, verse 2. Verse 20 uh 24 we're going to look at. I just want you to see a parable in Matthew Matthew 13 here. In this passage, you have a parable about the king And we're not going to take a long time to go through this entire parable as far as understanding all of it, but I want to I want you to see a few things about it. In verse 24 it says, another parable he put forth to them, saying, The kingdom of heaven is like a man who sowed good seed in his field. And while men slept, his enemy came and sowed tares among the wheat and went his way. But when the game when the grain had sprouted and produced a crop, then the tares also appeared. So the servants of the owner came and said to him, Sir, did you not sow good seeds in your field? How then does it have tares? He said to them, An enemy has gone that has done this. The servant said to him, Do you want us then to go and gather them up? But he said, No, lest while you gather up the tares you also uproot the wheat with them. Let both grow together until the harvest. And at the time of the harvest I will say to the reapers, First gather together the tares and bind them in bundles to burn them, but gather the wheat into my barn. Jesus gives this parable to describe his kingdom and how the the citizens of his kingdom are able to grow along with the citizens that are uh that are not in his kingdom. Those who are the weeds, if you will. You have weeds here and the tares and you have the actual grain that is growing. And and of course if you've gardening it, garden it all, how many of you all are gardening now? I'm just curious. How many are you okay, we got a few I we we have a COVID garden. Like, you know, when we didn't know what else to do, we decided to dig in the dirt uh back, you know, several months ago and plant some things and uh actually it's doing really well. It's really growing a lot. And we're getting all kinds of uh gr vegetables and um The tomatoes we're gonna have a ton of tomatoes eventually. I think we kinda overdid it on the tomato tomatoes. But anyway, uh we s we m you remember that uh that John Denver song? Can I sing that in church? You you guys know the song? Oh, you don't know the song? I'll I'll let you know the song. It's um um it goes like this, um, if I can remember it. Because like uh there's there's nothing oh homegrown tomatoes, homegrown tomatoes, there's nothing like homegrown tomatoes. There's only two things that money can't buy and that's true love and homegrown tomatoes That's still have a song with it. Anyway. So um it's kind of true. Those two that you can't money money can't buy. Anyway, so we'll have lots of homegrown domains that money can't buy. And we have true We love in our house too, so we're good. All that to say, so we've got we've got uh this garden, but you know, one of the things that are growing up in the garden is weeds. All kinds of weeds are growing up in the garden. as well. And you know, and and how you deal with those. Well in in in God's garden of his kingdom, he sang That I will deal with the tears eventually, but when I choose to. And I think it's almost inferred here or almost implied here. that that God actually has a way of using the tares uh to develop his kingdom, to develop his weak. for the time where he will e execute his justice. And there folks, there really is, as we have said before, a real sense in in which God is the only one in some ways that can execute justice and determine the difference between the wheat and the tares, the grain And we have to understand ultimately that if we're gonna uh we're gonna understand justice in our world, it must begin that way. That in God's justice, in God's time He is going to distinguish those who follow him and those who don't. And that, frankly, is the primary distinction that God is concerned about. And that really leaves us with the question: are you a follower of Christ? or not. You know, sometimes I think I'll just say this and then we'll move on to the next one. Sometimes I think that we ask kind of a question that is almost not all that helpful. We ask the question, am I safe Now I uh, sometimes I think a better question would be the question that Jesus And the admonition that Jesus gave over and over and over again. He says, follow me. You want to know whether you're saved or not? Ask yourself, are you following him? I didn't say, are you perfect? But are you following Christ? Are we following him? The justice of God distinguishes those between those who are following him and those who are not following him. And the question that we need to ask ourselves is are Are we following him? Are you a follower of Christ? Not do you have your fire insurance, but you are you a genuine follower of Christ And that is the question that I would just pose to you. And you see, if you say, you know, I don't really know if I'm a genuine follower of Christ, well, find that out. Uh come and talk to me after the service, and I'll be glad to take a Bible and help you with that. Number two. God's justice will result in the humbling of the oppressor. Notice what it says So the Lord said to Moses and Aaron, Take for yourselves handfuls of ashes from a furnace. And let Moses scatter it to toward the heavens in the sight of Pharaoh, and it will become fine dust in all the land of Egypt, and it will cause boils that break out in soars on a man So he's we have uh this this interesting way of executing the justice of God here, but you basically have and then you have verse ten minutes. It says, then they took ashes from the furnace and stood before Pharaoh, and Moses scattered them toward heaven. So you've got ashes that are being scattered toward heaven. They've been come from a furnace or a Kiln, you could say. They're scattered toward heaven. And then it says the next part of this it says, and they caused boils that break out in sores to Man and beast. And then we see, notice what happens next. Notice the effect of this. And the magicians could not stand before Moses. Remember the magicians? that kept copying all of Moses's all of his miracles, all of the plagues. The magicians could not stand before Moses because of the book Boils. For the boils were on the magicians and on the Egyptian Egyptians. But the Lord notice what says the Lord hardened the heart of Pharaoh, and he had not heed just heed them just as the Lord had spoken to Moses. Now, folks, there are some things that we need to understand about what's going on here. First of all, this the execution of this This justice of this plague was done in full view on purpose before Pharaoh and the magicians. They are going to raise these ashes into the heavens as a to to really as a demonstration to Pharaoh and the and the magicians for a very important purpose. We see also that this plague is the first one that's going to actually affect human lives in the sense of doing something to their bodies. Notice also that that kilns are used here, or the the passage says a furnace is used here. Do you know what else the kiln was used for back then? The baking of bricks. Now think about it for a minute. What did what did they use these furnaces for? Well they use these furnaces For the slaves to make bricks for the various buildings that they were building. Now God, in this irony and this poetic justice, is now going to use the very furnaces A very furnace that was used for that purpose for an entirely different purpose to bring about a plug. There is this kind of poetic justice here in this passage. And if we put all of and then notice this about the passage, this is the very first time we see that God hardens Pharaoh's Now he's he prophesied he was going to do that in chapter four. But now this is the very first time he is actually going to do it. Here, in other words. It's the idea of making Herod's heart obstinate, rebellious before God. What is the point here? This is the point. The point is that God's justice will result in the humbling of the oppressor. These These magicians were humbled. They could not even stand before Moses, probably for two reasons. One, they're in pain. These boils were boils. The Hebrew word is used for burn Burning. These were burning boils all over their bodies, and they were in such pain they probably couldn't stand before Moses. But there was another reason, according to their customs of cleansings, they were considered, by the Egyptian customs, they were considered unclean. And so this was in direct humiliation of Pharaoh and in direct humiliation of the magicians who were the oppressors. of the nation of Israel. See, what we learn from this is that God, that pride goes before destruction. Proverbs 16 verse 18 says this, pride goes before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall. This is something that we've got to remember. God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble. James chapter 2. Chapter 4 verse 6 says, but he gives more grace, therefore he says, God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble. Why is it that God does this? Is is God just mean that every time we get proud he decides to withhold his grace because he's a mean God? Is that what's going on Here. No, that's not it. You see, God intended for us, He created us to work with Him. To depend on him, to be in fellowship with him. Pride essentially is saying, I'm going to go my own way. I'm going to do my own thing. And God says, if you do your own thing and you go your own way, you're going against what I created you to do. You're not going with me, you're going your own way. You know why we go our own way? We go our own way, brothers and sisters in Christ. We go our own way because we too easily trust ourselves. We don't trust the Lord and we don't trust ourselves and we trust ourselves instead, and that's why the Proverbs says That that we need to trust in the Lord with all of our heart and lean not unto our own understanding. In all our ways, acknowledge Him. Don't lean on your own understanding. Acknowledge Him. He will direct your paths. God gives grace to those who will choose to fully humble themselves before Him. And number three, there are certain acts of God that will either soften or harden, but we We can't go through them unchanged. Let me uh unders let me help you understand what's going on w what I'm saying here. This is a direct and t The intention of God here is to directly humble the leaders of Egypt. He everything about this shows that He's doing it in front of them. They can't duplicate it. They can't even stand before him. Everything about this shows this. And then it says the passage, God hardens the heart of Pharaoh. Now how do you put those two things Things together this way. There are certain acts of God. There are certain circumstances of God That the the end result is either you're going to be softened or you're going to be hardened. You're going to be bitter, or you're going to be, can we say it this way, better And there are certain circumstances that are just that way. It is just designed that way. That you are either going to bow the knee Or you are going to stand in defiance. This is certainly going to be the case of the second coming of Christ. When Christ comes, it says every knee will bow. And every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. But during the millennial kingdom time, what's going to happen? Well, you're going to have some that are going to inwardly rebel and they're going to begin to battle toward the end of the millennial kingdom time. There are certain circumstances like this. Folks, what we need to do is to realize that when God brings circumstances way that are intended to draw us to himself, that we humbly submit. That we won't recoil, that we won't say, Well I'm not wrong and I'm not No, we just humbly submit. To the ways of God. Number three, with the I'm actually over time already. So we will cover number three. next week. Let's go then to just some conclude the just the first two concluding applications. Number one If God's justice distinguishes between those who follow him and those who don't, make sure you're following him. Can I I just encourage you Encourage you, make sure you're following God, Christ. Do you have a desire to please Him? Do you have a desire to follow after Him? If you don't have any desire to please him, the indication is that you don't know him. Because to know him is to love him. And to love him is to please him. It's a desire to please him. Number two, God humbles the oppressor. We need to make sure that we never use are per position or resources for self-serving purposes. There's a warning for us in this passage for any but any individual, saved or unsaved, Christian That if we choose to use our position or resources for self serving purposes Then we are asking for God's judgment. Do we see that in our world? That is probably one of the main problems in our world. Is that too many people are using their resources or their positions for their own purposes, for self-serving purposes And frankly, when those are in leadership or doing that, it's disastrous. And I'm not speaking on one side of the aisle or the other. It has nothing to do with it. that. It's just when that happens, no matter who it is, the results are going to be harm for for whatever nation is doing that, whatever people are doing that. And we ought not be any part of that as Christians. If God gives us resources, if God gives us a position We need to use it for his purposes. We need to be good stewards of what God provides and be faithful to him. And I would just say this as well. If you are here this morning and you say, you know, I I I don't n understand the justice I don't understand what I'm doing. I don't understand what's going on exactly in our world. I'm just confused. I'm frustrated. And I don't know if I can really answer the question positively that I'm a follower of Christ. Can I encourage you to come and talk to me? I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you are a genuine, genuine Follower of Christ. And you can be. You know that there's only one quality you need, by the way. I'll just say this. There's only one quality you need to be a follower of Christ. It's only one. Do you know what that is? It's humility. That's it. It's the only one. You must have humility to To follow Christ. To say, I can't, but you can. And if you have that, if you say I'm not sure, I don't often want to go my own way or do my own thing. Not follow after God. I'd love to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you are a follower of Christ. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you this morning and we thank you for just the privilege of being able to gather together. Uh we we don't we don't take that lightly anymore. Having been two months without being able to, or somewhere around there. Now as we assemble, albeit with various um various guidelines in place. Now as we assemble, we're just grateful to be able to do that. We thank We're thankful, Lord, that we can we can, along with your people, affirm the who Christ is and what he has done. And Lord, I pray that That we would have a clarity about your justice, about who you are in this world, and we are grateful For it. And Lord, may we live in compliance with it rather than in opposition to it. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. All right, you are dismissed. What we're going to do is actually dismiss by rows. So if you'll remain seated and we're going to try to dis Do it fairly quickly. You want to head out the back if you're saying in the sanctuary down. And then out the back you'll uh um you'll head out. So just wait till W day was working.