I thought it would be appropriate for us to review the importance of baptism and the nature of baptism to understand what baptism is. Really to remind ourselves of this one of only two ordinances that Christ left us when he went uh to be went when he ascended uh before he ascended to his to his throne, to his father. on the right hand of Christ, of God and Father. So um I thought that would be an appropriate thing for us to do do tonight. One of the things that um pastors have I think the privilege of doing doing is um is officiating weddings. There's actually nothing in the Bible that indicates that a pastor ought to be officiating weddings. believe it or not, or that a pastor needs to officiate weddings, but it is kind of a fun thing that it's a lot more fun than funerals, to be honest with you. Um I've done more funerals than weddings But um so I've done a few weddings and it's always fun with you know a a new young new couple that wants to get married to go through pre premarital counseling. One of the things I've realized with premarital counseling counseling is they are really more looking at the wedding than they are the marriage. Trying to get them to see past the wedding into the marriage is a bit difficult in premarital counseling, but I try. But um if you could just imagine a situation where I am doing premarital counseling and we're going coming to the end. And I'm talking about the wedding ceremony. We're discussing the wedding now and the ceremony and everything and and they say and and they're good with all the different things that were that are sort of traditional and they sort of stop me and they say, Hey, you know Pastor Jim, there's just one thing I want you and we want you we want we don't want to do. And I say, okay, well what's that? They say we don't want rings We don't want we don't want to exchange rings, we don't want to have anything putting rings on. I say, Well, are you like nervous about you know, missing the person's finger. I mean what's why wouldn't you want why wouldn't you want to exchange rings? Well we just to decide that we want a marriage but that there's going to be no rings. You can show that next slide. There's going to be absolutely no rings in our marriage. Do you suppose if I'm doing premarital counseling that that's going to be a little bit disconcerting for me? In fact, I would be very concerned. Because what does does the ring marry someone? No, it doesn't marry someone. And in fact in fact, I just took my ring off. Does that mean I'm still married? Well of course it does. But what does what is the ring? What does the ring do? The ring placed on your left finger, on your left or left hand on your ring finger. Usually, at least in our culture, as far as I know, still indicates that you're married, especially if it's a wedding band. And and so it is showing the fact that you're married. It's showing that you're married. And I you you know you get a little concerned if I was I remember it I I've seen occasionally, not here at this church or anything, but I've seen occasionally with unsaved friends and things, somebody's married and then they're not wearing their wedding ring. Well, that's a little disconcerting that they wouldn't be wearing their wedding ring. Why would you not want to show somebody that you're married? Um there are safety reasons why somebody might not for for for some purposes. But for the most part, a wedding ring demonstrates, it shows that you're married. And that's really what baptism does for the believer. It shows that you know Christ. It doesn't make you saved any more than a ring makes you married, but it does demonstrate that you know Christ. And that's why it's commanded in Matthew 28, 19, and 20. Baptism is commanded by God. It says in Scripture, Matthew 28, 19, and 20, go ye therefore and teach all nations And part of the teaching process, the discipling process, it actually says teach there is a word make disciples. It says baptizing them. In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I commanded you. Lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the world. F. F. Bruce said this, the idea of an unbaptized Christian is simply not entertained in the New Testament Usually, as you look at the book of Acts, somebody trusted Christ as Savior, and they were almost automatically, they just automatically were baptized. Not on there was a desire expressed usually, as we We'll see here in a few minutes. But it was something that were you're saved, and then you were baptized very shortly after, and then you were added to the church after that. In fact, that is the way that you profess to be saved. We have in our circles, we we have a second step in there that I'm not sure is a good one. When somebody trusts Christ as their Savior, oftentimes we say they made a profession of faith. Well, wait a minute. What is a profession of faith? Well, biblically, baptism is a profession of faith. And so when we look at baptism, that is really it's an is an extremely important uh thing. In fact, I remember I recall a pastor was going into a new church going into a new Baptist church um and he was um and he was asked in a in a question and answer time. He said, why uh somebody asked, he said, I just want everybody to know that I w I do not usually do altar calls. I don't usually do come forward um invitations. And they asked well they asked why and he explained why and things and he then he said, Well ha well they their question was, well, how are you ever going to know if somebody gets saved? And what was his answer? He said, ma'am, we're in a Baptist church. We'll baptize them, and that's how you'll know they're saved. That was Mark Dever, for those of you who know him. And so baptism is something where you are professing that you do know the Lord as your Savior. Baptism is also exampled by Christ and by New Testament believers. Luke 3, 21 through 23 says Now, when all the people were baptized, it came to pass that Jesus also being baptized and prayed, and heaven was opened, and the Holy Ghost descended in him in a godly shape like a dove upon him And a voice came from heaven, which said, Thou art my beloved son in thee, and in thee I am well pleased. And Jesus himself began to be about thirty years of age, being as it was supposed the son of Joseph Which was the son of Heli. So Christ himself was baptized. Then we find in Acts 2. 42, and they gladly received the word and were baptized. There's an interesting account of the conversion of the Ethiopian eunuch by Philip in Acts 8, 36-37. You can take your Bibles and turn there for a moment if you would. And I want you to see something that's very interesting in this passage. Of course, if you know the story, Philip was really literally transported from where he was to to go and and witness to this Ethiopian eunuch which which was uh reading the book of Isaiah And as you know the story, he was able to explain from the book of Isaiah how Christ is the Redeemer through his shed blood on the cross. And so the Ethiopian eunuch accepted Christ as his savior. He trusted Christ as his savior. And when he saw a certain water, it says in verse 36 of Acts 8. And as they went on their way, they came into a certain water, and the eunuch said, See, here is water. What doth hinder me to be baptized? And Philip said, If thou believest with all thine heart, thou mayest. And he answered and said, I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. So what we see here is as soon as the per as soon as the Ethiopian eunuch realized that he knew Christ as a Savior, he saw water and he said, What hinders me from being baptized? In fact, this became a mark. This and the Lord's Supper both became a mark of identification throughout all of the of the of the Jerusalem area and beyond in the first century. In fact, we have first century extra-biblical writings of magistrates writing back and forth to each other of these this group, these groups of people that meet together on Sundays. and meet together week actually daily to break bread with one another. The strange thing they do breaking bread with another. And they also baptize one another Another. It became the way to identify what a church is from just a group of people, a biblical New Testament church, baptism and the Lord's Supper. So this these ordinances are very, very important for us. As we have already said, baptism is public identification with Christ. It is not necessary for salvation. The reason we would come to this conclusion is because baptism does require self-effort. It is a step of obedience. And Titus 3. 5 says, Not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us, by the washing of regeneration and renewing of the Holy Ghost. Ephesians 2, 8 and 9 say, For by grace are you saved through faith, and that not of yourselves is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. Well, what is baptism? Baptism is public identification. It is identifying with Christ. Number one, we see here, it is done in the name of Christ. Acts eight, sixteen says, For as yet he was fallen upon none of them. Only they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. And a name identify is is an identifier, isn't it? When you think of somebody and someone's name, well how do you know who who is who? Well you have to know their name. If you know their name, then you know who they are. It's an identifier. And so because baptism is done in the name of Christ, it demonstrates that baptism is to identify Christ. Well, what is this a symbol of? Colossians 2. 12 says, Bury with him in baptism wherein also ye are risen with him, through the faith of the operation of God, who hath raised him from the dead. It is done as a symbol of the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. So it's it is symbolic of that. And of course, as you well know, the right way to be baptized, the right mode of baptism is immersion. If God wanted us to use another method, then he would have said so in his word. The word baptism means to be immersed. In the classical Greek, which is the the um the time period right before the Koine Greek, it was used of one cup being submerged into another larger uh vessel of some kind to the point where it was submerged and then filled and then brought back out. That would be bapti baptizo And so if they wanted if God wanted us to sprinkle, he would have used the word rentizzo. There is a word for that in in the Greek that could have been used. It wasn't used, it was baptizo. And so we do we plunge them all the way in and uh we ask them to hold their nose and And make sure that they do know the Lord. We don't hold them that long, though. Anyway. Also, it is a pledge of the conscience to follow Christ. First Peter 3. 21 says, It is like a figure whereinto even baptism doth also now save us, not the putting away of the filth of the flesh. But the answer of a good conscience toward God by the resurrection of Jesus Christ. So it is it is like pledging allegiance. All of you, all of you I don't do they still pledge allegiance to the flag in in public schools? Are they still doing that these days? Hopefully they are. Um but um if uh mo just um probably everyone has pledged allegiance to the flag, uh which is a allegiance to our country, well there is a far more important and greater allegiance and that is to Christ himself. And so this baptism is a public display and pledging of allegiance. to Christ. So the question would be for we have three candidates today who know the Lord is their Savior. I talked with all of them. And they know the Lord and they're ready to be baptized, ready to put the ring on, and we're really thankful for that. But perhaps you're listening today and you never have been baptized It isn't as though you're not saved if you're not baptized, but it's as odd as being married without a ring. It's it is it is important for us to realize that. Now there is one exception, I will just say this, that kids, um I think they're it's okay for children to make a profession of faith and then they they need maybe some more maturity before uh a greater time in between their their profession and and uh baptism in order to make sure they understand But once there is a confidence of knowing that they are saved, then uh kids should be can can can certainly be baptized as well. And um and so we're going to do that in just a few moments. Let's go ahead and close the word close with a word of prayer, and then we'll give you some instructions further here. Lord, we do thank you for this ordinance that gives us a tangible way to demonstrate that we are yours, that we know you as our Savior. And I pray today, Lord, as um as Sandy and um and Eric and uh Eleanor come to be baptized. I pray, Lord, that you would um this would be a special time for them And I pray, Lord, that it would be memorable and that they would understand the the the step that they are taking of obedience in identifying publicly with Christ. And I pray, Lord, that today would be a day that would be a blessing to all of us as we rejoice with them as well. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.