We'll sing joy to the world. Joy to the world of Lord. Let every letter that has an interesting. Joy can be No more than sorrow your war. That's the ground He calls to make his planning call for as the curse is done, far as the curse is done, far as As far as the first He rules the world with risk and praise and makes a nation. The glory of I'm wonders of Ibrahim and wonders of Ibrahim and my heart Joyful and try. And that we ball it. Well And then we have to come forward for the morning offer. Let's pray together. Father, we do come this morning to adore you. And we praise you for who you are. And we praise you that you are the greatest of all beings. You're the creator of the heavens and the earth. That before you before the creation you were. And yet you condescended to us to become a baby, to be born as a baby, and to live a perfect life for us, to die, to pay the punishment for our sin. And we confess before you that oftentimes during this time of year we are so distracted by things other than the incarnation of Christ. And I pray, Lord, today, that you would help us to just worship you this morning, to be thankful for what Christ has done for us in In taking on human flesh, suffering, and going through life, and experiencing every kind of suffering and temptation imaginable. And then going to the cross for us, Lord, would you just cause us to be very grateful for what you have done for us? And may this message of the gospel go forward very clear today. And if there is anybody here that doesn't know you as their Lord and Savior, I pray today would be a day where they would understand their need of a Savior. And they would come to Christ. And Lord, as we give of our offerings today, we pray, Lord, that you would use them for your purposes. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. So Scripture reading this morning is from Matthew chapter one, verse eighteen, through chapter two, verse twenty-two. Now the birth of Jesus Christ was as follows. After his mother Mary was betrothed to Joseph, before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Spirit Then Joseph, her husband, being a just man and not wanting to make her a public example, was minded to put her away secretly. But while he thought about these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take to your Mary your wife. For that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit, and she will bring forth a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. So all this was done, that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the Lord through the prophet, saying, Behold, the virgin shall be with child. and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which is translated, God with us. Then Joseph, being aroused from sleep, did as the angel of the Lord commanded him, and took to him his wife, and did not know her till she had brought forth her firstborn son And he called his name Jesus. Now, after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea, in the days of Herod the king, behold, Wise men from the east came to Jerusalem, saying, Where is he who has been born, King of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the east, and have come to worship him. When Herod the king heard this, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him. And when he had gathered all the chief priests and scribes of the people together, he inquired of them where the Christ was to be born. So they said to him, In Bethlehem of Judea, for this is written by the prophet, but you, Bethlehem, in the land of Judah Are not the least among the rulers of Judah, for out of you shall come a ruler who will shepherd my people, Israel. Then Herod, when he had secretly called the wise men, determined from them what time the star had appeared, and he sent them to Bethlehem and said, Go and search carefully for the young child, and when you have found him, bring back word to me that I may come and worship him also. When they heard the king, they departed, and behold, the star which they had seen in the east went before them, till it came and stood over where the young child was. When they saw the star, they rejoiced with exceedingly great joy. And when they had come into the house, they saw the young child with Mary, his mother, and fell down and worshipped him. And when they had opened their treasures, they presented gifts to him gold, frankincense, and myrrh. Then, being divinely warned in a dream that they should not return to Herod They departed for their own country another way. Now, when they had departed, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream, saying Arise, take the young child and his mother, flee to Egypt, and stay there until I bring you word. For Herod will seek the young child to destroy him. When he arose, he took the young child and his mother by night, and departed for Egypt, and there and was there until the death of Herod, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the Lord through the prophet, saying Out of Egypt I called my son. Then Herod, when he saw that he was deceived by the wise men, was exceedingly angry, and he sent forth and put to death all the male children who were in Bethlehem and in all its districts, from two years old and under, according to the time which he had determined from the wise men. Then was fulfilled what was spoken by Jeremiah the prophet, saying, A voice was heard in Ramah, lamentation, weeping, and great mourning, Rachel weeping for her children. refusing to be comforted, because they are no more. Now when Herod was dead, behold an angel of the Lord appeared in a dream to Joseph in Egypt, saying, Arise, take the young child and his mother, and go to the land of Israel. For those who sought the young child's life are dead. Then he arose, took the young child and his mother, and came into the land of Israel But when he had heard that Arcalius was ruling was reigning over Judea instead of his father Herod, he was afraid to go there. And, being warned by God in a dream, he turned aside into the region of Galilee. We'll continue our worship. If you could stand with me, we're going to sing 204, the first Noel. Now we're going to sing verses 1, 2, and 6. Was his hurt is more sure it feels that way. On a trop with. Born is not me, all means right, they will. Shining in the each part and leaves life. And so it caught me for night. No well, no well, no well, no well. For his life, then The two or anymore than Where is this one? No well, no well, no well, no well. Thank you. I've nothing and love and less than something from the sound track. Lord incarnate no shit. My dad would always tell me, broken hearts are hard to fix. Sometimes you need a new one. It turns out he was right. Eleven years ago, my dear wife Sarah passed away. She was everything to me. My support My help, the love of my life. I'm surprised I'm still the one standing. For more than 40 years, Sarah and I ran the Hope Center Children's Home. And for years it was just that. A place to find hope, a future. The family. But since my wife's passing, I've struggled to keep it running. I'm just getting too old, and I miss my best friend. I decided to hand the children's home off to Jackie, my niece. Well, she's not officially my niece, but she grew up a foster kid at Hope Center. And according to her, never had the time to get married and have a family. That was great advice. I need you in the backyard. She always felt like this with her family and these kids were her own. Since it's just Jackie and the kid Kids, I still try to help out where I can. Oh! What's that? What's that smell? Oh cookies and bringing! Oh I'm just not very good with most things she needs But sometimes I'm reminded why Sarah and I started this orphanage so long ago. But Mary kept all these things and pondered them in her heart. Can we read it again? Sure, Bell, one more time. And it came to pass in those days that there went out a decree from Caesar Augustus Didn't I think five minutes? Boys, would you put the football away? Maddie? Would you go get Bill for dinner? Dilated cardiomyopathy Belle's heart was too big, and the doctor said she had six months to find a donut. It seemed that her chances of finding one were not too high AB positive blood type is only 3% of the population. It would take a miracle for her to find a donor. She didn't have anyone. No parents, no relatives. The only official record of her existence was a handwritten birth certificate. Her father was a gang member killed three months after she was born, and her mother soon after died from drug overdose. Any other family was either a criminal or unable to support her. She came from a family, all right, but she doesn't have one. For months I sat there waiting to hear from the doctor, hoping there was some good news, some donor. Something, anything to save this little girl. Dialated cardiomyopathy. Belle's condition meant that her heart did not have the ability to pump blood at the rate that it needed to pump blood. But she had a physical condition that seemed hopeless. You and I have a spiritual heart condition. The problem, according to the Bible, is sin. And that puts us in a hopeless situation as well. In Ephesians chapter 2, it actually says this: that we having no hope and without God in the world. You see, you and I have a sin condition, a heart condition, that is a serious problem for us that puts us actually in a place of hopelessness. In Romans chapter 5, verse 12, it says, As by one man sin entered the world, and death by sin, and so death passed upon all men. The Bible tells us that the reason that we have death is because of sin. And just as sure as you and I will die physically, we have the problem of sin. But sin is more than just a physical problem, there is a spiritual problem. You may say to yourself, well that's not fair. Adam sinned and uh and and his son sin and we got it from from from humanity, but I uh it's that's not fair for me to have to reap the punishment. But the Bible says in Isaiah 53, 6, all we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned every one to his own way. And in Romans 3 verse 10 it says, There is none righteous, no, not one. You see, not only have we gained our sin from from the being a human and being and being passed down through the human race, but we have committed sin ourselves. And the problem with sin is that sin separates us from God. You say, well, I'm pretty good compared to other people. I think I'm I'm all right. I'm a pretty good person. Um I yeah, I do some bad things, but I I'm way better than a lot of other people. The problem is the standard isn't other people. The standard is God's perfection The Bible says in Habakkuk 1 verse 13, you, meaning God, are of pure eyes than to behold evil. And cannot look on wickedness. You see, God is completely holy. He's completely righteous And because he is completely holy and completely righteous, the Bible says that all have sinned and come short of the glory of God, have come short of his perfection, his identity, his glory. You say, well, what's the big problem with that? The problem is that God cannot, because he is a just God, he cannot overlook our sin. Some people think that about God. That God can just kind of, you know, he can kind of brush it under the rug. He can just kind of over overlook what we've done because he's a loving God. Well, the Bible actually says in Romans 6, verse 23, that the wages of sin is death. That puts us in a hopeless, desperate situation. The wages of sin is death. That's spiritual death, spiritual separation from God because of our sin. We understand wages. You go to work every day. Uh you work hard and perhaps at the end of the week or the end of the month you receive a wage for what you've what you've accomplished. But the Bible says that the wages of sin What we deserve because of our sin is spiritual death, separation from God for all eternity in hell. The Bible says that. And God can't just overlook that because He wouldn't be just. It's just like if uh if if you went to a courtroom and And a judge were to just make it make it just overlook a murderer's sin. He murdered somebody and he just overlooked it and he could just go on this merry way. That judge wouldn't be just if he were to do that And in the same way, God can't overlook our sin because God is just. That really puts us all in a dying, spiritually separated situation. We're Desperate. Family. It's the single greatest miracle we can behold. To be a part of one is some of these kids' greatest dreams. Someone to protect them, provide for them, and love them. They don't just need a shiny red truck or curly haired doll. They need someone who will love them to the end of the world. A family to these kids would be the greatest dream come true. Oh the weather outside. Did you have fun today, Alex? Yeah, but I wish mommy was here. I know. I wish she was here too. I guess what tomorrow is. Christmas. You know what that means Presents it. Alex Alex Flood Roman ID, respiration twenty-two, and pulse seven. John Murphy. A single father who had nothing in his life he cared for more than his only son, Alex. Where am I supposed to go? Doctors did all they could But after six hours of surgery, there was no hope. In all this, there was some hope They told him that Alex had a very rare blood type. A little girl was in need of. They couldn't save Alex's life, but they could save his heart. Alex would die that day so a little girl could live. Alex had what Bell needed. Did you catch that? The rare blood type Alex had was uniquely qualified to meet Bell's need. According to what was said there, three per only three percent had A B blood type. And he was uniquely qu uniquely qualified. The Bible says that there is out of all of the billions of people that have been born The Bible says that only one is uniquely uniquely qualified. In John 14, 6 it says, Jesus said to him, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. In the book of Acts, it says, Nor is there salvation in any other, for there is no other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. What makes Jesus so special? Why is he so able to pay the punishment for our sins? What makes him so special? Well the Bible says, if you recall from Romans 5. 12, it says, Adam sinned and so death passed upon all men. But the Bible actually also says in Isaiah 7, you remember the prophecy in the Old Testament: behold, a virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Emmanuel. So the Bible actually tells us that Jesus was born of a virgin, and he was conceived by the Holy Spirit, so that sin did not pass down to him. He was born perfect. And then he lived a perfect life. The Bible then says in 2 Corinthians 5, verse 21, it says, For he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin. That we might become the righteousness of God in him. Jesus lived a perfect life. And then he went to the cross, and he took on the sins of the world, and he died on the cross, paying our punishment, so that he took on our sin, so that he could give us his righteousness. Jesus is the perfect sacrifice. In the film, the father decided to make a sacrifice. He gave the heart of his little one, the boy, so that Bell could live. John 3. 16 says, For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but that have everlasting life. In our film, Alex would die so that the little girl could live. That's the sacrifice, and it reminds us of the eternal sacrifice that Jesus made for us. After losing his wife to cancer, John had nothing left but his son. Before she passed, he would always tell her that Alex was a gift. I guess he just never thought that his life would be a gift to someone else. Four hundred and seventy-three, the number of children that were adopted through Hope Center. Of all my years seeing children come and go, number 474, Belle, the little girl that needed a heart, had to be the greatest joy of my life. That day she didn't just have a new place she'd call home, but she had a new family, a new name. A new father. No, I mean we're not going to be on the role. We made it a tradition every Christmas Eve. to remember Alex. I always reminded Bell, what you have is not just a new heart, but a new life, a gift. Belle always seemed to find a way to help others. In fact, growing up, she always said she wanted to be a heart doctor. The best female cardiologist in the world, she would say. I want to share that gift, Uncle Leo. Not just keep it. Every year after my wife passed, I kept a journal. But it wasn't until 1988 that I decided to pass that memory along to someone I knew would share it. Deep breath. Breathe out. Good. Do one from the back. Deep breath. Breathe out. Good job. Sounds like a nice strong heart in there. And I think I promised you something, didn't I? A story. Right, so let's first get tucked in bed. I often would tell Belle, don't just treat your patients. Get you them. Care for them. Okay, here you go. Don't just give them medicine. Show them love. Because love is the greatest gift you can ever give someone. Broken hearts are hard to fix. Sometimes you need a new one. It was Christmas Eve 1988 when a little boy gave his life so a little girl could live. The gift that Bell received from Alex was special. It was a new heart, a new opportunity for life, and that was a precious gift indeed. The Bible actually tells us that Christ came that we might have life in John 10, verse 10, and that we might have life more abundantly. The reason that Jesus can give us a new life so that we don't have, remember we talk about sin, and sin separates us from God. Jesus is that perfect one who is able to pay the punishment for our sin. The reason that Jesus was able is able to do that was because he died for us. And put shed his blood on the cross for us. But also he rose from the grave victorious over sin and death. He had life so that he could give us life. In 1 Corinthians chapter 15 it says, For I delivered to you first of all that which I also received, that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures, and that He was buried, and that He rose again the third day according to the Scriptures. Later on in that same chapter, it says, but now Christ is risen from the dead, for since by man came death. By man also came the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ all shall be made alive. You and I can be made alive by Christ because of what Christ did for us on the cross and dying the death that we deserve, paying the punishment that we deserve on the cross In John chapter 5, verse 11, it says this, and this is the testimony that God has given us eternal life. And this life is in his son. He that has the Son has life. He who does not have the Son of God does not have life. These things have I have written to you that you believe in the name of the Son of God. And that you may know that ye have eternal life, and that you may continue to believe in the name of the Son of God. Now here is the critical question for all of eternity. Have you accepted that free gift of eternal life for yourself? The Bible tells us that the way that we do that is by believing in what Christ did for us on the cross. It tells us in John 3. 36, He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life. And he that believeth not the Son shall not see life. But the wrath of God abideth on him. And you may say, well, you know, I can work my way out of my problem. Well, Belle couldn't work her way out of her problem, and you can't work your way out of your problem of sin, and we can't do that. Titus 3. 5 actually says this, but when the kindness of the Lord love of God, our Savior, toward men appeared, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us It's not by works of righteousness, but the mercy of Christ and the work that He did on the cross to pay the punishment for our sin. So you say, well, how do I receive this gift? Maybe you say, I don't I you know I prayed a prayer one time and kind of remember being baptized or doing different things, but I I I don't I don't know if I've really received this gift. The Bible says in John 112, but as many as received him, to them gave you the power to become the sons of God even to them that believe on his name. Did you catch that? It actually says that if we'll receive him, we'll become God's child, just like in the movie. He will adopt us into his family. Say, I want to be adopted into Christ's family. I want to be his child. I want to have that gift of eternal life. The Bible tells us in Romans chapter 10 exactly how to do that. You see, we we have to, first of all, we need to understand what the Bible says about this gift. But it's not enough just to understand in our minds. We have to agree with God about what He says is true. And also We have to accept ourselves, the gift of eternal life. It says exactly that in Romans chapter 10. It says that if thou shalt confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus, And believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, you will be saved. For with the heart one believes unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made and salvation. Whoever believes on him will not be put to shame. For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek, for the same Lord over all is rich unto all who call upon him, for whoever calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. That's adoption. That's to be adopted into God's family. And it's not a matter of just praying a prayer or doing some sort of ritual or doing some sort of good thing. It's not about that at all. It's about understanding first of all that I sinned. And my sin separates me from God. My sin is an offense against God because God is a holy God. He can't look on sin. And remember we said he can't just overlook sin either. But God does love us, doesn't he? He loved us so much that he sent his only son, Jesus, to come to earth to die to pay the punishment for our sin. That's how much he loves us. So that God could place the judgment of our sin on his own son. so that he could satisfy his justice and his love at the same time And the only thing we have to do left is to receive it. To receive that gift of eternal life. And when we do, when you truly receive that gift of eternal life, God gives you a new life, a new perspective, and you want to live for Him. You want to please Him. That's how you know you're a child of God, because you want to please Him. There's a desire to do that. And the question that I would just have for you is: have you have you received that gift of eternal life? There is no more important or better gift to receive in your whole life. There is no more important decision to make in your whole life. This is the greatest truth that you could ever receive in your whole life. If you look back on your life, you say, well, I don't really know if I have eternal life. I don't really know if I really understood What Jesus did for me. I don't really know if I accepted what Jesus did for me. I don't really know if I fully understand. Can I encourage you to do this? Don't leave this building without knowing. After the service, I will be available. You can come and talk with me. Or if you're more comfortable, talk with one of the choir members up here. Talk with somebody and just say, hey, I want to know how to receive that gift of eternal life And we'll be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you will spend eternity with God. That is the greatest gift of all. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you this morning and we ask, Lord, that if there is anyone here that has never received Christ as their Savior, that they don't have that new life in Christ. I pray that you would work in their heart and in their life to bring them to a place where they understand their sin. They understand their sin separates them from God, from you. And that they really embrace the fact that Jesus died and rose from the grave to pay the punishment for their sin and to give them new life. And I pray, Lord, that you would not you would cause them to want to find out more about this, that they wouldn't leave this building without knowing for sure. And then, Lord, the rest of us who know you, I pray that we would be motivated today to share that good news of Christ with others during this time of year. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. In the power of lessons, we are never struggled, and we'll be right out. When Christ was full, all night. Change shall he break for the place, he finds all, and he breaks our We believe so we're eating the soul. Let's turn in our hymnal to number one ninety one. If you could stand with me then we'll sing one ninety in your hymnal. Silent night. Always raised all. What time we calling life? She was more as I was more as I Spill up I thought your such senior is We hope that this has been a service to just bring our our hearts and minds back to the real mean meaning of Christmas, which is the gospel and Christ and what He's done for us. Let me encourage you to come back next on the 24th in the evening at um actually at 6. 45 and bring somebody with you. As you can see, it's but the whole thing is centered around the gospel And you have an illustration through the m movie that I think is particularly effective in helping people understand the gospel. And so bring somebody with you, grab a flyer on the way out, send a link, uh do the Facebook thing, whatever But bring somebody with you uh on the twenty-fourth so that they can continue to hear the gospel. And I I I want to say as well this that If you're here today and you really are not sure, I really mean it, come and talk with me after the service. I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you will spend eternity with the Lord and have that eternal life that we were talking about. And um that's really really why we're here. Um and I think is there any other announcements? Oh oh I wanted to mention this on the twenty-fourth we will be doing something very similar to what we did tonight. There will be a f few differences. We will have a prepared prelude with several uh instrumentals. So come at 645 for that. And um and also there will be candlelight uh at the end there And um what else? Oh, there'll also be a um um uh a uh a a man with the last name Puckett. Yeah. Which means he might be good at music. He c he dabbles a little bit in that area. So anyway, come tonight and he's gonna do a few things for us and uh Oh, and the cookie fellowship as well. I forgot about that afterwards. Is there anything else I need to announce? I didn't think about the yeah, that's important, cookie fellowship. Bring your cookies for that, by the way. And we'll all eat cookies together on Christmas Eve after we have a candlelight service here. All right. Harry, would you close us with a word of prayer wherever you are? Okay. You can just come on up here, it's fine. Maybe you do. Oh, you heard me now. Uh before we end in prayer, I'd like for you and uh your lovely wife to come up here and and uh we would like to share something with you. And uh while this is coming up, uh we are very grateful for God and the gracious and wonderful gift that He has given us in His Son and eternal life. And we're grateful in His sovereignty and His providence that He chose this to be His church. And so we are very grateful in God's sovereignty and His Providence to choose to have Pastor Jim and Elizabeth and her family to be the ministers that they are here. They shepherd this flock and we are very grateful and very thankful and on behalf of the deacons and the church, we would like to thank you for your faithfulness and uh we have a small gift for you and and we hope that you will enjoy your Christmas time. He gave it to the right person. I should have gave it to him. But we want to thank you all. We love you all very much and we're Glad that God has chosen to place you all here in Shepherd His flock. And you've been very faithful to the Word of God and we're grateful and thankful for that and all that you do. And I know she does a lot that people don't know about. But thank you all very much. God bless you. It's a big blessing to pastor you all and um we just enjoy uh doing it frankly and uh we're thankful that we uh we just it it's you know, I was really reflecting this past week upon all of the people. our church that serve in multiple ways, multiple ministries, and are so faithful in doing so. And so we feel that we're just co-labours along with you in serving here. And we're so I want to wish you all a Merry Christmas, but I actually really want to do that again on the 24th. So we'll see you the 24th. But Merry Christmas to you all and thank you. Very much convention. Heavenly Father, we are grateful this morning again for your gracious gift that you have Given to us through your Son Jesus Christ. And Father, we are thankful this morning for we can celebrate and worship you in this way. We're thankful, Lord, for all the blessings that you have bestowed upon this church. Father, we would not be here if it were not for your son Jesus. Christ. You are the one who has established it. You are the one who has brought us here. You are the one who is sovereign over all. And so, Father, we ask as we go our way that we will keep in our mind this great gift that you did send to us through your Son Jesus Christ and giving us the gift of eternal life through him and his sacrifice. And so Father, as we remember these next few days before we celebrate the actual day of your birth. Help us to remember the reason that we celebrate and the greatest gift that was ever given in your son Jesus. And remind us of that as we go through these days. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen.