Take your Bibles if you would and turn to Galatians, Galatians chapter five Last week we looked at walking in the spirit, and this week we are really continuing that same That same subject matter, how to bear the fruit of the Spirit I remember as a young child I really enjoyed going over to my grandparents' house and in their backyard there are two things I really enjoyed doing. They're totally unrelated to each other, but one was I used to like to go swimming in their pool. They had a nice pool uh and we used to go swimming. I learned to swim in that pool and and spent that we used to have pool parties and things like pool shindigs and things like that. And um and uh really enjoyed that. Well uh the other thing I like to do is they used to have the apple tree in their backyard. And in the apple tree, uh they would have uh apples, if that makes sense. And I would you could go and pick those apples and um and I could you just go and pick 'em and and I would just go and pick 'em and eat 'em. I think my mom and grandparent grandmother told me to wash 'em first but I often didn't. Surprise, surprise. Um and uh so I used to like doing that. Well suppose I wanted my kids to have the same experience of being able to go to the apple tree in our yard and and to pick apples, so I decided I was going to get an apple tree. And uh I told I was telling you about it and I was saying to you, hey, I'm gonna go get it get an apple tree so that my kids can have fresh apples to pick from from our yard. And a week later I came back and he said, Hey, my apple tree's in in my yard, you should come over and see it sometime. And uh and you say, Oh, that fast. You like you you grew an a I mean how I said he they you m and maybe you'd say, Well does it have apples on it already? And I'd say, Yeah, yeah, it has apples on it already. Come on come on come on over and see see my new apple tree And when you drive up to my you know on Elkrachites Road there, when you when you drive up my road and then you see where where I live and you and uh and you see the tr the the tree, you're like, what in the world? I had taken apples and strung them to my dogwood tree and I put them all over my dogwood tree like there's like you know, thirty apples like hanging with fishing wire from my dogwood tree. And you come over to me and you say, I thought you said you had an apple tree. I said, there it is, it's an apple tree. And you say, that is not an apple tree. Say, well, it's a tree with apples on it. What else would it be? It's an apple tree. Now, as silly as that illustration is It really does kind of describe what we do sometimes with the fruit of the Spirit. I have been s you know saved now and for many years And some of the things I have heard, whether it comes w whether it's the preaching and in preaching or teaching or a book series, different things I've seen. I've seen people try to they they'll say I I'm gonna focus on the different uh different fruit of the Spirit each day and I'm gonna really focus on that and make sure that that I get that uh established in my life and then I'll go to the next one and I'll go to the next one, I'll go to the next one. You know that is if we if we try to do that, that is like taking apples and hanging them on a dogwood tree and calling it an apple tree. The point of the fruit of the Spirit is not that we actually focus on producing the fruit. It's the same thing as John chapter 15, which is one of the reasons I suggested we we uh sing that song about abiding in Christ. These concepts of the spilling of the Spirit, the walking in the Spirit And abiding in Christ in John 15 are really all the same kind of thing. It's the same subject matter. And it's very clear, as we'll look at a little bit later, that in Acts and in John chapter 15, it's Christ that does the producing of the fruit. We as the tree bear the fruit, and our command is to abide in Christ. Or as Galatians would put it, our command is to walk in the Spirit, and when we walk in the Spirit, we will be bearing fruit. So, as we go through the fruits of the Spirit in a few moments, and we're going to take some time and go through these, it's important for us to understand why God put them here. In Acts chapter f or I'm sorry, I don't like to keep saying Acts. I'm thinking about our next series soon being the book of Acts. I'm not sure about that yet. I'm still working on that. But um in Galatians chapter five Verse 16 and in 18 and in verse 25, you have clearly this passage is talking about walking in the Spirit or being led by the Spirit. How is it that we are to walk in the Spirit? And we have a real key to this. You'll see in verse 16. Again, it will be twice in 17. There's a particular word also in 24. And we're going to see this, and it's going to be really helpful for us to understand how it is that we are to walk in the Spirit. Will you notice in verse 17 with me? Or verse. 16 will start. I say then walk in the spirit and you shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh Or maybe your Bible says the desire of the flesh. Lust and desire are the same thing. Lust or desire of the flesh. For the flesh, and you see the word again, lusts Against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh, and these are contrary to one another, so that you do not do the things that you wish, so you see this idea of the desires or the lusts of the flesh. Twice in verse 17 and look again in verse 24. Verse 24 says, And these who are Christ have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires, or the same, it's the same word lusts or desires. We discussed last week that that is the word epithumeo, which you don't need to know Greek. That's not the point. The point is it means over-desire. Folks, the key to walking in the Spirit. The key to it is to understand that our lives are a result of the desires of our heart. Our behavior, what we do, comes from what we want. You will do what you most want to do of the options available. So then it standard stands to reason that what God wants us to do is to really adjust our desires to comply with what God wants. And one of the keys to adjusting the desires is actually to understand two things. Number one, where they come from, and what the result will be. If you can understand where something's coming from and where it's going, you can often understand where it's, you know, what the middle is, what's who what it is. And so when it comes to when it comes to what the scripture is saying here is you have two sources of desires. Every Christian, every everyone that knows Christ is their Lord and Savior. has two sources of desires. You were born with the flesh, and you have the desire of the flesh. That is to glorify self, to promote self, to depend on self That's one source of desire. I want to promote myself, depend on myself, trust myself. That's one source of desire And we learned last week what the results of those desires carried out are. And we'll just recover this by looking at it here for just a minute here. Picking up in verse um eight nineteen, now the works of the flesh are evident, which are adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lewdness, idolatry, sorcery, hatred, contentions, jealousies, outbursts of of wrath selfish ambitions, dissensions, heresies, envies, murders, drunkenness, revelries, and the like, of which I tell you beforehand, just as I I also told you in time past, that those who practice such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. Those are the things that happen, the anger and the immorality and the divisiveness and just all All those kinds of things come from that source of desire that we are born with that ultimately desires to promote and to depend upon self. And then you have another if you if you if you come to a place where you understand your sin. You understand that your sin is an offense against God. You understand that Jesus Christ took your sin on himself and died for your sin, died in your place, so that you didn't have to, you don't no longer have to be separated from God. When you understand that and you trust Christ as your Lord and Savior, the Bible says that you are given the Spirit of God in you that energizes your spirit, and so that you have a source within you that gives you good desires. These desires want to glorify God and promote Him. These desires want to depend upon God. These desires want to glorify God. And the key to under and and and we've got to understand that we will always have these two sources of desires. And the one we must choose to follow. And the other we must choose to to to actually to put to death as we'll learn later. To kill, to to starve. We don't w and and in order to understand this God gives us these lists of things, these evidences that you're going one way or the other, that you're following after one way or you're following after another. And so what we're going to do then is look today at the fruit of the Spirit. But when we do this, I want us to understand, we're going to hopefully get a clear picture of what the fruit of the Spirit is, not so I can say, well tomorrow I'm gonna focus on kindness because I'm not kind. Now if you do that, you're actually gonna be depending upon yourself. When we are not demonstrating kindness, it should tell us that there is something wrong with our desires We're promoting self instead of promoting God. We're depending upon self rather than depending on God. And in ought to direct us back to What do we need to do in order to walk in the Spirit? And we're going to understand what that means. How do we stay walking in the Spirit? We'll understand that toward the end of the message. Let's go to the Lord in prayer first and ask his help with all of this. Father, as we come to you this morning, I pray that you would help us to understand what it means and how to walk in the Spirit. I pray, Lord, that as we go through this these different fruits, that if there that that there certainly well may be conviction of the Spirit of God in our lives. May we understand that we ought not turn to self to try to do these things, but they are indications of a heart of desire that needs to be adjusted and we need to follow one and not follow the other. Helped us to Lord to understand all of this, but not only to understand it, to begin living it. Or to continue living it. Maybe we have gotten off track. Help us, Lord, with this, and I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. This is a message that has a lot of a lot of uh a list of fruit and it it There are different ways that you could approach this as we as we go through this. I could have just mentioned them quickly and moved on. Instead I'm going to take a little bit slower approach and I want to mention each one of these fruit, uh each one of these this fruit of the spirit. And what I want to do with this is kind of define it for you and help us to understand what it looks like and really actually what it doesn't look like. I need to mention this. I rarely do this, but I need to mention that a lot of the information I'm getting as far as the fruit of the spirit, the definitions, the um the w how they work, the opposites and the and all that, come from a book uh by a man by the name of Timothy Keller, who wrote a book called Galatians for You. Now I am I usually don't get my sour I I mean I did look uh them up from other places and stuff. It's not like I just I'm just using the source, but so much of what I'm using today when it comes to describing these fruits of the Spirit comes from that book. I felt it just necessary to tell you where it's coming from. It's coming from scripture, but the way that he defines things, the way that he words things, I just found to be very helpful. So Just want to kind of identify that at the beginning of this. The very first fruit of the Spirit we find in verse 22, it is the fruit of love. God wants us to love others. This particular fruit stands to some degree a little different than the other from the other fruit. This particular fruit is a command. This particular fruit actually Christ commands just a couple of verses earlier. And he says in Galatians chapter 5, verse 13, for you brethren have been called to liberty, only do not use liberty as the opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve one another. For all the law is fulfilled in one word, even in this you shall love your neighbor as yourself. But folks, even though this is a command. The only way we're going to be able to really love someone the way God wants us to love them, no question, is by the power of the Spirit of God in our lives. Have you ever said to yourself, I just can't love that person? Well, guess what? You're right. You can't. But the Spirit of God does and can give you the desire, and you can cultivate that desire to love someone the way that God wants us to. It is a source of the Spirit. We find this in Romans chapter 5, verse 5. New hope does not disappoint because the love of God has been poured out in our hearts. by the Spirit of the Holy Spirit who has given to us. Romans 5. 5, Romans 15. 30. Now I beg you, brethren, through the Lord Jesus Christ and through the love of the Spirit, that you strive together with me in prayers to God for me. Colossians 1. 8, who also declared us your love in the Spirit. Where do we get this love for others that we're supposed to have? It is from the Spirit of God. It is as the Spirit of God energizes our spirit, that source of desire grows where we can love the unlovable. We can love people without expecting anything in return. In fact, that's a good definition of love. Love really means to give of oneself or to serve a person for their good and their value. Not for what a person brings to you or what benefit you have. Biblical God kind of love is a love that, and by the way, that's how God loves us. Aren't you glad about that? When God saved you, it had nothing to do with how valuable you are. It had everything to do with his great love for you, in spite of the fact that you were of no value to him. It is because when you come to Christ, that's what makes you valuable. He recreates you. He makes, gives you a new life in him, and now you're valuable to him. He did that all because he loves you. And that's the way we ought to love others. Not seeing what we can get out of them, but just simply giving to them and loving them the way that God loves us. This is something that only comes From God Himself. It's something that is clearly not from us. The opposite of love is fear. The Bible says that perfect love casts out fear, and fear has torment in 1 John. The counterfeit for this, the counterfeit for this through the Spirit, is selfish affection for someone. Where you are attracted to someone and you treat them well because of how they make you feel about yourself. This is often common in in dating experiences. Where it's they it's not God kind of love that they have for each other. I'm not saying that all dating experiences are wrong or anything like that for sure. They really just like how they feel how you that person feels about makes them feel They have affection for them because they feel better about themselves when they're with them or whatever, that kind of thing. And that's not God kind of love. God kind of love takes the person that has no that you don't really see any value in, but you love them anyway because God loves them and you want to love them the way God does. Paul mentions love as a extremely key element to the Christian life in many contacts contexts. 1 in Romans chapter 12 verse 9 it says, let love be without hypocrisy, abhor that is what is evil, cling to what is good. And then he says after that, after the love, there's going to be other things that come from this, like it says, be kindly affectionate one to another with brotherly love. In honor, giving preference to one another, not lagging in uh in diligence, fervent in spirit, serving the Lord, rejoicing in hope, patience and tribulation. And it lists all kinds of other things, but it starts with this importance of loving God and loving one another. Folks, don't think for a moment that you and I are walking in the Spirit if we are not loving each other. We cannot think that. We are walking in the flesh when we are not giving of ourselves to each other expecting nothing in return. I guess I probably should say that love is not sappy sentimentalism. It's not that you can't we can understand what love really is. But if we're not loving each other, it indicates to us a problem. It indicates a problem that we are trying to follow after the desires of self. Because these things don't go together. You can't follow after the flesh that desires to promote self and follow after God that desires to love others. Those two things don't work together. They're separate from each other. And so if we look in our lives and we say, you know, I'm not loving the way that God wants me to, it ought to cause us to depend upon Him. To go back to him and say, Lord, I'm not, I can't do this on my own. And to cultivate the God-given biblical desire that God has given within every one of us to love others. Sometimes we suppress it. We're like, we diminish the good desires. We make them as small as we can, and we exalt the the sinful desires of our hearts And that is, of course, a a tragedy when we do that. So love is the first fruit of the Spirit. When we love others, the way that God wants us to, it opens up the door for all of these other fruits of the Spirit. And the next one that we that that will probably happen in your life, and I'm not saying that these are all sequential, by the way, I think love is defined as the first one. The rest of them aren't necessarily in any any order as far as I can tell. Well the next one is joy. The Bible tells us in Romans 14, 17. For the kingdom of God is not eating and drinking, but righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. Joy is not dependent upon your circumstances or what is happening in your life. Joy is a delight in God for his sheer beauty and worth. of who he is. A delight in God for the sheer beauty and worth of who he is. That's joy. You know the wonderful thing about joy? When we learn to delight in God, Your circumstances can't shake it. Because God's the same yesterday, today, and forever. When you learn to enjoy the Word of God and the character of God, and you learn to delight in God, when that begins to happen in your life, then it is not influenced by your circumstances. And God wants us to understand that we That joy is a fruit of cultivating the desires of the Spirit of God in our lives, joy is going to result. And by the way, it's often uh there's often the the counterfeit that we we see. The counterfeit of joy is really um enthusiasm over experiences Elation that is based upon experience, enthusiasm that is short-lived, getting excited about one thing or another. Now there's nothing wrong with getting excited about a particular thing. There's nothing wrong with that. But folks, when we think that that is joy, and that's something else entirely. Joy is a constant. Joy is something that we can delight in all of the time, no matter what our circumstances are facing. rather than the counterfeit of of um of experien of being excited over experiences. It is the opposite of all of this is hopelessness and despair. Somebody who is feeling hopeless Somebody who is feeling despair is not someone who is finding their their are is walking in the spirit and not producing joy. The next one is very similar in nature to it, and that's the that and that is peace. And what I've done here is given you the the Greek words or the Greek transliteration is what it's actually called. I didn't actually put Greek up there. Just because some of these are pretty familiar. Agape, for example, is kara is a very familiar uh Greek ver word that you might read when you're reading different things. The next one is not that as familiar. It's Irene. And Romans chapter 14, verse 17 says, For the kingdom of God is not eating and drinking. But righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. Romans 15, 13 says Now may the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing that you may abound in hope by the power of the Spirit. Hope is the confidence and rest in the wisdom and control of God rather than your own control. It is the confidence and rest in the wisdom and control of God Do you find that to be true in your life? But there is a confidence and rest in the wisdom and control of God. A counterfeit of of peace. Actually the opposite of peace is anxiety and worry. This is the one that I usually know I'm not walking in the spirit when this thing kits kicks in in my heart. I'm not being led by the Spirit of God when this anxiety and worry kicks in. I'm a warrior. And um I shouldn't define myself that way. I'm a I'm a child of God, right? That's probably part of my problem. But but I have to I actually have to um to when that happens I sort of say, Well, uh what's going wrong? I I I need to go back and depend upon God again. I need to go back and and understand why that's happening. Worry and anxiety as a result as a as the opposite of peace. A counterfeit to peace is actually indifference or apathy or not caring. Some people think well I'm at peace. I'm at peace. I don't care what happens. That's not peace. Peace is not I don't care Okay, that's a counterfeit to peace. A lot of people do that, by the way. They can't handle the worry and the anxiety, and so the result is they check out. They they they don't they they say, well, I'm not gonna care because if I care I worry. No, your problem is that you're following after the flesh. That's the problem. You're not cultivating the desires of the Spirit of God in your life. You're not following out of the Spirit of God in your life. And as a result, you're worrying. The answer is walking in the Spirit. The answer is the is depending upon the Spirit of God. Now, hopefully, by the way, this is welling up within you a desire to know how you do this. How then do I walk in the Spirit of God? Well, hang tight, it's coming. The next one is patience and endurance. And I'm going to have to move a little faster here. Patience and endurance. That's a a fruit. It's not a root. It's a fruit of the Spirit. It means it's the ability to face trouble without blowing up or hitting out. Or escaping. The opposite is resentment toward God and others The counterfeit of this is cynicism or lack of care. It's kind of similar to the whole problem of peace. Uh it's it's sort of thinking that the thing is too small to care about. So I I'm going to not care. I can in I can keep I can endure because I just don't care. The next one is kindness. Kindness is the ability to serve others practically in a way that makes us makes me vulnerable, makes us vulnerable, which comes from having a deep inner security. We'll talk about the security issue in a minute. Kindness is the ability to serve others practically, even to the point of being vulnerable in order to do that. The opposite of this is envy Which leaves me unable to rejoice in others' joy. Kindness rejoices in others' joy. If I, if somebody is enjoying something, they're having joy in their life, kindness wants to, I want to see more joy in their life. If I'm envious, which we've already seen as a as a uh uh a fruit of the of the flesh, then we're not going to be we're not going to have that in our lives. The counterfeit is manipulative good deeds. Doing good for others so I can congratulate myself and feel good enough for God and for others. Remember this, keeping this in mind. Be careful about this. Kindness can be because I'm feeling it makes me feel good about me. That is an over-desire. It's a desire of the flesh, not of the Spirit of God. Rather than taking joy over someone else's joy. Romans 2. 4 says, Or do you despise the riches of goodness, forbearance, and long-suffering, not knowing that the goodness of God leads you to repentance? Therefore, consider the goodness and severity of God. Sometimes this word kindness is also translated goodness, which is interesting because the next word is actually goodness, which is also translated kindness. They're almost interchangeable in Scripture. This word goodness, agatusun, the definition of this is integrity, being the same person in every situation rather than phony or hypocrite. That's the opposite, phony or hypocrite. Its counterfeit is someone who is always truthful but not loving, getting things off your chest just to make yourself feel better. Somebody some people say, well, I have integrity because I just tell you everything I I'm thinking. No. That's not integrity. That's getting something off your chest chest to make yourself feel better. That's goodness. The next is faithfulness. Faithfulness is loyalty and courage. To be reliable. That's faithfulness. Are you reliable? The opposite is to be an opportunity, to be friendly in good times. And to not be friendly in bad times. When things are going well, to be a friend, to be faithful to someone or to God. When things are not, then then you're not. You drop off. That's faithfulness. The next one is gentleness. I'm going to move through these. If you want to write down set for the faithfulness, you want to write down Titus 2. 10 and 1 Timothy 4. 12. They're two good passages about faithfulness. Actually, there are many others about faithfulness. Gentleness is the next. It means humility. Get this? It's self-forgetfulness. Have you been so occupied with loving God and doing things for others, it's like you're forgetting yourself. Gentleness forgets self. The opposite is self-absorbed. Someone who is feeling superior to everybody else. The counterfeit to this is someone who is simply mild-mannered or introverted. This is not a list of temperaments. We're going to learn this a little bit later. This is not, well, some people are just joyful people and some people are gentle people. No, no. These are fruits of the Spirit. These are not natural gifts here that we have or temperaments that we have. And so we need to understand that. We'll see understand that a little bit more. The next one is self-control. That's self-control is the ability to pursue the important over the urgent. The the ability to be able to to control oneself and not to and and and not to go out of control. I mean self-control is pretty obvious The counterfeit is like the willpower based on pride to feel in control. I'm going to control my s have you ever met you you know you maybe do this what self your way yourself we all have where self I'm s I'm in control because I'm going to be in control over myself. It's gonna my s it's almost from a point of pride instead of Control because of humility, self-control because of humility because I'm not going to get all upset because it's not affecting me in the way that because I have joy and I'm I'm following after the Spirit of God, those kinds of things Uh that's quite a list, isn't it? When you begin to sort of think through those. The question I would have is, which one of those, or maybe more than one, you say to yourself, you know what, those are real areas in my life that would help me to to it would be an indicator to me It would be like a warning light to me that I am not following after the Spirit of God. I'm not walking in the Spirit. That's the purpose of these. Or an indicator that I am walking in the Spirit of God. You ever had a joy that you just don't understand? How or or or have you ever shown kindness to somebody that you you would you would developed uh but you wouldn't normally think to show kindness to that person. I think some of us, all of us have different temperaments, different ways, but the things that you wouldn't normally do that that you you do because and you desire because of the fruits of the spirit that you're emulating, those are the things that really begin to indicate to you what's happening. It's like uh last week I had a I had a warning light on my on my on the suburban. I had a warning light on my on the dash. It was a check engine light. It was the same get this. It was the same day that I had an emiss I had my my emissions was due. The light comes on. Now, of course I don't do it ahead of time. I do it like the rest of you all. I do it the day of. I mean that's just the way you're supposed to do these things. Actually I sometimes I do do it ahead of time, but not lately. Everything has been the tyranny of the urgent in my life lately. Hopefully that will change eventually Um and uh and the same so I'm going, really? So you know I put the c I we figured out what the code was. It was the oxygen sensor. It's not gonna pass with a bad with a bad oxygen sensor in it. So well, how did I know there was a problem? I really didn't want to go all the way to the emissions test and fail and then have to come back. I was glad I saw the warning and and and uh and and realized what was wrong and took care of the problem. These should be indicators to us of whether or not we are following after the flesh or following after the Spirit of God. And God makes this really clear by giving us both. He didn't just give us the fruits of the Spirit. Last week we looked at the evidences of the flesh. He gives us both of these things. So it's helpful for us to understand this. Now it says in verse 23, it says, there is no law against such things. When it comes to the fruit of the Spirit, there's no law against them. In other words, these are things that you can do freely. You can you you really can't over-desire love some for someone, true biblical, godly love for them. You can't over-desire kindness towards someone or true biblical kindness. These are not things that you're gonna you know, when you when when the Spirit of God works in your life and you have desires about these things and you carry out those desires We gotta get out of everybody uh half of you looked over there to see the person go the wrong way on the one one way street, and so did I. Anyway. Sorry. Uh you know you did. I uh everybody went Like why are they going down the one way street? I don't know who that is, but why are they going down one way street? Anyway, okay. Get back on track here. All right. All right. Sorry. Uh um So so it sa the the it's saying here basically that that these desires are not going to lead to fulfillment of the flesh. There's no law against these things, because you can freely do these. Now we need to understand now they're going the right way. Okay. We have got to put blinds on these things. All right. Okay. All right. Okay. Anyway. All right, now now now we gotta go turn the blinds. Somebody remember to turn the blinds next week. All right. Now we have got to re we've got to remember maybe this is more distracting for me than you. Is it distracting for you all too? Oh thank you, okay. Alright. I can't see it. Yeah, okay. But he's you guys are okay. You turn this way. All right. Um I want us to notice a couple of things about this fruit. Uh we we we won't take the time. I would really encourage you to well Yeah. Uh John chapter 15 says this. I'm just going to read it to you. I am the vine and the true I am the true vine, and my father is the vine dresser. Every branch in me that does not bear fruit, he takes away. And every branch that bears fruit, he prunes it, that may bear more fruit. You are already clean because of the word which I spoke unto you. Abide in me and I in you As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself unless it abide in the vine, neither can you unless you abide in me. I am the vine, you are the branches, he who abides in me and I in him bears much fruit, for without me he can do nothing. So let's we before we go on to how we walk in the Spirit, we really got to grasp what this fruit of the Spirit is for and how it works. And I have four implications. Number one, the growth of the spirit, the reason that Paul uses this term fruit is that the growth of the fruit of the spirit is gradual, not immediate. Now aren't you glad for that? The growth of the fruit of the Spirit is a gradual thing that grows, just like a turnip or a potato. And sometimes trying to measure the fruit of the Spirit every day can be quite frustrating. But if you look back at your life and you can see the kindness that's grown that you didn't have, it's not from your flesh. Some of you are naturally kind. I'm not I I'm really not. I'm honestly not. I'm not naturally kind. If I'm kind, you can guarantee I'm walking in the spirit. My wife's shaking at her said no. I'm glad she's not going there anyway. So so uh um uh uh so gro uh gradual not immediate. Um but when we look back at the fruit we ought to see growth. It's not that we're necessarily going to say I have all these take if anybody if I read through these and anybody says I got this taking I got them licked, come see me because I want to, you know I want to get to know you and you can disciple me more because I've got a lot of work to do on it. But but this is uh this is something that's gradual and not immediate. Number two, we'll go to the next one. Number two Is this is inevitable, not merely possible. The fruit is inevitable, not merely possible. The reason that's important to understand is that when we are walking in the Spirit, the fruit will come. It will happen. It's guaranteed to happen. Now this should be a great blessing to us when we think of it this way. Because if we will just walk in the Spirit and be faithful to the Lord, this fruit will come. We will grow over time. Number three, the growth of the spirit of spiritual fruit has internal roots rather than merely external traits. This is extremely important. Internal roots rather than external traits The problem with the church at Corinth was that they had gotten too into their own giftedness. If you read through the through the book of 1 Corinthians, you find that they are exalting all kinds of different gifts, and Paul is saying Stop exalting the gifts. 1 Corinthians 13, love is what you need to focus on. Do you remember that? And they were saying in the church of Corinth that if you if you exercise your spiritual gifts, That demonstrates that you are following after the Spirit of God. They were focused on the spiritual gifts rather than the fruit of the Spirit. And you and I naturally do that. We we think that that is the case. That if we follow, that if somebody is is is seems to be really gifted in area, well they must be filled with the Spirit. And we have to be very careful about that. The reason we incline our way, our ear we incline that way is because we are so um we're so focused on things that we can see, things that are tangible. These are these fruit this fruit is really intangible. You can't necessarily see it. You can only see the evidences of it. So we need to understand that. Betts, one commentator, said they do not represent qualities of personal behavior which man can elect, cultivate, and appropriate as part of his character. These are internal things that happen to us as we follow after the Spirit of God in our lives. These are not things that we can cultivate. These are not things that we can work on. If we're thinking in those terms, we're not understanding what the fear what the fruit of the Spirit really is for, and understanding how we are to walk in the Spirit. And finally, the growth of the spiritual fruit, and I didn't know best this is the word I came up with, is symmetrical, not isolated. That's kind of complicated. I'll just mention it this way Did you notice that in the passage it says the fruit singular of the Spirit? And then it lifts a bunch of things. The reason it's it's that way, it's that it it is these this is a package. This is not, well, if I follow after the Spirit of God, then I'm gonna have one of these and not the other. No, actually, all of these are going to begin to germinate and take root and grow in our lives as we are being filled with the Spirit of God and as we are walking in the Spirit of God. All of these things will grow They are you can't say, well, I'm just really good at that one and not good at the That is not the way this works. This is something that happens in our life. So you could say, well, I really I'm really kind to people, but I'm not very patient with people. You're not walking after the spirit then. I'm I'm really I'm really self-controlled, but I don't really love people. You're not walking after the spirit then. This is this is an all or nothing uh package here It's not natural temperaments, it's not a matter of being temperamentally one way or another Well that person's really must be filled with spirit because he has great joy or no. This is this is something that is a package together. Now with that understanding then we can then move to how we grow in the fruit of the spirit. How do we grow this way? And there are three clear, three summary statements. We're going to call them components That have to happen in your life and in my life in order for us to be to bear fruit. All of these things need to be here. All of these things have to be a focus. We need all of them in order to actually bear fruit in our lives because we're walking in the Spirit. Component number one. Actually, look at verses 24 and 25. We'll see these here. 24 and 25. And those who are Christ have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit. Let us not become conceited, provoking one another, envying one another. So if we live in the Spirit, it says, let us also walk in the Spirit. And it taught tells us that if we if uh verse 24 is very important. And those who are Christ have crucified the flesh With its passions and desires. Number one, component number one. Since we belong to Christ, we must rest in Christ's approval. You will never walk after the Spirit of God in your life. I will never walk after the Spirit of God in my life if we are looking for approval from either God or others. This is absolutely necessary to be able to walk in the Spirit. You must accept and rest. in the approval of God, not based upon you, but based upon Christ. It brings freedom. This approval is so important, and it's something that Christians and unbelievers for that matter, everybody struggles with this. We want to be approved. We want to be accepted. Folks, you will never walk after the Spirit of God, neither will I, if we are looking to be approved, God's already approved us If we are looking to be accepted by God, God has already accepted us. One of the best illustrations I can think of is the difference between a parent and an employer. If you're being a good parent or a good employer. If an employ if you're an employer, you work for him and you do what you do for him, why? Because you can get fired if you don't. We want measured approval from our employer, but we know good and well that, you know, uh we we there's this there's this barrier here We need his approval in order to remain to remain employed. A parent's not that way, a good parent. My parent my kids don't need my approval in order to remain my children. Neither do you need to try to work for God's approval in order to remain his child. Now this brings a particular freedom for us when we understand this. It means it gives you the freedom to admit your sin. Why sometimes do we not confess our sin to God? Because we're too busy looking for his approval, and it's almost like we're afraid to confess our sin. Approval from God gives us the freedom to confess our sin and agree with God. Yes, Lord, I was wrong, I've sinned, I've done wrong, I agree with you about this, and yet I know I'm approved by you, I'm accepted by you. Just like a parent, a child should be able to come to a parent and say, look, I I've done wrong. And the parent's going to be upset and the parents going to punish, and the parents going to do the right thing with that But I'm not going to say, well, no, you're no longer my child. There is nothing my kid could ever do that would keep them from that would stop them from being my child And it's the same way with our relationship with God when we're a child of God. And folks, you you look, we've got to un and I'm preaching this kind of hard because I've seen this so often where we are trying to gain approval from God by what we do. We will not be able to walk in the Spirit if that is the case. We instead need to rest in the approval Rest in the acceptance of God. You are accepted in the beloved. And you've got to wake up every day believing that. And living it out. And stop trying to find your own approval or trying to find your own acceptance from God or from others. You've got it from God because of Christ, if you're saved. And when you have that, that's now going to establish fertile soil to be able to plant those seeds that are going to come up as spiritual fruit. That's the first step. You've got hard stony soil if you're still looking for the acceptance that you already have in Christ. Number two, since we have been we have crucified the flesh, we must crucify the desires of the flesh. It says in Galatians chapter 2 verse 20, I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ lives in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh I live by the faith of the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. I do not set aside the grace of God, for if righteousness comes through the law, then Christ died in vain. This passage tells us, and many others actually tell us, that we have already crucified the flesh. That source that is within us cannot require us to sin any longer. We no longer have to sin anymore, even though that we still have the desires to sin. And because this crucified, because we no longer have to sin, the answer is to number one, realize you never have to sin. And number two, to realize that from that still comes desires, and you've got to catch those desires and you've got to kill them. You've got to kill, crucify the desires, the passions, and the desires of the flesh. You've got to crucify desires when you identify them as the flesh from the flesh. It's what the passage is saying Now let me ask you a question. What is the easiest way to kill something? Anyone ever thought about what is the what is the most the effortless way, the most effortless way to kill something? The answer is to starve it. Don't feed it. If you don't feed it, eventually it will die. There is nothing nothing on earth that if you don't feed, it'll just keep living. And you know what you and I need to do when it comes to those desires for the flesh? We need to starve them. Starve those desires. Don't cultivate them. Don't keep thinking about them. Don't keep wanting it. Don't keep if we keep wanting those desires and cultivating the desires and thinking those desires. Eventually we will do them And we all know what that looks like. No, when when we recognize that those desires are desires that are coming from our flesh, we need to starve them. Kill them, identify them for what they are, and realize where they're coming from, and not cultivate those desires Choose not to do that. John Owen said, Be killing sin, or sin will be killing you. Romans 8, verse 13 says, For if we live according to the flesh, you will die. But if you but if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live. Colossians 3. 5, therefore put to death your members which are on the earth. Fornication, uncleanness, passion, evil desires, covetous with it, which is idolatry. There's actually more passages I could go to that talk about that. Killing the desires of the flesh. That's number two. It's clearly in the passage there. I don't have the time to go through all the material that I have here, but I'll just quickly then go to number three. And we will flesh more of this out tonight. We'll see more of this tonight. Number three. Since we are led by the Spirit, we need to keep in step with the Spirit. Okay. Now you you can't you you can't you're not ready to do this if you're if you're not doing the other two. And all of these work together. It's not like it's sequential, okay, well now I've done that, now I move to that. No, you have to keep doing that. You have to keep resting in God's approval of you You have to keep doing that. While you are crucifying the desires of the flesh, you have to keep doing that. And when you keep doing those two things, then what will begin to grow in you are desires from the Spirit of God. Those desires are cultivated by meditating on the Word of God. They're cultivated by knowing God's word and knowing who He is. The idea of delighting in God and enjoying God As we begin to do that in our lives, we begin to walk and step, we begin to identify those spiritual desires, and then we can follow those. We can say, yeah, that is a desire from God. I want to be generous to that that tr the that person needs has a need, that person needs help. And I I I I I don't want to distify that one. That's a good one. I'm gonna I'm gonna go I'm gonna cultivate that desire That person needs love gentle. Those desires that come from us that ultimately help us, many of these are a matter of loving one another. Really is the boil the bottom line, which is what the passage just previously said. Serve others and love others. That's how you fulfill the whole law. How do you do that? Walk after the Spirit. What is that going to look like? Be gentle with others Be kind to others, be loving toward others, all those things. And so we need to walk in step with the Spirit of God. This is an active process. This is not I wake up and somehow sort of know that there's a spirit somewhere and that I'm gonna follow. No, no. This is desires that you are actively saying, you know what, that is a desire that the Lord wants for me. And it comes by obedience. I mean we're going to follow what God says and read His Word and know it. And then there are going to be things as we walk walk along each day that God that we we desire to do because they are spiritually cultivated desires. And those things we must cultivate and do. I actually have three questions to conclude our thoughts for today. Number one, how can you see the fruit of the Spirit growing in your life? Can you see that? The fruit of the Spirit growing in your life. Number two. Do you have natural characteristics which could be confused with the fruit of the Spirit? Be careful that you're not saying, well, I'm walking in the Spirit because of some natural characteristic that you just emulate. Number three, what are the idols which need identifying and dismantling in your life that are keeping you from walking in the Spirit? Number four, how can you replace them with Christ? How can you replace those idols with Christ himself? Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you today and we thank you for your word. Lord, we admit before you that as we look at the fruit of the Spirit in our own lives, it's it it uh I'm sure all of us can say we need growth. Father, I pray that you would help us as we give us the discernment in our lives internally as we walk with you and pray with you. Meditate on your word. Give us the discernment to know those desires that come from the flesh and those that come from the Spirit of God. It is hard sometimes to know the difference. It gets c it gets it can be confusing. Father, I pray that you would just work with us and grow us so that there is clarity about these things. That we would follow those three components, that we would find our acceptance in you alone. That we would crucify, put to death the desires that come from the flesh, and that we would walk and step with your spirit We pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. At this time, what we're going to do is we're going to be entering into our communion service. We have communion once a month in the morning. And uh what we're going