John Chapter One I think that everyone who has lived for any length of time is well aware that they find in their lives various kinds of voids. and needs, whether it be physical needs or emotional needs or social needs Spiritual needs. There are various kinds of needs that we all have. And really, I think the longer we go through life, the more we realize how needy we really are. There is a human reaction to a pursuit to fill the void of our various needs. And that particular reaction is one that we have to be very careful of, and that is to fill voids in our lives with pursuits. That are trying to go our own way and doing things our own way rather than looking to Christ. Christ is the only one that lastingly and can sustainably fill the voids in our lives. And of course, all of the voids in our lives find their root in sin. And of course, sin is occurred from the very beginning with Adam and Eve. The effects of the fall are all over the place, and you can see them every single day of your life. But we are affected by the fall, even if we know Christ as our personal Lord and Savior. If you think of your typical day, let's suppose you wake up in the morning, and that's a good first step, right? So you wake up in the morning and you go down and let's suppose you need to meet a spiritual need, and so you spend some time with the Lord. And then there's no Bible, no breakfast, that's your rule of thumb. It's a good rule. Coffee, but not breakfast. Coffee you just need to be able to get yourself enough physical need to be able to eat uh to to be able to have some spiritual sustenance anyway. Um well I I'm talking about myself, I don't know about anybody else, but anyway. Um and then you go and you eat food because you need to meet a physical need And then you're meeting the needs probably of your family, many of you, with other with maybe helping others to get their needs met. And then perhaps you either go off to work or you're You're homeschooling or you're sending your bringing your kids to to school and you're meeting their educational needs. And you're meeting if you're going off to work, you're meeting your family's needs, physical physical needs needs. And I mean if you th and then you come home after a long day's work or after a long day with a kid, you're already home and you want to meet you have perhaps some emotional needs after a long day. And so maybe you do some things of leisure or uh relaxation to help your own needs in those areas. Or maybe you have other things that you're doing in order to meet various needs. In fact, if you really think about it, how all how much time do we spent just meeting either our needs or the needs of our family? I mean, it's most of the time. And we can go in day in and day out and meet needs and have needs and meet needs and have needs. And it's almost, it's like a vicious cycle of meeting needs and having needs. And this is essentially the human plight. Every single one of us. It should be unanimous if if I say how many of you spend a lot of time meeting needs And you know, without Christ, it's a miserable existence. The greatest problem in our lives, and in the unbelievers' life particular, Is when they don't even realize how miserable they really are. Because they wake up every day having needs and meeting needs and having more needs and meeting more needs. And there's this vicious cycle going on in their lives. And it's like, you know, a lot of times you sometimes there's this awakening, midlife crisis kind of a thing where you realize, man, I am just this is like Miserable. That's what it's like without Christ And yet, a Christ life is a different kind of life altogether. See, if you're living a Christ life and you're heeding the words of Christ who said, take my yoke upon you and learn of me. For I am meek and lowly in heart, and ye shall find rest for your souls, for my burden is my yoke is easy, my burden is light. If we are living that kind of life, then we're living for Christ And he's meeting our needs. And when we go to work, we're not just meeting the needs of our family or the meeting the needs of ourselves. When we go to work, we're serving Christ. And he's meeting our needs. And when we're eating food, well that's pretty much what me and our needs, but um we that's kind of necessary. But you could even do that for God's glory, can't you? Because the Bible says, whatsoever you eat and drink, and whatsoever you do, you do for what The glory of God. You see, the Christ life is one where I am not just trying to pursue the meeting of my own needs. The Christ life is I am looking to Christ. to meet my needs and I'm serving him. It's a different kind of life. And what we're going to learn in this text is that John is very, and actually throughout the book of John, John is very concerned that his readers Get it. They get the reality that Christ says He is our life and our light in darkness. We desperately need this. That is the need that we have, don't we? The need for Christ And whether you are listening today and you don't know him, or you are listening today and you know him, the need is the same. The need is for Christ. And sustainable, eternal, lasting fulfillment is only going to be found in Christ alone. We need God's help as we go into this passage. Because what John is about to do is going to open for us some very foundational material for us understanding the Christ's life. And we need his help. Let's pray. Father, we come to you today and we thank you for your word. We thank you for the richness of it. We thank you for the depth. And we thank you that it is. That Christ, that Christ is water for a thirsty soul, and the bread of life for those who hunger. And I pray today, Lord, as we get into the very foundational truths of Christ's incarnation. That we would we would stand in awe of Christ this morning Lord, this is the Spirit's work. Work that only that your Spirit can do as we study your as we look at your word and allow you To impress upon our hearts the significance of this truth. And we ask for it. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, we have already seen in the last couple of messages that John has depicted Christ in chapter 1 as the life and as the light. A light that pierces the darkness of this world, the sin of the world, the moral depravity of the world, the blindness of the world, it is Christ who does this. And last week we looked at verses 6 through 13 and we found the world's response was in most cases rejection to this light. The world, he came into the world and is and the world did not receive him, and he came into his own, and they did not receive him. But there were some, as many as did receive him, to them gave he the power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. And today what we are looking at is a is John desiring in the very final words of this prologue, of this passage, he wants his readers to to just understand why it is so important that they receive him It's important and helpful to understand, and I don't know that I've mentioned this before, that as we look at this, I want you to notice a few things about this passage. But at the outset, I want us to understand That John is writing to a group of people that are named as the diaspora. The diaspora were Jewish people. that were and it wasn't all totally completely Jewish people but there were Jewish people that were scattered abroad all over the all over the the the area. It wasn't as though he was going to a sent writing to a specific location James was written to the same group of people. And these people were sort of on the fence, if you will, when it came to the claims of Christ. And so it is in a Jewish context that we find this passage and this important, the important elements of this we've got to understand in that realm, with considering what they would already know. Now, when John says these words, beginning in verse 14, I want you to notice a couple of things here. First of all, you'll see in chapter 1, verse 14, and the word was made flesh. And he has only referred to the word back in verse 1 of this chapter. And the word, we have already noted, is Christ Himself, particularly talking about the pre-incarnate Christ. But now this word, who is the revelation of God, is become flesh. But I do want you to notice a couple of things, just in introduction, I just want to point them out to you that will help us to understand this passage. It says in verse 14, the last part, it says, and this word came and dwelt among us. The middle part of this. And dwelt among us. And that word dwelt means tabernacled. You could actually even translate it that way. Tabernacled among us. That this word that became flesh Tabernacled among us. It would have sent, this word dwelt would have sent a picture in the mind of the Jewish reader as they read these words of the dwelling place of God, the tabernacle in the Old Testament. And then you have here then in verse 17, would you notice clearly he is going to bring up the most venerated and the most authoritative voice For the Old Testament Jewish believer, and that is Moses. Do you see here verse 17? And the law was given by who? By Moses, and grace and truth came by Jesus Christ. And then this concept of no one ever being able to be seen, to see God. was a clear something that the Jewish people held on to and they clearly understood and that went back to the time of Moses. In other words, folks, as a Jewish reader would have read this passage, their minds would have gone back to the account of Moses when he was on the mount with God himself. And I want you to take your Bibles and actually turn there now to Moses, to Genesis, or Exodus chapter 34. Exodus 34. Actually 33 first. This is the description of Moses who is going to be in the presence of God. And there are some very important things if we're going to understand the weight and the significance of this passage that we need to understand about this passage in Exodus 33. In verse 8 of Exodus 33 it says this, and it came to pass when Moses went out into the tabernacle, that all the people rose up and stood every man at his tent door, and looked after Moses until he had gone into the tabernacle. And it came to pass, as Moses entered into the tabernacle, a cloudy pillar descended and stood at the door of the tabernacle, and the Lord talked with Moses. And all the people saw the cloudy pillar stand at the tabernacle door. And all the people rose up and up and worshipped, every man in his tent door. And the Lord spake unto Moses. Notice what it says there. Look at the intimacy with which God spoke to Moses. It says what? Face to face. As a man speaketh unto his friend. And he learned again into the camp. Sorry, he turned again into the camp. But his servant Joshua, the son of Nun, a young man, departed not out of the tabernacle. And Moses said to the Lord See, thou sayest unto me, Bring up this people, and thou hast not let me know whom thou wilt send with me. Yet thou hast said, I know thee by name, and thou hast also found grace. Notice that, grace in my sight. Now therefore I pray thee, I have found grace in thy sight. Show me now thy way, that I may know thee. And I and that my gr that I may find grace in thy sight and consider that this nation is thy people. And he said, My presence shall go with thee, and I will give thee rest. And he said unto him, If thy presence go not with me, carriest not up hence. And wherein shall it be known here that I of thy people have found grace in thy sight? Is it not in thou that goest with us? So shall we be separated and I and thy people from all the people that are upon the face of the earth. And the Lord said unto Moses, I will do this thing also that thou hast spoken, for thou hast found grace in thy in my sight, and I know thee by name. Notice again that const that that word grace there is mentioned. Now, I want you to notice then in verse 18 what Moses asked for. He has already asked for God's presence. He has already asked for God to illumine his way. And he has already said that if you will not do this, please do not lead us because we can't do without you, expressing his own dependence. But Moses is now going to go one step further, and he is going to say this. And he said, I beseech thee, show me thy what? Thy glory. Moses wants to see the glory of God now. That phrase, show me thy glory, is going to become very important in understanding this text. So I want you to keep that in mind. That word show is going to be important. And that word glory is going to be important. Just really, really keep that indelibly in your mind for a few moments. You're going to need that phrase, show me thy glory. Well, how does God respond to this request? Verse 19. And he said, I will make all my goodness pass before thee, and I will proclaim the name of the Lord before thee and will be gracious to whom I will be gracious, and I will show mercy to whom I will be show mercy. And he said, Thou canst see my face. For there shall no man see me and live. What was God's response? Folks, essentially, he said, you can't. Now he's going to go as far as he can go at this point. But he essentially says, you can't see all my glory. Moses wants the full weight of it. He wants all of God's glory. He says, show me my thy glory. And Moses said, and God says I'm going to show you graciousness. I'm going to show you mercy. I'm going to show you all kinds of things. But you can't see all of my glory. Nobody's seen that and lived. Now, keep all this in your mind, it's going to become very important. And the Lord said, Behold, there is a place by me And thou shalt stand upon a rock, and it shall come to pass while my glory passeth by, that I will put thee in a cle in in a cliff of the rock And I will cover thee with my hand while I pass by. I will take away mine hand, and thou shalt see my back parts But my face shall not be seen. He says, I'm going to, Moses, I'll I'll let you go as far as I can take you. My glory will pass by. I'll cover you with my hand. You will never be able to see the full weight of my glory. Nobody's ever done that, but I'll let you get as close as possible. Now folks, what do you suppose when when the Israelites read this and saw the accounting of these things, how do you suppose they responded? Well, they responded with great admiration for Moses. This kind of account was not anywhere else. in Scripture. You don't find anywhere else that has this kind of connection with God in the Old Testament And so you can see very clearly why they would see Moses as the most authoritative voice in their world And any voice that would contradict that would be a voice of error. Now, with all of that in mind. And you got all that? You got that whole chapter, right? Maybe not, but there's a few things I pointed out. I think you'll I think you'll it'll all come together. When you take your Bible and turn back to John, and I want you to see some things now as we go into this passage. John chapter 1, verse 14 says, and the word, that is the revelation of God, Christ, was made flesh. This means, folks, that God became man. God did not become man at the expense of his deity. God became man and took on humanity, but retained all of his deity so that he is God man. He is one, he is completely God and completely man at the same time. That's important to understand as we go through this. And very frankly, in church history, that has been debated over time But there is no question about it. In fact, folks, do you realize that Christ will always retain his humanity? Sometimes we think of him coming down to earth and somehow when he's in heaven he no longer has his humanity But Christ for all of eternity will be the God man. He will be both God and man, retaining both deity and humanity. However, we do need to understand something. There was something that Christ, when he came to earth, did empty himself of. When you take your Bibles and turn to Philippians chapter 2. Philippians chapter 2 We're going to be back in John again. I'm going to have to flip around quite a bit here for you to get the full weight of this. But I think you'll see it all come together in a few moments. Philippians chapter 2, picking up in verse 5, it says this. Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. who being in the form of God thought it not robbery to be equal with God. That is, when Christ came, he retained deity. It was not something to be grasped. That's what the word means. Thought not robbery. You did not consider it a thing to be grasped, to be equal with God, because he is God. Verse 7, but made himself of no reputation. Now that phrase, folks, could be much more simply translated, he emptied himself. It doesn't say in the passage what he emptied himself of. It just goes on to say that he took on the form of a servant and was made in the likeness of men. But folks, based upon what God said in Exodus, what do you suppose he emptied himself of? He would have to empty himself of some, at least some, of his what? Of his glory. So when Christ came to earth, he came 100, I mean I don't read like these percentages, all of God and all of men to earth, retaining both deity and taking on humanity. He did all of that, and yet he emptied himself of the glory that was net that was necessary to empty himself of And he took on humanity. Now, it's interesting in this passage. I'm just going to make this application. You know, we're exactly the opposite of this. Christ emptied himself of his glory to come to earth to set an example for us. And what we want to do is retain our glory. And we don't want to give up, and we want and we are less concerned about what's really there. Christ retained what was really there, his deity and humanity, and gave up The perception of others being immediately. In other words, folks, if he would have come to earth with all of his glory, everybody would have known immediately that he was God. I mean, off the bat But he emptied himself of his glory, so that when he came, he came and took on the form of a servant. He took on humanity, he humiliated himself. in order to become a man. And Christ says in this passage, let this mind be in you. You know, sir I'll tell you this, we need to be far less concerned about what we think of ourselves and what others think of us, and far more concerned about what is there internally Are we living the kind of life that honors the Lord? And are we living the Christ life? Is there an authenticity about our thought life, about our actions? Is there an authenticity about our hearts? Are we working from the inside out or are we far more concerned about what's on the outside and work and trying to somehow work our way in? Christ set the example for us. That application was actually for free. We've got to get back to the text. Although it was a clear application from the text. Very clear in Philippians. We know that Christ did give up his glory because in John chapter 17, and you might want to write these down. I don't know that I take the time to turn there, but verse five and verse twenty-four. He prays this prayer to God, his Father, anticipating the re-glorying of himself, if you will. He says And now, Father, glorify thou me with thine own self, with the glory which I had with thee before the world was He knows he doesn't have the glory that he had before, and he's looking forward to the day where he will then receive again the glory that he had before the world was begotten. And again in verse 24 of that same chapter, it says, Father, I will that they also whom thou hast given me be with me where I am, that they may behold my glory. Assuming then, folks, that at that point when he prayed this prayer, they hadn't beheld, at least on a continual, constant basis, his glory. Which thou hast given me, for thou lovest me before the foundation of the world Now, folks, with all of that in mind, would you now turn back to John chapter 1? And maybe you've already noticed in verse 14, it says here And the word was made flesh and dwelt among us, tabernacle among us, and what does it say here? And we what? Beheld his glory Now, to a Jewish reader, folks, they would have immediately said, that's not possible. Moses tried that And the word beheld actually corresponds exactly with the word in our in the passage. It says, keep in mind that word, show me thy glory, that word show corresponds according to the Septuagint exactly with this word here, behold. You've got an exact correlation. And it is the idea of taking on the of receiving the full weight of the thing. Well, how do you explain this? We beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. The answer to that is going to be in another passage. Are you ready for this? Would you take your Bibles now and turn to 2 Peter? I know I'm having you just flip-flip a lot. But you all you'll be alright, right? 2 Peter chapter 1. You might not be able to do this on your phone. I don't know. 2 Peter chapter 1, verse 16. Depends on how well you good you are, how good you are with your thumbs Second Peter chapter one. Verse sixteen says this for we have not followed cunningly devised fables. when we made known unto you the power and coming of the Lord Jesus Christ, but we were eyewitnesses of his what? All right, folks, who is he talking? This is Peter now talking. Who is he talking? He's saying we. We were eyewitnesses of his majesty. He's talking about a certain group of disciples. Now, would you look at verse 17? For he received from God the Father honor and what? And glory, when there came such a voice to him from the what? The excellent glory This is my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased. Oh. Where have we heard, where have you ever read that phrase before? Well, there's only two places One is in the baptism of Christ, and the other is where? The transfiguration What's the point? The point is that at that point, the Mount of Transfiguration, the disciples, at least Peter, James, and John's Peter, James, and John. You've got Peter here accounting of it. You've got John over here accounting of it. They beheld God's glory there. When God the Father says about his son, this is my beloved son. What is John's point in saying this? Well, if you're in John chapter, well you're not in John chapter 1. Go back to John chapter 1. In John chapter 1, he's going to say this. Full, it says, we beheld his glory as of the only begotten of the Father. That word only begotten means only of one kind. It actually, the word begotten comes, we get our word genetics from it actually. And it's only of one kind. Now, the reason that you would find that here is that in verse 12, it just says that anybody who receives him becomes what? The sons of God. He wants to distinguish that Christ is not just like us, those who received him as the sons of God. He is the only, he is one, one of a kind. Nobody else is like him. He is the God-man. And we beheld its glory, he says. That is Peter, James, and John at the Mount of Transfiguration. Then it says, full of grace and truth. What I'm going to do here, folks, I want to sh- I want I'm going to come back to that term, those terms, full and grace of truth. I want you to see here the next term. Then he moves in verse 15 and he says, John bear witness of him. The point, what John is saying here is this. John is saying to these Jewish readers, he's saying, look. Moses beheld part of his glory, but we beheld his glory. We are a witness to the glory of God that when Christ came It was God in the flesh. You've got to listen to us. The witness of Christ. And then he says, and by the way, John the Baptist was also sent as a witness. He is imploring his readers to hear him, who are questioning whether Christ is really the fulfillment of the Old Testament. And he says, we're witnesses to the glory of God in a greater way than Moses was. John bare witness of him and cried, saying, This was he whom I spake. He that cometh after me is prof is preferred before me, for he was before me. Basically, the point is simply this. But of course, Christ pre-existed John because he's eternal. And so who is more important? Clearly, Christ is more important, and John is pointing out that fact. Now, folks, why is John saying all this? In other words, folks, what is the result practically of the incarnation? That's what we're talking about here when God became man. What is the result practically of the incarnation? We saw this full of grace and truth. And then you're going to see it again in verse 16, which is why I wanted to treat it in the same Same thought. Verse 16 it says, and of his what? His fullness have all have we all received grace for grace We see this term full twice, full or fullness twice in this passage. What is Christ? Christ is the fullness of grace and truth. Well, what's the significance of grace and truth? I mean, couldn't he have said Christ is the fullness of love? Or Christ is the fullness of justice. Or Christ is the fullness of, I mean, there are all kinds of things you could say about Christ being the fullness, because isn't it true, folks? He's the fullness of everything. But why would John point out grace and truth? Well, you saw the references in Exodus chapter 33 of the various the point that God was showing grace to Moses and his people. Well, Jesus is the fulfillment of all grace and truth, because truth came from Moses. But Christ is the fulfillment of truth. But practically, I'd like to suggest something else. When, if we go back all the way back to the fall of man, when Adam and Eve fell, and sin entered in the world, and darkness entered into the world, What were two things that were infused into the world? Well, sin, and therefore we are all guilty. And deceitfulness and just lies. I mean, you realize before all this happened with Adam and Eve and Satan, there was no lying, at least on earth? I mean, that that was really bad what happened there, obviously. I mean it's an understatement What do you need to reverse the effects of the fall? You need grace and you need truth And Christ is the fulfillment of both grace and truth. And so he says that in this passage. Then he says in verse 17, and we're going to come back to that concept of fulfillment of grace and truth, but he says in verse 17, for he's going to argue this: for the law was given by Moses. What did the law give? Well, the law gave truth. There's no question about it. The law gave an awareness of sin. We find that both in the book of Romans and Galatians. We won't take the time to tell Turn there now. But the Galatians three says that the law is a schoolmaster to bring us to Christ. Romans says the same kinds of things. In other words, you get the law for Moses and you get a clear reality if you look at the law that you're guilty. But in Christ you get grace and truth. And the fulfillment of those things. You had the Father's bestowing of the grace on Moses and the nation of Israel through Moses. You have that in that passage, but Christ is the fulfillment of all of it Now, I want us to think just about this for for a moment, just practically speaking I just want us to think this way. All of us, I mentioned this in the beginning, all of us have voids and emptiness and loss. and sin and problems and difficulties that we experience every day in our world Are we not tempted to run to everything other than Christ to fulfill these things? We run to this thing and that thing and this thing and that. We're constantly trying to run to deal with whether whether it be we think we think if we have enough money it'll solve our problems or if we have enough Uh uh uh if we have enough um time it'll solve our problems or if we have the right people in our lives it'll solve our problems. Or or if we have enough emotional stability to solve our problems, or if we have enough folks The only thing that let me ask you this question, what is it in your life that grace and truth won't fix Doesn't mean that we'll have an easy life if we know Christ. In fact, we may have a very difficult life. Look at the first century Christians. But grace and truth gives us a life worth living. Grace and truth helps us to be able to transcend the circumstances of our life and to see what God is doing in our lives. Grace and truth come by Christ. And this is not a grace, this is folks, this is not a grace that can be expended. God, Christ never runs out of grace. That's what it means when it says grace for grace. That's why Paul could say in Ephesians chapter 1 that God's grace has been lavished on us. What is John's point in this passage? John's point in this passage is we're going to see him, we're going to see how Christ is the fulfillment of grace and truth. throughout this entire entire book. And in verse 18, we're going to find that he says this, no man has seen God at any time. The only begotten of the Son, which is in the bosom of the Father, he hath declared him. Christ is the declaration of the Father to all mankind. He is the one that is the fulfillment of all things. Now, there is a clear application for you today. Our world tells us, and every religion in the world tells us. That you can receive God's grace if you will depend upon it and something else. If you will be a good person, or you'll follow a list of rules, or you will follow a certain kinds of code, or you will do certain things, or you'll follow certain kinds of people, or you'll live a good life. If you'll do those kinds of things, then you can you can be connected to God. And we say as Christians, no. The only thing you can do is to receive Christ. The only thing that you can do is to respond to Christ. We're talking here about self-effort being not available, not helpful at all. But there is an application for us as Christians here. We are so quick to point out the false doctrine. In a false religion that says it's gr it's faith plus works But you know what? We are guilty of running our own way and doing our own thing. If we are looking to anyone other than Christ and His way to deal with our problems. He's the fulfillment of all of it. It is not enough for us to say that we accept by God's grace the gift of eternal life, and then we just live on our own. And if we pursue our own needs and we do what we want, and we we figure it out on our own. No, that's wrong. God wants us to realize that. We so often resort to our own way. When Christ said, I am the way. In John chapter 14, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. I like every head bowed and every eye closed today. I'm going to do something a little different here today than I've done in a long time. And I'm gonna ask you just in the quiet I'm not gonna have an invitation in that sense But I want to give you a chance in your own heart before the Lord, just in silence before the Lord, to respond to the message you've heard, to respond to Christ. Maybe you have look been looking to your own way and trying to figure things out your own way. And you've looked to human measures to do what only Christ can do in your life. And you need to spend a time just a few moments humbling yourself before Almighty God. And saying and admitting before God that what you need is Christ I just want to give you time just of complete silence, no sing no music at all. Just for you to respond to Christ in this way, and then we will uh we will Father, we do come to you and we confess before you that Christ is the fulfillment. Of all grace and truth. And though we are going to see in future days The practical um outworking of this In this book, I pray, Lord, that you would have this indelibly and firmly established in our minds We look forward to the day and we'll have these glorified bodies and we will see your glory. Father, we pray, Lord, that you would help us to. James one reminds us. We are so easily look in the mirror of your word, see who we are, then turn from it and forget That is a danger, even now I pray, Lord, that as we go throughout our day and week and month and year, when we are tempted to run to our own way, we We would turn to Christ and remember that He's He is the only way. Thank you. You for your word that reminds us of this. And that He is the fulfillment of all in all. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.