Acts chapter seven. We have over the last couple of weeks looked at the sermon of Stephen. It is a long sermon, the longest one in the book of Acts, and uh but certainly one of great truth that was given as a final A final warning and a final rebuke even to the Sanhedrin that had uh that had really gone after the apostles on several occasions. Well, as they were preaching in the temple there. And let's go ahead and read for our scripture reading this morning, Acts chapter 7, and we'll look at verses 54 through 84. Verse 54. When they heard these things, that's I'll just give you a little context. Stephen is speaking here his sort of final conclusion to his message as he rebukes the Sanhedrin in the temple. You stiff neck and uncircumcised and harden ears. You always resist the Holy Spirit as your fathers did, so do you. Which of the prophets did your fathers not persecute? And they killed those who foretold the coming of the just one. Of whom now have become the betrayers and murderers, who have received the law by the direction of angels and have not kept it. When they heard these things, they were cut to the heart, and they gnashed at him with their teeth. But he, being full of the Holy Spirit, gazed into heaven and saw the glory of God in Jesus. Standing at the right hand of God and said, Look, I see the heavens open, and the Son of Man standing in the right hand of God. Then they cried out with a loud voice, stopped their ears, and ran at him with one accord, and they cast him out of the sea the city and stoned him. And the witnesses laid down their clothes at the feet of a young man named Saul, and they stoned Stephen as they were as he was called on God calling on God, and saying, Lord Jesus, receive My spirit. Then he knelt down and cried out with a loud voice, Lord, do not charge them with this sin. And when he had said this, he fell asleep Now Saul was consenting to his death. At that time a great persecution arose against the church, which was at Jerusalem, and they were all scattered throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria. Accept the apostles. And devout men carried Stephen to his burial and made great lamentation over him. As for Saul, he made havoc for the church, entering every house and dragging off men and women, committing them to prison. Therefore, those who were scattered went everywhere preaching the word. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Or as we look at this text, we're going to see a man who was greatly used of you, filled with a spirit. Full of power and wisdom, the text says, that is going to be put to death for his faith. Put to death for his boldness, for speaking the truth, for preaching the gospel. But Father, we see this text and we see Stephen is seeing your glory. same time. Stephen is is witnessing Christ at your right hand. Lord, as we see how sharing in your suffering works To show us your glory and to fulfill your purposes, I pray this morning that you would teach us, grow us, encourage us, challenge us, and even convict us. us. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. So in relationships, how people enjoy sharing their experiences with one another. Uh some of you may watch a football game today or tomorrow or the next day or the next day or the next day or what football season has started. And a lot of people like to get together and watch football with each other, right? It's not just something you do alone in a dark corner somewhere. Some of you do that, I know, but but uh but you do like to get together and do that from time to time. Or if you go fishing, it's nice to have a fishing buddy where you're gonna where you're gonna go fishing, or the different things that we do, we can share experiences with With one another. And when we share those experiences with one another, we all like to do that. We then draw closer to one another. Even in conversation, you may account of a of an experience in your childhood or an experience as a in in your pres uh last week or whatever it is, we like to share with each other our different experiences. And when we have common experiences one with another, we we often are then able To draw closer to one another based upon those common experiences. And we enjoy doing that. But there is a kind of a closeness. That is even that runs even deeper when we share suffering with one another. Perhaps you've lost a loved one And your friend has lost a sim a loved one as well, and uh spouse or a parent or a child And you are able to talk with them and you know that when you express yourself to them, they understand what you're going through in a different way than someone who has never lost the same kind of loved one. There are different kinds of struggles and suffering and trials that we go through. And it's something very special that sometimes happens when we can find someone else that has gone through similar trials and struggles and when we say something we know they get it. You ever seen that before? You ever experienced that before? Did you know that that the New Testament indicates that when we when we share in the sufferings of Christ? We we know him in a deeper way. We learn to know him in a greater and deeper way. That's what Paul was talking about in Philippians chapter 3 when he says, Yet indeed I also count all things lost for the excellence of the knowledge of Christ, Jesus my Lord. for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and count them as rubbish, that I may gain Christ And be found in him, not having my own righteousness which is from the law, but that which is from through faith in Christ, the righteousness which is from God by faith, that I may know him. And the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his suffering. God gives Christians from time to time the privilege, that's the way the New Testament describes it, of suffering with Christ. But Christ also suffers with us. Did you know that? In Acts chapter 9, which is just another chapter over or so. Saul is going to be on the road to Damascus, and Christ is going to stop him in his tracks, and he's going to say, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? Why are you persecuting me? Why? Jesus says this because he was persecuting his children. He was persecuting us, the Christians of the day. He says, when you do that to them, you are persecuting me. Not only do we have a chance to share in the sufferings of Christ, Christ shares in our sufferings as well. We have here the account of the first martyr. But Stephen is not, this is not just intended to be a historical story for us to remember. A sterile narrative for us to say, okay, well, we know who the first martyr is, that's Stephen. Luke has something else in mind, the writer of the book of Acts. God has something else in mind here. God wants us to understand that this is an example. Stephen is an example of what it looks like to share in the sufferings of Christ. And did you notice as we read through that text? You don't see a lot of negative things about that text. You don't see that Stephen was writhing in pain as they pelted stones at him. It's not mentioned there. I mean it's mentioned that he was stoned, but it's not mentioned anything about his pain or suffering. Doesn't mean he didn't suffer, but that's not mentioned there What's mentioned in the text are the things like he's seeing the glory of God. He's seeing Christ stand at the right hand of God. What's mentioned in the text is when Stephen says, would you not lay to their charge what they're doing? Or, Lord, I commit my spirit to you. Those are the things that are mentioned in the text. God wants us to understand some things. He wants there's a direct connection between that Luke displays here for us, between what Jesus did on the cross and what Stephen is doing here. He wants us to understand that what Stephen is doing here is sharing in the very sufferings of Christ. Now you may ask yourself, well, what are the sufferings of Christ? I mean I you know I'm not I've not, you know, lately been been whipped from my telling of the gospel, what does it mean to be share sharing the suffering of the world? We're gonna get into that. And it's more than just just what we see here. There's more involved than that. So the Bible depicts, and this narrative depicts, engaging in the sufferings of Christ as something that is an opportunity, is something that is glorious, is something that gives us the ability to draw closer to God in a way that otherwise we would not. And as we get into this, we're going to see, first of all, that engaging in Christ's sufferings grants us a deeper knowledge of God. I'm going to need to make mention something. What's happening back here guys is that I'm seeing myself in this screen. We're rather than seeing the PowerPoint. I don't know if you can fix that on the spot. If not, it's just a little feels a little funny. I'll just But sorry, we're we have a little bit of uh um we're we have a little we're we're we're upgrading our A B system. Now we can actually s uh have closed circuit down in different places in the building. That's much better. I can actually see the point instead of myself. That was a little weird. Okay. So we'll we'll get back to the text now. Text now. I didn't know how long that was going to be like that, so I I I left it for a while, but finally. Um so anyway, thank you. I appreciate that. Okay, let's get back to the text and we're gonna pick up here in verse tw verse fifty-four of this text When they heard these things, they were cut to the heart, and they gnashed at him with their teeth. But he, being full of the Holy Spirit, gazed into heaven and saw the glory of God. These Sanhedrin, it says, when Stephen spoke these words to them, rebuking them and essentially turning the tables on them and saying, You are the ones who have blasphemed God. It says that they were cut to the heart. This is the idea of being divided, sawed in two. To saw asunder or in two parts, and their heart was broken apart by this. They were angry They were not convicted in the sense of conviction can go two ways, by the way. If we are convicted by the Spirit of God in our lives, we can either soften or we can harden. These folks hardened as they were under conviction. And we see here that they gnashed at him with their teeth. This is the same kind of description that we find in Luke chapter 13, verse 28, where it says. that there is weeping and gnashing of teeth in eternal torment and hell. There's gnashing of teeth there. This is something that is the word means to be full to the bursting, to swell up. They were on the edge of losing it with Stephen. You ever been on the edge of losing it? Moms or dads? This is much worse than that. Ten times worse than that. They are they are so swollen up in their hearts, they're angry, they're on the edge of their they just can't hardly hold it any longer And they are clenching their jaws. They can't even speak a word. There's nothing they can say to refute what Stephen is saying. It's just it's too brilliant. It's too the arguments are too too clear and succinct. But but they are just absolutely contained and it's like this pressure builder that's that's building up inside of them. It's like a cyst filling up with fluid and ready to burst. Sorry, that was a little gross probably. I looked at your I looked I didn't think it I looked at your faces, you're like And then you have a contrast, verse fifty four, fifty-five. That was priceless to look on your faces. I wish you could have seen that. Verse 55. But he, being full of the Holy Spirit, gazed into heaven and saw the glory of God. And Jesus standing at the right hand of God. We have this contrast. You've got on one hand, you've got these People that are full of their own flesh. They're full of anger. They're full of gnashing of teeth. And on the other hand, you have Stephen who is full of the Spirit of God. I want you to notice that the very first thing in this part of the narrative that it's said about Stephen is not that he's this great man of courage. Not that he's this wonderful man that we all should emulate. No, the focus is on the fact that he's filled with the Spirit of God. Why is it that he's going to be able to respond? And the way that he's able to re that he is going to respond here. It's because of the spilling of the Spirit of God in his life And God wants us to look at this and to see the power of the Spirit of God, not the man Stephen as we look at this The contrast is significant. The difference between these men who are vile in their anger versus a man who is filled with the Spirit. And what is this man seeing? He is seeing the glory of God. Now, that probably should make our minds go towards something. Do you remember over in Acts chapter 6 where it says in the very last verse of that chapter, that Stephen's face shone brightly? You remember that? And the Sanhedrin were were um were obviously they actually weren't even phased by it. Why did why do you suppose God did that? Why why was the Stephen, why was Stephen's face bright? Well, it's very likely, folks, to cause them to reflect on another character whose face glowed. Do you remember that character in the Old Testament? It was Moses. And very likely there were it was it was a signal to the Sanhedrin that this is a man who God is going to use to reveal himself to them. And of course they are going to reject it. But now Stephen, we're going to see a contrast here between what happened with Moses and what happened with Stephen. Do you remember that Moses was on Mount Sinai and Moses asked God a question in Exodus chapter 33? He said, Show me your glory. Do you remember that? And and what did God say back then? He said, I can't show you my glory. I can only show you my backside, essentially. I can't show you all of my glory. But Stephen here says, I'm seeing the glory of God. He saw the glory of God. What's the difference? Folks, the difference is that Christ has come. We find in John chapter 1, verse 14, and the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we did what? We beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten Father, full of grace and truth. Psalm 1611 says this, you will show me the path of life, in your presence is fullness of joy, at your right hand are pleasures of joy forevermore. Stephen saw the glory of God because he was seeing Christ in all of his glory. The same way, likely, that the that the disciples saw Christ and his glory on the Mount of St. Transfiguration. Now Stephen was seeing the glory of Christ here. But also we need to understand that Jesus is standing at the right hand of God here. This is a fulfilled prophecy. Christ said that you'll see me at the right hand of God to the Sanhedrin. When he was on earth and they were judging him, he said, You'll see me. In Psalm 118 or 110, rather, it says, The Lord said unto my Lord, Sit thou at my right hand until I make thine enemy thy footstool. The Lord shall send a rod of strength out of Zion, rule thou the midst of thine enemies. We see there also, it says though, that he wasn't sitting on the right hand of God, he was standing at the right hand of the Father. That is very likely because he was ready to do something. And there are two possibilities, maybe it's both. There is either he is ready to receive Stephen. Since Stephen is about to go to be with the Lord. Or maybe he is standing as an advocate for Stephen. Or there's a third possibility that he is sort of standing in judgment of the same And we don't, the text doesn't really know, but for whatever reason, Stephen sees Jesus as standing in this passage. This, all of this is intended actually to be an example for us when we go through suffering. And we'll see how this works in a minute. But understand that when the Apostle Paul wrote to, well, it may have been the Apostle Paul, the writer of the book of Hebrews, wrote to uh to the Hebrew Christians in chapter twelve. Verse 2, it says, looking unto Jesus, the author and finish of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him, endured the cross. despising the shame, and set down at the right hand of the throne of God, for consider him that endured such contradiction of sinners against himself, lest he be wearied and faint in your minds. Ye have not resisted unto blood, striving against sin. The context of Hebrews is that they are looking at the possibility and the likelihood of persecution of the Christians. Christians. And the writer of the book of Hebrews is teaching them how to deal with this. You know how you deal with suffering. You know how you deal with impending persecution. You do it by focusing on Christ. Fix your eyes on Christ, the author and the finisher of your faith. Look unto Jesus who has gone through the suffering that you're about to go through or that you're going through. How is it that we undergo the suffering for righteousness' sake that we find the New Testament? Find the New Testament. We stay focused on Christ. Then we see here in the passage, there's this invitation of Stephen, the vision we find here in the passage, and he says here, verse 56: Look I see the heavens opened, and a son of man standing at the right hand of God. When he says, look, he's actually inviting the Sanhedrin that are there that are ready to ready to stone him. He's inviting them to look. It's literally he can see something that's there. This is not a dream. It is a vision. It's not a dream. It's not something that's not there. It's something that's there. And he invites the people around him to look with him. Would you look up and see Christ? Of course, they do not do that. That is not what happens at all. He says that he sees heaven opened. This is very significant. Prior to this point, the Sanhedrin had never heard of access to God in this way. Access always came through a sacrificial system. Access always came through a temple. Now Stephen was receiving direct access to God from this. This probably incited the anger of these people even more. And then he says this. Notice the what is it what is the description of Jesus that he sees? It's the son of who? It's the son of man. Now this is very significant. The Son of Man is mentioned is actually Christ's favorite description of himself in the Gospels. But outside the Gospels, you won't find this term used in the New Testament except for here. That's significant. So what is significant about the fact that Stephen is identifying Jesus as the Son of Man? Well, he is referring to a passage in Isaiah. He's report- Oh I'm sorry, in Daniel rather, in Daniel chapter 7. It says this in Daniel chapter 7, verse 13, I was watching in the night visions, and behold one like the Son of Man. Coming with the clouds of heaven. He came to the ancient of days, and they brought him near before him. By the way, the Son of Man is not always used for Christ in the Old Testament. I actually had a question from somebody about that recently But in this case it is used of Christ, and that's obvious because we see the next verse, verse 14, what it says. Then to him was given dominion and glory. And a kingdom that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion which shall not pass away. And his dominion, the one which shall not be destroyed. Why does Stephen use this designation for Christ, the Son of Man? It is to display the fact that he is ruler of all. He it is his dominion. He is God. It is his kingdom that's being going to be built. Christ is the king. And he wants to describe this in this way to the Sanhedrin hear it and all hear that Jesus is King. He is Lord of all. That's the way Stephen is seeing him And we look forward to a day, folks, isn't it true that we look forward to a day where we will see him that way as well? We certainly should be submitting to him that way now. When Christ comes in the clouds for us, when He comes to and He returns to set up His kingdom, even after that point, He will come as Lord, as Judge, as ruler of all. Now, folks, the question is, how do we apply this to us? I mean, this seems so, I mean, uh, you know, we're not, no, most of us are not not preaching the gospel and getting stoned. So how does this apply to us? Romans 8 helps us with this. It says in this passage, for I consider that the sufferings of this present time, the sufferings of this present time, are not worthy to be compared with the glory that shall be revealed in us. In the context in Romans chapter 8, you'll actually find that the sufferings are as a result of living on this earth with the fall. The fall and the whole creation groans and travails together till now, the passage says. The sufferings come from the trials of living in this life in the world. And God says that those sufferings and trials are not worthy to be compared with the glory that shall be revealed in us. Beyond that, I'd like you to take your Bibles and turn to 1 Peter for a moment. I want you to see in chapter 1 a passage that Peter is now Speaking about the concept of suffering, and you are going to be amazed by what he says about suffering. We, folks, we don't think of suffering in this way. But here's what the passage is going to say: 1 Peter chapter 1. In this you greatly rejoice, though now for a little while, if need be, you have been grieved by various trials That why? That the genuineness of your faith being much more precious than gold and that perishes, though it is tested by fire, may be found to praise, honor, and glory at the revelation of Jesus. Jesus Christ, whom having not seen you love. Though now you do not see him, yet believing you rejoice with joy inexpressible and full. of glory. Did you catch that? God says in this passage that the sufferings that we go through for Christ's sake, for righteousness' sake, are the kinds of suffering that bring Inexpressible joy, unfathomable rejoicing in our lives. And we might not see him now But we can rejoice in the fact that we will see him later. This is a concept that is hard for us to understand. Living in a society where comfort and ease and those things are things that are pursued, and trouble and trials and suffering are things that you run from. 1 Peter 3 verse 14 says, But if you should suffer for righteousness' sake, you are blessed, and do not be afraid of their threats, nor be troubled. A man by the name of Louis Zamperini, some of you have read his book perhaps, or watched uh his movie, is a man who spent forty-five days uh on a raft in the Pacific Ocean, waiting to be rescued. Finally, he was rescued not by the Americans, but by during World War II the Japanese. They took him to a a uh uh concentration camp and tortured him. He was starving and emaciated. He was constantly whipped and with canes. He was he was actually hit by his own uh other Americans that were forced to to punch him and to hit him. The kind of tragedy that you see depicted in that film as well as in the book is something to really, it's really quite sobering. This man during the end of World War II, he was still in the concentration camp, was asked by the Japanese in exchange for food and a life of comfort. Was asked by the Japanese to to to speak propaganda in a in a radio forum to say things that were not true, that they were treating him well and that and that um that that life was good and that everything was going fine. This man, Zamporini, refused. He said, That is not true, I will not speak it. They put plates of food in front of him. They said, If you if you will speak these things, you can have all of this you want. You can avoid, you can have all the comfort you want that you want, that your heart desires. Zampurini courageously refused. He knew that when he refused, he would actually be made a an example of disrespect to the Japanese government, and that's exactly what happened. He went back and he was made an example and he was persecuted worse than he even was than before. He chose to do right in the face of persecution and suffering. And although that may be an extreme example, we need to understand that this is something that God says will happen to all Christians at some point or another. Christ says in this world you will suffer persecution. That will happen. Folks, there are going to be times in your life where you've got to choose to do right. No matter what happens, even when the results seem bad, even when things don't go the way you planned, even though you say to yourself, well, doing right is supposed to be beneficial. I'm supposed to be blessed for doing right. Folks, sometimes in the immediate you're not blessed for doing right. Now you will ultimately be blessed for doing right But we need to resolve that we're going to live for God and do right and serve God and preach the gospel and do those things that God wants us to do. Do right till the stars fall. And realize that if we suffer for righteousness' sake, we actually have the opportunity to see more of the glory of God. To draw closer to God, to know him more, that I may know him and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his suffering. We ought not look at suffering and run from it. Now, let me say this. I'm not saying we should run to it either. I'm not suggesting that we become you know, crazy and find the first pit and jump into it. But at the same time, folks, when God brings suffering to our lives, or when suffering comes We ought to choose to do right. And when we do, you know what we have to do? We have to believe. We've got to believe. That even though it it seems so bad that we will know God more We will have a deeper knowledge of God because of the sufferings that we are going through, particularly when we trust the Lord. But more than that, engaging in Christ's suffering, as we're going to see this passage, displays Christ's likeness. Would you notice in chapter 7, verse 57, what it says? It says, Then they cried out with a loud voice, stopped their ears, and ran at him with one accord, and they cast him out of the city and stoned him. And the witnesses laid down their clothes at the feet of the young man named Saul. And they stoned Stephen as he was calling on God and saying, Lord Jesus, receive my spirit Then he knelt down and cried out with a loud voice, Lord, do not charge them with this sin. When he had said this, he fell asleep. Well, they take him out, and they stone him, they're stopping their ears, they can't listen to any more of this. And the floodgates go open, if you will. It's like a pressure valve that's released, and they they go into mob execution in this point. We knew we know that because in John chapter 18, verse 31, the Sanhedrin Sanhedrin themselves Talk to uh talk to the lead Roman leadership and say, we do not have the ability, the authorization to execute someone. They were not authorized to execute someone, they were authorized to do other things, but not to execute and you know at this point they didn't care anymore. They were going to get rid of this man. They were going to kill him. They were going to stop his mouth. And the pressure valve was released, and they they pushed him out of the gates, uh, out of the gates of the town. And they took up stones and they pelted the stones with this uh at this man. The way that the tense is in the Greek, it indicates that this was a long time that was happening. This was not just a few stones that were thrown and he died. There was a repeated extended time where they were pelting stones and stoning this man. And in the midst of all this, in the midst of this, folks, he says two things. He says, first of all He says, Lord, please receive my spirit. Why was Stephen saying that? He was saying that to signal to them. And to signal to us that this is a direct connection between what Christ did and suffering. And Stephen was sharing in the suffering of Christ here. In Luke chapter 23, verse. Verse forty six it says, and when Jesus had cried with a loud voice, he said, Father, into your hands I commit my spirit. Having said this, he breathed his last. But also so he responded in a Christ-like manner by by responding and saying in faith, knowing where he was going, knowing that he would be received by Christ. But there was a second Christ-like response of Stephen. The second Christ-like response was one of forgiveness This was emulating Christ. In Luke 23, verse 34, it says, Jesus said, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. Stephen says in this passage, Lord, don't lay to their charge what they are doing here. Stephen was following the instructions of Christ, which we find in Luke 6, verse 21. But I say to you, you hear, love your enemies. Do good to those who hate you, bless those who curse you, and pray for those who despitefully use you and persecute you. Stephen had the opportunity, as the sufferings of Christ came, had the opportunity to respond in Christ's likeness and to glorify God in doing so. I remember when I first got out of seminary, I was up in New Jersey. I was single for a few months. And then uh then we got married after that. And I I married uh um Elizabeth, of course, and she had um She was a assistant pastor's daughter. I remember the first ministry up there, and I have to tell you, and I don't know if this will make sense to you, but I was I was at the time a little sh shocked at how people react sometimes. How people respond and react and I was a little I let's put it this way, I was a little green. Now most of you just know you lived enough life that you realize that people just People are crazy. That's what when I I came to the conclusion. You know, it's sort of like um the country song. I I'll skip the middle part, but God is good and people are crazy. That's a pretty good estimation of the way the way things are. part not I I won't say here but uh I I was sort of startled by it. I was like and and I I was particularly startled by the treatment that was happening there. And I I said to Elizabeth one day, I said, I can't believe this. This is just really, really surprising me. And you know what my my my wiser wife said? What did you expect, Jim? She said, uh she said, didn't you expect this? I said, no, I didn't expect this She said, Well, you know, I was a pastor's daughter for enough years, uh you know, this is this is the way it is. This is this is ministry. This is the way thing is. And uh I I I remember that You know, I had to make a decision at that point that God had called me to the ministry. He had led me to serve people, and I was going to have to be okay with people surprising me. And caught and putting me in uncomfortable situations, that kind of thing was going to have that happen to the ministry. It happened to Paul, though. In Galatians chapter 6, verse 17, it says, From henceforth, let no man trouble me, for I bear in my body the marks of the Lord Jesus Christ. In 2 Corinthians chapter 11, verse 28, he says, besides other things that come upon me daily, the deep care, the deep concern of all the churches. Galatians 5. 19 says, My little children, for whom I labor in birth again until Christ is formed in you. Did you catch that? Paul said that the laborings of the ministry, the laborings of serving people so that Christ may be formed in them is something that is like child, giving childbirth. You say, how did Paul know? All you women are probably saying that. I don't know how he knew, but that's inspired by Scripture, so it has to yeah, he knew Galatians chapter 4, verse 20 says, I would like to be present with you now and change my tone, but for doubt, but I have doubts about you. Folks. That's the nature of serving people. That's the nature of ministry. But that's not just pastoral ministry. That's people. That's serving people. I read a commentator who said this, we can avoid tiredness by not responding in love. to the needs of someone else. We can avoid the pressure of concern for people by not taking things pertaining to their lives as a personal responsibility. We can avoid the hurt of disappointment by not having such high hopes for people. We can avoid betrayal by not trusting people and investing in them. I fear, he says, that much thinking on Christian ministry tends in the direction of helping us avoid such pain. Such patterns indicate that the church has lost the biblical understanding of suffering and pain as something glorious. Are you and I are are are we inclined to avoid discomfort Are we at all costs trying to separate ourselves from those things that are difficult and hard to go through? Are we trying to anticipate trials in such a way that not that we avoid calamity, that's prudence, but that we are paranoid about what is going to happen? I remember when I was in transition ministry and um several years ago and I was looking for a church. To pastor. And um I was up on a rooftop. I was doing some roofing, and uh I was just kind of talking about, you know, I'm really fearful about the next ministry I go into. I don't know what to don't know what to expect. It's really hard, all those things. And um the roofer that was with me, Roofer said to me, he said, uh He said, you know, Jim, when I when I bid a roof, I don't know what's underneath. I don't I know what I could see, but I don't know after I do the tear-off, I don't know what's underneath. And I just have to deal with whatever's there. He said, maybe that's what you need to do with ministry. That was good wisdom from a roofer. I didn't know that that uh he could give me that kind of wisdom, but anyway that I I thought about that. I thought, you know, that's that's that's a good way to look at it. You know the thing about it is that when we go when we when we undergo sufferings and difficulties and struggles, you get more of an opportunity to depend on your Lord. That's the great truth of the suffer of suffering for Christ's sake, of serving Him wholeheartedly. is that it gives you an opportunity to love him more, to know him more, to depend on him more, and to see God do things in your life that you never thought were possible. This is all the glory of suffering. Finally, then we find in verses chapter 8, verses 1 through 4 that after this individual persecution of Stephen, all fury broke loose, and now all of the Christians in Jerusalem are going to be persecuted. Pick up an 8-1, it says, now Saul, who who tends who seems to be the one that's going to be leading this, Saul was consenting to his death, Saul's death, Stephen's death. At that time a great persecution arose against the church, which was at Jerusalem, and they were scattered throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria, except the apostles. And devout men carried Stephen to his burial and made great lamentations over him. And for Saul He made, as for Saul, he made havoc of the church entering every house and dragging off men and women, committing them to prison. So they persecution occurred. The church at Jerusalem scattered. We find that Saul went from one house to the next to the next in a systematic way. It was both systematic, indiscriminate, and violent He didn't care if it was a man or a woman. He pulled them both out. Can you just imagine this? Doesn't say anything about the children, so he probably left the children. And he rips fathers and mothers from their children and takes them. And and we don't know exactly what he does with all of them, but very likely it's has uh has something to do with either some sort of persecution and imprisonment, uh probably uh whipping, uh 39 lashes, that kind of a thing. And he it says that he wreaks he he he he he creates havoc in the church. But then notice what happens in verse 4. Therefore, those who were what? They were scattered, went everywhere, and what did they do? They preached Do you remember in Acts chapter 5 when there was a possibility that the church was going to be split and divided because of the sin of Ananias and Sapphira and all that? Do you remember that? But God kept everything together and kept them unified. Now God is by his own providence using the persecution of the Sanhedrin to scatter all of these people out of Jerusalem so they're going to now preach the word to the whole world. They're going to not just preach in Jerusalem, but in Judea and Samaria and the uttermost parts of the world, and we're going to begin to see that happen. Why? As a result of the persecution. Folks, it was very similar to what God did in the life of the Jewish people when He put them under persecution in Egypt. Do you remember that And they multiplied and grew while they were in Egypt. And then he made them a nation under persecution there. God knows what he's doing in our lives, and that does sometimes involve persecution. But the ultimate result is that it's going to be for the furtherance of God's kingdom. It's going to expand God's kingdom when we go on undergo this kind of suffering. And we ought to glory in it. We ought to rejoice in it. We ought to actually look at it as a privilege that God would choose. to have us to go through those kinds of things. And by the way, this isn't the only time that this has happened. In Philippians chapter 1 verse 12, Paul says I want you to know that my imprisonment, brethren, that the things that happened to me have actually turned out for the furtherance of the gospel. In Colossians chapter 1, verse 24, he says, Who now rejoice in my suffering for you. He says, I'm rejoicing in my own suffering for you and fill up that which is behind the afflictions of Christ in my flesh for his body's sake, which is the church. Whereof I am made a minister according to the dispensation of God, which is given to me for you to fulfill the word of God. African Christian writer and apologist of church history Tertullian said this: kill us, torture us, condemn us, grind us to dust. The more you mow us down, the more we grow. The seed is the blood of Christians. He would later on say the seed of the blood of the martyrs is the seed of the church. Another man said this, another pastor in Uganda said this. Without bleeding, the church fails to bless. Without bleeding, the church fails. To bless. You say, well, this has really been kind of a depressing message. All of this talk about suffering and hardship and struggle and difficulty, folks. I'm not suggesting to you that we should go out and try to induce suffering in our lives. But just know this: when suffering comes, If we'll choose to respond right, and we'll we'll be suffering for righteousness' sake, and when we choose to do that, Then we will know the deeper, we will have a deeper knowledge of God as the result. We'll have the opportunity to display Christ's likeness. You know, you just don't know what's going to happen You don't know the character of someone unless you kick him in the shins, my pastor used to say growing up. And you will also be able to expand God's kingdom as a result of your suffering. So how do we apply all this? Conclude with all this. Number one, we must believe that suffering for Christ's sake results in a deeper knowledge of God. You know, we've got to believe that. You know what? Can I can I be real transparent with you? I don't want to believe that. I I that's a hard thing for me to believe that if God if Christ brings suffering in my life Then I'm going to have a deeper knowledge of God. I'm like, can I can I have the knowledge with and skip the suffering? I'm sure everyone here is thinking that, right? You know what's gonna take? It's gonna take belief. We're gonna have to trust God on this And we're going to have to simply say, the Lord knows what we can handle. He no and it won't feel like it won't feel like he knows what we can handle, but we w he does. And he He will help us to have a deeper knowledge of him. Number two, we must respond in faith toward God And forgiveness toward others. Do you know that most of the time the suffering that we go through for righteousness' sake is going to involve someone else wronging us? Did you catch that? There's a reason for that because God will never wrong us. But what God does do is He uses the wrongings of others, if you will. To help us to grow and to give us the opportunity to grow in Christ's likeness and to respond in Christ's likeness. And Christ's likeness means forgiveness. All of what Luise Firini went through, he actually went back there, went back to Japan years later after he was he was released from Captivity. He went back to Japan and he originally intended to go back to try to murder the one that was was most was most violent toward him. But as God worked in his heart, he was able to go back and actually talk to many of those who actually hurt him and and and he learned to To forgive them. We must do the same. And we can rejoice in the expansion of God's kingdom when we suffer for Christ's sake. Can we just understand that? And believe that that's true. If you suffer for Christ's sake, just know that God, that God, that the expansion of Christ's kingdom will come. as a result. You might not know how. You might not know why and what he's doing, I'm sure that as these men and women are being pulled out of their homes and dragged into jail and whipped that they had no idea what God was doing. But we must trust that God is doing what He wants to do in expanding His kingdom. Kingdom when we go through this kind of suffering. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and we look at your word and we see that you are going to give us opportunities to do right, even when it's uncomfortable. To do right even when it causes suffering. You uh you are going to give us opportunities to preach the gospel and to live the gospel, and they're going to be Times where the immediate result is something that is not favorable. In those times, dear Father, would you help us to know that you will know us that you we will know you deeper. We will be able to display Christ likeness in those times. And I thank you, dear Father, that In this fallen world, you have a way of using those kinds of things to further your kingdom that is just a testament to your sovereign providence. And I pray, Lord, that we would trust you and live for you and do right for Christ's sake. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.