So so it's important for us to understand that as we go through this. We've noted that our role in the whole thing is that we need to ask God for wisdom. Uh wisdom is Is the skill in applying biblical truth to our particular situation that is what we desperately need all of the time to ask God for wisdom in our lives. It ought to be a constant prayer. ought to be, I think, the default prayer of the Christian life. If you don't know what else to pray for, you can always pray for wisdom. If you really think about it, you know, you say, I don't know what to pray for. pray. Well, ask God to give you wisdom to know how to pray. concept of temptations. And several weeks ago we noted that temptations are uh occur In fact, we'll just read through and explain these real quick. Verse 13, let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God, for God cannot tempt be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man. So the temptation, the goal of God is never for our destruction. That's never God's goal for us. Verse 14, but every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lust and enticed. Does anybody recall perhaps the illustration that I gave on what it means to to be drawn away of your own lust and enticed? It's actually found in that particular Greek word. And enticed. Remember the fishing uh the fishing hook. It's like it hooks you. And a temptation is that way. You have the bait, you have a fish coming along it sees the bait, that's the temptation. The temptation isn't wrong. But once you get hooked, then you have succumbed to the temptation. Verse 15 Then when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin, and sin when it is finished, bringeth forth death. The ultimate the ultimate result, if sin is not dealt with, if it's not taken care of Now, what James does is based on this whole concept of temptation, he now moves to verse 16. And that's where we're at now. And he says, do not err, my beloved brethren. When he says do not err, what he is saying is the word err really means to see. It could be, in fact, it is translated, several translations is translated. Deceived. Don't be deceived, he says. Don't be deceived, my beloved brethren. And so he begins this next section, really this is the continuation of the old concept of temptation by talking about the potential for deception. And the reality is in our lives as Christians, he's talking here to believers. Don't be this he says, don't be deceived, my beloved. He loves the the brethren, the people that he He doesn't want to be deceived them to be deceived, and so he's warning them. It demonstrates, and this may be very simple, but it demonstrates that we all can be deceived. It is all is it is our potential. Every one of us can be deceived by our the the world, the flesh, and the devil. And if we ever come to the place where we think we can deceive be deceived, we're in a very dangerous position. And I think that all of us can recognize that. If you just think about the last time you sinned, Maybe you lost your temper. Or you you coveted something that wasn't yours, or whatever it is that you did that you could think of that you sin. That is something to to as you think through that a little bit, what why did you get hooked It's because at some level you were deceived, and I was deceived when we've sinned before. And so what we want to look at today is we the the beginning of understanding how we keep from succumbing to temptation. The beginning of understanding this is understanding that the potential there's always a potential for it. This side of heaven, there's always that potential. And we get ourselves in a really bad place when we think we don't have that potential. When suddenly we think that we can stand Where any think ye stand, take heed lest ye fall. But when we come to the place where we say, you know, I don't there's really not that potential to be deceived in that particular area. area. That's when we are most vulnerable actually. James's motive was to warn his fellow fellow Christians whom he loved. So this statement, though, is tied in the next verse as well. Now, it's sort of interesting. I want you to want we're going to read the next verse together, and it looks like he changes subjects. but he's not changing subjects. Look at what it says, verse 17. Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, and cometh down from the Father of lights. with whom is no variableness, neither shadow of turning. Now, let me ask you a question. When you read that, do you think to yourself, the first time I read that Uh even in preparation for s and sitting for this, I thought to myself, why are those two ver what is the connection between those two verses? They don't seem to be connected. They seem to be there's seems to be a change in subject. He says, don't be deceived, don't succumb to temptation, don't be deceived. Every good and perfect gift. It's almost abrupt. Every good gift and every perfect gift comes from above. I mean, is there a connection here? And I'm going to argue that there is a very strong connection, an extremely important connection. What he is going to do is he is going to give us the answer to how we keep from being deceived. Now, aren't you aren't don't you want to know the answer? I mean, if every one of us has the potential of being deceived toward sin. Every single one of us has the possi that possibility. And frankly, if we really admit it, we all are deceived by sin, aren't we? Really every day, aren't we? So if that is the case, then to understand God's answer for this, of how we can keep from being deceived. deceived is extremely significant. But really to understand the answer, we first need to ask a question. And the question is this. Well, before we get there, actually, let me back up a little bit. This will help us in understanding a few things. When we think of our potential for being deceived, Let's remember that Satan can enter through various means. He can enter through our emotions. Or he can enter through our wills. Or he can enter through our minds. And he is so deceptive that he can use one or a combination of them to do this kind of work in our lives. It is something that is sobering when you really think about it. And some of us, I mean all of us at one time or another have been have have succumbed to temptation, have sinned against the Lord, and you be you re you look back and you go, Wow, why did I do that? What in the world? And and you you you realize that part of what's going on is Satan is entering in and deceiving through one of the In other words, when we think of deception, we often think in terms of which one of those? When you think of someone deceiving someone else, which one of those do you often think of? Yeah, most of the time you think of the mind. Deception is a mental thing. But not always. And I think we've got to understand that to really understand deception. It is not always that Satan enters in deceiving through the mind. Often he does, but not always. That's not always the first step. Sometimes it is our wills. And so we we we He he convinces our wills to go a direction. We have a will to go a wrong direction before our mind even even catches up. Or he deceives our emotions into thinking something is what it isn't or that kind of a thing. We have in in all three of these cases he can deceive through one of these methods and then go out to the other methods. So our emotions, our wills, or minds, or a combination of all three. So let's ask the question, what is the root of Satan's deception? What is the root? And the answer, and that will help us to understand how verse 17 connects to verse 16. How is this the answer? In other words, he says, don't be deceived. Every good and perfect gift comes from above. Would you take your Bibles and turn to Genesis chapter 3 for a few minutes here? Genesis chapter three. And we're going to look at Satan's own deception of the first woman who was ever deceived, who was also the same first. woman who was ever created, and that is Eve. So let's look at how she was deceived, and it's going to help us unanswer this particular question. God is very concerned while you're turning there. God is very concerned that we understand these things. 1 Peter 5. 8 says, be sober, be vigilant. Wouldn't that be necessary if we could be deceived at any time? If there is that potential for being deceived, would it not then be necessary for us to be sober and be vigilant? Why? Because your adversary, the devil. as a roaring lion walketh about, seeking whom he may devour. And so, with that in mind, would you pick up here in verse three of chapter three to see how Satan does this deceiving work in the life of Eve. He says in verse 3, But of the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the garden, God hath said, Ye shall not eat of it, neither shall ye touch it lest ye die. And the serpent said unto the woman, Ye shall not surely die. Alright, verse 4. What does God first of all, Eve says, Eve says, this is what God said. She actually gets it wrong. God didn't actually say, if you touch it, you'll die. He said, don't eat it. If you eat it, you'll die. But he didn't say if you touch it, you'll die. He a so she actually gets gets God's words wrong, and that was probably her first her first um First problem is that she misunderstood scripture there. But look at verse uh four. He then says, the serpent says, You you shall not surely die. No, I'm I'm I'm contradicting scripture Now, let me just pause for a minute and ask you a question. If somebody directly contradicts Scripture, do you think that you'll be deceived? And I would suggest not usually. We don't think that way. We don't think if somebody directly contradicts Scripture that we're going to be deceived. And so, um, however, I think we still could be, we all there's always that potential But there's something else that Satan does here that gets at the root of the deception. Look at verse 4. For God doth know That in the day ye eat thereof, then your eyes shall be opened, and ye shall be God's, knowing good and evil. That's the key of verse 5. Did you catch what Satan says to Eve? He said, God knows if you eat that fruit, then you're going to become like him. He knows he's withholding something from you. He's keeping something from you that will be good for you. That's the deception. He is putting this lie in the heart of Eve that there is something that she needs that God has not supplied for her. Did you catch that? Now let me just ask the question. Are we ever guilty of that deception in our lives? Are we ever guilty of in our minds saying, you know, I don't have everything I need? I I there is something that I need that God has not supplied. It could be emotionally, it could be relationally, it could be mentally uh who there's all kinds of possibilities. Could be monetarily, there's all kinds of possibilities. But if Satan can get in our minds to for us to think, even even in a in any way at all, for us to think that there's something that we need that God has not supplied, then Satan has gotten a seed of deception in that. That's the key to this. The key is what is the root of Satan's deception? If he can get you and I to believe that we don't have something that we need. Does that make sense? I mean that really is the key. You begin to think about the times that you have sinned. And you're it it it goes back to that. Now it may not be always apparent, like if somebody loses their temper, for instance. If I yell at my kids. I've never yelled at my kids in my life, but for you know, some of you have never done that and I, you know, no, actually I have, I'm I'm kidding, I have I have done that a lot. No. I'm being very sarcastic uh sarcastic here. Some of you probably heard me yell at my kids anyway. But anyway. Um if you yell at your kids, well how I don't I don't see the connection. How how if you're yelling at your kids is does that the does that cause that? Well, what is God's supply for dealing with my kids? Yeah. I mean I has he given me what I need to deal with my kids? I have resources like spanking in an appropriate manner. And I have there's there's different resources that God has given me for dealing with my kids. But if I if I look to my own way, I am going to just overpower them by by yelling at them I'm essentially being deceived. I'm essentially saying I need to do this to control them. You understand? In other words, that's a very simple thing. But if you look at all of it sin there is this seed of deception within that sin that causes us uh to and and the and the and the root of that deception is even though you know and let me just say So subtle, it's like we would never actually articulate it. We never articulate God has not supplied all my needs. We're too used to saying God has supplied all our needs. But remember, God doesn't always, or Satan doesn't always enter through the mind. How might he enter? He might enter through our emotions. He might bypass the mind and enter through our emotions so that we feel as though there's something we need that we don't need. Does that make sense? Or he might enter it through the will. So it might not be the mind. But in any case, that's the key to the whole thing. So if you'll take your Bibles now with that in mind and look at this, this really is the key to Satan's tactic of deceiving us. And this is the answer to the whole thing. It's the reality of God's supply. And this is like an airtight answer. Would you notice how James puts this? He says, first of all, he says every. What is he saying when he says every? Well, he is saying every uh. Everything he's going to say about these gifts, the good and perfect and cometh down and all that. He says every single one of them. In other words, this consistent quality of God's supply that is applied to every single one of his gifts. Everything that he supplies for us, there's this consistent quality. In other words, you and I can't look at a particular supply of gods that he's given us and say, you know what, that's not quite good. Or it's not quite perfect, which we're going to learn what that means. We can't do that. Everything that God has supplied is good and is perfect. So then the question is, what does he mean when he says good and perfect? Well, good has to has to do with morally right in every respect. When God supplies something, there is a purity about his supply. There is a moral rightness about his supply. It's not tainted, it's not distorted, it's pure and right. And if we can look at God's supply and saying, okay, whatever he supplies, that's right. That's pure. And if it's not pure and it's not distorted and it's distorted, what does that mean? God didn't supply. It's not from God. Boy, that is really, that would be helpful for us. This is something I'll just be very honest with you. I've learned recently. This is not something I really understood. until I've studied this out recently and had some of my own experiences in my life. I mean b the bottom line is if if it's not good, it's not from God. And if it's not from God It's not good. So so the supply is good, number one. And number two, the supply is what? It says perfect. What do you suppose that means? Yeah, it's complete. It's not lacking. It's not just partial. God's supply is both good and God's supply is complete Now, if we live entirely that way, we look around at our supply at God's supply for us, we look around at what we have, we look around what God has given us, and we say, I am I it's good, it's It's complete, there's no exceptions, I've got exactly what I need, I don't have more if we are firm, if we're established in that, then we won't be deceived. But the problem is, is what do we lack that causes us to be deceived? What do we lack? It's faith, isn't it? We don't believe If it's a the bottom line issue is the same thing that we've looked at before. That's why the try it says the trying of your faith worketh patience overall over in the beginning of chapter 1. Why is, when you go through a trial, why what is that that the trial of your faith of? In other words, when you go through a trial, it challenges our faith. How does it challenge our faith? It challenges our faith in whether we're going to believe that God's supply is enough. That's how it challenges our faith. That's how it tries our faith. Our faith is, well, is the supply enough? When I'm going through a trial, when I'm going through circumstances in my life that are hard, I am tempted to say there is something lacking that God is not supplying. Have you ever felt that way? I mean all of us at time or one time or another we look at and we say this these circumstances there's just something that that's got to give here There's something that's not being supplied. And what we have to do is we have to trust the Lord. It's faith. We're trusting that God, what I don't get to decide what I need. You ever thought about that before? You think you need something. But if God hasn't supplied it, what does that mean? It means I don't really need it. Because God is the one who knows me better than I know myself. He created me. And he gets to decide what I really need. And if I'm saying I need something that he says I don't need, what's the problem? Who who is the authority then I'm the authority rather than God being the authority. It then is an authority problem. I'm I I'm saying, well, I need what you don't think I need. So there's all kinds of ways that this can be applied here, but at the root of it, the answer to all of it is. That we have to believe that God has supplied everything that we need. Good and ever and perfect gift is from above. And he's and look, notice what it says. And cometh down from who? It cometh down from the Father of Lights. Now, first of all, I want us to remind I want to remind you a couple of things here. The Jewish concept of God We're used to God being called Father. It's very normal. The way we pray, we usually say dear Father. That's the way Christ actually taught us to pray in the Lord's Prayer. But how often do you see God referred to as a father in the Old Testament? Have you ever seen it? I think there's one time. in the entire Old Testament, where God is referred to as a father. It certainly is not very often. I'll look it up sometimes. See See if you can find it. It's not often that you find that God is referred to as a father. This would be for these Jewish believers a fairly novel concept that God is a father. When Christ came, do you remember what Christ said about the Father? He said, Does a father whose son asks him for a bread give him a stone? Even so your heavenly Father knows how to give you the Holy Spirit. One parallel passage says the Holy Spirit, the other personal passage says good things to them who ask. This concept of a benevolent father was something that the Jewish believers needed to be reminded of. And it's something that you and I need to be reminded of too, isn't it? Isn't it wonderful to know that we have a God who is personal, who is our Father, who not only knows what we need, he loves meeting our needs I've got to be honest with you, I'm a father of three three daughters. And I like meeting my kids' wants uh let alone their needs. I mean if my k if my kid needed anything I'd give I'd give 'em anything of that I could possibly give give them. I mean that's just the way it is. I I'd I would sacr I really feel I could sac I'd sacrifice anything for my kids Particularly if they if I thought they really need it. And frankly, I'm thrilled to give them things they want. Maybe sometimes to their to their detriment. I have to be careful that Don't do that. Thankfully our our Heavenly Father doesn't have that problem. We're us humanly fathers, we give too much of what our kids want sometimes to the detriment of them. God doesn't do that. He knows exactly what we need And he doesn't give us more than what we need, because if he doesn't spoil us like we spoil our kids of that. My point is this, he is a good father. And if we can rest in the fact that we We have a father of lights. We have a heavenly father who gives benevolently to us and supplies everything that we need. and we don't question his supply in our lives, then we are really protecting ourselves against the deceptions of Satan. It's something that I've been meditating on for quite a while, and it's something that I think it's extremely important for us to understand. It says here the Father of Lights. That is a term that's not mentioned, I don't think, anywhere else in the New Testament in that way, Father of Lights. But if you recall, the idea of God revealing himself is all over the Bible. And so when he says the Father of Liges, it indicates for us that the way, one of the ways anyway, that God does reveal Himself is through His supply. In other words, because of the way God supplies to us things, It's by that way that we know he's there. It's by that means that we know that he is who he is, that he is a good heavenly father. And we find here, this is important because everything else in life doesn't stay the same. Things change, things are just constantly changing all all over the place. Look at what it says. We can have this confidence of having this good and perfect supply from God. We can have this confidence why Because God is there is no variableness, neither shadow of turning. He says there's no variableness, he's saying there's no change And he says, there's no shadow of turning. This isn't even, there's no turning. It doesn't even look like he's turning. There's not even a shadow of his turning. God is stable. Have you ever, let me ask you this question. Have you ever gotten to a situation where you feel as though you have done something so bad That God is going to turn his back on you. Or you've done, you, you've, you have failed so many times that God is not going to accept Or you have failed the trial that you've gone through so many times that certainly God is not going to supply your needs. Did you know that God is not looking at your performance to determine what he gives to you and what he needs what you need. In other words, his supply for you is not based on your performance. His supply for you is based upon his character. That's incredible, isn't it? Aren't we thankful for that? Oh, it's a relief, right? I mean, sure. My kids, I look, I'm gonna spank my kids when they do wrong. But my supply for my kids isn't based upon what they do. I do not, I have never told them, look, you're not eating dinner because you disobeyed me. I never said that to them My mom didn't do that to me once, but she probably knew I could handle not eating dinner one time. But anyway. Um but that that doesn't I've never done that. of things, right? I can't imagine my my child waking up on the wrong side of the bed and I say, okay, no breakfast. I might tease them about it, but I would never do that. Why? Because my giving of of what they need in food and clothing, those kinds of things, is not based upon their performance. It's not based upon what they do. And so and so it's important for us to understand that even after we do sin, Even after we do go those kinds of things, sometimes the tempt the fall to temptation can lead to more temptation. If we don't realize, we don't sort of come back and say, okay, wait a minute. Who is God? Who am I? I'm his child. What do I need? What is he supplied? And we don't sort of bring ourselves back that direction. And I just realized I am over. Which I don't usually do. Okay. Final thing, let me just end this way. The example, the perfect example of God's supply is in this verse. It's Christ. He's the supply. If you ever question whether or not God has supplied all your needs, you need to look no further than the cross Look no further than Christ's supply God's supply. Christ being the perfect gift, the perfect supply. to pay the punishment for our sin. He is the foundation for understanding that God is our perfect Heavenly Father, who gives us what we need, and that ought to cause us to be able to keep from being dis Understanding that is extremely helpful in Christian life. And it's God's way of dealing with temptation. Hope this has been helpful. For us this evening. Let's pray. Our Father, we are thankful that you are our Heavenly Father. We're thankful that your supply is not based upon our performance. We're grateful, Lord, that your supply is good. It's morally right. It's untainted. It's pure. And that your supply is perfect. It's complete. It's not lacking. I pray, Lord, that you would help us to be content with your supply. I pray, Lord, that when Satan comes to this to to try to deceive us, when our flesh tells us that we need something we don't really need, When the world around us places temptations before us, I pray, Lord, that we would choose to believe your word. Choose to believe your character, which clearly tells us it could not be any clearer than this verse that you supply all our needs. You give us everything we need, and it is good, and it is perfect. Lord, I pray that you would help us to remember We admit before you that our hearts are deceitful and desperately wicked. We admit before you we need to remember this, and we are asking you to help us. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Alright, you all are dismissed. I think I'm just in time for the kids anyway. So worked out okay.