Two parts to to these lessons. And what we're talking tonight is about sin. We're in systematic theology. Last couple of weeks we talked about God's providence. Uh tonight we're going to be talking about the the the problem of sin. Um and uh does anybody know the technical Doctrinal word for the study of sin. Does anybody know that? I'm curious. Yes, Brad? Hamardiology, that's why I want you to help me with Systematology eventually. He said, Oh I should answer that. Yeah. definition or theme of um of sin. So let's kind of talk through this a little bit and There is one thing that if you talk to nearly anybody that's lived at any length of time, they're going to agree that that there are problems. in the world. I don't think you could run into anybody, unless they're, you know, four or something, that that's going to actually think that there are no problems in the world. Everybody's going to say that. And most would agree that there are major societal problems in the world. Like major problems in the world Let me ask you this. Let's start off this way. Can you tell me of some offered solutions? What are some solutions that are offered to the societal problems that we have in our world. Any ideas on what some what are some solutions that are offered? Can you think of any? Counseling. Counseling Yeah, yeah, psychology kind of thing. Yeah. Okay. Yes. What's that? Okay, so that's in the area of family. So if we could deal with family problems, then we can deal with societal problem. I mean actually what what I was bad to mean by that is instead of people getting married, say they're in an admitted relationship. Yes. No, I don't understand what you're saying. I'm just saying that that is categorically a problem with a breakdown of the family. It is. Yeah. Not sure if this exact same line is the same, but one of the things that word advice now is open Okay. Okay. Well that's hot off the pr yeah. That would be in the realm of political solutions, perhaps. Jeff? Welfare is another political solution. So let me give you let's let me list some. One is an ec uh the problem is economic. If, you know, if we could just fix the economic problems, we would fix our societal problems. You know, if if the poor people had more money and the rich people had less money and everybody was the same then then we would be fine. There's uh economic solutions that some people would offer. And even if you're discussing uh things that during the holidays a lot of times What do you talk about? Well you might talk about some of these things, and in certain cases, these get really heated. Why? Because people are really believing that they have the answer to fix the societal problem. Uh something some people say it's a judicial if you we could if we could it's it's a l law problem or prison problem or if we could just fix our judicial system then we'll have a problem Then we'll be we'll it'll be better. Some say some say political. It was so it was funny this is more econom uh an economic thing. But do you remember back several years ago, I was up in Pennsylvania actually Um and we hi we got hit with the major recession, I think in 2006 is when it started. All of us remember that. It was sort of funny in that particular area jobs were kind of locked. It wasn't as though it really in that kind of that area it really didn't matter as much, believe it or not. In some areas it did. But it was sort of funny to listen to they would be interviewing people and like people that were already retired and their income hadn't changed. based upon the economy, other other than the fact fact that maybe they have investments that change. But th there's you'd be listed people that go like, oh, it's so bad right now because we have such a bad economy And it was sort of like like everything is bad because we have a bad economy. So they're putting everybody putting their all of their their everything, the solutions that we need are economic solutions. Family is essentially already mentioned here. The problem with our society is the breakdown of the family. And you'll hear people say that. Education. Uh some people say well the real problem is ignorance and so what we really need to do is those people we if we can just give people a step up into education and we can educate everybody, then we'll solve our societal problems. In fact I remember when I was um probably uh uh ten or eleven we went to it was uh some Maryland state um building and I don't remember the exact specifics, but there was some somebody in the Maryland government that that met with us And um and they and it was in the I think Board of Education related and they asked us what the meaning of life was. They did. They actually asked us the ten ten twelve ten eleven year olds what the meaning of life was. And um and uh uh several of we were homeschoolers and I said uh I think I said, well, to glorify God, and they said, Okay. They they didn't like that answer very much. So you don't tell an eleven year old you're you're you're wrong in the educational system. And so they said actually what it really is our our response, our role in the world, like what is to educate the next generation. That's the meaning of life, to educate the next generation. And even at eleven years old I'm going, well that's a that's kind of cyclical. Like that's not well I didn't think that word, but but that's kind of like redundance, like you're just gonna keep educating people? That's the whole purpose like educate educate I mean d down into that's all you're doing So anyway, so those are some of the solutions that are offered. Now, I'm curious if you could f figure this out. What is the what is the common theme or common denominator, if you will, of all of these different things, Jeff? Man is solving it. Good. Okay, man is solving it. Anybody else have That is true. Anybody else have anything to add to that, Julie? Exactly. Exactly. So Julie gets the sticker tonight. So um they they may be uh maybe a grain of uh Jeff does too. It's all right, you could b you can both get stickers. All right. Um so the Yeah. Now I'm gonna damage their self-esteem, but okay. Anyway, so there there may be a grain of truth in many of these explanations, but all these estimate uh assessments have one thing in one theme They say that the greatest problems are structural. They're outside of ourselves. None of these problems look to the inside and say, okay, actually the problem is my soul. The problem is my heart. The problem is the heart within that is sinful, and that's actually the societal problem. It's sin, which if that is the societal problem, we have one solution to that problem. People don't think that way. They think that the problem is always on the outside of themselves. That's always the problem. Now, where do you suppose they got that from? Do you remember in Genesis chapter 3, everybody was blaming everybody else? And that's exact that's exactly what we have what's happening in our society as well. So we have, we're going to look at here the problem. of sin. And um and you can go ahead and take your Bibles and turn to Genesis chapter three. That's where we're going to end up. uh tonight. If you want to talk if you want to understand anything about sin, um Genesis chapter three really is the foundational chapter to understand it And we won't necessarily look at the entire passage or doing exegesis of it tonight, but we will take a look at some things here in Genesis chapter 3. So so the problem is a problem uh of sin. And this is something that that um implies something else. So if we are going to make the statement that the problem of sin The problem is then, so why would people have a problem with that being the problem if you followed that? Okay. It's on us. What is the sin implies responsibility? What else does sin imply? Fault. Fault. And what else does sin imply? Okay, something high a standard. Okay? So sin implies a standard. Okay? That there is some sort of standard that you're violating. Now, let me ask you this question. What is society's moral standard? What is society if you if you asked a person, can you please define what sin is and what it is not, how how many people would at least say that there are some sin in the world? How many people do you think would say that? Most people, right? Okay. So so what would be their standard? Any b any ideas, Kim? That's exactly it. Yeah, that's exactly it. As long as I don't hurt any that's that's the standard of sin. The standard of sin is as long as I don't hurt anybody else. If I hurt somebody else in the process of whatever behavior I'm doing, then it's sin. Until it is, it's not sin. That's their standard. What of course is the problem with that? Well the biggest problem is just the standard is right in scripture. That's the biggest problem. There are also other problems. Uh what's the real problem with that? There is a root sort of deeper problem, yes, Kim. Yeah, it becomes relative to the individual, which makes them what it makes them a standard and it makes themselves like they are what? They're God. Do you remember what do you remember what the devil promised Eve if he'll she'll partake of the forbidden fruit in Genesis 3? You remember what it was? You will be like God. So it's so it is really significant that we have a down that we have a a uh a a breakdown of what sin is, so now I am the standard of what I believe sin is, and now I am essentially on my own moral standard, which means I'm my own lowercase G God. And we wonder why we have all the problems we have. So we have a bunch of lowercase G gods walking around with no with no s set standard, which is why you have societal chaos and problems all over the place. So let's look here then at the sin, at sin in the biblical story, which is in Genesis chapter 3. And really, though, it's all the way through the Bible. There are three Hebrew words for the word sin. One is mentioned it's the most common word, and it's the it's mentioned six hundred times And it has the sense of meaning m meaning to miss the target, failing or falling short of the goal. So six hundred times that's a lot of times in the Old Testament. There are very few words besides, you know, the that are mentioned that many times in the Old Testament. It's very few. The second most common term uh for sin is translated iniquity in the older translations and wickedness or perversion in some of the more modern translations. The root mean is bending or twisting So when we think of what sin is, it's missing the mark. What's the mark? Well, God's the mark. Okay, it's missing his standard, missing the standard of his word and truth and righteousness. And then it's it's it has the idea of bending or twisting. And is that not what sin does? If you want, sin will always twist and distort and complicate. Holiness and righteousness clarifies and simplifies. But sin bends and distorts. The third term for sin is usually the rendering is trans transgression or revolt or rebellion. Crime may be the best equivalent here. Sin is a criminal behavior against God. So if you think of breaking a law or a rebellion, a revolting uh you have uh that third word uh third Hebrew word as well. Yes. Does the choice of the word represent sin impact the meaning of sin in the context of the Uh I would say most of the time it's fairly equivalent. It may be nuanced based upon the context, but as a whole, I think essentially all of it's Like different sides of the same diamond. It's it's different different facets of the same thing. Does that answer your question? Yeah, good question. Um, I I suppose you could come to that conclusion if you didn't have if I didn't if it wasn't all the same thing. So then you have the fall, okay, which is the the origin of sin. So let's take a few moments. And let's look at Genesis chapter 3, and we'll pick up here in verse 1. I'm just going to read the first seven verses here. It says, Now the serpent was more cunning than any beast of the field which the Lord God had made. And he said to the woman, He has got indeed said, You shall know not eat of every tree of the garden? And the woman said to the serpent Uh we may eat of the fruit of the trees of the garden, but in the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the garden, God has said, You shall not eat it, nor shall you touch it. You touch it, lest you die. Then the serpent said to the woman, You will not surely die, for God knows that in the day you eat of it, your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil. So when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, that it was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree desirable to make one wise, she took of its fruit and ate. She also gave to her husband with her, and he ate. Then the eyes of both of them were opened, and they knew that they were naked, and they sewed fig leaves together, and made themselves coverings Uh and they heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day, and Adam and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God among the trees of the garden, and it's going to continue the narrative there All right, a couple of things we want to notice just in understanding the the the essence of sin and and um And how this all came about. Um number one, we need to notice how their sin The sought to define the basic uh the basis of their knowledge. Okay. So so what happened in this whole scenario? Basically, do you remember what Satan said to them? He said, it it's not, is it? Did God really say that? He was questioning the Word of God. He's really questioning the very redefining the basis of their knowledge. What was prior to Satan coming on the scene, what was the basis of their knowledge? I should say who is the basis of their knowledge? God was their base the only basis of their knowledge was God. That was the that was I mean he was the one that told them exactly how everything worked. And that was the only basis for any of it. When Satan comes on this scene and says, Hath God said, did he really say this? He is now trying to ask the question, what is really true? Um or uh um and so and so uh trying to redefine the basis for their knowledge. Number two Their sense sought to rede redefine at the basis of moral standards. So they're basically asking the question, what is really right? Do you really have to vote? Can you Isn't it possible that you can violate this in order to become God's knowing good and evil? So the basis of their moral standard was changed. And this is an interesting one as well. If you look at the passage, you'll find that their sins uh sought to redefine the basis of their identity. It gave them a different answer to the question, who am I? Before sin happened, before all this happened, what was the answer to their identity? Somebody said, who are you? What would they say? Yeah, I'm I'm God's or I I'm God's particularly what? His creation, right? A person's true identity is based on what? The fact that they are created by God. That's a biblical approach to a person's identity. And then for a Christian, our identity is in the fact that we are recreated by God as well, that we're saved as well. So their sin sought to redefine the basis of their identity. Um and it gave a different answer to the question of who am I? So now they're asking, well, who am I really? Can I be like do I have the potential of being like God? I mean, it really redefined who they they were, confused, distorted, all of that. Do we have this? Do we have these problems today? Man, do we have these problems today? In living color, we have these problems today. People think that they can identify as whatever they want to identify as. What's the root problem? The root problem is that they are they are trying to to find their own identity and their own perception of themselves, which is basically saying, I'm God. And they're not outright saying that, but they're implying By saying that I get to choose my own identity, that is essentially saying I am God. God is the basis of our identity, He's the creator. And so the things that happened in Genesis chapter 3 have very, very significant ramifications for today in all three of these areas. Basis for knowledge, moral standards, and identity. Jeff? With the origin of sin. Yeah. So when the angels fell and Satan's deception, is that not sin? Uh let me see something. I may have skipped on the skipped a little bit on angels. I'm glad you mentioned that. Yes, let me um hold on we'll go to the origins then. Okay, we're that's the next next slide. Okay, so I'll answer that question now, and Jeff just led me right into that. It's a great transition. So So let's begin to talk a little bit about okay, what was your qu restate your question, Jeff, I'm sorry. Uh when the angels fell by disobeying God and deception of the Oh okay. So let's keep that question in mind and let's go through this and see if see if we can answer the question this way. Let's number one talk mention, and we won't take the time to look at this because we I think we looked at this a couple weeks ago. God does not originate sin. So whatever we decide about what sin is and how its origin what its origin is, we we do not want to come to the conclusion that God that it sin is a originates in God. Okay. Um The angelic fall is mentioned in Jude 6 as well as 2 Peter 24 and also Isaiah 14, which we won't take the time to look at at all of those. And so I'll read Jude 6. 1. 6. It says, and the angels did not keep their proper domain. But left their own abode, He has reserved in everlasting chains under darkness for the judgment of the great day 2 Peter 2, 4, for if God did not spare the angels who sinned, so we clearly see there that these the angels sinned. For if God did not spare the angels who sinned, but cast them down to hell, and delivered them into the chains of darkness to be reserved for judgment So clearly from those two passages, angels have sinned. I think I think when I say the origin of sin, a better a more clear way or more specific way of saying it would be the origin of sin in in human beings. Sorry with Adam and Eve. But the angels sinned prior to that point. Yes, good point. Yeah, so they don't procreate, so they're not they're not passing it down from one generation to another. Yeah, that's a very good point. So Um and so so in that sense, yeah, to to and particularly in theology when you uh when you hear the word original sin, you usually are thinking in terms of Adam and Eve because they're the first human beings to to sin. God is totally sovereign, yet he is never the author of sin. And that's important. He is completely in control and fleet and completely sovereign and yet he is never the author of it. Um So that brings up sort of a question though. What question might that bring up? Number three. If he allows Yeah. Now let me just say this that there is a sense in which you really there it there's a point to which we're not really gonna grasp it, we're not really gonna understand. But here's what theologians have sort of come up with. They've sort of said that God stands behind good. In a different way than he stands behind sin. So when he stands behind good, the Bible actually says all good things come from God. Every good and perfect gift comes from God, James. So the Bible says when he created it everything he made it and it was what? It was good and it was very good. So all of those so when you when you're talking about goodness You're talking about God being good and the fact that everything he makes is good. So all true goodness fi i finds its direct um basis and even culpability, if that's a can be a positive thing, in God. Does that make sense? In other words, he takes we'll use the word credit. He gets all the credit for anything good. God does.