I echo Pastor's sentiments. Um I look forward to him preaching next week as well. Um actually he almost had an opportunity this morning, my wife had to remind me not to hit my head on the uh T V and a V CR over there. I actually thought about getting up real quick you know. Uh I'm gonna break the cardinal rule. I am and and admit um speakers aren't supposed to admit when they're nervous, but I am a little bit nervous this morning. Um I have had a busy week. I'm one of those tax men. I work for the Comptroller of Maryland. So we're we're feverishly preparing to uh collector taxes uh starting sometime in january. I always tell people I try to make the the uh system as efficient as possible to encourage the legislature not to raise taxes or add additional taxes. That's the way, that's sort of the way I frame it. So let's go to the Lord in prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for this time. We thank you for this day. What an amazing thing that we are standing in in this building and um worshiping you together as a body of Christ. Lord, we're so thankful and so grateful. We're reminded that the church is not a building, that it's It's not brick and mortar and wood and um all the things that that go into a building, Lord, but it's it's the body of Christ. It's your body. And no matter where we are, as long as we're together. We are the church. Lord, I just pray that you would be with us this morning. Help us to continue to worship you in spirit and truth Just help me as we we open your word. Just clear my mind and help me to communicate your word effectively. Father, help me to be your servant. As Moses was your servant, Lord God, and communicated your word. I just pray that you would bless us now. We thank you that although it's cold outside, Um we're warm together inside. We just pray all these things in Jesus' name. Amen. We've been studying the book of Exodus in Sunday school. It's been a great study of the Lord redeeming his people Israel. And leading them out of Egypt after 430 years of servitude. And you could say that our church has just had an exodus of our own, have we not? Just like the Israelites, we faced adversity along the way. It seemed like every time we got past one problem, another would pop up, wouldn't it? Each challenge brought a new opportunity to trust God. I remember there were many times we just thought it wasn't going to happen. I would talk to Pastor early in the week and he would say, well, the chances are 50%, you know, this is gonna happen. And then I talked to him at the end of the week and he would say, Well, you know, and and maybe a couple months ago I think at some point he said, No, I think it's really looking good. I think at some point he said maybe uh ninety percent or something like that and then I talked to them the next week and it was fifty percent. So, you know, all of these these challenges and and adversity, all these obstacles that we face. Um And Pastor has said, and and I agree, I think many of us agree, that God caused this to happen the way He did in such a way so that we can't claim credit. We can't take credit for this, right? We came to some ox obstacles that seemed insurmountable viewing through a human lens, but then God would somehow remove the barrier. There was an impenetrable wall and God would just somehow blast through it when we could move no further. How exciting as we start this new chapter in our church's history. You know, I think if we're honest, there were times when many of us maybe lost hope that this would ever happen and I think, you know, I've only been here at the church since August of last year, so You know, others of you are more long-suffering than I am. I know this process began probably what at least two years ago or so. So it's it's been a long process in the making. I remember packing the semi-trailer, remember that? And I remember Pastor saying, and maybe he didn't share this with everybody, but we thought, you know, what if something happens where we have to unpack this? But you know, he he he he thinks about all these things. He made plans so that we had the finances to actually get someone to come and unpack this semi trailer. Because can you imagine slight just psychologically how that would have been you know, unpacking all those things out of the semi-trailer. But and and if we were today, you know, over at the old building, we may have found ourselves in a state of discontent. or even questioning God. In our text today, we see the Israelites facing one of those obstacles that seem to be immovable You know, I've heard it said that the Bible is the history of man's failures and the history of God's faithfulness. Our passage today demonstrates this truth as Israel faces one of those obstacles that seem impossible from a human standpoint to overcome, but with God anything is possible. Numbers, we're going to start in Numbers chapter 20, verse 1. It says, Then the children of Israel, the whole congregation, came into the wilderness of Zinn. In the first month, and the people stayed in Kadesh, and Miriam died there and was buried there. So the text says the congregation came to Kadesh in the first month, but it doesn't state the year. At the end of this chapter, there's a report of the death of Aaron, Moses' brother. According to Numbers 33, 38, Aaron died on the first day of the fifth month of the fortieth year after the exodus from Egypt. Thus it's logical to conclude that the first month here is in the fortieth year as well. Now Mary was Moses' sister and she had some good and not so good moments, right? Again, you know, the Bible is replete with the history of man's failure. Isn't that really refreshing? You know, if you look at world history you know, most of world history just reports all the successes. You know, of uh Egypt, you know, you just have all of the successes of the pharaohs, right? And it was just uh revisionist history, the Assyrians, the the Babylonians. You have all of their conquests and all of their successes, but in the Bible We see the failures of man as well as when man trusts God and God working through man. But through it all we see God's faithfulness. And Mariam, Moses' sister, you know, a high point in her life was when she led Israel in celebrating the victory over Egypt at the Red Sea. Remember she led that singing with the women, you know, after the parting of the Red Sea and that uh victorious time. But, you know, then a low point, she also led the attack against Moses, as recorded in Numbers chapter 12, verses 1 through 15. While most of the older generation had died in the wilderness by this point, the death of Miriam and Aaron Which again was recorded at the end of this chapter, serves as a reminder, sort of like bookends, that just as the Lord had said, none of the older generation would enter the promised land. Now the location is identified as Kadesh. This was located on the northern boundary of the wilderness of Peran. and on the southeast border of the wilderness of Zinn. This was the same location where the Israelites were before they were to enter the promised land. When they remember they sent out the twelve spies to spy out to investigate the land of Canaan and they were to bring back a report. This was some 37 years earlier. Of course Ten spies came back with a bad report and unfortunately they refused, Israel refused to go into the promised land. And God told them they would wander in the wilderness for 40 years until that generation had passed away. So just as the people had begun their wilderness wanderings at Kadesh, They were now coming full circle near the end of the wilderness wondering. They were back at Kaddish. In verse 2 it says, Now there was no water for the congregation, so they gathered together against Moses and Aaron. Excuse me, I'm going to have a little water here. So they gather together against Moses and Aaron. Let me pull this chair. During Israel's forty years in the wilderness, water was their greatest physical need. Right? We know that God had provided the manna right for sustenance. So they they had food to eat, but water in the desert, you know, was their greatest physical need. And the Lord provided it continually, beginning at Horeb in Exodus 17, verses 1 through 7. As we continue on in verses 3 through 4, it says, And the people contended with Moses and spoke, saying, If only we had died when our brethren died before the Lord. Why have you brought up the assembly of the Lord into this wilderness that we and our animals should die here? So those of us studying through Exodus, this certainly sounds familiar, doesn't it? It's the same pattern. It seems that whenever faced with adversity, The people, the Israelites, complained and their minds automatically went to the worst possible outcome. For example, in Exodus 15. 24 at Merah, it says, and the people complained against Moses, saying, What shall we drink? In Exodus sixteen, two through three, then the whole congregation of the children of Israel complained against Moses and Aaron in the wilderness, and the children of Israel said to them, O that we had died by the hand of the Lord in the land of Egypt. When we sat by the pots of meat, and when we ate bread to the full. For you have brought us out into this wilderness to kill this whole assembly with hunger They were a bit nostalgic about their time in Egypt as slaves, weren't they, wouldn't you say? Um sitting by pots of meat and eating bread to the full. I'm not sure about their their memory there. In Exodus 173, they're at Rephidim and it says, And the people thirsted there for water. Again, it it was this issue of not having water. And the people complained against Moses and said, Why is it you have brought us up out of Egypt? to kill us and our children and our livestock with thirst. So again they w they would go to the worst possible outcome. You know, it was God brought them out to the desert to die to to um desert them, to leave them. So again, faced with the lack of water, instead of seeking the Lord or asking Moses to intercede, they complain. If only we had died when our brethren died before the Lord, they said in this passage. Perhaps they were speaking of those who had died in Korah's rebellion, as recorded in Numbers 16, 41 through 50. This was when they challenged the exclusive position of Aaron's descendants to the priesthood. And the situation was desperate in the people's mind. In verse 5, the Israelites seemed to be mocking the Lord's promise of abundance of food. It says in verse 5, and why have you made us come up out of Egypt to bring us to this evil place? It is not a place of grain or figs or vines or pomegranates, nor is there any water to drink. Now they did have a diet consisting primarily of manna for 40 years, and to be honest, um we'd all probably have been sick of manna by this time, right? But why was that? Why was there they did they have a diet of manna? It was because of their unbelief and rebellion, right? Because of their unbelief and rebellion, they denied they were denied from experiencing the Lord's blessings. In Numbers thirteen twenty-three, when the spies were in Canaan, it says The spies, when they were investigating the Promised Land, then they came to the valley of Eshkol and they cut down a branch with one cluster of grapes. They carried it between two of them on a pole. So the cluster was so big that they were carrying it on a pole. They also brought some of the pomegranates and figs. So they brought this back to the people of Israel. And the text goes on to say that even the ten spies admitted that the land was flowing with milk and honey. But that wasn't what their focus was. That wasn't what the conclusion that they came to. Instead, what they focused on was the obstacle the impediment before them, which was the people in the land. And they said they saw themselves as grasshoppers compared to the inhabitants of the land. And that's what they focused on. Remember when later on when um they would go to Jericho and didn't Rahab say that we heard about You know, this was, again, 40 years later, and Rahab said that they dreaded the people of Israel because they heard what had happened to the Egyptians. So the whole time the spies are looking at the inhabitants of the land and they're saying, we're like grasshoppers in their eyes. And it even said, they view us as grasshoppers. When in fact the people of the land had a dread for the Israelites. And if they just would have been faithful to God and listened to his command, they could have taken the land. But in an act of utter rebellion, they refused to enter the promised land. And besides that, they planned to choose another leader to lead them back to Egypt. And they determined to stone Caleb and Joshua, the only spies that came back with a good report. So this certainly was not acting in faith, was it? The Lord said at that time that Israel was rejecting him, and it was an act of unbelief in spite of all the signs he performed among them. I like what Jim Berg says about unbelief in his study series, Quieting a Noisy Soul. He calls it the great disorder of the heart. Unbelief is a disorder because it accepts the reasoning of fallen man over the revelation of God. Romans 121 says, When they knew God, they glorified him not as God, neither were thankful, but became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish heart was darkened. The lie, the fantasy of the great disorder of unbelief says, God's not doing enough for me. God himself is not enough for me. I need something more. This is the great lie, the great disorder of unbelief. Unfortunately, the majority of the Israelites We see this repeated pattern. They lived in unbelief. In spite of what God did, it was never enough to cause them to trust Him, to trust in His promises. Here again, when faced with adversity, they forget the promises of God and immediately turn on their leader. You know, a lack of faith eventually leads to desperation and hopelessness. So let's look at Moses and Aaron's response in this situation. So Moses and Aaron went from the presence of the assembly, in verse 6 here. They went from the presence of the assembly to the door of the tabernacle of meeting, and they fell on their faces, and the glory of the Lord appeared to them. You know, just as the Israelites had a pattern of complaining And turning on their leader and not trusting God, being discontent and responding in unbelief. Moses, we see had this pattern in his life of going to the Lord in prayer. Particularly when faced with adversity. In Exodus 15, 24 it says, so he, Moses, cried out to the Lord. In Exodus 17, 4 it says, so Moses cried out to the Lord. Numbers 11, 2. Moses prayed to the Lord. Numbers 12, 13. So Moses cried out to the Lord. Numbers 21, 7. So Moses prayed for the people. We see this repeated pattern. When we think of Moses, he was one of those towering figures in the Word of God. And, you know, as we look at this passage and we see that that Moses you know fails in this passage, it shouldn't diminish him in our eyes, really He was the mediator of the law, the covenant between God and Israel, known as the Mosaic Law or Covenant Moses was a vessel used by God. Forty-eight times he's referred to in the scriptures as the servant of the Lord or the servant of God. If we look at Hebrews 11, he's included in the hall of faith. In Hebrews 11, 24 and 25, it says, by faith Moses When he was come to years, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter, choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season. And then again in verses twenty seven through twenty-nine it says, By faith he forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king, for he endured as seeing him who is invisible. Through faith he kept the Passover and the sprinkling of blood. lest he that destroyed the firstborn should touch them. By faith they passed through the Red Sea, as by dry land, which the Egyptians assayed to do were drowned. Have you ever been tempted to pursue the material things of this world? Well, Moses was a prince of Egypt and he had everything in his hands. You know, he had all of the material things of that time that you could ever imagine. And he chose to forsake that, to throw his lot in with the people of God, the Israelites. In Revelation, interesting, the last book of the Bible Moses, we know, was the human author of Genesis, the first book of the Bible and the first five books of Pentateuch, under the inspiration of Scripture. But in the last book of the Bible, in Revelation 15, 3, the martyred saints of the tribulation period will sing two songs of redemption. One is the song of Moses, the song that Miriam and the women led after God delivered them from the Egyptian army by parting the Red Sea. And the other song is the song of the Lamb. Moses was the great prophet. In Deuteronomy 18, 18 through 19, it says, I will raise up for them a prophet like for you. like you, from among their brethren, and will put my words in his mouth, and he shall speak to them all that I command him. And it shall be that whoever will not hear my words, which he speaks in my name, I will require it of him. Both the Old and the New Testament interpret this passage as the Messiah. So the Messiah would be the prophet to come after Moses, the great prophet. You know, seeking the presence of God was so important to Moses that even before the tabernacle was built, before the the tabernacle of meeting or the tent of meeting, In Exodus 33, starting in verse 7, it says, Moses took his tent and pitched it outside the camp, far from the camp, and called it the tabernacle of meeting. And it came to pass that everyone who sought the Lord went out to the tabernacle of meeting, which was outside the camp. So it was, whenever Moses went out to the tabernacle, that all the people rose, and each man stood at his tent door and watched Moses until he had gone into the tabernacle. So even before the construction of the tabernacle, Moses put a tent outside the camp. He wanted a place away from the camp where he could seek the Lord. In verse 9, it says, And it came to pass When Moses entered the tabernacle, that the pillar of cloud descended and stood at the door of the tabernacle, and the Lord talked with Moses. All the people saw the pillar of clouds standing at the tabernacle door, and all the people rose and worshipped, each man in his tent door. So the Lord spoke to Moses face to face as a man speaks to his friend, and he would return to the camp, but his servant Joshua, the son of Nun, a young man, did not depart from the tabernacle. Moses had a relationship with the Lord that was that of a friend. Now, this is not implying any disrespect on Moses' part or that he saw himself as an equal to the Lord. For he certainly didn't. He had reverence, he had the fear of the Lord and respect for God. It was thinking of a close fellowship that Moses sought with the Lord continually. And certainly to have such a close fellowship, Moses was had to continually be seeking the Lord. He had to be seeking him often. And in verse ten it says, And as he met with God and fellowshiped with him and sought his counsel, the presence of the Lord in the pillar of clouds, standing at the tabernacle door, caused the people to rise and worship. Just as any good spiritual leader does, Moses had a positive impact on the spiritual life of the people as his actions caused the people to worship God, as they continued to seek God. So getting back to our text, Moses sought the Lord on this occasion just as he normally did. Let's look at the Lord's instruction. In verse 7, it says, Then the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Take the rod, you and your brother Aaron, gather the congregation together. Speak to the rock before their eyes, and it will yield its water. Thus you shall bring water for them out of the rock, and give drink to the congregation and their animals. So the Lord answered Moses' prayer with clear and specific instructions. And while he was to carry his staff He was just supposed to speak to the rock in the presence of the people, and it would yield its water. This could well have been a place that had provided water before, but was currently dried up. So what did Moses do? As we continue in the text in verse 9, it says, So Moses took the rod from before the Lord as he commanded him. And Moses and Aaron gathered the assembly together before the rock. And he said to them, Hear now, you rebels. So he was doing okay when he took the rod and he gathered the assembly. But now he diverts from the Lord's instructions. Says, Hear now, you rebels, must we bring water for you out of this rock? Then Moses lifted his hand and struck the rock twice with his rod, and water came out abundantly, and the congregation and their animals drank. You know, on another occasion, decades prior to this, before the wilderness wandering forty years, when the people were in need of water, the Lord commanded Moses to strike the rock at Rephedim. And it brought forth water. Now, Moses was at this time simply supposed to speak to the rock to bring forth water. However, out of anger and frustration, Moses spoke to the people, rebuking them, and struck the rock twice. Have you ever acted out in anger, you know, when you're just frustrated with something? You know, oftentimes It takes more than one blow to get that anger out, doesn't it? That frustration out. You just see him, you know, once wasn't enough. He had to hit it twice, right? Humanly speaking, Moses had every reason to be angry at Israel. I mean, wouldn't most of us have had the same reaction? After all, they continually acted in unbelief, and they continually disrespected his leadership and even the Lord's leadership. However, Moses allowed their lack of faith to lead him to act out in anger or disobey the Lord. With the older generation having mostly died by this time, as we indicated, then the next generation unfortunately was also demonstrating a lack of faith here. The Lord had rebuked and judged the older generation, as we saw numerous times studying in Exodus. For their rebellion in the past. However, it was only after testing them and being gracious and merciful for a period of time that the Lord brought judgment. Now he is probably dealing with this generation the same way. Starting out with patience, grace, and mercy, as God always is. So let's look at the consequences for these actions. In verse 12 it says, Then the Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron. Because you did not believe me to hallow me in the eyes of the children of Israel, therefore you shall not bring this assembly into the land Which I have given them. This was the water of Meribah, because the children of Israel contended with the Lord, and he was hallowed among them. The Lord told told Moses and Aaron that their actions were an act of unbelief. The Lord's evaluation of Moses was that he failed to take God at his word and thus to treat him as holy to the people. You know, this wasn't the first time that Moses was brought to a breaking point by the actions of his people. And it it's recorded elsewhere in Scripture and I'm sure there were Many other times, but we can look at one other occasion in Numbers 11, 4 through 20. It says in verse 4: Now the mixed multitude who were among them yielded to intense cravings. So the children of Israel also wept again and said, Who will give us meat to eat? We remember the fish which we ate freely in Egypt, the cucumbers, the melons, the leeks, the onions, and the garlics, but now our whole being is dried up. There's nothing at all except this manna before our eyes. When it's speaking of the mixed multitude here, we talked about this as we went through Exodus. It wasn't only the Israelites. that came out from Egypt. There was um in Exodus 1238 it uses the word mixed company. There were non-Israelites who left Egypt with Israel in the Exodus. Now some would have been true proselytes, Gentiles who feared the Lord. But there were others who were more just opportunists, right? They had just experienced the plagues of Egypt And so they threw their lot in with the Israelites, you know, and they they felt like this was a good decision at the time. At the first sign of difficulty, however, they would be some of the first to complain and stir up others. Isn't it true that complaining is contagious? Can you say that? You know, uh often um many of us spend much time at work, and how easy is it to get caught up in in that complaining? It's so easy. I have to continually watch myself talk to Harry about this, had conversations with him, and it's just it's so easy, it's so contagious, isn't it? The Word of God says, a little leaven leavens the whole loaf. It goes through the whole loaf. In verse 10 it says, Then Moses heard the people weeping throughout their families, everyone at the door of his tent, and the anger of the Lord was greatly aroused. Moses also was displeased. So the Lord was displeased in this circumstance, and the reaction of Israel and um not being satisfied with God's provision. But so was Moses. He was displeased. So Moses said to the Lord, Why have you afflicted your servant? And why have I not found favor in your sight that you have laid the burden of all these people on me? Remember, there's two million people Did I conceive all these people? Did I beget them that you should say to me, Carry them in your bosom, as a guardian carries a nursing child to the land which you swore to their fathers? Where am I to get meat to give to all these people? For they weep all over me, saying, give us meat that we may eat. I'm not able to bear all these people alone because the burden is too heavy for me. If you treat me like this, please kill me here and now, if I have found favor in your sight, and do not let me see my wretchedness Wow. Sounds like Moses was pretty hopeless at this point, right? God was very gracious to him. Let's see his response. In verse 16, it says, So the Lord said to Moses, Gather to me seventy men of the elders of Israel, whom you know to be the elders of the people, and officers over them Bring them to the tabernacle of meeting that they may stand there with them with you. Then I will come down and talk with you there. I will take of the spirit that is upon you, and will put the same upon them And they shall bear the burden of the people with you, that you may not bear it yourself alone. So God listened, the Lord listened to Moses' complaint. And he was very gracious in his response. And he provided Moses the assistance that he needed. You know, in this this occasion. And God is is gracious with us. I don't think we need to be timid in approaching the Lord with our petitions and and our problems and our concerns because he is concerned about us. It's not that we need to, when we face adversity, when we face difficulties, that we're supposed to whitewash that and just act like it didn't occur, but we need to cry out to the Lord You know, we see this in this occasion, Moses was crying out to the Lord. Now I think um he was probably pushing it a little bit with reverence to God, you know, at this point. You know, obviously he was at a breaking point. He was at a breaking point and God needed to step in and do something. And provide assistance, and God in his grace did. He said, in verse 18, then you shall say to the people Consecrate yourselves for tomorrow and you shall eat meat. So again, remember the people's complaint was about meat. So yeah, they would eat meat and God said For you have wept in the hearing of the Lord, saying, Who will give us meat to eat? For it was well with us in Egypt. Therefore the Lord will give you meat and you shall eat. You shall eat not one day, not two days, not five days, not ten days. nor twenty days, but for a whole month, until it comes out of your nostrils and becomes loathsome to you, because you have despised the Lord who is among you, and have wept before him, saying, Why did you ever come up out of Egypt? Moses, he was frustrated with the people and it sounded like he was in despair, but the difference in this situation was that his complaint was to God in private, right? He was not acting before the people as God's mediator, right? And God provided an answer bringing help so he didn't have to bear the burden alone. And he also gave the people meat, even though they didn't deserve an answer, um, but so much so that it was coming out of their nostrils, this probably meant that they just hated the smell after a while, right? It's like have you ever had something um just so so often? I know like for instance, uh women when they're um pregnant they usually have certain cravings and then sometimes after that they just won't want want to have anything to do with that particular food because they ate so much of it I don't know if you've ever heard of that before I think. But this was the this is the idea here. They probably hated the smell of it after a while. And we won't look at it, but judging from his actions after this, Moses had a renewed spirit. He was revived and he had a renewed spirit. So in this account in Numbers 20, the difference is that Moses acted out in anger in front of the people, acting in unbelief. He could have taken his complaint to the Lord in private before going to the people. He had done this in the past, and he had an opportunity to do this. Vengeance is mine, saith the Lord. Moses acted out in anger due to his discontentedness with the Israelites. But God said it was his unbelief. He was not trusting God to deal with the circumstances, or he felt that the Lord should have dealt with them differently. Maybe he wanted God's judgment on them at that time for their continual disregard for his leadership. As we mentioned before, um The material from Jim Burke, unbelief is a disorder because it accepts the reasoning of fallen man over the revelation of God. Now Moses was a godly man, a hero of the faith, but even he was subject to this disorder. How about you? Do you find yourself struggling with anxiety, fear? or anger on a regular basis. Maybe you need to track the way down. I've started to do this and it's made a difference in my life. When I was when I'm anxious or fearful or angry, If I think about it, if I'm aware of it, I can track it back to some form of discontent. It's those voices, those noises in my soul that say, if only I had what I need. I should be, or I should have. I don't like it when, right? Those noises of discontent that we have in our souls. But if I'm honest, I can track my discontent back to the real source. Which is unbelief. Where's my page nine? Thank you, Lord. Um, The lie, the fantasy of the great disorder of unbelief is God is not doing enough for me. God Himself is not enough for me. I need something more. That's what it all comes back to. We've interpreted what we know about God from our experience instead of interpreting our experience in light of what is true about God from the scriptures. And I would even add to that. We have a very selective and short memory, don't we? Because even if we interpreted what we know about God from our experience, it's only from our immediate experience. It's only from what we're going through right at the moment because if we really are honest, we can look back on our lives and see how God has provided in so many different ways. You know, I mean, I'm sure that we're gonna face challenges as a church in this new year. But we need to remember this time of God's provision as he's brought us really miraculously. to this building. And in our own lives, as we face adversities, we face challenges. Many of us, we're going to face challenges that we're totally unaware of this year. We're totally unaware of it this time, or this coming year I should say. Right? But we need to remember, you know All of the blessings of God. But then we don't need to rely on that. We need to rely on God's promises in what is true about God from the scriptures, right? And his character. That's what we put our hat on or we rest on. If we reject what God says is true All we can do is live in a fantasy world of imagination because the world as we ch we are choosing to believe does not exist And I wanted to read a few things here. I had some slides, but we're not set up yet for that. So let me just read this. A world where God does not love us does not exist. A world where God is not in control of all things for our good and his glory does not exist. A world where God is not with me or does not hear my cry does not exist. A world where God is heavy-handed and mean-spirited does not exist. These worlds are fantasy worlds of our imagination. To live in a fantasy world is to hasten our own disintegration. Philippians 4. 19 describes the real world, but my God shall supply all your need according to his riches and glory. Again, it's trusting in the promises of God God's punishment for his servant Moses seems pretty severe, didn't it? I mean, honestly. However, Moses was given great privilege and responsibility. He was the, again, the mediator of the law, the Mosaic Covenant. He was the author of the first five books of the Bible, the Pentateuch. He conversed with God. In Exodus 19, 19 it says, Moses spoke, and God answered him by voice. God answered him by voice. How amazing was that! He was a man of great privilege. He was the chosen servant to lead God's people from servitude in Egypt to the land promised to Abraham's descendants so many years before. But the scripture says in Luke 12, to whom much is given, much is required. Because of sin, the sin of unbelief, on this occasion, Moses was not allowed to enter the promised land However, in God's graciousness he did allow him to remain in the position of leadership until his death. And he continued to be God's chosen servant until the very end of his life. And you know, if we think about it, God even had A another sort of maybe surprise or reward from Moses, fourteen hundred years after his death, when he was in a heavenly place at this time. God brought him back in a glorified state. He appeared with Elijah on the Mount of Transfiguration. Where Peter, James, and John witnessed the transfiguration of Christ and saw him in his glory. But Moses and Elijah were there as well. So he was in the promised land. So that was, you know, God is surprising. He's a God of grace and a God of mercy. And he gives us those surprises now and then, doesn't he? So in applying this passage as we look forward to this this next year, what can we learn from this? If Moses failed, Moses is great as he as he was. a great man of God. How can we expect to be faithful in believing God at His Word? Well, there's a few things that we can certainly take from this. Number one, remember it said that the Holy Spirit of God was upon Moses. And we have the same Holy Spirit of God that was with Moses indwelling us as believers. He illuminates our minds and helps us understand the scriptures. He convicts us of sin and encourages us to live in righteousness. We have the same Holy Spirit of God. Number two, instead of interpreting what we know about God from our experience or from our immediate experience in particular, we need to interpret our experience in light of what is true about God from the scriptures. what we learn fr about God from his about his character and about his promises. And we need to hold fast to those things because we are going to face trials and tribulations this coming year. We're going to face adversity. We're going to face difficulties. No, Jesus said, in this world you will have trouble, but take heart. I have overcome the world. We need to seek God through the study of his word. Not just the study of his word, though, also through Bible memorization. I appreciate how Pastor has verses of the month. that when we come together on Wednesday nights that we, you know, try to to memorize those verses um quite often. And you know, that's an important thing as we as we some of us get older, um we tend to maybe make excuses in this area and say, well, you know, that's for the children for the children's ministries and stuff. No, we need to continually be meditating on God's word. And part of that I I truly believe is is memorizing God's word. And the Bible says his word will not come back void, right? He'll bring those verses back to our remembrance when we need them And oftentimes when we need them, when we're ministering to someone else. Because it's not just for us, it's it's for those around us. And we also need to seek God in prayer. Moses was a man of prayer. The last point of application From Jim Berg. He says, we need to learn to look for the roots of unbelief and discontent when we see the fruit of guilt. Anxiety, anger, and despair. And this is again tracking the way down. So if you're experiencing anxiety, anger, guilt, despair. then try to track that to what is the discontent that I'm experiencing? And ultimately what is the unbelief? What am I saying in in my life that God is not enough, right? Or God does not have control of this situation. I need to take control of this situation. ultimately. Try to have a conscious thought about those things so that it doesn't get to the outward manifestation of those emotions. Right? And that's where if we're memorizing scripture and we're meditating, we're studying scripture, then we replace that negative noise that's in our souls with God's truth and God's promises. And it really does work. You know, it's it's it's God's word and it is supernatural and it's amazing. Let's pray. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for your word. We thank you so much for um the whole truth of your word that we see the actions of of men, um, good and bad, we see uh warts and all Lord, even with Moses who was such a towering man of God, um, called the servant of the Lord, the servant of God. Um, we know, Lord, that you are well pleased with him, but even he failed you at times. But your grace and mercy abounded in his life. And we just pray, Lord, that we would not act In discontent and unbelief, Lord God, as we face adversity in our lives, difficulties this coming year. Father, help us not to be as the Israelites that had opportunity after opportunity to trust you And you tested them and you you desired for them to seek you and to to trust you and to trust your promises that they were your covenant people. Father, help us to be faithful to you and trust your promises and your truth of what your word says about your character. And not be controlled by our circumstances. And we pray that as we do, we know that you'll be glorified in our lives and we'll have a testimony For those around us, as we're filled with the Spirit of God, and we exhibit the fruit of the Spirit, love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, gentleness, meekness, self-control. Against such things there is no law, Father. We just thank you for these truths. We pray that you would continue to bless our time together now. In Jesus' name. Amen.