Father, we come to you this morning and we thank you just for the privilege of gathering together. Uh it's not something that we take for granted anymore and I pray thank you Lord that you uh have allowed us once again this Sunday to assemble. Father we thank you just for the privilege of Being able to meet and Lord, we thank you for who you are. We thank you for your justice and how you apply your justice in such a way that we are able to stand in awe And in a world where there seems to be little justice or tin certainly tainted justice or and we sometimes don't even know what the just thing is You are a God who is always just, and your justice is perfect, your wisdom is perfect, your timing is perfect. You know exactly what you're doing with this world And uh you know exactly how to actually even take a fallen world and to make it what you want it to be in your time, in your way, by means of the gospel. And we thank you for the gospel. We thank you for the fact that Jesus Came to earth and lived a perfect life and died to pay the punishment for our sins so that we could be rightly related to you. That was your intention from the very beginning, to create people that would be able to have the ability to be able to be in relationship with you, to glorify you, to enjoy you. And today I pray, Lord, that we would enjoy you. We thank you, Lord, for the privilege of gathering together. We pray also, Lord, just for we think of the world and just all of that is happening in the world. the need for Christ in the world. We pray for our missionaries, just generally speaking, Lord, we pray for them as they as they Uh minister in various places around the world. May the gospel be able to go forth. Lord, we pray for our nation. We ask, Lord, that you would be with our government officials, both on the national level as well as the state level and local level. We ask, Lord, that they would make decisions that are pleasing in your sight. The goal, according to your word, is that we may live a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty, and so we pray for our officials, those who are in authority over us. us. We pray, Lord, that you'd give us wisdom with just relating to them in a way that pleases you. And Father, we pray, Lord, for us as a church, give us open doors both as individuals and as a group of And Lord, I I it is difficult. There are struggles and difficulties There are barriers now that make it more difficult now to spread the word and to give the gospel. I pray, Lord, that despite these barriers, that you would teach us, give us wisdom on how we can overcome. overcome them and we can find avenues and doors with which we continue to spread your gospel uh in this area and in our neighborhoods and in our with our co-workers and Lord may we be about the business of your work of spreading the gospel for your glory in this world. Father, we thank you for the privilege of meeting together and we ask Lord that you all we do and say would be to your and your uh to your honor and glory and your pleasure. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Scripture reading excuse me. Scripture reading today is Psalm eighty-six, verses one through twelve. I am poor and needy. Preserve my life, for I am holy. You are my God. Save your servant who trusts in you. Be merciful to me, O Lord, for I cry to you. Rejoice the soul of your servant, for to you, O Lord, I lift up my soul, for you, Lord, are good and ready Give ear, O Lord, to my prayer, and attend to the voice of my supplications In the day of my trouble I will call upon you, for you will answer me. Among the gods there is none likely you, O Lord. Nor are there any works like your works. All nations in whom you have made shall come and worship before you, O Lord, and shall glorify your name, for you are great, and do wondrous things. You alone are God. Teach me your way, O Lord. I will walk in your truth. Unite my heart to fear your name. I will praise you, O Lord my God, with all my heart, and I will glorify your name forevermore. Fellows Shall we go with them? The Exodus chapter nine this morning. We're doing things a little bit differently this morning. We're going to sing after the preaching this morning. And you say, what are you just doing things to change things up? Sure. Exodus chapter nine. But anyway. Exodus chapter nine. We've been talking about the justice of God. That's been a sustained um discussion as we've gone through this uh as we've gone through the book of Exodus and gone through the plagues And so far, what I've done is just taken the various plagues and what's been going on and from that drawn drawn characteristics of God's justice from those. And things that are obvious as we look through the different passages. But what I haven't done quite yet is really shown how On a practical level, the justice has been applied. Now, of course, in these flags you see God's justice constantly being applied, but Really to look at the application of God's justice. And really, when we think of the applications of God's justice, it's going to help us to really understand and even app in even to appreciate it and also to understand how we can align ourselves with gosh j God's justice as well. I'll try to illustrate that for you. One of my favorite things in like the world is peanut butter I love peanut butter. It has nothing to do with God's justice. But anyway, I love peanut butter. And if you don't like peanut butter, I love you, but don't understand you Um so I I just really enjoy it. So if I'm extra describing peanut butter, I might describe it as a sticky, nutty, tan, salty substance. And nobody can disagree with me. And salty. And it's a substance. And that describes peanut butter. But when you begin to understand what peanut butter is and a You understand all of the applications of peanut butter. For example, you put it on a sandwich and then you add some jelly. And I there's just nothing better than a peanut butter and jelly sandwich. Or you can sweeten it up a little bit more and add honey to peanut butter and have peanut butter and honey sandwich. Or you take the some excellent chocolate ice cream. Just just melt in your mouth, kind of chocolate ice cream that when it hits your taste buds, it sort of gives you the scent of sublime euphoria. And then you add to it peanut butter ripples in there, and it's just ecstasy. You think to yourself, you sound like you're talking about a drug. Well, that's why this stuff is addictive. Anyway. I mean when you think about peanut butter makes everything better. Have you ever put peanut butter in a s'more? We we've ha been having s'mores a lot, uh well not real lately, but uh over this COVID thing we've been doing fires outside and doing s'mores and you know you get you got you get s'mores but man you put some peanut butter on there and you got some serious s'mores. How about how about cakes And brownies. I mean anything. Put peanut butter on just about any kind of sweet thing, and it's going to be better. Um, cookies. How about donuts? How many of you ever been to the uh how many have you ever been to the Amish market down in Annapolis? I mean okay, most many of you have. I went down there this past Friday with Elizabeth and we had they had a donut there That was peanut butter cream filled. It was awesome. It was a great. And chocolate on top, it was a great donuts. So we split that in a blueberry fritter, which was also good. My wife takes one one bite of the peanut butter donut and she says, Oh, that's just too rich for me, and I think I love you but I don't understand you. So I just ate the whole thing. I ate the whole thing and uh ate the half of the fritter two of course 'cause we were splitting both. But anyway So I had a very healthy Friday. Anyway, all that to say this, that when you begin to take peanut butter, I mean at first you know Sticky, nutty, tan, salty stu substance doesn't really tell you. But then when you begin to apply it to all of these different things, you get a much better picture and appreciation of peanut butter And all of you are going to go home them today and and find some peanut butter and put it on something. If you like peanut butter, if you don't, I love you, but I don't understand you. So when we get to this passage, what we're going to what we're going to see here is we're going to see God's justice applied. And I think as we look at it, you're going to actually find that you have perhaps A somewhat limited view of God's justice now, and it's going to open up for you, and you're going to begin to see, perhaps, you're going to just appreciate God's justice more. So we'll pick up with this seventh plague, the plague of hail, and we're going to pick up here in verses 9 and chapter 9, and we're going to be looking at verses 9 uh 13 through 19, and we'll pick up in verse 13 Actually, pick up in verse 14. You have a general pattern in verse 13, but in verse 14 it says, You see the severity increasing again. It says, For at this time I will send all my plagues to your very heart and on your servants and on your people, that you may know that there is none like me in all the earth. God says and you give God's desire is to deliver the nation of Israel And really there is an opportunity here, one opportunity after another for Egypt to repent, and with each And with each execution of justice you have you have more severity. Then you have some reasons here in verses fifteen through sixteen it says Now if I stretch out my hand and struck you and your people with pestilence, then you would have been cut off from the earth. But in these Indeed, for this purpose I have raised you up, that I may show my power in you, and that my name may be declared in all the earth. Notice then the accusation In verse 17, as yet you exalt yourself against my people, in that you will not let them go. Behold, tomorrow, about this time, I will cause very heavy hail to rain down, such as has not been on in Egypt since its founding until now. You notice what he says here? He says that the thing that I'm concerned about, Moses says on behalf of God, the thing that I'm concerned about here is the fact that you are exalting yourself against my people. That word exalt means to lord over, or to enslave, or to master, or, can we say it this way, to oppress. And that's exactly what Pharaoh has been doing. Pharaoh from the very beginning has been oppressing the nation of Israel. They have been oppressing, he has been oppressing God's people. And so we see by way of application now, God's justice is applied in a way where he executes his justice on behalf Of the oppressed on behalf of the oppressed. And we find that there are three ways in this passage There are three ways that we can see, and actually as you begin to open up what this taught what this idea of justice is, you're going to find some very interesting things about a justice. So what I did was I did a word study on this word And you find actually in the Old Testament, it really opened up my eyes a lot when I did a word study on this. There is all over the Old Testament, this word. It is used 421 times in the Old Testament. That's a lot. If you if you're used to word studies, you know that uh you have that amount of times that a word is used, it's extremely significant. And as I did some, I read through the various uses of this word, I came up with three common three common applications of the justice of God. Number one, God applies justice in person. In Deuteronomy 16, verse 19, it says, you shall not perverse pervert justice. You shall not show partiality, nor take a bribe. For a bribe blinds the eyes of the wise and twists the word of the right the words of the righteous. Now it's interesting as I study this book, this word justice, you actually find quite often that God says to the nation of Israel, Be careful about taking bribes. Why is that? It's because bribery causes you to be unjust. In other words, you have a vested interest in whoever the person is bribing you for. uh in a situ in situation. And frankly, if you look at uh uh countries that are less just than ours, bribery is a very, very common practice For someone to get what they want. And so the rich become richer and the poor become poorer, partly because of this issue of bribery. And in order to be able to sway laws the way that that the rich want them to be swayed, they will bribe government officials. And God says in the nation of Israel, that is not right. When someone takes a bribe, in other words, when you can be paid off, you are not just When you can be paid off, you are your eyes are blind to justice. In 1 Samuel chapter 8, verse 3 it says, But his sons, this is Samuel's sons did not walk in his ways. They turned aside after dishonest gain and took bribes and perverted justice Now, of course, God is not susceptible to bribes because God has everything and need nothing. God has all that he needs and Is entirely self-sustaining and self-sufficient. But there is a temptation upon the part of anybody in leadership to accept if you can be paid off to lean that direction, and God says, don't do it. God applies justice impartially, and very candidly, God wants us to apply justice impartially as well. He doesn't want us to be swayed by someone who has more money or someone who has more kind more of uh uh some sort of some sort of cloud or whatever, those kinds of things that we can gain from God wants us to be fair. He wants us to be impartial. Number two, God applies justice attentively. He applies justice attentively. In Psalm 1496, verse 7 it says Who, speaking of God, uh executes justice for the oppressed, who gives food to the hungry? The Lord gives freedom to the prisoners, the Lord opens the eyes of the blind, the Lord raises those who are bowed down, the Lord loves the righteous, the Lord watches over the stranger He receives the fatherless and widows, but the way of the wicked he turns upside down. interesting passage there. And you actually find as you you see this word justice throughout the Old Testament, it's often associated with people with people like the widows And the fatherless. And also the strangers. The strangers were people from outside. They were either proselytes or people that were outside Israel. They were foreigners. And God actually says in all of those different Thank you. I'll take it. Thanks. Um God actually says in all those different ways He says that we are uh that we are um supposed to be to be just as we as we are tentative to As we are attentive to people who are oppressed. And that teaches us something about the justice of God. Aren't you glad that we have a God who is attentive to those who are poor, who are who are fatherless, who are widows? Of course, in that in that day the fatherless and the widows Those were people who are who were just automatically going to be in a situation where they often were not able to support themselves. And it says here that in God's justice he looks out for them. And he looks out for the blind. The blind are going to not likely as likely be able to support themselves. In Deuteronomy 10 verse 17 it says, For the Lord your God is a God of gods, the Lord of lords, the great God, mighty and awesome. who shows no partiality nor takes a bribe, he administers justice for the fatherless and the widow, and loves the stranger, giving him food and clothing. Now there's something else then that we see here in this passage or in the book in the Old Testament, and that is that the justice of God is applied benevolently. The justice of God is applied benevolently. And this is important for us to understand. In Deuteronomy 24, verse 17, verse we're we're on number three. The justice of God is is applied. In Deuteronomy twenty four, verse seventeen, it says, You shall not pervert justice due to the stranger or the fatherless, nor take a widow's garment as a pledge. In verse 19 of that passage, in 2719 it says, Cursed is the one who perverts the justice due to the stranger, and father the fatherless, and the widow, and all the people shall say amen. It's interesting that it says to the nation of Israel, do not capitalize on someone else's um Food. Don't do those kinds of things. Don't capitalize on someone else's um on someone else's dire situation or bad difficult situation Later on in the passage in Deuteronomy twenty-seven it says, thus oh no, I'm sorry, this is in Jeremiah twenty-two, three it says, Thus says the Lord, execute j judgment and righteousness And deliver the plundered out of the hand of the oppressor. Do no wrong and do no violence to the stranger, the fatherless, or the widow, nor shed innocent blood in his place. In Zechariah 7, verse 10, it says, Do not oppress the widow or the fatherless, the alien or the poor. Let none of you plan evil in his heart against his brother. And in Zechariah 7, verse 11, it says, For but they refused to heed. Actually, the nation of Israel got caught up in this, and they refused to heed, struggled their shoulders, and stopped their ears so that they could not hear. They were not willing. They were not willing to heed to this kind of of of uh of warnings in Zechariah. Now, the question then becomes: how is it that we, or God for example, and then we are to be benevolent in our justice? Well, we find in Proverbs thirty one it says in verse eight, Open your mouth for the speechless in the cause of all who are appointed to die. Open your mouth, judge righteously. The reality is often in our world, because it is unjust, those who are poor and needy do not have a voice as those who Aren't poor and needy. And so God tells us in Proverbs 31 that a just person opens the mouth, comes to the defense of the one. Who is poor and needy, and who is speechless, who doesn't have a voice. In Micah 6. 8, we have a summary of the duty of man. He says, Who has shown you, O man, what is good? And what does the Lord require of you, but to do justice, to love mercy, and to walk humbly with your God? This is so important for us to understand. Now, what we're actually then going to find is that this is so important, not just for God to do He does this and his justice. And have you maybe we haven't thought of justice that way. Have you not thought have you thought of justice as something where justice is actually benevolent? Justice is actually giving. Justice is actually attentive. Justice is most of us think of impartiality. We we think of justice as being impartial, but after that we don't think of these other things when they It comes to God's justice. But if you do a word study on justice through the Old Testament, you're going to find this over and over and over again in the Old Testament. So how do we apply this? Would you take your Bibles and turn to Deuteronomy chapter 10? Deuteronomy chapter 10, we're going to look at this passage for a few moments, and we're going to see a very pivotal passage. And here's why this is so pivotal. Deuteronomy 10 takes place. Where where the you remember the Ten Commandments were destroyed because of the idolatry of the people? And you remember that God had to re-essentially re-issue the Ten Commandments? This is upon reissuing of the Ten Commandments. We pick up in verse 12. So this is a very pivotal time for the nation of Israel in moving forward. And I want you to see some It says, and now Israel, what does the Lord your God require of you, but to fear the Lord your God? By the way, that's something else that over and over and over again is mentioned in the Old Testament. To walk in all his ways and to love him. To serve the Lord your God with all your heart and with your all your soul, and to keep the commandments of the Lord and his statutes which I command you today for your good Indeed, heaven and the highest heavens belong to the Lord your God, also the earth with all that is in it. The Lord delighted only in your fathers to love them. And he chose their descendants after them, you above all peoples, as it is this day, therefore circumcise the foreskin of your heart And be stiff-necked no longer. For the Lord and then cat catch this. No, let's just summarize what he's just said. So far he said, you need to fear God. You need to walk in his ways and follow after him You need to follow the commandments of God. You need to be soft-hearted and not stiff-necked, and you need to take remove the foreskin from your heart. You have all of this going on here And he says, there's sort of this, and by the way, this is how you know you're doing all this correctly. Verse 17. For the Lord, your God, is a God of gods, the Lord of Lords, the great God, mighty and awesome, who shows no partiality, nor takes a bribe. You know, it's interesting in in such a pivotal passage, you wouldn't think that bribery would be mentioned here. And yet it seems to be that this issue of justice Is so pivotal that how do you know as a collective group of people whether or not you are you are being Following the commandments of God and whether or not you are doing good and whether or not you are fearing the Lord. Well He He He has this in here Verse 18, he administers justice to the fatherless and the widow and loves the stranger, gives him food and clothing. Therefore, love the l love the stranger, for you were strangers in the land of Egypt. Did you catch that? He says, that's what you were in Egypt. They were strangers. What is a stranger? Well, a stranger is a foreigner. Let me ask you a question. Did Israel come into Egypt By constraint or willingly? It was willingly. They came into Egypt willingly. They migrated. They came there with Jacob and his family So um so why now? What happened? Well Egypt did unjustly. They took foreigners that migrated there, and now they oppressed them. God says, remember you were a foreigner, and remember how you were treated, and don't do that. This is the kind of thing that we see here. Verse 20 says this, You shall fear the Lord your God, you shall serve him, and to him you shall hold fast and take oaths in his name. He is your praise, He is your God who has done for you these great and awesome things which your eyes have seen Your fathers went down to Egypt with seventy persons, and now the Lord your God has made you as the stars of heaven in multitude. God tells Israel that if you're going to follow after me, if you're going to do to fear me, and you have this at the beginning of this passage, at the end of this passage, you have this, you need to fear me. Now what's going to be interesting about what we're going to see? In Exodus, is that the problem with Pharaoh, bottom line is he didn't fear God. And we're going to see that. What we see here from the Old Testament is we see that you really only have two options here. You either are a God fearer and you follow after the ways of God's justice, or you are not, you don't fear God, and you are not living a life of repentance. There's not middle ground in the Old Testament when it comes to this kind of thing. And that's important for us to understand. So now we so we've looked at how God's justice is applied and how we can live consistently Consistently with God's justice. Now we're going to turn the page and we're going to look at the other side of God's justice and justice and see how God's justice, who is God's justice executed on, particularly And we noted in the past that there was at s there was at a certain point in the plagues A point at which God said, okay, I'm going to separate Israel, and these plagues now are going to become more severe, and each plague has bec has become greater in severity. And we're now in a very severe situation. Hail now. is going to come upon people and livestock and it's going to take people's lives. And it's going to take livestock's lives. You have before, of course, disease and you have some livestock that are that are And now this is going to be even more severe. In fact, it's going to be most severe so far, is that it's actually going to re take people's lives. And so now God, in his justice, is g is going to warn them, he's going to give them a chance. Look at verse nineteen of Exodus nine. It says, Therefore, send now and gather your livestock and all that you have and And hail shall come down on every man and every animal which is found in the field and is not brought home, and they shall die He who feared the word of the Lord, look at verse 20, he who feared the word of the Lord among the servants of Pharaoh made his servants and his livestock flee in the houses. But he who did not regard the word of the Lord left his servants and his livestock in the field. You know the defining characteristic toward uh of the of the per person whom God is going to ex execute his severe justice on and those whom he will spare. It is those who fear God. Can I ask you a question this morning? Do you fear the Lord? Do you fear the Lord? That was the issue here, basically. God warned them, and that there were actually some among Pharaoh's people, some among the Egyptians That had enough of a revere of God and why not? I mean look at all these plagues that have already come upon them. Of course God is the God of Israel is powerful And even if you don't commit your life to him, you know that there's, I mean, even if you remain a pantheist, you know that this God is real. Notice what we have in the passage here. Then the Lord said to Moses, actually, just pick up here in verse 25. And the hail struck through the whole land of Egypt, and all that was in the field, both man and beast, and all the hail struck every herb of the field and broke every tree of the field. field. Only the land of Goshen where the children of Israel were, where there there was no hail. Now the flax and the barley were struck. Look at verse thirty one. The flax and the barley were struck But the barley was in the head and the flax was in the bud, but the wheat and the spelt were not struck. Now, what it occurred basically is you'd had some you'd had uh And it says all the vegetables are gone. There was still wheat left and barley and grain and those kinds of things But that was about the only thing left. And so Pharaoh, what does Pharaoh do? Pharaoh goes, oh whoa. Finally, Pharaoh's like, okay, well, I better go back to Moses and And put a stop to this before I lose everything. That's my translation of what happened. And then so then we pick up here in verse 27, it says, And Pharaoh sent and called for Moses And Aaron and said to them, I have sinned this time, and the Lord is righteous, and my people are wicked. Did you catch that? He says, I've sinned this time. I have sinned this time. Did you catch that? Is this the only time Pharaoh sinned? I sinned this time. Okay. This time you got me, I've sinned. Before, you know, I've been fine, but now I now I sin. I've sinned this time. The Lord is righteous, and my people and are wicked. Entreat the Lord that there may be no more mighty thundering and hail, for it is enough. I will let you go, and you shall stay no longer For Moses said to him, I'm not sure if you're not going to be able to do that. Servants, I know that you will not fear the Lord God. Moses, Pharaoh says, uh you're not you still don't fear the Lord. You're afraid of what's going to happen. But this is what you would call counterfeit repentance. This is not I want to give you four truths about what true repentance is. We see the opposite of true repentance here. This is counterfeit repentance. What are four truths of what true repentance is? Number one, true repentance does not marginalize sin. True repentance does not marginalize sin. It doesn't say, well, uh at this point right here I've sinned, and I'm not a sinner, I'm not really a bad person. I'm just at this point, this is where I've sinned. No. True repentance is I'm a sinner I am spiritually destitute apart from Christ. Number two, true repentance is not merely regret. It's not, oh boy, I he he's gone too far now. Now we got lost all our vegetables and I better you know now we've lost uh all the livestock here and everything and it's not merely regret Number three, true repentance is not merely fear of future calamity. He's afraid he's going to lose the grain too. He's not fear f uh merely fear of future calamity. Number four, true repentance begins with a sober fear of God. If you want to know essentially what how what the fear of the what what repentance is, someone who is repentance has a sustained fear of the Lord. They fear God. There is an awareness of the presence of God. There is an awe of the of the majesty of God. There is a there is a Just a a reverence to who God is and a and a person who is living in repentance. That kind of a person. I have just two points here that I make I want to make by way of application. Number one. Are you applying justice the way God does? Are you applying justice the way God does? Impartially, attentively attentively, and benevolently. We live in our own little bubbles and we're just not concerned about people that are less fortunate than we are. We're not concerned about the poor. We're not concerned about the people that that are destitute and that need help. And maybe we've turned a blind eye to them. God says, God says in his word that if we're doing That perhaps there's a problem with our justice. Number two, are you and I living lives of true repentance? Are you and I living lives as true repentance? And I'll give you a test to this. How often are you agreeing with God about your sin? It's very simple. How often do you sin? How often do I sin? How often do we sin? Every day? Is that not right? Folks, is it not right that we sin every day? So how often should we be repenting? Every day. How often should we recognize that we have sinned every day? If you're going days without repentance, it indicates something Something. You're not living a life of repentance. There's not a fear of the Lord. Every day is a day of repentance for the believer. To examine ourselves and to ask the Lord, Lord, where where are we in our attitudes and our thoughts and our lives and our behavior the previous day This is something, if we have the fear of the Lord, there will be repentance, and if we're really repenting, we're going to have the fear of God. And I just want to say this as well: repentance is absolutely necessary to come to Christ. In order to be rightly related to God, the Bible says we're bull, we're born going away from God. We're just born going the wrong way. It's called sin. We're born going away from him. And in order to be able to go to be rightly related to him, we have to turn the other direction and go toward him. The word repentance means to turn You say, well, I don't know. I I I can't I don't have the ability to turn. You're right, you don't have the ability to turn. That's where God's grace comes in. But there is a mental decision to turn And that's necessary repentance. Without repentance you shall all likewise perish, Christ says. Maybe you're sitting here today and say, I don't think I've ever actually experienced I know that God's a good God and I I believe in Him and I pray a lot and but I've never actually said I've sinned. I am a sinner And I know that I am born going the wrong direction, and I realize I need to go the right direction toward Christ and follow him. There's a whole lot more to it than that. And I could explain that to you. I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you how that is the case. We can go into my office, sit six feet away, and take our masks off and talk. as we're six feet away. Or maybe twelve to be keep safe. I don't know. Anyway. If you want to be twelve, we'll be twelve. I'll be on one corner, you'll be on the other. Anyway, I'm getting silly with that. But really, honestly, if you want to talk, then we'll be glad we'll be glad I'll be glad to talk with you. And help you know for sure that you have experienced repentance and that you do know the Lord. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you this morning and we pray That you'd help us to live in light of your justice. That we would live we would our justice, our sense of justice, our behavior. injustice would be impartial, it would be attentive, and it would be giving. Father, we pray, Lord, that you would also help us to realize we need to live every day. In repentance toward you, in the fear of you. Lord, as we sing together, Lord, may we do so in a way that is just in response to worship of you. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Now here's what we're going to do. We have three minutes to sing. I think what I'd like to do is this. If you have young children, we're going to sing sing all three songs. If you have young children and you need to leave before the third song or for whatever whatever song is over, I don't go back go out the back doors if you're here, go out the other doors Y you know where to go. Backdoors if you're here. And that's fine. You can do that because we're over time and I'm trying to stay within time. But the rest of us we can all sing together. Can we do it that way? Does that sound okay? Alright, Josh, come on and lead us in the these three songs And you go over there because there's no mic. Sorry. All right. Good morning. If you guys can stand with me, we will start singing O for a thousand tongues, number nineteen. Oh, for a thousand tons to sing my great meamer praise. The glories of my God and King, the triumphs of His grace My gracious master and my God assist me to proclaim To spread to all the earth abroad the honors of thy name Jesus, the name that charms our fears, that bids our sorrow cease, his music in the life and death Thanties You hear me deaf his praises on your loosen tongues employ. He blind behold, your Savior come and leave me lame for joy. He breaks the power of changel sin. He sets the printer free. Yes, often make the palace queen is one appell for me. One hundred six how deep the father's love for us How deep the fathers love for us, how vast beyond all measure. That he should give his only son to make the rest distres, How grave the pain of series loss. The father turns his face away, As moves which far the chosen one, brings many sons to glory. Behold the man upon a cross by saying upon his shoulder. A sham, I hear my mocking for the mothers copper It was my same man till it was accomplished. Is the impression brought me by? I know that it is made. I will not host in any day. No place, no colour always. But I will boast in Jesus Christ his death and resurrection. Why should I gain from his reward? I cannot give an answer, but this with all with all my heart is simply my rest on Lastly number thirty-three, Elgorian Library. Let's see this one. I know more eating my reading bird strike with Trice of me, mine was a sin that goes a bit or him on the free. I will glory my Redeer, whose trust up arts in death, but for the holy church. Oh who makes my voice? Oh well who makes my voice fast. I will morning my neighbor, my life people, my love people, I have no morning for a mother. I said it's my name alone. I'm glory. My Redeemer is painful. My standing place, the foes I might be, and rush upon me. I mean, heart prepelled by his praise. I mean, heart prepell by his praise. I will glory in my renew carries me on eagles wings, he crowns my mind With loving eyes, his try us on our letters. I will glory in my redeemer await. For me that takes a call, and when he calls me, it will be perfect his sleep forever to be falling It's taken forever to meet the turn. Please go ahead and dismiss the sanctuary by rose. I think Kevin is down there and can do that just as quickly as possible. Um yeah, I think we we're having everybody go that direction. I don't care. It's not very good. Anyway, we gotta so we gotta figure out what the by the way, we're gonna meet this week probably as deacons and try to figure out a few things as far as that's concerned. But today if we can just Do this, that would be good. Everybody out that door. All right.