Take your Bibles if you would and turn to John chapter five this morning. John chapter five. Isn't it true that how we respond to life's situations and how we respond just to whatever is going on, can greatly impact the outcome. This is easily and clearly illustrated when you think of um driving in Maryland. Now uh driving in Maryland in this particularly in this area between Baltimore and DC is different than driving other places. It requires quick response time. We are very in this area, we're very technologically, you know, adept. But for some reason there's this thing called blinkers that people around this area don't know how to use I mean I grew up in the area and I use blinkers but but apparently some people don't that would really help us respond I remember when uh growing up when I was first started driving, I was um uh older teenager of course, and would go out with my dad and we'd go out on you know something like 95 or 495 or something like that. And he always the one thing he'd always say is, brake lights, brake lights, brake lights, brake lights. And what I I knew that meant, you got you got these brake lights, and what he meant was slow down. If you see the brake lights, you know, respond by slowing down Because sometimes, you know, if you're going down four ninety five, you know where the we always call it Disney World, but it's not Disney World, it's the Mormon temple. When you're going around the r when you're going around there and they've got that sort of slinky effect and suddenly you come to a s it's like you always have brake lights because people think that the speed limit went uh dropped and it didn't get dropped but they think they it did anyway or something they don't know how to go around curves in the car for some reason. But anyway, so you've got these brake lights that just stop and you've got to be able to respond. And if you respond incorrectly, it may very well end up causing an accident. I've learned when I was first driving, I rear-ended somebody. I rear-ended a lawyer That wasn't a great thing, but anyway, um I'll never forget that, of course. And uh and so I learned to have a lot of car length in front of me. uh in this area because I want you you need to you need time, you need response time, enough response time. But isn't it true also as well, folks, that that in the Christian life, we at times, God prompts us, or circumstances are arranged in a way. Or we see truth from God's Word, and really it is God revealing Himself to us, and we need to respond. We need to respond in the right way, in an appropriate way. We need to know, we need to respond to God's revealing of himself. And I am I can imagine that all of us can think back in our Christian lives to times where we sort of look back at certain times in our lives where God prompted us in one way or another. And we ignored the prompting. Or circumstances arranged themselves in a way that we knew that the Lord wanted us to do a particular thing, and we chose not to. There are times we can look back at our lives and we can see that and we can know that responding to God's revealing is utterly important. Sometimes the truth is if we don't respond to the revealing of God in his in our lives, it will cause great consequences. And so when we look at this passage this morning, as we go through this passage, you're going to find that the text, the passage is not, the application is not readily apparent. But what you're going to see in the passage, first of all, is that Christ is going to begin to clearly make himself known for who he really is. In chapters 1 through 4, we've seen Christ do miracles. But Christ to some degree has veiled the fact that he is truly God. And he has sort of done miracles but not stated who he is. But the way that he does these miracles in this chapter marks a shift in his ministry. From the time where before he's doing miracles and people are sort of believing on him, but he's not really accepting their belief because of why they're believing If you recall some of the some of the passages we saw that saw that to be the case, we see now a shift in his ministry over to where now Christ Christ is going to reveal himself in very clear, distinct ways so that people have no doubt about who he claims he is, who he claims to be. There is a lot of actually, chronologically, John skips a lot of Christ's ministry from between chapters 4 and chapter 5. And so he is concerned about a particular aspect of Christ's ministry, certainly to demonstrate who Christ really is and that he is God. But also, if you recall from chapter 1 of John, remember where it says he came unto his own, and his own received him not? But as many as received him, to him gave ye the power to become the sons of God. You see throughout this theme throughout the book of John that John wants to teach us what it looks like to reject Christ and what it looks like to receive him. We have looked already at the Samaritans and how they genuinely embraced Christ when Christ showed himself to them. And we looked last week at another example of that as well. This week, the tide turns where Christ is going to be very prominent in who he is, in telling who he is, and explaining who he is, and frankly acting on it as well. It's one thing to say you are someone, but he is going to, in the in the way that he does miracles, particularly this miracle, he is going to demonstrate that he is none other than God himself. And the application for us that's going to come in this text is really how will we respond? When God reveals himself to us, either as someone who doesn't know him at all, or someone who does know him, but God wants us to know him more. And we're going to look at what God has for us right after we pray. We need his help with this. So let's pray together. Father, we thank you, Lord, just for the time that we can come together and look at your word. We thank you that you choose because of your great character. which is to some degree un past under to a lot of degree degree past understanding And you're going to show us how you desire to reveal yourself to people. And how, even though Christ knew that he was going to receive largely rejection, He chooses to reveal himself anyway, in very distinct ways. Father, I pray that we would not be like the characters in our text this morning. I pray, Lord, that instead we would learn from their native example and we would respond. To the revealing of Christ in our lives, and that we would learn how to do that today. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. We'll pick up here in the first section of this text. It's actually quite a few verses. When you're going through narrative passages of Scripture, usually you cover more material. Just the way it works out because you're looking for the central message of the passage, and what we find is as we'll go from verses 1 through 18. We're going to pick up in verse 1 and we're going to read through verse 8 to get the first portion of this message from Christ. Verse 1 says this After this there was a feast of the Jews. And Jesus went up to Jerusalem. Now there is at Jerusalem by the sheep market a pool which is called in the Hebrew tongue Bethseda or Bethesda. having five porches. In these lay a great multitude of impotent folk, of blind, halt, which means lame, withered, waiting for the moving of the water. For an angel went down at a certain season into the pool and troubled the water who uh who so and troubled the water. Whosoever then first, after the troubling of the water, stepped in, was made whole of whatsoever disease he had. And a certain man was there, which had an infirmity thir thirty and eight years, thirty-eight years total. When Jesus saw him Lie, and knew that he had not that he had been now a long time in that case, he saith unto him, Wilt thou be made whole The impotent man answering him, Sir, I have no man, when the water is troubled, to put me into the pool, but while I am coming, another steppeth down before me Jesus saith unto him, Rise, take up thy bed and walk. And immediately the man was made whole, and took up his bed, and walked. And on the Sabbath day, or on the same day was the Sabbath. How is it that we are to respond to Christ? Well, we need to respond to Christ's revealing because we need his healing and restoration in our lives. The setting that we find ourselves in is, of course, in Jerusalem and during a a particular feast. It's a little unclear which feast it is, and it's really not important to the narrative of the passage and understanding the message of the text. But what we find is Christ and his disciples are headed down from the temple and they come to a sheepgate. They come to a place where there's a pool. It's called the pool of Bethesda. And it's within, as far as we know, within the temple precincts themselves. So it's not within the temple proper, but within the temple precincts. There was in that time an understanding that this pool, which apparently was probably a very large area, it was not like a pool that we think of as a very large area. had some sort of miraculous ability to heal the first person that would come down when the when an angel stirred the waters. Now I want to hasten to say this that there are a lot of theories as to what this is talking about. Some would suggest that this is really folklore, that what this is that this passage is not teaching at all that that actually happened. But that that was what the people believed would happen. Others say, no, this is actually something that the Lord did for the people. This is something that happened. The truth of the matter is, I don't really know. Not sure which one it is. It definitely sounds to me like folklore, to be honest with you. But the point of the text, the point of the narrative, is that the people believed this. This was a belief. that they that the first one that went down could be healed. Certainly God, if he chose to do it this way, could have done it, couldn't he? There's no question about God's God's ability to be able to do this through this method of an angel coming down and stirring the water and somebody being being healed. That is a possibility, but there are other reasons perhaps to suggest that this was actually just a belief on the part of the people. Either way, the point is that they really believed this, that this would happen. And what we find is that Christ comes to this area And he is looking at this lame man and he's observing around him. And of course, Christ has divine knowledge of what is going on, and he comes to this lame man. It's interesting that this particular lame man has been lame for 38 years. It would arguably be at least half of his life, if not the majority of his life This man has been lame for a long time. We know from the passage in verse 14 that his particular malady, his particular sickness, if you will, was as a result of sin. In fact, it seems to indicate that it was a result of personal sin. We're going to cover that later, but for the sake of just understanding this text and this part of the text, we need to just simply understand That that is the case here. I'll cover later about that in a few moments. I want you to notice as we pick up here in verse 6, though, what Christ says here to this person. Look at verse 6. It says, When Jesus saw him lie and knew that he had been now a long time in that case, he saith unto him, Wilt thou be made whole? Jesus asks this man who's been lame for 38 years, do you want to be healed? Does that sound a little like a strange question to you? Would that not be an obvious answer? That of course he would want to be healed. He, of course, was lame. Why would Christ ask this lame man, do you want to be healed? And therein lies a very important application of receiving God's healing. Even in our lives. This is clearly a consequence of his sin. But I want you to notice from this text that it is God's desire for the believer. to not to heal us from our consequences. There are some consequences in life. You know, what you sow, you reap. There isn't any question about that But it is God's desire sometimes to heal us from our consequences, to restore us to Himself. In fact, what you find over in Hebrews chapter 12. Is that God's working with us is that when we fall into unbelief and into sin, God's chastening is for the purpose of bringing us back to Himself. And you're going to see in the passage that that is really Christ's desire as well. But it is important to note that Christ desires to heal this man from the consequences of his sin at this point. It's also important for us to note that he asks this man if he wanted to be healed. And that brings up a question. Is it possible that in certain cases somebody might not actually want to be healed from the consequences of their sin? Now before you answer, well that is preposterous, that doesn't even make sense. Well, if you're thinking correctly, it doesn't make sense. But I just want you to think of the victim mentality of our society. We all tend, or not we all, but hopefully not we all, maybe some of us all sometimes, some of us sometimes. We tend to have the, we tend, if we're not careful, to get this complex, this victim mentality that I am a victim of something. We have to be very careful about this. Sometimes we sin and particular and perhaps even sin repeatedly. And if we're not careful, we can get into a place that we end up we end up feeling guilty for our sin and we get into a place where we're feeling so guilty that the only thing we know that makes us feel better about our guilt is wallowing in our guilt. It is sort of a strange thing that happens sometimes. And so instead of accepting Christ's forgiveness and even Christ's restoration, We get to the point where we it's almost as though we don't want to be healed. We don't want God's restorative work in our lives. In fact, there are sometimes we get to the place where we get a semblance of attention. Where we we get attention because we have some consequence in our lives, some sort of sickness. To be honest with you, that is sort of indicated by the answer of this man when he says I don't have anybody to to bring me down to the water. Of course that was probably true, but after thirty-eight years Is it possible that perhaps he would have considered some other method or perhaps he would have learned to to live with what he what his malady? And I'm not suggesting folks that that um it would not be hard to be lame. I'm not trying to be insensitive. But there is a sense in which after 38 years it's perhaps this man is feeling feeling to coming to the point where he is living with this Where he becomes sort of happy with the idea of people having pity on him. We're not exactly sure about that, but one thing I do know just about people in general is that people can fall into that trap. Even Christians can come to the place where they're really not accepting what God wants to do in restoring him to himself. God wants to restore us to himself if we know him as our Savior. But what Christ does in asking this question, he brings up the importance of the will in the process. You and I do have a will. God does not work outside of our will. He works in conjunction with our will. Now we have limited free will, and God is supreme, and there isn't any question that God will ultimately do what he wants, but within God's will there is a limited free will And we have the responsibility to choose. And the question oftentimes, if we're really asking ourselves the right questions, is what do we really want? Do you want to be healed and restored to Christ. Do you really want it? Are you and really the the reality is, are we willing to give up What we need to give up in order for us to be able to be restored in the way that God wants to restore us And so, folks, it's important for us to realize that we can fall into self-pity and victimization and the need for attention and feel guilty and add guilt onto our guilt in order to feel better somehow about our circumstances. And folks, if we're not careful, this actually can become an identity for us. where where the where we come to the conclusion that we actually don't even want to be healed. There are times where somebody, uh I've I've seen it before, where somebody is just just Keep saying, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't. And what it really boils down to is I don't really want it. Thankfully, God is constantly pursuing us. Now, if you know Christ is your personal Lord and Savior, He is pursuing you, and God wants you to want His restoration. Christ chooses to heal this man. It's unclear whether his, I mean, it seems to indicate in his response that he wants healing, even though it seems to be a bit of a self-pity response that he gives here. But ultimately he does want healing even though his response is a little is not just a a blanket, yes, I want to be healed. But it's interesting then when Christ chooses to heal him. Christ deliberately chooses to heal him when. On the Sabbath day. Now, of course, as you know, the Old Testament tells us, even in the Ten Commandments, that the Sabbath day was to be reserved and it was to be holy unto the Lord. It was to be a separated kind of day. And for the nation of Israel, that certainly was the case. And there was even further laws in the first five books of the Old Testament that demonstrated that they needed to be very careful. Generally speaking, if you read the Old Testament, what you get from the text is that there needs to be one day a week where you refrain from your general occupation. that you you pull back from what you generally do in your occupation. But by the time Christ had come on the scene In the Mishnah and the rabbinical writings, what you find is that this has been detailed out to where there are 39 different categories of breaking the Sabbath at this point. One of the categories is carrying your carrying something from one location to another Now it is unclear, to be very frank, it's unclear as to whether or not that was a legitimate breaking of the Sabbath. It's really unclear. I lean toward that it wasn't But either way, Christ chooses to use this circumstance to heal him on the Sabbath and to tell him You need to go and you need to carry your bed. That take up your bed is significant. It's not you're to be healed and go your way. He wants him to go and to take up his bed because Christ is now going to reveal himself I by choosing to do this on the Sabbath day, which the Jewish people were very meticulous about. In their observing of. And we're going to learn more in a few moments. We're going to learn more why Christ chose to do that. The second portion of this narrative we're going to find here is in verses 10 Through 16. And now, of course, this man, this lame man, is healed. He is healed from his diseases And when we come to verse 10, what we find here is that the Jews, most likely, when it says the Jews here, it's talking about Jewish leaders. John usually refers to them as just Jews, and probably John is doing this to sort of get across the point that it was the nation of Israel as a whole that was rejecting Christ. But ultimately, the nation was following these particular leaders as they came to this lame man and saw, or who he was lame, and came to him and saw him carrying his bed. And notice what it says in verse 10. The Jews therefore said unto him that was cured, It is the Sabbath day. It is not lawful for thee to carry thy bed. He answered them, he that made me whole, the same said unto me, Take up thy bed and walk. Then they asked, then asked they him, what man is that which said unto thee, take up thy bed and walk? So what we have here is the leaders are coming to this man. They say, Why you're you're it's is it not lawful for you why are you doing this? You're it's not lawful for you to take up your bed and to carry it on the Sabbath day And the man replies, the person who healed me said for me to do this. And then they inquire who told him to do this. It is interesting that they ask this. If you think about it, do you suppose that there is there are a lot of people going around and healing people? I mean, just think about it. You got a lot of people going around and healing people, like just get up and walk. Jesus by this point, there isn't any question that he was very prominent. This is later on now in his ministry, and he's prominent, and then and it's just sort of interesting to me that the religious leaders would ask who it is They may very well have known who it is, but it is clear that that that this, that the layman didn't know who it was. The layman, in fact, uh he didn't know by by sight who it was, and in fact, Christ did pull away himself from that situation so that the lame man was not able to find out who he was. Now then we have where the lame man goes back into the temple and Christ sees him in the temple and approaches him. Verse thirteen. And he was healed or verse fourteen. After Jesus findeth him in the temple He said unto him, Behold, thou art made whole, sin no more, lest a worse thing come unto you. Jesus says here, he comes to the man and he warns him. He says, look, you are healed. The implication is you're healed from a disease that came to you because of sin. And he says to them, go and sin no more, unless a worse thing happens to you Now there are some commentators that would suggest that this really wasn't uh how they they suggest that this really wasn't what he was saying. that he wasn't su wasn't really suggesting this about the man, that this man really wasn't s wasn't uh sinning and that wasn't a consequence of his sin. But their arguments are just are are I'll be honest with you, when I read them, they're not even un they're not even coherent. There are you're reading I'm reading the arguments and I'm going, I don't even understand what you're trying to say here. The plain sense of the text would clearly lead us to infer from this text But that's what Christ is saying. Don't sin anymore, or something worse is going to happen to you than the original sin that you had. Now that does bring for us a question, doesn't it? Does sickness and disease, is it, a result of sin? And I have four points for you on this that I think will clear this up for us to make sure that we have a balanced approach on this. Number one, yes. In the sense of this, all sin, all sickness and all disease is a result of original sin, isn't it? We would not have sickness We would not have disease. We would be completely whole all of the time had there not been the original sin of Adam and Eve. That is what how disease and death and decay and those things were brought into the world. So in that sense All sickness is ultimately a result of original sin. But number two, sometimes sin Is a result. Sometimes sickness is a result. Sometimes it is a result of personal sin. We have some examples of this in the New Testament. For example, in Acts chapter 5, verses 1 through 11, in that case it's death, where Adani and Sapphira are put to death because of their sin. In 1 Corinthians 11, verse 30, you find as a violation of and mishandling of the Lord's Supper, some, many, it says in the text, are sick. And uh are are are even dead. There some of them are they many of you sleep, it says in the text. So we find from the text, folks, that there are some times that sickness Is the result of personal sin sometimes. But I want to hasten to say not all the time And so sickness and death are certainly not always a result of sin. You're in John, and I want you to take your Bibles and turn just a few chapters over to John 9, verse 1. In John 9, verse 1, by this point, the disciples are assuming that sickness is as a result of sin, just as making the assumption that that's true. probably because of this narrative where they saw Christ heal and then say to this say to them, which really lends itself to even more indication that that is the case, that this is the consequence of sin in Matthew 5, or in John 5 In John 9, verse 1, it says this, and as Jesus passed by, he saw a man which was blind from his birth. And his disciples asked him, saying, Master, Who did sin? This man or his parents? That he was born blind? Jesus answered, Neither hath this man sinned nor his parents. By the way, it didn't mean sin at all. He just meant sin in In consequence of this of this blindness, or the blindness is a consequence of the sin. But that the what? But that the works of God should be made manifest in him I must work the works of him that sent me, while it is day. The night cometh when no man can work. Folks, what it's saying in this passage, what Christ clearly says, is that sometimes sickness is really a result of God's desire to show himself in some way. That's why if you recall in 1 Corinthians Christ, or Paul says, that my strength is made perfect in weakness. I can glory in my what? my infirmities, that the power of Christ may rest upon me. Sickness is not always, and frankly in my opinion, not usually because of sin. And so we want to make sure that we understand this. And then finally, sickness and death, this issue is not something that we can judge. God Christ clearly says in Luke chapter 13 verses 1 through 3, we won't take the time to turn there now, but Christ prohibits us from judging these matters. is there a sickness is as under death uh uh a sickness is from sin or not. We want to be very careful about judging that. Essentially, folks When we look at all of this, it comes to a balanced perspective that sometimes this is the case, but not all the time. Now I want to hasten to say this. Perhaps you're saying to yourself, well, you know, I'm feeling sick today. I wonder if this is because of personal sin. Well, let me or I felt sick last week, or boy, I hope I don't get sick this week, or those kinds of things. Is this personal sin or not? Well let me just say this to you. I don't have the time to turn there and to look at this in detail, but if you look at Hebrews chapter 12 sometime, what you're going to find in the passage is that for the believer, God chastens us. so that we come back to him. And there seems to be clear indication in the passage is that when we're back to him, he doesn't chasten us anymore. His point is for us to come back to him. And by I will say this, he doesn't chasten us anymore. then he knows what our potential is as well in the whole process. And so I think it's important for us to understand that, that you don't have to worry about, we don't have to worry about, well was this sickness because of sin? No, what we need to do is to say, am I sinning? And if I am, then I need to stop sinning and confess my sin and repent to the Lord. And if I am sinning, or if I'm not sinning, then I can rest assured that that this sickness is probably because I caught it, you know, I caught it from somebody. Or or something like that. So don't get a complex over this is my point. But certainly we want to just check our lives and see if we are right with the Lord or not. That really should be the way that we that we should uh we should approach this. And I think it's important to understand that. And by the way, Satan plays tricks on us when it comes to consequences of sin. I'll just tell you this, that sometimes we sin against the Lord and even have repeated sins against the Lord. And we think to ourselves, well did that was that because of that consequence? Is that consequence because I mean You start making connections that that really may not have any connections at all to them and our minds start playing tricks on us. Am I the only one is that is the only one that happens to me or uh other people like you start thinking, well maybe that that consequence is results, that's something that kind of thing Folks, the whole point of God's of uh of of God's chastening in the life of the believer is to bring us back to himself. And do you notice that? That's what Christ says in the passage. This was Christ coming to the sick to the sick no longer lame man, was he coming to him and saying to him, Look, I don't uh condemning him in any way? Was that the point? No. He did not want him to go back into sin because he didn't want him to c suffer any more consequences. Christ's desire was that he would stop sinning. And he warned him about this really out of grace and mercy in his life. It's interesting that what we find in this passage is that this man goes back to these religious leaders, and he essentially tells them who it is. Did this man respond correctly? And I would suggest that he had not. What it indicates here in the passage is that by by doing this, by responding in this way, To whom was he attributing greater authority, Jesus or these religious leaders? The religious leaders. The bottom line was not he did not he was not giving Christ the due authority that Christ had in his life and gave him in his life and wanted to have him to have his life. And folks, that is a lesson for us as well. There's a lot of lessons here. But one of the lessons for us is that what God desires for us in our lives is that He will have full authority. He is Lord of all, and He and we have to yield our lives to His control completely in every respect. It's unarguable that's the case in Scripture. God wants us to be fully and completely submitted to Him. Often the authority in our lives is self. Or perhaps we'll give authority to somebody else that Christ only should have an ultimate authority over us. God wants complete authority over my life and your life, and very frankly, when He has it, our lives are more joyful and more peaceful in that sense Doesn't necessarily mean we won't go through hard times. Certainly we will, but we'll have that peace that passes on to all understanding. Because you know what? I'm relaxed because God's in control. He's my master. Folks, when self gets on the throne, we have problems. But when Christ is on the throne, it is as God intended to be from the very beginning that we are servants of Him. Finally, what we see in this passage, in the final section of this passage. In verses 16 through 18, we see that Christ deals directly with these Jewish leaders. Verse 16 says this, and therefore did the Jews persecute Jesus and sought to slay him because he had done these things on the Sabbath day. But Jesus answered them, My Father worketh hitherto I work. And therefore the Jews sought more to kill him. Because not only had broken the Sabbath day, or had broken the Sabbath, but saith also that God was his father, making himself equal with God. Now let's return to the question that we sort of asked earlier. Why did Christ choose to use this Sabbath command? to reveal himself as God. Well, as we've already noted, there was a lot of focus from the religious leaders on this whole Sabbath command. It was something that they were very occupied and I would argue pre-occupied with. You can't do this and you can't do that and you can't do this on the Sabbath day. 39 different categories of violation They were so preoccupied with this that they began to ask another question They understood that according that the whole world, creation, is being held together by God Himself. And that in that sense God is working every day. If God would choose to stop choose to stop working If his providence would choose to if he sort of took his hands off of a creation providentially, it would all stop ceasing. I don't know exactly what happened, actually nobody knows that. But anyway, it would not be like it is right now It certainly would not be organized, it probably ceased to exist or something, it would be chaos. So they began to surmise How is it that we get around this? Certainly God doesn't stop doing his providential work on the Sabbath day. And they came to the conclusion that God is an exception to this. Well, I'm glad they came to that conclusion. In fact, what they said what they said was, according, they looked at Isaiah 6. 3 and said that the entire universe is his domain, and therefore he never carries anything outside of his domain. One of the prominent rules was you can't carry things carry something from one place to another, like from your work to your house, your house to your work, whatever. And they said, well God never carries anything because all of it is in his domain. They concluded number two that God fills the whole earth from Jeremiah 23, 24. And finally they concluded that God lifts nothing to a height greater than his own stature. Apparently that was part of the part of the thing. Anyway, the bottom line is they came to the conclusion that God had to be outside of this command, the way they were particularly interpreting the command. Well, that then tells you why Christ would then choose to use, to, to, to violate their interpretation of this command, wouldn't it? He was clearly demonstrating, not just with his words, but with his actions, that he was above the command, that he is God. He didn't want anybody to make any mistake about it. Earlier in his ministry, you saw him not be so quite overt But now he's being very clear and very overt. He is revealing himself very, very distinctly, both to this man, this lame man, and now to the to the leaders of the Jewish People, and he is saying, Here I am, I am the son of my father, I'm equal to him, there's no question about his identity. And he's doing it not just with his words, but with his actions as well. When Christ chooses to reveal himself to us through his word, or when Christ chooses to reveal himself to us in our lives. Do you realize that he is giving us a greater glimpse of God? You can know more of God through Christ. It is true, folks, that Christ has to have centrality in our thinking, centrality in our lives. He must be central in our heart. He must be, must be our master. He must be all in all. That must be, that is the Christmas We have the Christ we serve, and that is what he expects of us, everything of us given to him. And when we choose to, We see more of him. That's why, as we studied just, we studied yesterday in in the men's uh men's Bible study yesterday morning. The Bible tells us that if we do not pursue holiness, we won't see God. The Bible tells us somewhere else That if we are not pure in heart, or that the Bible tells us actually as positively, that if we are pure in heart, then we will see God. You cannot say that you see God and that you know him and that he's revealing himself to you if you're not pursuing Christ as your master and your authority in your life and mine. We can't say that And we've got to make sure that if we're going to see more of God and who he really is, if he's going to continue to reveal himself, folks, there's times where he prompts us. where he uses circumstances to get our attention, where he uses his word to get a hold of our hearts. And you and I must choose to respond correctly. And we respond in submission to the Master. And when we do, we see God in a greater way in our lives. We have more revealed to us about who He is. And if we ever think that we know enough about God, we are deceiving ourselves. We will never know about God on this or the other side Isn't it wonderful to know? But if we will submit ourselves to Him, the reward of that is to know Him more. And that's why when we come to times in our lives where we choose to submit ourselves to God or go our own way, If we will choose to submit to God, we will see Him reveal Himself to us. Isn't it also wonderful as we see this text? This is an amazing Thing that when Christ comes to this lame man, and when Christ comes to these religious leaders, it is more than likely he knows what their response is already going to be before he goes. And yet he still chooses to reveal himself anyway. That's the kind of God that we have. God relentlessly pursues his own. But there's a sense in which God pursues even those who are not his own. God will do that in people's lives to bring them to himself. He'll orchestrate things in their lives, both saved and unsaved, to bring them to himself so that we're submissive to the will of God so that we can know him. And he's constantly wanting to do that. God's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. And you might say to yourself, well again, but does God have a specific will and and all that? And yes he does. But God's and and we're not sure how to really interpret all that, it figured all that out completely. There is definitely an element of mystery to that, but Folks, as a general statement, he's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. And even though he knew the Jewish people would reject him. He still chose to reveal himself in distinct ways to them because that's the kind of God we serve. It's just a revealing of who he is. Isn't it great to know God pursues us that way? It's incredible. So in wrapping this up, I guess I would just ask you a couple of questions. All of us need to be reflective of this Number one, do you really want God's healing and restorative power in your life? Do you really want it? It's a fair question, isn't it? It's really the question that Christ asked this man. Do you want God's restoration in your life? If you do, it's there for you if you know him as your Savior. But we've got to want it. Frankly, we've got to want it entirely. We've got to want it completely. Number two. Will you respond to Christ's revealing with a pursuit toward holiness? Will you respond that way? That you will choose when God reveals to you to conform to Him, to conform to His likeness, to adjust to Him. I so appreciate what we went over in the men's breakfast, or not breakfast, the men's thing last night, yesterday morning, where you know Bridges is saying, holiness is not an option. We must have it. It is something that we must pursue. We must want it. And when we do, God will give it to us through his strength. Number three. Will you respond rightly to God's revealing so that you can know God? That should say KNOW. I can't believe I did that. I'm sorry. No God, Kno W. It's rough. Alright. Yeah. Spell check didn't catch that, huh? 'Cause no is a word. Alright. Take the that's a distract just take it off. Just take it off. I'm I I'm gonna be terribly distracted by that. J just pull it back if you can. Okay then that's alright, you don't have to. Alright, bottom line is you know we better just pray. Oh boy, that's okay. Look, the bottom line is you do know God you have to know God. And let me just say this. I can think of times. I'm just going to be real transparent here. I can think of times in my life where I was reading something and God wanted to get a hold of my heart and he was getting a hold of my heart. And in the promptings of the Spirit of God, I read it and I walked the other way. I could think of a distinct time I was doing I I was reading from a particular very godly book. I was in a Starbucks, actually. God can even get a hold of you in a Starbucks somehow. And uh I was I was uh I was I was reading and it just gripped my heart what I was reading and I didn't listen. And I sort of just turned away from it Don't do that. Don't turn away from God's promptings and God's working in your life. Now here's what I'd like you'd like us to do for just a few moments. I I think we need time. You know, if you're gonna preach if I'm gonna preach a message on responding to God, I think we need time just for a few moments. Just in the quietness of our own hearts to respond to God. Now you may be here and you may say, you know, I don't know if I've ever responded to God in quite the way you're saying. The truth is none of us have the ability to respond to God in the way that we He wants us to, apart from the work of Christ. Jesus died to pay the punishment of our sin so that we could respond to God correctly. He took our sin debt from us. And all we've got to do is trust that He did and He did what He said He'd do. And we've got to submit our lives to Him. And we can, that's how God wants us to respond to Him. And whether you are, you, maybe maybe you're saying I've never really responded to God in that kind of submissive way, or maybe you've been wayward and it's been a while since you've responded to God in that way. Or maybe you have been consistently responding to God in that way. In any case, I want to give you just a few moments in the quietness of this moment. between your heart, between you and the Lord. Is God prompting you in any respect, in any way? Would you choose to respond to him? First of all, in submissive prayer before him. There may be other things you need to do. But in submissive prayer before the Lord, you would just respond to him. I want to give just a few moments of silence before the Lord to give you the opportunity to do that. And then we'll pray together. Father, we come to you and we pray that you would help us Help us to want to want your restoration in our lives. Help us, Lord, help us, Lord, to pursue holiness. And to heed the warnings of Christ to go and to sin no more. And I pray, Lord, that as we submit to you, we We'll know you. And that you'll show us more of yourself, and that we will realize on a daily basis that when we choose not to submit to you, We forfeit greater knowledge of you. And so I pray, Lord, that you would help us to understand these things. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen.