The uh two and three that would be that would be good. Um also coming up Saturday is that this the seventh is that that's not next Saturday the follow that's the following yeah Yeah, two weeks. Two weeks from now we have a work day. There are we really do need quite a bit of help for that work day. I don't think it will take long if we have enough help. I think it'll be you know a few hours. Um and by by you know twelve maybe we can get out of here but um but there are some we need to get the air conditioners the window air conditioners out we need to uh there's just a lot a lot of little things that need to get done and so I I really hope that you'll be able to be be here for that. And I think that that is all the announcements I need to make. Again, six o'clock tonight uh for the evening service. And we are going to be looking to today in our scripture reading our call to worship is from Psalm 61 through 12. I need to let the AV know that this screen back here is not on, just to let you Verses one through twelve it says, O God, you have cast us off, you have broken us down, you have been displaced O restore us again. You have made the earth tremble. You have broken it. Heal its breaches, for it is shaking. You have shown your people hard things. You have made us drink the wine of confusion. You have given a banner to those who fear you. That it may be displayed because of the truth, that your beloved may be delivered. Say with your right hand and hear me. God has spoken in His holiness. I will rejoice, I will divide Shechem and measure out the valley of Succat. Gilead is mine, and Manasseh is mine. Ephraim also is the helmet for my head. Judah is my lawgiver. Moab is my washpot. Over Edom I will cast my shoe. Philistius shout in triumph because of me. Who will bring me to the strong city? Who will lead me to Edom? It is not is it not you, O God, who cast us off? And you, O God, who did not go out with our armies? Give us help from trouble, for the help of man is useless. Though God we will do valiant, through God we will do valiantly, for it is he who shall tread down our enemies. Let's pray together. Father, we see from this passage as David is praying and talking with you about the reality of defeat and victory. Um we see from the passage that that you are the victor. And as as your people relate to you, they can either experience victory or they can experience defeat. Because The Bible says in your word, you are our banner. You are our victory. And we praise you today because of that. We praise you that you are our victory. And you demonstrated your victory in Christ when he came to earth, lived a perfect life, took on the sin of the world Died in our place, rose from the grave victorious over sin and death. And we look forward to the day where you will come again and show your victory once more. And Lord, between those two points, I thank you that we can always look to you as our banner, as our victory. And Lord, we confess before you that often we are trying to get our own victory. We're not dependent upon you the way we should. Often we think victory comes in our own strategies, in our own effort, in our own way of thinking, in our own strength. And when we try in our own strength to control our situation or to try to somehow, through some strategy, have victory over our own sin, we surely will be defeated. Father, we confess before you that that is the case. And we praise you that there is another avenue. Another way to experience your victory. It is not by our might nor by our power, but by your spirit, says the Lord. And so we pray, Lord, today, as we sing to you, as we hear from your word, that you would teach us and remind us about how we can truly experience the victory that was already purchased by Christ. And that he will bring to full fulfillment in the future. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we are uh truly thankful and grateful for the cross as was just uh played on the the piano. We are thankful, Lord, that through the cross you brought hope to the hopeless. Uh we were utterly and tremendously far from you, a gulf that could not be bridged And through Jesus, your Son, you bridged that gap. And through him, you provided victory over death, sin, and hell. And now we can call you Father, and we can pray to you. We thank you, Lord, that you provide the victory for us, that you are our victory. And we think, Lord, of the fact that We don't always live in that victory. And so we we would ask for your help. And the fact that We don't always see and live and make the choices based off the victory that you've given us. We ask, well, that you'd help us to obey your word. It should help us to depend on your strength rather than relying on our own strength and our own wisdom, but seek your face instead. We thank you, Lord, for the fact that you do provide for us each day what it is we need to serve you and live for you and follow the path that you have for us. Lord, there uh there is so much going on in around us today. We we do ask for your will in the next coming weeks uh with this election. We pray that you would uh work in your sovereign way and that you would help us to rest in you and trust in you um that that our um foundation wouldn't be based on who is uh in in the presidential office, but rather it's based on the fact that you are in control And on the throne. And you remain sovereign regardless of what takes place in this world. You are in control. And we thank you for that fact. And that with you we get all the guarantees and promises that we find in Scripture. And because of that, you are trustworthy. I do Lord want to bring before you the Rogers and specifically Kristen. We pray that you'd continue to work in that situation. There there is a lot that feels like is out of our control. But we we ask that um you would continue to work in such a way that that this uh that their baby would be able to be delivered as close to full term as possible for For the health of the baby. We pray all these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Our text today that Pastor will be preaching from is Exodus 17, 8 through 16. I'll go ahead and read it now. Now Amalek came and fought with Israel in Rephidim. And Moses said to Joshua, Choose us some men and go out, fight with Amalek. Tomorrow I will stand on the top of the hill with the rod of God in my hand. So Joshua did as Moses said to him and fought with Amalek. And Moses, Aaron, and her went up to the top of the hill. And so it was when Moses held up his hand that Israel prevailed. And when he let down his hand, Amalek prevailed. But Moses' hands became heavy. So they took a stone and put it under him, and he sat on it And Aaron and Hur supported his hands one on one side and the other on the other side. And his hands were steady until the going down of the sun. So Joshua defeated Amalek and his people with the edge of the sword. Then the Lord said to Moses, Write this for a memorial in the book and recount it. uh in the hearing of Joshua, that I will other that I will utterly blot out the remembrance of Amalek from under heaven. And Moses built an altar and called its name the Lord is my banner For he said, Because the Lord has sworn, and the Lord will have war with Amalek from generation to generation. So this passage is talking about victory. The very first time that the nation of Israel has um Is in battle with uh and they're involved in battle, of course, of course, you know, they've been involved in battle in a sense with the Egyptian army, but now the Amalekites have come after them, they're attacking, they're on the attack. And um and God is is going to demonstrate that He is the one who is victorious. You know, in our society, we we're learning a lot, we're hearing a lot about the idea of winning, aren't we? I mean we've got this election coming up and uh everybody's talking about winning and different strategies of how to win and uh Our world, our Western world particularly, is always talking about how we need to have a win here. We need to do it, we need to win on this, we need to win here, we need to have victory in this. Even as Christians. We think in terms of victory. Perhaps you've heard of the term the victorious Christian life before. Or perhaps you've said to yourself, you know, I really need to have greater victory in a particular area of sin. in my life. Perhaps you've been in a relationship with uh somebody that has been an accountability partner and they've asked you, have you had victory in this situation with this sin? But the reality is that actually God's strategy for victory is very different than ours. God's perspective on what victory is, on what winning is, is very different than ours. And there's no doubt that God desires for his children to experience victory in life Both in our circumstances and with regard to sin. But oftentimes we are relying too much on self. To get the victory and not relying on God enough to win us the victory. Or perhaps, on the other hand, we're sort of saying, uh, I just need to let go and let God and he'll do the victory, and I do nothing. You ever struggle with that tension? You ever struggle with whether or not you're feeling like, you know, you ever felt like I need to take control of this? You ever on the other end of something, uh some event in your life, looked and said, Man, I took too much control of that. I should have let go of that. Where does God's control and victory start, and where does man's control and victory end? Where does this all work, how does this all work together, particularly for a Christian? Well, we're going to learn what God says about true biblical God-focused victory in this passage. In fact, what we find in this passage is that God is going to cause The nation of Israel to win against the Amalekites. He is going to cause the victory for his people. Well, how does he do this? How does God cause his people to win the victory? And what is our role in this? Well, we pick up here in verses 8 through 10, and we find, first of all, that victory comes through our simple obedience. It comes through our simple obedience. So we pick up verse 8. It says, Now Amalek came and fought with Israel in Rephedem, and Moses said to Joshua, Choose us some men and go out, fight with Amalek. Tomorrow I will stand on the top of the hill with the rod of God in my hand. So Joshua did as Moses said to him, and fought with Amalek. So the Amalekites, Amalek, they actually are the aggressor here. They attack the nation of Israel, the children of Israel here. They are, we've seen them in Genesis chapter 14, verse 7 And we've seen them again in Genesis chapter 36, 12 through 16. In fact, Amalek is the grandson of Esau. So if you can think back for a minute, you go back to who is Esau, okay, Jacob and Esau, remember that story? Jacob, he has 12 sons, they become the twelve sons of the 12 tribes of Israel, that's Israel, you've got Esau on the other side. They actually are enemies, then they make up, but they end up being enemies again, and you have the ten the the descendants of Esau are uh through the grandson of Esau are the Amalekites And that's who is now going to attack them. The Amalekites don't seem to have a particular land. They don't particularly have a particular property. They seem to be nomads. A nomad is uh a nomadic people is a group of people that travel from one place to another. They don't really stake their claim in one area, but they're going from one place to another We don't really know why the Amalekites actually attacked Israel here. It may be that there was they were occupying this water source. And the Amalekites saw that they had a water source and they wanted to take possession of that. That's just, we don't really know if that's the case. It may be the case. But whatever the case, the Amalekites are attacking Israel, and this is the very first time now That they are in a battle. And it's really important for us to understand this because God sets certain things in motion in this first battle. There's going to be many battles ahead They're gonna go into Canaan land and if you think of the book of Joshua, they go in and fight in Jericho and all different kinds of places. You think ahead of that. Well, this is the very beginning of all of this. And there are certain things that God wants to establish. As they have this first battle, and one of the things he's going to establish here is what Joshua's role is and what Israel's role is And Moses, we don't we assume that Moses has gotten its his his instructions from God. It doesn't say that in the text, but we assume that to be the case that So far, God has always instructed Moses, and then Moses hands down the instruction to his people, to the nation of Israel. And so we would assume that would be the case here as well. And Moses tells Joshua to to take a certain group of people. And by the way, as we go through this, notice what's not here. Moses tells Joshua, get a certain group of people together and go fight the Amalekites. He doesn't say how many We don't see anything about Joshua's strategy. We don't see anything about what weapons they took or when they went other than that he says tomorrow go We see very little about what how Joshua does what he does or how Israel does what they do or what they're supposed to be doing or what their strategy is No, the entire focus on Israel and Joshua is very, very limited. You're going to see a huge amount of focus. On what happens up on the hill in the next part of the passage. But the only thing that we see here really is that Joshua did what Moses said Which we would assume came from God. In other words, Joshua simply obeyed. Now, this is very significant. Joshua obeys He obeys and he simply just follows God's direction in simple obedience. And this is how Joshua starts off. This is the very first time in the book of Exodus we see about Joshua. We haven't seen Joshua before. Now Joshua is going to be mentioned four times in this text, so Joshua is a major figure now. And his whole role is just obedience. He simply obeys. How is it that you and I are to experience the victory of God in our lives? It's simple obedience. It's not strategy. It's not, well, I gotta figure this out and do this and do this in my own strength and make everything figure out. No, I need to obey. I need to simply obey what God wants me to do. So important for us to understand this. And we're going to see a couple of things about this. We're going to see the obedience of Joshua here, but one of the focus of this, Tomorrow, and by the way, when he says tomorrow, he uses this term tomorrow several times in the book of Exodus. It's like when he says tomorrow, something's really important is going to happen. He said it with several little plagues. He said it when there was going to be the Sabbath day, and anytime something really important is going to happen, there seems to be this tomorrow it's going to happen, and something really important is going to happen here Moses says, I'm going to go up on a hill with the staff of God. The focal point of what's going to happen is not what's down below with all the fighting. God wants the nation of Israel to remember what happens on the hill. What's the focus on the hill? So he says, I'm going to go up on the hill and I'm going to go with the staff of God. The staff of God has come to represent the power of God. Remember that God that that Moses has used his staff on many occasions as a symbol of God's power to bring forth the plagues of Israel, of Egypt? And God has used this staff, Moses has used this staff even to part the Red Sea. Of course, it's God that's doing it. But this has become a symbol of God's power. So Moses essentially is saying, Joshua, you need to do this, and I'm going to go up on this hill. And I'm going to go with God's power, and that is going to be the focus of this passage. Before we get there, though, let's remember this: that Joshua, his role in this, and Israel's role in this, and folks, our role in experiencing God's victory is obedience. It starts there. It's simple obedience. We get really caught up in winning. In having victory, in figuring out in our own strength how we're going to do what we want to do, or what we think ought to happen And God says, I just need you to obey me. I just need you to follow me. Remember, multiple times in the book of the Gospels, Jesus says Disciples, follow me, obey me, take my yoke upon you and learn of me, for my yoke is easy, it's simple, it's light. Just follow me This happens in the issue of s with the issue of sin. We are we get frustrated because there's a particular sin in our lives and We don't know how to deal with the sin and we we're trying to have victory over the sin and we're focused on I need victory, I need victory, and I need to do this, and maybe I'll have victory. I can read this or I need to get this or I need to do this, and maybe these things will give me the victory. You talk to other people and hey, how can I have the victory? You read books on Christian victory and all of this. If somebody comes to you and says, Hey, are you having victory? They're actually asking the wrong question. They're asking the wrong question because Scripture says that Jesus has already given us the victory through Jesus They're asking the wrong question because someday Christ is going to come back and he is going to show that he is victorious. The question is not, are you getting the victory? The question is, are you obeying? Are you consistently daily obeying? It's amazing to me. I occasionally look on social media. And there's all there that sometimes you'll see things about victory. I have victory in life, and Christian life is victory, and this is all this. But I re and people say I I or they'll have these sort of possessions that they've gotten, some new car or new house, or they've moved, or all these kinds of things. They've this new clothing or whatever it is and God is so good he's given me this new cloth piece of clothing But rarely do you ever see on Facebook, God is so good, I was just consistently obedient today. Rarely do you ever see on Instagram, this week has been a week of consistent obedience. Praise the Lord. Lord. But that's God's focus. God's focus for us is consistent obedience. And this really moves into the area of circumstances as well. We find ourselves in circumstances that we don't like. We're struggling. There's trials. There's problems. There's difficulty. And we're constantly trying to figure out, Lord, why don't you give me victory over these difficulties and struggles? And I've got to find the victory. I've got to figure out how to have victory. And God just says, obey me through the struggle. Just obey me. Just follow me. Just consistently obey. See, victory is experienced. God's victory is experienced Through simple obedience. As I said, that's really all that said about the role of Israel and Joshua. What are they doing? It's not even going to mention Joshua and Israel again until it says Joshua and the Israel and Israel had the victory by the hand of the sword later on Other than that, there's really nothing else said. The entire focus now is on what's happening up on this hill. What is God's perspective of all of this? So we pick up in verse 10, it says, And Moses and Aaron and her went up to the top of the hill, and so it was when Moses held up his hand that Israel prevailed, and when he had let down his hand, Amalek prevailed. But Moses' hands became heavy, so that they took a stone and put it under him, and he sat on it And Aaron and Hur supported his hands, one on one side and the other on the other side, and his hands were steady on until the going down of the sun So Joshua defeated Amalek and his people with the edge of the sword. Well, we see there are three characters. They go up on the hill. We've got Moses. Joshua's down below. We've got uh Aaron Who goes up with Joshua, and we've got this man, her. We won't take the time to go into this, but there's a lot of foreshadowing in this passage. I would not say that these are that Moses is a type of Christ here. Some people say that. I would not go that far. But there is sort of some sh foreshadowing going on. One of, for example, Her's grandson is actually going to be one of the builders of the tabernacle in Exodus. twenty five through forty. Things like that you see there's there's sort of this foreshadowing of what's going to happen on Sinai, what's going to happen uh on Mount Sinai, what's going to happen in Canaan as they go in. You see some of this going on in this pass passage. But what's clearly in view here is what happens with Moses. Moses apparently lifts his hands And when Moses lifts his hands, the Bible says Israel prevails. Israel has the victory. They're winning the battle as Moses lifts his hands. Well, why is it that what's going on here? There's all kinds of different views on what's happening here, but what we need to do is look at Exodus and see how this has been used in the past And we find actually that this is not the first time Moses lifts his hands. In Exodus 9, verse 22, again in 1012, and again in 1416, We have Moses lifting up his hands before certain kinds of plagues that are going to happen. The first time we see it is with respect to hail. Again, when locusts come, and again, the parting of the Red Sea, he lifts his hands as a demonstration. What is this? Well, it's a demonstration of God's power. This is God's power that is causing them to have the nation of Israel to have the victory. It's an expression of his power. But when Moses dropped his hands, then Amalek begins to prevail. Why is that? Why does that happen? I'm not sure I followed that. Well, there's different reasons why people give, of why that happens, but let me just suggest this to you Why is it that in the very first battle that Israel fights with the Amalekites, and it won't be the last time by the way, as we'll see Why is it that God would have this symbolic demonstration of his power as Moses is up on this hill, lifting up his hands, and then when they drop Then Israel is no longer winning. Folks, the answer to that, I think, is that it really God wanted to show the nation of Israel that they must depend on him. They must depend. Victory comes through our dependence, our constant dependence on him. That is so important for us to understand. That without God, we ultimately will not have the victory. And with God, we ultimately will have the victory. And that's what we see in Psalm 60 as we read through that. David's very clear. He actually says, we're not having the victory. The enemies are taking over. There's problems. But Lord, I know you are our banner. If you will bless, then we will have the victory. And God wants us to really understand this. He wants us to understand, as Jesus says to his disciples in John 15:5, I am the vine, you are the branches, he who abides in me, and I in him, bears much fruit, for without me You can do nothing. As the song goes, without him I can do nothing. Without him I'll surely fail. Do we have that kind of an idea Not just on Sunday mornings, but on Monday and Tuesday and Wednesday and Thursday and Friday and Saturday, that without him I'll surely fail. Too often we win the battles, but we're losing the spiritual war. God wants us to obey through the battles, to depend upon Him through the battles. So that we can ultimately win the spiritual war through him. He is the one that gives us the victory, and we must learn to be absolutely completely dependent on him Well, this victory comes then verses fourteen through sixteen. It says clearly in the passage that Joshua has the victory over the Amalekites. But the Lord we really need to sit up and listen to what the Lord has and s what he says he wants Israel to take away from this. Because the thing the same things that he wants Israel to take away from, he wants us to take away from. Exodus 17, verse 14 says, Then the Lord said to Moses, Write this for a memorial in the book, and recount it to the hearing of Joshua, that I will utterly blot out the remembrance of Amalek. from under heaven. And Moses built an altar and called its name, the Lord is my banner. For he said, Because the Lord has sworn, the Lord will have war with Amalek From generation to generation. See, victory comes through hope in God's promises. God is going to double down now on what he wants Israel to learn and it's really he gives this promise. But before he gives this promise that Amalek will be destroyed, it will happen, he will do it, he will obliterate them ultimately. He says, I want you to write this down. I want you that this to be a memorial. in the book and recount it. And notice it says in the hearing of Joshua, in the ears of Joshua. In other words, Joshua's down fighting below Moses is up above. Joshua's won the battle. But God says to Moses, Look, I really, really want you to be sure that Moses, that Joshua understands why he won. Please make sure that this happened, that it's something that's memorable. Write it down and make sure Joshua understands this. Well, why do you suppose that is? Well, it's because of this. Do you remember back? Do you know what's going to happen with Joshua? Joshua is actually going to end up replacing Moses, isn't he? And you remember in Joshua chapter 1, verse 8 and several other places in Joshua chapter 1, Joshua ends up saying to the nation of Israel, Fear not, for God is with us. Be not dismayed, for I am thy God. I will strengthen thee. I will help thee. I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness. Over and over, Joshua gets it. He understands that as Joshua goes into the promised land many years later, because Israel is disobedient, we'll see that Joshua understands that if they're going to have the victory, it's going to be because God gave them the victory. And they don't need to fear because God will give them the victory. And God wants Joshua to understand this. So, what do we need to understand? How can we put our hope in God's promises? Number one, God wants his people to remember past victory. He wants his people to remember past victory. Do you realize that our whole, all of the victory that we have is found in Jesus Christ? There is no question about this. In 1 Corinthians 15 it says, O death, where is your sting? O Hades, where is your victory? The sting of death is sin. And the strength of sin is the law, but thanks be to God who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Christ came to earth, lived a perfect life, died to be and rose from the grave victorious. How do we live and experience victory in this life? Well, we obey. How do we live and experience victory in this life? Well, we depend. How do we do this? Well, we look back at what God has already done. And Christ has already won the victory for us. He is victorious over sin and death, and we see that clearly in the resurrection. God wants us as we go through life to remember this. He's already won the victory. Then we see this: God wants his people to look to him for ultimate hope. God wants his people to look to him for ultimate hope. Look at verse 15. Verse 15 says, And Moses built an altar and called his name, the Lord is my banner. This now focuses on the character of God and who He is. Well, what does the word banner mean? Well, it's talking about it it can be translated as signal or flag or rallying point. And we saw it in Psalm sixty verse six. It says, This is where the those who fear the Lord can run to for safety. It really has the idea of victory, a banner of victory, a flag of victory. God is saying that his people are under the umbrella of his victory, under his banner of victory. Who has the victory? Where is our hope? Our hope is not in anything but who God is. Our hope is not in politics. Our hope is not in this election. Our hope is not in this country. Our hope is not in people. Our hope is in God. We see this term um uh this this term banner and not only in Psalm sixty, but we actually see this in Isaiah chapter 11. Will you take your Bibles and turn there? Isaiah chapter 11. And I want you to see this, this term banner. It's not used very often in the Old Testament, but it is used here. And I want you to see what it says here Verse 10 of Isaiah 11. And in that day, there's this day, the day of the Lord. In that day there shall be a root of Jesse. who shall stand as a banner to the people, for the Gentiles shall seek him. And his resting place shall be glorious. It shall come to pass in that day that the Lord shall set his hand again the second time to recover the remnant of his people who are left from Assyria and Egypt, from Pathras and Cush. From Elam and Shinar, from Hamath and the islands of the sea, he will set up a banner for the nations. And will assemble the outcasts of Israel, and gather together the dispersed of Judah from the four corners of the earth The Lord will utterly destroy the tongue of the Sea of Egypt. He will might uh with his mighty and uh wind and he will shake his fist over the river and strike it with the seven streams and make men Cross over Drishad. If you look later on as you continue, verse 1 of the next chapter, and in that day you will say, O Lord, I will praise you. Though you were angry with me, your anger is turned away, and you comfort me, behold, God is my salvation. I will trust and not be afraid. For Yahweh, the Lord, is my strength and strong. He also has become my salvation. Therefore, with joy you will draw water from the wells of salvation. Jesus won the victory in his death and resurrection, and Jesus will one day, we look forward to the day where Jesus will come and give us and win the victory once again. That's why it says in Hebrews 12, verse 2, looking unto Jesus, the author and the finisher of our faith. who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and has sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. Jesus is the banner. He is the author of our faith. He is the finisher of our faith. And he is the one to whom we trust. Now, why is it that God wanted the nation of Israel to so why was he so intent that they remember these things Well the answer actually is in verse sixteen. Notice what it says in verse sixteen. For he said, because the Lord has sworn the Has sworn the Lord will have war with Amluch from generation to generation. You know what he tells Israel here? He says, first of all, God will have the victory But understand that there's going to be war. There's going to be war from generation to generation. This is not the first time we see the Amalekites, and this is not the last time we'll see the Amalekites In fact, we're going to see the Amalekites again as they stand in Israel's way in Jordan in Judges chapter 3, verse 13, 6-3, again in 7-12, and again in 10-12. We'll see the Amalekites again in 1 Samuel chapter 15 when God commands Saul. Remember when God commands Saul to wipe out the Amalekites, to king everybody, get them out, wipe them out completely? Does Saul do it? No, he doesn't obey. He leaves King Agag. Do you remember that story? This is the Amalekites. We'll see them again there. David deals with them again in 1 Samuel chapter 30 because Saul didn't obey and didn't follow God's decree to wipe them out. So David deals with them again. We seem to see, for the most part, a final blow to them by Hezekiah in 1 Chronicles 4, verses 34 through 43. But we even see remnants of the Amalekites in Esther 3, verse 1. Do you remember Haman, the guy who wanted to put Mordecai to death? Haman was an Agagite. He came from Agag. This is a people. The Amalekites are the most frequently Mentioned ice in the Bible. Did you catch that? They're the most frequently mentioned ice. There's all kinds of ice, but they're frequently more mentioned than ice, I'm pretty sure, than any other ice in the Bible They're going to be constantly doing battle with them. And what is their role, folks? What is the role of Israel as they constantly do battle? What do they need to do? Obey. Depend and hope in God. So, concluding, what is it that we need to do? Well, to experience God's victory, it requires our obedience to his commands and stewardship of his provisions. This is so important that we understand this. The Christian life, the sum total of the Christian life and what our responsibility is, can be summed up in this statement. Obedience to God's commands and a stewardship of God's provisions. Obedience to God's commands and a stewardship of God's provisions. God's provisions. Can I just say it this way? In my life and other people will come to me from time to time and say, what do I do in this decision? What do I do in making this choice? Or I've got a decision ahead of me, what do I need to do? Or I've got a situation I'm finding myself wanting to do. Can I just tell you what I think immediately? Immediately in my head. I sort of have a grid in my head when anybody asks me and you can have this grid too. The first thing I look at is I say, is there anywhere that they need to obey that they're not obeying? Is there a command that they're not ob I'm not even In other words, I'm not going to discuss strategy with them and what's the wisest thing to do if there's something in there that they're disobeying Or they're not obeying positively. And you can do this as well in your life. Is there some area in my life where I'm not being obedient? Or am I not being a good steward of what God has provided for me? This is the sum total of our responsibility in life if we're going to experience God's victory Obedience in His commands and stewardship of His provisions. This is what you're going to see throughout Israel. Obedience to God's commands and stewardship of God's provisions as we see the nation of Israel form and God using the world. Number two, experiencing God's victory requires our dependence so he gets the glory. Experiencing God's victory requires our dependence so he gets the glory. We've got to stop, folks. We've got to stop trying depending upon our own thinking, our own strategies The Bible says, trust in the Lord with all your heart, and lean not on your own understanding. In all your ways, acknowledge Him, and He shall direct your path. Without me, Jesus says, you can do nothing. Experiencing God's victory requires our dependence. So he gets the glory. By the way, that's so important. That's why God wants us to depend upon Him. You know, anything that happens in our life that looks like a victory If I can go to some sort of strategy or some sort of self-effort in my life that gives me the victory, then I'm going to get the glory. But if all I could say is I just I just consistently obeyed by God's strength, even that I needed God's strength. It was just consistent obedience. I don't know how this happened. I don't know the bit why we had such victory. I don't know why there was such success. Um we just obeyed Then God gets the glory. Number three, experiencing God's victory relies on fixing our hope in Christ's future victory Experiencing God's victory relies on fixing our hope in Christ's future victory. Look, if you're watching the news, and I am Both sides of these parties are trying to tell you that if the other side gets in, then it's going to be, you know, horrible. Life is going to be terrible and the world is coming to an end and all that kind of stuff. But folks, if the world comes to an end, praise the Lord. By the way, a political party can't do that. A candidate can't bring the world to an end. Only Christ can But this world is not our home. And it's and we ought not be, as Christians, in some sort of fatalistic Attitude if the other party gets in, whatever that other party is. Why? Because our hope is in Christ Our victory is in him. We ought to expect things to get worse. I mean, like we read that in the Bible. Does it mean that we don't do our civic duty? Does it mean that we aren't obedient in the way that God wants us to be obedient? But we understand where our hope lies. It lies in Christ. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for your word and for your truth. We thank you for this passage, such an appropriate passage that certainly wasn't by my own strategy or design that we would be actually. Actually, learning about your way of winning during this time, but we thank you for it. We thank you, Father, that you are our banner. That you are our place of victory, and that no matter what is happening in our circumstances, No matter what is taking place in our lives, you've already won the victory. And our role is obedience. and dependence and hope. Hope in Christ. Lord, would you help us To have the right perspective. May our focus be on the hill instead of in the battle. Because that is where the true victory lies. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. to the truth that we've heard today through singing and worshiping the Lord through song. We'll begin by Uh singing number seventy-four. Praise the Lord the Almighty. Let's all stand together, please. Praise to the Lord, the Almighty, the King of Creation. Oh my soul, praise him, for he is thy health and salvation. All ye who here now do his temple come. Join me in glad. Praise you the Lord who are all. I don't know what we are doing. Thank you for the money when God is in a beautiful day, happy unworthy. All everyone will bring this people that we are there, someone As I was considering this uh passage that Pastor was preaching from when he took the text out earlier in the week. I thought of another passage and another song that sort of went with it. There was a time in Israel's history in 1 Samuel chapter 7 When the Philistines again were oppressing them and gaining victory, there was the Ark of the Covenant was taken, and there was great dismay And the people cried out and asked Samuel to pray, cry out to the Lord on our behalf, that we would gain victory over the Philistines. And what took place was God did provide victory. And Samuel uh did a burnt offering to the Lord with a lamb. And it says that in verse eleven the men of Israel went out of Mizpah and pursued the Philistines and drove them back as far as below Beth Kar. And what happens in verse 12 is this. Then Samuel took a stone And set it up between Mizbah and Shend and called its name Ebenezer, saying, Thus far the Lord has helped us. And we're singing today, the second song is um Come thou fount, which, in the second verse, says, Here I raise my Nebennezer, hither by thy help I am come, and I hope by thy good pleasure safely to arrive at home. Ebenezer means And basically stone of help, a reminder of God's help in victory and how he provides it for us. So when we sing that today, that is what we're singing Let's go ahead and continue. Come thou every last thing to my heart. Sing thy grace, and mercy never ceasing, for souls all his praise. Here I raise my enemies, never mind. And I for my thy pleasure Take me to all right at all Jesus for me when a pressure wandering broad Is the rescue me from the whole precious loss? Also to praise how great a tether constraint to me let thy goodness like a feather by my hungry Are to thee from the Lord I promptly bag Here my heart will take the word on the wall. And finally now we'll sing of our great God and Father, Almighty Father. All my remote, you all are holy, you are my refuge, I will cross me. Almighty Lord, you are straight with me. Enjoy or sorrow I will live on But it was already then. Can you put on my syllabus? And then uh one on the All my daughter, you are holy, you are creator, you are holy. Your is not power, yours is not glory, yours is not as seen. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for the fact that You give us the victory that we already have it. We don't have to work for it. We don't have to earn it. You have accomplished it all through your Son Jesus Christ. I pray, Lord, that we would live in that victory, that we would find our hope in you, resting and secure in you And the fact that all we really need to do is simply obey and rest in our dependence on you and not in self, and look forward to that promise. That promise of hope that we have in the future, that you will reign and we will reign with you. Pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.