Of course, we have already noted that Solomon is the human author of Ecclesiastes. And Just kind of to review from last week, um actually I'd like to ask the question from last week. Most of you were here. uh last week. Um what what did ecclesia what did Solomon in verses one through twelve eleven what was Solomon Um what was the purpose of that of that passage? What was going on there? Yes, Yvonne. Okay. Right. So so life life is futile, f is vain, is empty, and it demonstrated it by these cycles in nature. that just continue to keep going and going and going. So there's this monotony and even boredom to life as as uh as it is uh described there in that passage. Any other thoughts? Yes. Nothing new. Yeah, there isn't anything new under the sun, so anything that's throughout the history of the the earth, it's all just repeating over and over again. What is the key question that's being asked in that chap in this chapter? What verse? Anyone remember? Yes, verse three. Look at verse three again. This is important. It says, What profit hath a man of all his labor which he taketh under the sun? The significance of that verse is the the word prophet is like what advantage does a man have, or what legacy would a man leave will a man leave from his labor? What is his what is the lasting impression that he can leave because of his labor? That's the question he's asking, and he's asking it reflecting on Genesis if you recall from last week. week. He's he's asking it reflecting on God's creation and the fact that God actually created us in in in his image and he created us to labor, to work. But because of the fall, um work has been It's not as pleasant as it was. In fact, there's a curse, though work is got created by God for man to do. It's has this curse on it now, so now we work by the sp the sweat of the brow and by there's there's this um problems that you that you run into because of of of the fall as well And so he's sort of he's asking the question, what what what lasting advantage do we have from our labor? Verse three is a very important verse. Because we're going to continue to ask that question and he's going to and he's going to in this ne in this next section here. That question is going to be a lingering question throughout this chapter that's going to be important for us to un to to know. Most of it it was a chapter basically that looked that looks very bleak. And it's sort of like This is this is could even be depressing, except we know what's coming eventually as well. What we also know that is by way of application is that the the unsaved world, this is how they live. Unfortunately, most people that are unsaved don't know they're living this way. They constantly keep pursuing things. hoping for the next thing that will help them and they'll just keep pursuing and pursuing and pursuing and pursuing until one day they realize they're not going to be able to pursue any longer or what they're doing is futile. And that's why you even have Olympic athletes who will get gold medals and reach the top of their success and then commit suicide afterwards because they've done everything they they plan to do in their lives. That happens more often than you realize. And so or they're tempted to do that. In fact, Michael Phelps recently, um in his career, he had a time there basically where he didn't want to live any longer after accumulating all these metals, it's like what else are you gonna do in life? You've you've fulfilled all your goals. And he did he came to came close to being suicidal. And it is because there's this relentless monotony that's just you're pursuing life and there's no there seems to be no lasting value in the thing. And in fact, as he points out, there isn't verse eleven any remembrance of former things. It's not like you can leave this long-lasting legacy. Maybe if you're Michael Phelps you will, but Most of us, nobody's gonna remember us fifty years after we're dead. I mean, that's just reality. I it sounds pretty depressing, but it's true And so life is bleak and vanity, he says. It's all vanity. But what if you could just be wise enough? To understand life, so that you could understand how to labor or work in such a way that you would have a lasting legacy. Is the issue that people are just not wise enough? Why am I struggling in life? Why is there boredom in life? Why is it why did Solomon come to the come to the point of vanity? in his life. Well, if he just was a little wiser now of course we know that's rhetorical, right? Because he was what? He was the wisest man that ever lived, o outside of Christ, pri pride of Christ. And so and so uh he is now going to factor in this concept of wisdom. And he's going to explain that he is pursuing life and employing all of the wisdom that God had given him so that he can understand life. Do you see what it says in the passage, verse 12? I, the preacher, was king over Israel and Jerusalem, or I, the assembler, of course, is talking about Solomon. And I gave my heart to seek and search out by wisdom concerning all things that are done under the s under the heaven. Okay, so he says, I'm gonna use the wisdom that God has given me. He said, I gave my heart. The word heart there really has to do more with the mind in the way that it's being used here. I'm going to apply my mental faculties. I'm going to apply my will as well. I'm going to apply myself to the pursuit of seeking and searching. The words seek and search are basically two two terms that are relatively synonymous with each other, but it's to emphasize a real In a real thorough pursuit. This is a thorough investigative discovery of understanding life, he says. And how much, how comprehensive is this? He says, by wisdom, we'll get back to that in a minute. Concerning what? All things. that are done under heaven. Anything this side of heaven, he said he's going to give himself to seek and to pursue and to understand. Now, if you think about our society, do you do you think that that our society does that? You think of the millions of dollars put into state universities. And Ivy League schools who are who are whose sole uh pursuit ultimately is to pers is to understand what is under the sun, to understand life. to discover the the the commonalities between between created things that we already just accept by faith. They're still trying to discover and like this the whole in fact you I don't know if you've ever heard this before, but people I'm sure you have probably that people people's decide that their their pursuit in life is just to discover. What's the purpose of life? To discover life. Well wait, what's the purpose of life? To discover life. Well, what happens when you discover life? You just keep discovering life, and then you die. Which is why he says this next. He says, this sore travail hath God given to the sons of man to be exercised by with. He says this is a burdensome task that God has given man. You see, God has given us this innate desire to want to understand things. When we're going through life, we want to understand why things are happening the way the way they're happening and what is happening the way it is. And there is this this temporary um uh pleasure in discovering and researching certain things and finding out the answer to those things and and there's this there's this Joy in that, but it's very temporary because it only goes so far. There's limits to this And he says, ultimately, he says, this is a travail. This is a burdensome thing that God has asked us, God has tasked us with. God wants us to be fruitful, to have dominion over the earth We know that from the book of Genesis. Well, having dominion over the earth requires us to understand what's going on. And yet when we pursue what is going on, there is a level of frustration to that. If you think about it in life, anything that you pursue, just just that you think hard and long about enough In your experience, there you will often, if you think enough about it, it will end up in frustration. How many of you have ever stayed up at night with your mind spinning and you can't seem to get to sleep? I mean I do that more than I'd like to admit. And and in fact when I I'm I remember I really used to have a ser I don't as much anymore, but I used to have a serious problem with this. When I got out of seminary and I I was in my first helping my first ministry, I literally would be up till two o'clock in the morning, my mind just spinning. My I'm not able was not able to sleep. I was having serious insomnia problems. Usually now I hit the pillow and I'm out. But occasionally I have the same problem. Um once maybe three or four times a month I my mind spends right I can't get good get to sleep. All of us know what that's like. It it just you can't you can't get to sleep. Your mind is just going and going and going and and you keep trying to underst what are you trying to do? Maybe there's a complexity that you're dealing with and you just can't seem to get a handle on it. You can't seem to grasp the whole thing. There are just things you don't understand. You don't get why this is happening to you or what's going on in your life. And it is a and to to pursue an understanding of life, can we all agree that exp we know this experientially, it's quite frustrating for us. And that's basically what he says here. But it's still our responsibility to understand things. Did you know that? God wants us to understand what we're doing He does not want us to blindly just sort of go through life and sort of float through it and not understand it. And yet, on that's the one hand, but on the other hand, it's quite frustrating to try to understand life. as well. And so there's there's this frustration that he expresses here. So the question then becomes, why? Why is it so frustrating? And the next verse is going to give us the answer. Now you think about it. Before we get to the next verse, let's just think about this for a minute. Anything that you if when you begin to really examine, you use your investigative skills to examine things and to really analyze a situation or you analyze a person or you analyze whatever you're analyzing. And you understand it, you try to figure out what kinds of let me ask you this, what kinds of Uncomfortable conclusions might you come to? Any ideas? Okay, so if you're trying to understand something and analyze something, what might cause you to be frustrated? Um your inadequacy or your adequate. What's that? Okay, just like everything seems to come back to s okay. Yeah, sin in the world. Cliff? Okay. So many variables. Have you have you experienced that? You're trying to you're trying to navigate through life and you're trying to understand what you're dealing with and you have certain constants that you know are are there and then you have certain variables and you start trying and if you're w you d I don't know if you want to get into my mind, but basically what what and I think Kevin can identify apparently But basically you start you have like five thousand variables, but like you you narrow them down to the most likely of the variables possible and you start plugging those variables into the equation And you and you and you start trying to plug these in. Well if that's the case then plug it into there then that you start running your mind going and it is it is it is frustrating. It can drive you crazy. In fact, there are men that are so intelligent that what happens to them? They go crazy. They have like things like schizophrenia. Yes. Oh yeah, definitely. You're trying to control the future, which is not you're not able to do that. Yeah, I think so. I think it I think that can that's that's a lot of it. However, there God does want us to underst we're tasked with this burdensome responsibility of understanding our life situation. life situation or trying to make it to outcomes based on our keen intelligence for decision making to pick the best Yeah. So let's let's with that in mind look at the next verse in verse fifteen and see what he says. That which is crooked cannot be made straight, and that which is wanting cannot be numbered. That's pretty true, isn't it? Now, what is he saying when he says that which is crooked cannot be made straight? Now he is observing life. He is observing creation and his conclusion as he begins to not just observe but do do a lot of investigative discovery about creation and thinking and analyzing, he says what He throws up his hands, as it were, and says, That which is crooked can't be made straight. As much as I'm trying to straighten what's crooked, I can't. Is that true? Sure it is. In fact, we find scripturally that uh it actually tells us in um Later on in this same in this same this is basically repeated, the same idea in chapter seven. And he says in that chap in uh chapter seven verse thirteen, consider the work of God. For who can make that straight which he hath made crooked? It actually tells us in that verse that God is the one who actually allowed, if not ordained, things to be crooked. So, so this is quite frustrating, isn't it? When you really boil it down and you really begin to examine life and understand life, you come to a conclusion that there are just a lot of problems in the world that I can't straighten out no matter how hard I try. And you know what? That is really frustrating. It's really burdensome. Not only that, there is an innumerable amount of these kinds of things. Notice the next phrase. He says, verse 15, and that which is wanting cannot be numbered. In other words, you look at anything in life and you look long enough, you're going to see the flaws. You're going to see the problems. And there is an innumerable amount of things that you're going to see. When it says wanting, like there's deficiencies in everything that you see. You know that is really true when you think about this, just think about this. It doesn't matter who it is or what it is, if you look long enough at anything or anyone, you're gonna see flaws. You're gonna see problems. You're going to see deficiencies. Just realize it. Because we are our whole world is fallen. Everything is tainted by the fall. There is nothing that's outside of that. You're not going to find perfection this side of heaven. Everything under the sun of the sun is is tainted. And so there is an innumerable amount of things that are just deficient in life. And you know what? That is frustrating, isn't it? The truth of the matter is we look at our own lives and we see the- we see our own deficiencies, don't we? And that's even sometimes more de fr frustrating. It's okay that everything else on the world has is got deficiencies, but when you look at your own life and you can't even fix your own problems, that's really frustrating, isn't it? And the truth of the matter is, for someone without God, they got nothing This is what they've got. And here is the conclusion that he said. So here's what he says. Verse 16. I commune with mine heart own heart. He he said, I did a lot of deep thinking about this. I really mumbled over this. I meditated on this. communion with my own heart. I really analyzed this and just went over and over and over and over in my mind about this. And finally, this is my conclusion. He says Lo, I am come to great estate, and have gotten more wisdom than all they that have have before me in Jerusalem. Okay, conclusion one number one, I'm wiser than anybody else around. Now that's not a conceit. That's because God gave it to him. But that's the reality. In other words, he's saying, if I can't figure this out, neither can anybody else. And then he says this. My heart had great experience of wisdom and knowledge. So what is the wrong button? Yeah, it's feudal and vain. Okay. Verse 17. How did everything turn off at one time? Why? Yeah, but okay, okay, that's fine. I need to understand this, but it's kind of futile. Okay. And I gave my heart to what? To know wisdom. And then he uses something called Hebrew parallelism here. The next two phrases he's going to identify as as parallel with this idea of wisdom. What does he say? And to know what? Madness and folly. You have all the wisdom in the world. You have you you pursue all the understanding of life. and you are the only ant you're going to come to place where you go crazy. Where it's just a bunch of madness and folly. He says, I perceived that this also is vexation of spirit And this is what he this is his final conclusion. This concludes chapter one. He says, it is much For in much wisdom is much grief. That word could be translated frustration. In much wisdom is much grief, and he that increaseth knowledge increaseth pain is the word. Sorrow or pain You know what he says in that verse? Verse 18, it would be better to be stupid. Look at what it says. For in much wisdom is much grief. The more wise you are, the more grief you've got. And he that increaseth knowledge increaseth sorrow. Conclusion: stupid people are happier. That's what it says. Okay? Well if it says there's no guarantees. Well that's true too that knowledge doesn't mean you can't secure that. Right. Sh that's true too. So ignorance and foolish. Right. Yeah, it's like, you know what? Maybe I should just go through life and not even think uh think about anything. Except that God's given us Is this system though talking about also the God's word? No, it's not. This is outside of this is out we're still outside. This is a secular man pursuing wisdom based upon his own experience. So this is empirical wisdom. This is not biblical wisdom, and it's not factoring in God yet. As soon as you factor in God, everything changes. That's his point, by the way. You might as well get used to not you gotta realize until you start living in light of who God is, that's gonna be the point. His point is If you think that your own cognitive ability or wisdom or able to e or experience, if you think experience is going to give you what you need to go through life, you're wrong. Its end is futility. Its end is vanity. And so he says so his his point is we what he here's what he's going to do. You know what Solomon's ultimate goal is as we go through this? His ultimate goal is he sa it's it's basically goes something like this, and I will put it up on the screen at this point if I would have had the opportunity, but that's okay. It's okay. So I'll read it for you instead. disillusioned. If we can become disillusioned about the primacy of wisdom, like wisdom being the primary thing, Now, it's not the principal thing. There's a difference, you know, he said over in Proverbs, the principal thing, out of all the things under the sun to pursue, wisdom would be the best thing to pursue. But there's something better, right? God. Okay? And so under the sun, below the sun, he's still saying, wisdom is not enough. And he starts off with the most important thing under the sun to have, and he says Having that is not enough. And he says, the quicker you get to a place where you are disillusioned in life, he wants us to get to that place. From this chapter all the way through chapter 7, he wants us to get to the place where we're just constantly disillusioned over and over again. Say, well, this is not fun. But the truth of the matter is, this is this is where we get to the place, this is how we get to the place where we find out what God's way of living life is. We've got to first come to the point of realizing of stop trying to pursue things our own way. Start tr stop trying to live our own way. Because ultimately that's going to be vanity. And the truth of the matter matter is even the This is certainly true for the unsaved person, but even for the saved person this is this way. We can be just like Solomon and trying to pursue things different ways, and what Solomon wants us to do is to get get us to the point The quicker he can get us to a disillusionment, the quicker then he can begin to build on that disillusionment and show us what he wants to show us so that we can start living according to God's plan. And really, let me just, I'll just give you a little tidbit. He's going to say embrace life. You gotta you're embrace life according to God's plan. But we can't get there yet until we keep Realizing what it isn't life. And I'll tell you, you think of all the philosophies, this I this I can't tell you how important this is for teenagers, frankly. You think of all the things in life that you'll hear that people will say to you I'm trying to think of some of the things you might hear. All based upon personal experiences. And there is some value in experience. But ultimately, if that's all it is, it will end up in vanity. And understanding that, I'll tell you, understanding that The earlier we can understand that, we can then break down all the barriers to that we're ready to then be able to receive God's God's way of living the way He wants us to live. In other words, let me put it real simply here. There is futility in living for self. I mean, if we could just get a hold of that, that living for self is futile, it's vain, it's worthless. The sooner we get to that realization, the the great the the quicker we can get to living the way God wants us to live. Any comments or questions on this on this passage? Any thoughts on this? Yes. Right now it's easy to assume that Solomon was seeking wisdom for the sake of the owner's benefit. And that's obvious, it's easy to see how that would create frustration. Because you're not in control, even if you're wise enough, you're not all powerful you can't create everything and know everything. But what if what if somebody is seeking wisdom for good things, not just for selfish gain, but they're not logically thinking They they're thinking purely logical manly wisdom and not spiritual. Um does that not result in often the same thing. Yeah, so yes, because actually I don't think he was pursuing things for his own But his original desire for wisdom was why? Do you remar from f from Second Kings when when um when David gave him the desire was fulfilled though. I need that speech to have that. He he wanted to he wanted to be able to lead the nation of Israel. He said, I I've got this people to lead, I can't do it without wisdom. I need wisdom. That was why that was his motive. Pretty good, reasonable motive, right? To to to ne to desire for wisdom. Okay, so he he didn't have he didn't uh I don't think we can make the assumption that he always his wisdom was always just to seek his own pleasure. That's gonna be his next point or Uh yeah, the his very next chapter chapter chapter two, verses one through eleven, he's going to talk about the pursuit of pleasure, using wisdom for his own pleasurable pursuit. He's going to find out that's vanity. So but it wasn't always that. But no, I think it'd be the same the the outcome would be the same. If if you're just even if your your wisdom is for has pure motives to help other people or whatever. Um just wisdom this side of heaven. If you're basing all your wisdom on on on personal experience, if you're if it's just wisdom under the under the sun, uh you're gonna have the same result. Good good good thought there, good question. Any other questions or thoughts? Okay. Yes, I know when s maybe our are Wednesday nights shrieking because I'm uh this is just so depressing. Is that what's happening? I don't know But um stick with it because it's gonna be it's gonna get good. You gotta get in the valley before you get into the mountain mountaintop. Ultimately, this has gotta get broken down before we can actually see God's perspective on on all on uh this. And I'm I mean I thought about jumping ahead just because I don't want to get too people do too depressed, but I'd rather just take it I'm committed to expository way of doing things, so I'm just taking it the way that it comes in And we'll get there. All right, let's go to the Lord of Prayer. Father, we do come to you and thank you just for your word. Thank you that it does give us what we need to be able to live life in a way and really embrace life according to your plan. And I pray, Lord, that you would just ill Reveal that to us as we continue this study in the book of Ecclesiastes. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. Alright, you're dismissed.