When you were younger, have you ever had a secret place that you used to call your own little spot? You take things in there so nobody else could see it. It was your place. It's your little secret. And nobody else can know about it. Anybody ever had a Secret Place. Remember the movie Secret Garden. It was out a few years back. I always liked that movie. But uh Have you ever had uh be talking to someone and you get a conversation going and you're saying something that probably you don't want everybody else to hear, so you say to the person, don't tell anybody else, this will be our little secret. Have you ever kept the secret? Tonight we're going to look at a young man in the Bible who had a secret And he thought no one else knew his little secret. And he thought that uh it wouldn't be any problem, wouldn't hurt anybody, and so on and so forth. But he underestimated one person. And we're going to find out about him tonight. If you have your Bibles, open up to Joshua chapter 7. And We are going to, I'm going to try to read real quickly the whole chapter so you can get a handle on what is going on. But we are in chapter 7 of Joshua. And this is a story about a man named Achan, which we all know about. And we've heard the story. But hopefully we can learn a few things tonight from this story. But the children of Israel committed a trespass in the accursed thing for Achan, the son of Carmi, the son of Zabdi, the son of Zarah, of the tribe of Judah. took of the accursed thing, and the anger of the Lord was kindled against the children of Israel. And Joshua sent men from Jericho to Ai, which is beside Bethavan. on the east side of Bethel, and spake unto them, saying, Go up and view the country. And the men went up and viewed Ai. And they returned to Joshua and said unto him, Let not all the people go up, but let about two or three thousand Men, go up and smite Ai, and make not all the people to labor thither, for they are but few. So there went up thither of the people about three thousand men, and they fled before the men of Ai, and the men of Ai smote of them about thirty six men For they chased them from before the gate even unto Shabarum, and smote them in the going down. Wherefore the hearts of the people melted and became as water And Joshua rented his clothes and fell to the earth upon his face before the ark of the Lord until the even tide. He and the elders of Israel and put dust upon their heads And Joshua said, Alas, O Lord God, wherefore hast thou at all brought this people over the Jordan to deliver us into the hand of the Amorites, to destroy us Would to God we had been content and dwelt on the other side of Jordan. O Lord, what shall I say, when Israel turneth their backs before their enemies? For the Canaanites and all the inhabitants of the land shall hear of it, and they shall environ us around, and cut off our name from the earth. And what wilt thou do unto thy great name? And the Lord said unto Joshua, Get thee up. Wherefore liest thou upon thy face? Israel hath sinned. And they have also transgressed my covenant, which I commanded them, for they have taken of the accursed thing, and have also stolen and disassembled also and They have put it even among their own stuff. Therefore, the children of Israel could not stand before their enemies, but turned their backs before their enemies because they were accursed. Neither will I be with you or any more except ye destroy the accursed from among you. Up, sanctify the people. And say, Sanctify yourselves against tomorrow. For thus saith the Lord God of Israel, there is an accursed thing in the midst of thee O Israel, thou canst not stand before thine enemies until ye take care, or take away the accursed thing from among you. In the morning, therefore, ye shall be brought according to your tribes And it shall be that the tribe which the Lord taketh shall come according to the families thereof. And the family which the Lord shall take shall come by household. And the household which the Lord shall take shall come by man by man. And it shall be that he that is taken with the accursed thing shall be burnt with fire. He and all that he hath, because he hath transgressed the covenant of the Lord, and because he hath wrought folly in Israel So Joshua rose up early in the morning and brought Israel by their tribes, and the tribe of Judah was taken. And he brought the family of Judah. He took the family of the Zarhites. And he brought the family of the Zarhites man by man. And Zebdi was taken. And he brought his household man by man And Achan, the son of Carmi, the son of Zabde, and the son of Zarah, of the tribe of Judah, was taken. And Joshua said unto Achan, My son, give, I pray thee, glory to the God of Israel, and make confession unto him. Tell me now what thou hast done. Hide it not from me And Achan answered Joshua and said, Indeed I have sinned against the Lord God of Israel, and thus and thus have I done. When I saw among the spoils a goodly Babylonish garment, and two hundred shekels of silver, and a wedge of gold, and fifty shekels weight Then I coveted them, and then took them, and behold, they are hid in the earth in the midst of my tent, and the silver under it. So Joshua sent messengers, and they ran unto the tent, and behold it was hid in the tent, and the silver under it. And they took them in the midst of the tent and brought them unto Joshua and unto all the children of Israel, and laid them out before the Lord. And Joshua and all of Israel with him took Achan, the son of Zarah, and the silver and the garments, and the wedge of gold, his sons and his daughters. his oxen, his asses, his sheep, his tent, and all that he had. And they brought it into the valley of Acor And Joshua said, Why hast thou troubled us? The Lord shall trouble you this day. And all Israel stoned him with stones, and burned them with fire. And they had stoned them with stones, after they had stoned them with stones. And they raised over him a great heap of stones unto this day So the Lord turned from the fierceness of his anger. Wherefore the name of that place was called the Valley of Acor unto this. Let's pray. Father, I pray that as we get into your word tonight, Lord, that you will work in our hearts, each one of us, Lord. And Lord, I pray that in all things we will see the great glory of you. That we will see, Lord Your great love for us and how much you hate sin. And Lord, that we can learn from this story here about Achan. And I pray, Father, that it will work in our hearts in such a way that when we leave here tonight, Lord, we will be changed more into your image as we read your word. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. So now as we get into this story, thinking about it and reading in uh chapter seven at the beginning, if you remember the last time we got together. Joshua just and all of Israel just witnessed the great awesomeness of God's profound wisdom. and power, how he set up to take Jericho. Jericho was known as a city it would not be taken by people, because it was up high and the walls were thick and everything else The location and how it was built. And here God sends his people just to walk around it, walk around it, don't say nothing. One day they shout And the shouting that they did did not bring the walls down, but it showed the faith that they had in God, and God brought the walls down. They saw this awesomeness, and who would ever think of a war battle plan like that. Well we can knock out some people if we use God's method and God's ways and God's faithfulness. But anyway, just seeing all this And uh there was only one family that was spared, and that was the harlot and her family. But there's a couple of verses that I want to go into in chapter six, just a few of them here. I'm going to read them to you real quick Before we went into chapter 7 and read this, right at the end of chapter 6 in verse 27, after they had finished taken Jericho, So the Lord was with Joshua, and his fame was noised throughout all the country. Everybody was afraid of Joshua. And the Israelites, because of what they just heard happened, and how it all happened. Then you got in chapter six, verse 18 and 19. I need to set this up so we understand what's going on. But in verse 18 it says, and ye, before they went into the battle, God gave specific instruction to Joshua Joshua's relating it to the people. And it says here in verse 18, and ye in any wise keep yourselves from the accursed thing, lest ye make yourselves accursed. When ye take of the accursed thing, and make the camp of Israel accurse, and trouble it. All the silver, all the gold, the vessels of brass and iron are concentrated unto the Lord, and they shall come into the treasury of the Lord. And then the last verse I want to look at is in chapter 1. When Joshua first was chosen and came before the people and uh This is what was said. The people were in agreement. They liked the fact that God chose Joshua and they were going to be obedient to him. So in verse 18 It says, Whosoever he be that doth rebel against thy commandment, and will not hearken unto thy words, in all thou commandest him, he shall be put to death. Only be strong and courageous. So, as we look into this chapter, and knowing all that we know, Achan knew this stuff too, because it was told to him. And how often do we hear God's word and don't take heed to it? Here's a man. Aiken. And talking about secrets, keeping secrets, Aiken thought he was keeping a secret. The effects of his secret sin affected everyone. So as we look at what was taking place here, I want us to realize that no one in the camp Knew the secret. Joshua didn't know about what happened. None of the people knew. Only God knew. And so When you think about it, all they see is he's our brother. His tent's right down from ours. We go to worship together. His kids play with my kids. All this about Achan. And aching all along, he's thinking all is well. No one knows anything. I'm home free. It's just a little booty. Surely God is not concerned over this little bit of stuff. Could have been his mindset. I mean, after all, God has bigger fish to fry than this little thing. Besides, it's not like I'm hurting anyone else. I'm thinking this would be my mindset if I did what Aiken did. And I would assume, just by assuming how he did this, that he had the same thought He didn't think about God in his whole thing. And so, thinking that he's not going to hurt anyone, he's going to hide this in his tent. And isn't it strange Maybe you don't do this. I'm sure nobody in here does this, but isn't it strange how we excuse away our sins and our minds? When we're thinking things, when we know we are doing something wrong and we have excuses in our minds, there are things that each one of us, I'm sure, at one time or another have done that we don't want no one else to know about And sometimes in the church today, not necessarily this church, but in God's church, people have secret sins. They don't want nobody else to know about it. And they don't think it's gonna hurt anyone as long as they're keeping it under control at their house. It doesn't bother anybody else It's okay, it's just a little secret sin. But I think a lot of times we kinda justify things in our mind. And I think about here we also try to size up sins. You know, you think about the little teeny weeny sin I stole the marble. I mean it's just a marble. I took a penny. It's not like I took a thousand dollars. After all, who's it hurting? Nobody knows. Kind of the mindset of the little eeny teeny sin. Then you get into the small sins. And the small sins. When I think about small sins I think about the phrase, little white lies. Little white lies are small sins. And then you got the medium sin, which I know it's wrong. But everybody's doing it. That's a big thing today in churches. We compare ourselves to other people. Well, not quite as bad. Yes. thing today very similar to what you're saying and I would like to hear. Um that person who was uh a preacher from Arabic and he was saying that sometimes when we don't We don't understand how holy God is. And these sends we we send them because we don't understand how how we deal with the holy God. It's our image and our understanding and thinking of how holy God is that makes us think sins are small. That's exactly true. We have a wrong perspective of who God is. Yeah. And we're gonna learn in here how much God hates sin and how holy he is. Thank you for sharing that, Heathen. And anyway, then you got the big sins, which the large sins uh like Like so-and-so is doing, you know. So-and-so over there's doing it. And he's just blatantly sinning. And he calls himself a Christian. You know, those are the blatant sins. We would never do anything like that. But may I remind you tonight that sin is sin. God hates all sin. He died for all sin. And he hates sin. And though this may seem like a little thing, it wasn't to God. And the little marble or the little penny that I'm talking about we feel it's a sin. And it starts with that little one and it goes to the next one, goes to the next one. I can handle it, I can handle it, but then it gets larger. Sin. Do you remember this when we had the uh vacation Bible school? What is sin? Anything we think, anything we say, anything we do that breaks God's law And sin must be punished. I love that thing. I remember it and I did it with my grandkids talking about sin. That's that's I thought that was a neat way of uh putting it. But anyway, sin is sin and it breaks God's law. So what is the result of this sin that Achan thought no one knew about? It was his little secret. And no one else needed to know and he could tell it was a secret because he buried it under his tent in the dirt. Now I would presume to say, and presuming only, that his family knew about it But nobody else. The neighbors didn't know. So, how does this come about? Here he goes. Joshua sends two guys up to Ai, which was a small town, a city. And told 'em to spy it out, come back and let us know what we need to do. Well, it's a small town, there's not a lot of people there. Just take two or three of them thousand and we'll go up there and wipe them all out They go up there and we find out that this little two thousand and three thousand men at AI wasn't enough. for the few that were there in Ai. The men of Ai struck down about 36 men as they were chasing them away down the hill And getting away from there. The people were so afraid. Now this is unusual for Israel to be afraid when they know God is with them. I mean look what they just went through at Jericho. Can you imagine the mindset? What is going on? Joshua is so beside himself that he falls down on his face, and he stays there until evening along with the elders. And they're throwing dirt on themselves and everything and they were just so ashamed and so uh humiliated And then he has to go before God, and he does. He goes before God and um I think that he was distraught and he starts to question God. When we get in the situation, don't we question God? What's going on here, God? Something's wrong. Here we find out what will uh he goes through and asks all these questions. Now like where he ends up. And what will you do? For your great name. After all this happened, how could we run away? And so we find out here that God knew about Achan's secret. I wouldn't want to be in Aiken's sandals. How about you? Knowing that God found out. What kind of secrets might you and I keep from God? Little things. Do we ever think like Achan? Nobody's gonna know. But as Heim said God is holy. And I think we get that mindset that God doesn't care about the little stuff But he says that the little foxes spoil the vine. A little leaven ruins the whole lump. Achan's secret is revealed in Joshua 7, 19-21. Joshua says to Achan, Give glory to the God, Lord God of Israel. I beg you, make confession to him. Tell me what you have done. And then Achan comes on the scene. Indeed, I have sinned against the Lord God of Israel, he says. And what are the three things that Achan says that causes sin? Three things he says. I saw, I coveted, and I took. Remember Eve in the garden? Saw that the tree was good for food, that it was pleasant to the eyes, a tree to make one wise And she took of its fruit and ate. And the rest is history. Don't think our little sins that we call secret don't affect others. Achan's sin caused 36 men to lose their lives. And we're going to find out what else it caused them. It caused all the shame and all the humiliation. And it brought shame to God. So we find out here at the consequence for Achan's sin. It says that Achan and his family were stoned. And all that he owned was burned, including his family, his sons, and his daughters. That's quite a punishment. It doesn't matter if it's at that teeny weeny one where you stole the marble, or whether it's the big one where everybody's doing it. and blatantly sinning. I find it kinda hard for true Christians to do the blatant, even to do the medium, but without repentance without confession. But I think it's very possible for anyone, even if you're a Christian, because if you don't take care of the eeny teeny sin It's gonna grow to the small sin, to the medium sin, to the big sin. And the other thing about that is your sin, no matter how small it is, no matter how much you try to hide it from everybody else, it's affecting. Your walk with the Lord, it's affecting those around you, your family, and everything else. Some thoughts. Aiken abused or took lightly the doctrine of divine grace and the great promises of God. He took it lightly. Do we take it lightly? Do we think because we are under grace that God's not going to do anything because we are doing something wrong, breaking his laws, sinning against him? He did not take heed according to God's word. God told him at the beginning. what they were not to do. And you know that if he would have waited a couple more battles, God gave them the booty. But he got greedy, got eager, thought he could hide it, put it under his tent He didn't take heed according to God's word, that he might not sin against God. In Psalm 119, 11 it says, Your word have I hidden in my heart that I might not sin against you. Achan didn't seek God with his whole heart, and he also did not hide God's word in his heart. It was given to him, but he did not hide it. in his heart, otherwise he would not have taken what he had taken. I mean if you think about this now, if it were you and you were in Achan's shoes and you knew what God would do, you wouldn't take that and hide it in your tent. Because you know what the result's going to be. But he didn't have a right view of God. He didn't think God would care about the little thing. But here it is, and God destroys him. And I was reading in Matthew Henry, and Matthew Henry says this, and I think it's a really good paragraph. He says, We should look at home. into our own hearts, into our own houses, and make a diligent search to find out if there be some accursed thing In our own home, which God sees and abhors. Some secret lust, some unlawful gain, some undue withholding from God or from others We cannot prosper until the accursed thing be destroyed out of the hearts, and put out of our homes, out of our families, and forsaken out of our lives. If there is some little sin that we are struggling with, It is affecting our relationship with God. It's affecting our families. And we should Take heed from what we are learning here about Achan, how much God hates sin and how holy God is, and get rid of that secret sin. Achan's secret began with the eyes He looked, he coveted, and he took. He desired. Worst of all, the fact that he saw it and coveted it, the worst part was he took it. He can do the seeing and the coveting. But when you take it, then you went into sin I mean we're gonna see stuff all the time in our lives, but if we dwell on it and we start wanting it and then we go and take it, then we've sinned. And that's pretty much what James says too. Are there things in your life tonight? May even seem relatively small. You think that You can keep it under control. You can hide it. No one else is gonna see, no one else is gonna find out. It's not gonna hurt anyone. Remember that God knows, and it offends God, when we do not deal with sin. What will you purpose in your heart to do to get rid of the secret sin in your life and bring glory to the Lord God above? Achan perished not alone either, with his sons, his daughters, everything he had, all because of the secret sin. And if I may say tonight, secret sins are not secret with God. He sees it all. First John 1 9 says that if in the New Testament that if we confess our sins, God is faithful and just To forgive us our sins and cleanse our hearts from all unrighteousness. And I always think of David in Psalm 51. What a good example of genuine repentance When we confess sin, we're not only confessing it, but we're expected to turn away from it. And how many times do we sometimes just confess it over and over the same sin that we're struggling with? with instead of getting rid of it and turning away from it. Let us remember what depends upon our choices. And let us choose according to what we know. God shows the weight of divine curse in Joshua seven fifteen, when he stoned the family and burned it and burned everything. And buried him under power rocks. Think about how Joshua must have felt. I believe that Joshua probably felt that he had let God down. He was probably questioning why did this happen? Even though Joshua wasn't involved in the sin, it affected him. He was the leader. And God told him to be strong and be courageous. And that uh not to be uh afraid. But I think at this point he's wondering what happened to the heart of Israel when they all came running back. I think it affected Joshua. And I think that as we think about Joshua's uh condition. Have you ever questioned God like this when you see something happen in your family and you wonder, why is this happening? It's n and a lot of times, I wanna I'm gonna make this clear too, a lot of times things that happen are not because of our sin. Things that happen in the world happen. Just like we saw happen in France. How could that happen And uh so uh not only that, but what about God's great name? That's what I think about when I think about this, and uh because Sometimes we don't view God right. We don't see him as the holy God that he is. But I think back of last week, I'm still taken by the fact of how he took uh Jer Jericho. That battle plan just blew me away. Who else would ever think of something like that? But anyway, I hope that tonight would be a challenge or uh an encouragement to you to stay close to the Lord and um Just um think about what happened with Aiken and uh think about your own life. Maybe you don't have a problem with it, but it's a good warning for us not to go there And uh I would hope that uh we would not go there. But let's close in prayer. Father, I just thank you for the challenge that you put before us, this warning that we see, Lord. What about your great name, Father? Help us to see it aright. Help us to know that you see our rising up and our lying down. That we know that you are a holy God and you hate sin. And you've called us, Lord, to be holy as you are holy. And Lord, you have called us from sin unto your righteousness. So I pray that you will help us tonight, Lord, just to remember what we've learned here. And I do pray, Father, that in all things We will honor your great name for who you are and what you have done. Help us not to try to size sins up, Lord, as small and And not really noticeable and not really that you would care about it. I know, Father, according to your word that you died for all sin. The little, the large, the medium, whatever. So Father, we are grateful that you took care of that whole thing. Help us to remember that you died for all sin He didn't die just for the medium sins or the large sins. So, Father, I pray that we will try in our endeavors, Lord, through your word that we would grow, through your spirit, Lord. We would keep ourselves clean before you. And Father, I thank you for each one here tonight, and I pray your blessing on each one as we go our way. Keep us safe from all harm, all accidents, and from the evil one And help us, Lord, to be a good testimony for your great name. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen