James chapter one. And this is our second lesson in uh in the as we're gonna go working our way through the book of James. James is an incredibly practical book It is one that I I have appreciated over the years and have been been very, very helpful for for me. And I want to begin by asking you a simple question If you were let's just imagine for a minute that you were that what's going on? I'm hitting the arrow button. I'm trying. Can you hit the arrow button on the keyboard to see if it's in advance? Pat. What's that? Okay. Yeah, there we go. See the picture of the island? That's what it goes for. Okay. Yeah, just look at that one I guess. I don't know where I have a problem with that screen. Anyway, so um imagine you're like on a deserted island and you have all of what you need. You've got all the food you need, you have a place uh to sleep, you have comfort, you have everything that you need But you have absolutely no other people. You have even a Bible, and you can pray to the Lord, and you know the Lord. What do you but and you're there and there's no other people and you literally have to live your entire life that way. Now you remember you have a sustained source of food and a sustained source of all of your needs And you have a relationship with the Lord, but there are no people, and you don't have to go to work because you have all of your needs met. What do you suppose would happen? I'm just curious. What do you suppose would happen to you What do you think, Lisa? You get a volleyball? Okay. Okay. Alright, you make an imaginary imaginary friend. All right. What do you really, what do you think? What do you suppose would happen? Jason, what do you think? Yeah, I think you'd lose your mind. I think you would literally go crazy. And I I think you would actually end up self-destructing. And one of the reasons that i for that is, and I'm really my point in saying that is not so much to focus on the the need for companionship, but there is a sense of which the trials and the difficulties of our lives are necessary. Because what we have that is just we are born with is our own flesh, our own sin nature. And even after we know Christ is our Savior, we still have that. And and it is through the trials of life, which most of them come from a result of the fall. I mean, how many trials do you suppose you'd have in life if you didn't, if the fall never happened? You'd have I don't think you'd have any. You also wouldn't have your own flesh to deal with either. But you have this internal flesh that you're dealing with, this this sin nature that you're dealing with And you have this external trials that are result from the fall. And what you essentially have is God using those trials in your life to shape you into what He wants you to be. And so I would suggest to you that if we can have these trials and these tribulations and these struggles and these difficulties in life and you were on a deserted island with all of your needs met and And you had everything you needed, and you didn't have to go to work and you didn't have a trial and you didn't have people around to deal to deal with. Um you might think it's a great life for like, I don't know, a week But outside of but by that point you would then be on you would then be on that have a real problem, yes. Do you know what you know is that it doesn't matter? Did you know people before this? Or do you decide to sign up? I'm not sure it matters. I would say that if you have your s if you might it might matter a little bit, but if you have s a sin nature I would suggest that you are still still going to self-destruct. That's my suggestion. That's not Bible truth. I just think that that's what would happen. Yes, Lisa? I don't think well with what you're getting at I feel like I have a thing. And I just there's no panel that's actually suddenly very sensitive. Yeah. Because we're not doing the family so close and we're not just seeing up the other people on the turn out you know really what God wants you to do with anything. So I've gotten so far as to think that heaven was I don't see how to style and Google and say words is this I think. No. Yeah. Yeah. What I'm saying, like Based on that. Yeah. Yeah. Accept that in heaven you no longer have your sin nature. And you are complete peace with God. And so you it it's totally totally different in heaven. Um and you're completely conform to the image of No. No, in a sense no you can't I mean you can fathom what Scripture says about it, but uh and you can know that there is a place of complete joy and peace. because you are in complete fellowship with God with no barriers and you can know that your flesh is you don't have a deal you don't have to deal with your flesh anymore. I mean your mind is perfect uh is it's perfect in the sense of it's not infinite like God's is, but it's perfect in the sense of it's been it's it's been perfected again. Yeah you you're we have we're new creatures in Christ and we're and we're in that process right now but once we we see Christ we'll have new bodies. Everything's gonna be new And so yeah, heaven will not be that way. But on earth, it is. It is next trials are necessary in the Christian life. In order for God uses these kinds of things. Now, let me just help you a little bit with this particular issue, Lisa. If you are, if you feel as though you have no trials And you are struggling with the reality that you don't have any trials, that in and of itself is a trial. Okay. Oh so just keep that in mind. Even that is a trial that you have to learn to respond correctly to. And so we all have trials in our lives. If you're if can if you're living so comfortably that that you look and you go, wow Man, I'm really worried. Then that in of itself is a trial that you have to deal with. We all have, in some degree or another, we have trials that we are going through in life. And s and what James says is that the trials that we go through are for the purpose of spiritual well, in other words, God let me put it this way the the events that we go through that that happen in life as a result of the fall and just living life, God desires to use those events to shape us into spiritual maturity. And I will go so far as to say, I'm really personally convinced this that I don't think you can spiritually you can grow grow in maturity without trials in your life. I think you've got to have them. And And I would just notice a couple of things about this passage. First of all, in verse 2, it says, My brethren, count all joy when ye fall into diverse trial temptations. And the word temptations there can be translated to trials. The word fall is is carries the idea that we're not jumping into trials, we're not asking for trials, we're not gonna, you know, oh there's a trial, let me go do that. But it will come Trials of various kinds, diverse trials, it says, of various kinds will come on you. And and we need and God has a purpose in those, and so we can count them joy. Verse three, knowing this, that the trying of your faith. Worketh patience. The trying of your dependence on God. Now there's a trial. In fact, you can define a trial as such. A trial is a test of your dependence on God. And and the trying of your faith, what does it work? It works patience. What is patience? It's endurance. In verse 4, we have the purpose statement for really this passage, and I think the entire book of James But let endurance have her perfect work that ye may be perfect. The word perfect there means mature and entire, wanting nothing. We reviewed that last week, but what we want to do today is ask the question When a temptation comes to you, when you fall into some kind of trial or temptation, before, remember last week we said that the same event can be both a trial and a temptation. And Satan wants it to be a temptation, and his goal is for you to fall. And God's goal for you in the same event is to use it for his glory and for your maturity So the same event can be both a trial and a temptation. But what is our role in the thing? Our role is that God wants us to ask for wisdom. And I didn't know I I needed to Our role is to ask for wisdom. Would you look at verse five what it says here? If any of you lack wisdom Let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and obrayeth not, and it shall be given to him. Our n The definition of wisdom, and I think it's very important for us to understand this, is the skill to apply God's truth to in making life's decisions And in context, it's particularly in response to the events of life. Alright, so you have a trial in your life of some kind, and it could be all various kinds of trials and difficulties in your life. Our natural response to trials, which we mentioned last week, are fight or flight. We want to fight against it or we want to flee from it. That's our natural response. And God says, do neither. So, what is to be our response? And that is the question that's got to be on the table for us. When a trial comes in our life, When we fall into the trial, as Scripture says, the first the first question that we need to ask is What is my what should my response be to this trial? How should I correctly and biblically respond? You say, how do I know that? Well It tells you that if you lack wisdom you need to ask of God. Why would you ask God for wisdom if you didn't If you didn't need to know how to respond to the trial. In other words, this verse 5 implies that our primary concern is, how can I rightly respond to the trial? Now let me ask you a question. When we come to trials, we've already said that the fight or flight response tends to be tends to be our natural reaction, and neither one of those are correct. But if you think of this practically, when you think of trials that you're going through, what are some other wrong things that tend to pop into your mind? I'm just curious if you could think of What are some other things that sort of just jump out at you or things that pop into your mind about this particular trial? Why? Okay. Yeah. Why is this happening to me? Alright? That might be a good uh that might be a question that you ask. Right or wrong. Sometimes it's right, depending on how you ask it, but it's a question that you ask Um what else? Okay. All right, you become discouraged because of the trial. What about this? Do you ever say to yourself, you know, what did I do wrong? Okay? That's kind of why. Yeah, that's that's part of the why. Okay? Mm-hmm. Which is the flight response essentially, same thing as flight. Okay. But but no, but but um but a lot of time you say, well what did I do for this to come to me Well Scripture says it fell on you. Okay? Trials fall on you. Or you fall on them. You fall into them. Okay, so it's not necessarily anything that you did, but we tend to think, well, what did I do to get into this? And you know why we think that? Because we think we're in control. That's that's why we think it. We think I'm in control, and so therefore, because I'm in control, a trial's coming to my life, and I'm going to make the assumption that I must have done something in order for this trial to come. And the whole problem is is that we think we're in control when we're not in control. Yes, Lisa? Yeah. And somebody have done something and you do Well, possibly, but I'm well I I think that the answer to that is that it shouldn't be our first question. I don't think a asking the question why is this happening to me is the wrong question, but I'm thinking I I think personally that this is not the first question we ought to ask. The first question that I ought to ask when I come into the trial or a temptation is, or an issue that perhaps maybe I did cause, or at least maybe partially cause cause it on bringing on myself I mean folks, aren't we isn't it true that we bring things on ourselves sometimes? Sometimes the trials that happen, it's like you you you did that to yourself. Or sometimes I look at my other trials and I'm like, you know Jim, you're just a dummy. You did that to yourself. I mean that's what you know and you look back at that. Now either way though The right question is, how do I respond to this? That's the right first question. I mean you might want to contemplate why it happened and all that, but the first the right first question is how do I respond to the trial? In other words, if you don't take it that way, and you think, oh, what's wrong with me, or oh, what the why am I what is this ha why is this happening to me? Or you ask those other questions then then you'll get stuck in the trial and you won't you won't be able to deal with it. And this is just sort of practical. But if you say, how do I respond to the trial, then we won't you'll be able to navigate through it in the way that God wants you to navigate through it. I think it's really important to understand this Even in temptations, whatever it is, temptations, trials, whatever calamities happening in your life, to ask yourself the question, how do I biblically, according to what God's plan is, respond to this trial And do you and as soon as you ask that question, oftentimes the answer is going to be what? What's the answer going to be? I don't know. That's going to be the answer. The answer is I'm not sure how to respond to this. That's why verse 5 has come into play. If any of you lack wisdom, well then ask of God, have you ever come under difficulty and you don't know how to respond to it? The truth is, if it's genuinely a trial, you probably don't know how to respond to it. Because a trial by its very nature wouldn't be a trial if you knew exactly what to do and you knew exactly how to handle it and you knew exactly how to respond to it. I mean trial by its very nature indicates that you probably don't know how to respond correctly. Not in every case. I mean you may have gone through a particular thing that you went it's reoccurring in your life and you know how to respond to it. But the real trials in life come often when we don't know how to respond to it And the Bible says that what we need to do is we need to ask of God to give us wisdom. And it says, if any of you lack wisdom, let them ask of God. It implies that we want to respond in the right way, but it also implies that that we need humility to ask the question, right? I mean if we think we know the answer to everything, if we think we know how to respond, if we think we've got it figured out, we're not going to ask God for wisdom And God wants us to ask Him for wisdom. So there's this second implication is that humility is needed in order to be able to respond correctly to the trial and to ask God for wisdom. It also implies that you want to do, you want to apply truth, you desire to do the right thing, you desire to please God in response to your trial. Let me just say this about trials that come into our lives very practically. Very often, what we do is we are so consumed with ourselves That in responding to the trial, we are asking ourselves the question, well, what do I need, what do I need to do? What needs to happen to me And we're asking the wrong question. When we come into a trial, the first question we ought to ask is: how can I respond in order to please God? I was I was teaching a lesson to la last Wednesday night to the the teens. And uh I this is such an important lesson for them to learn. If they can learn this lesson, if If they can learn this lesson early, you all will agree with me a hundred percent on this. If they'll learn this lesson early, it will help them in their lives. The biblical pattern in life is for us to think right, to do right, and then we will feel right. We get this switched up. We think A trial comes to our lives and instead of saying, okay, I need to think right, do right, and then residual, I will feel right, we feel about a certain thing about a trial and we act on our feelings And then somehow we rationalize how we acted based upon how we felt. We get the whole thing mixed up. If we are doing based upon our feelings, in other words, I'm doing because I feel right, or feel something In other words, my feelings are going to propel me into be into behavior. It's the wrong pattern. No, no. I need to think right, which means think biblically And they'll cause me to do right, and then I will feel right. The feelings come later. That is the biblical pattern that we that we find in Scripture. And so the whole idea here is When I come into a trial, I'm going to respond by thinking right. I need wisdom. I need the skill to apply truth in the way that God wants me to. And frankly, I would just suggest to you that when you go through a trial, you need to, in the beginning stages of the trial, you need to get your mind off of yourself. I've got to get my mind off myself. I've got to say, okay, how can I resp how do I respond to this by in in a way that pleases God Now, there will be a time in the midst of the trial when you know you're responding correctly to the trial that you might ask yourself the question, okay, how did I get to this in the first place? Or why am I doing this? Or am I struggle uh or or um you know, what can I learn from this? You can begin to ask yourself those kinds of questions. But folks, if we respond incorrectly at the be in the outset of the thing We won't heal from it. We won't be able to learn what God wants us to learn from it. We won't mature from it. It won't be the way that God intends for us to uh intends for it to be. And so God says to make sure that we are asking for wisdom in these kinds of things. And the basis of that is number one, we don't need number one, we we uh we need wisdom. And the other issue is that and and the other thing we've got to remember is that God is will benevolently supply wisdom for us. Now you think of it this way, oftentimes when we ask God for things, we are not sure if God will give it. Is that not true? And there are many things in life that we can ask for, but we don't have an absolute sure assurance of knowing that God will give us that. But with this, we have an absolute assurance of knowing that if we'll ask in the right way, which we'll look in about a minute, God will give it to us. He'll give wisdom to his people that ask for it, and he will benevolently supply it. In other words, folks, if we just genuinely desire to respond to the trial in our life but got in a way that God wants us to respond to it. He will give us, if we'll ask for it, he will give us the wisdom to respond respond to that trial correctly. He will do it. It says it look at look at what it says. Who giveth to all men liberally and abradeth not. He doesn't withhold. And it shall, the promise there is, it shall be given unto him. We've got a promise there that we'll ask, he will give it to us with one condition. And the condition is the manner in which we ask. Scripture says we've got to ask in faith. See what it says in verse 6. But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. Now let me pause for a minute and just say this. Do you ever second-guess your faith? We all do. Do you ever second guess uh whether or not what you're asking for, you're asking For in faith. Well, of course, we do that as well. When it comes to asking God for wisdom and faith, here's what it's not saying. Here's what we're not saying saying. We're not saying, Lord, I know you'll deliver me from this trial. And I'm gonna I'm gonna just ask in faith and I know. And in other words Remember what he's promising. He's not promising to deliver us from a trial. In this passage, that's not the promise. Sometimes when we pray for things, Lord, give me wisdom. To respond correctly to this trial, we immediately think, okay, the trial will be over if I pray that. It's like this magic formula. Lord give me wisdom And then the trial will be over because I've asked for wisdom. No, no, no, no. That's not what we're asking for. We're not asking for the trial to be over. We're asking for wisdom to respond to the trial correctly And if we'll ask for that, God says, I'll give it to you, and we can ask completely in faith. Now let me ask you this question. That particular thing, we've got a promise from God's Word. What would tempt us to not ask in faith? Just curious. What do you think? You're in a trial. God says if you ask in faith, if you ask for wisdom in faith and respond to the trial correctly, He will give it to you. What would what would what would hinder us from asking with that kind of confidence? Any ideas? Yes? Okay, pride, good. Very good. Yes. that would you can get it through it otherwise on the people or so around it. I think something that's uh Maybe I don't know, but not like two um but uh Yeah, I mean sometimes do you ever doubt God's care for you, honestly? Or his love for you? In fact the very trial you're going through may cause you to doubt his love for you. Or his trial or or and so well we've gotta that's why we have to go back. Okay, what's the trial for? God wants to use it to mature us. We've got to go back to the purpose. That's why we're gonna count it all joy So that is necessary in order for us to be able to respond to this correctly and for for us to be able to ask in faith. All of that goes together. But that's very definitely very common for us to think to ourselves, okay, I'm going through the trial, so maybe God doesn't care about me when in fact We're going through the events of life, and God wants us to bring the pen uh bring us through it. And in fact, He's going to provide everything that we need to go through this trial if we'll ask in faith. What else? Do you ever think, perhaps, that what's involved in this unbelief in this pov potential for unbelief Is the fact that you don't really want to go through it the way God wants you to go through it. I mean, just think about it. Do you ever go through a trial and you just don't want to respond to it the way God wants you to respond? Well don't ask don't don't ask God for wisdom then. I mean if you if you don't want to respond to it the way God wants you to respond to it Don't expect God to give you the wisdom to know how to respond to it correctly. You're not asking it faith. In other words, when you're asking this You're asking God to do something for you and your heart is all it you're de your heart's in it. You're you're all in. And if you're halfway in, okay, Lord, I'd like to know what the what the what the a what the option, what the godly option for the response is. I'm not sure I'm going to do it, but I I'd like to know what the option is That's not asking in faith. That's not that's not and and then and you see here clearly that's actually what he's talking about. But let him ask in faith, nothing what Wavering. Oh, so we got a guy who's wavering here. For he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea, driven with the wind and tossed. Okay, so you're in an event. It could be a trial, it could be a temptation. And you're wavering Which direction is it going to be? What response are you going to are you going to are you going to respond to it as a trial or are you going to respond to it as a temptation? Are you And and if you're going to respond to it the way that God wants you to respond to it, you can't be wavering back and forth. You've got to have your your mind set. I am going to respond to this in the way that God wants me to respond to it. I want to respond to it in the way God wants to respond to it. And if we a if we're clear on that, then and we ask, we can ask confidently knowing that God will give us the response that we're supposed to have, or that God give us the wisdom to respond in the way that He wants us to respond. That it really boils down. The whole issue of our responding correctly to our trials boils down to belief. Now, I'm going to go a little deeper on this. Why? Why would you and I not want, potentially not want to respond to the trial in the way that God wants us to? Why? Alright, is that not a possibility for us as Christians? Okay. Yeah. Okay. Why though? Why is it that we God might That we would be unsure of whether or not we would want to respond in the way that God wants us to respond to it. We might like the outcome? So then it wraps our mind around using that. What God wants to mean nothing That's the issue. Right. And I don't think it's just Dimberg, I think it's the Bible. But that's that's what he tries to get across a lot. Yeah. Alright, just follow here, because I think this is really, really important for us to remember. I don't want to respond the way God wants me to respond. Because if I respond the way God wants me to respond, I might not like I don't the outcome is not what I want. Why don't I want the outcome? I don't want the outcome because I believe that my outcome is better than God's outcome. It's still a problem with unbelief. The problem is still unbelief. What we've got to be, the bottom line is: I've got to say that whatever God supplies, it's what's best. And whatever outcome God says is the best is the best thing. I've got to go on that premise And what if I go on that premise and I say, okay, I'm not gonna I'm not going to uh judge the outcome, I'm gonna let God choose the outcome. I just want wisdom to respond to it, then I'm gonna then be able to ask In faith, trusting in in God to give me what I need in order to respond correctly so that the he we get his outcome, which I believe with all my heart is best for me That's asking in faith. That is absolutely necessary in order for us to be able to go through this trial in the way that God wants us to go through it. Now, I'll just go one step deeper. How, if you're struggling with belief, if you're struggling with faith, how do you deal with that? In other words, if you're looking at the situation, you're saying, okay, well I I don't trust that God's way is best. I don't tr I don't trust that his outcome is going to be the best outcome I'm not trusting God. How do you deal with that? Okay, well yes, that's true. Asking God, I mean it's like the the man that said in the in the gospels Lord I believe help my unbelief. I think that's a perfectly fine prayer. So that's one one way. Yeah. Okay, so you start back by thinking right. Yeah. I faith comes by how? And hearing by the Word of God. It it it's it goes back to to knowing the Word and studying the Word. It goes back to the Word of God and knowing God. To know God is to trust God. God, the more you know if you don't trust him, it's because you don't know him. That's true. If you're struggling with your belief, it's because you don't know God. Have you ever said to somebody have you ever um struggled with somebody's competency? Um I was s occasionally So we have different contractors that I've been working with around the church for ever since I've been here and doing different things and And there's one particular guy that that was working for us for a contractor and I said I just took one look at him and I should not have judged the base on this. I took one look at him, I said, This guy cannot he's like a few fries short of a happy meal. He can't actually be gonna be able to do well at this job. And I mean he was just a goofy looking guy and a sort of a goofy guy And I thought, this guy is and um um and and then I got to I said, Well I guess you'll we'll see And I got to know him. And I got to watch his work. And the guy was excellent. I mean absolutely top-notch. He did great work So there was another project that was coming along and and uh and uh Harry I I I would say this if we were here, Harry s met him and Harry goes I said, Jim, are you sure about him? I said, Harry, he'll be good. He'll do good. I've seen him do I've seen his work before. He'll be fine. He goes I'm not so sure. I said I said, Harry, trust me on this. He'll he'll he'll do and he said, Okay, I'll I'll just trust you. And and he did that he did that back bathroom back here. Uh the back one in the in the in the um in the um the fellowship all bucket. And uh and and Harry was very happy with the work. And so when we were looking at other jobs he goes, Hey That guy you know your your your your friend, your your friend, you you should get it wasn't mine, I never knew. Anyway, you should get him to do the to do the job. See, when you get to know someone, in some cases you get to you you trust them less. But in other cases, you trust them more. And with God, if you don't trust him, it's because you don't know him enough. And that is the key to trusting God is knowing him more. And of course, the way that you know him more is by seeing how he reveals himself in his word. And that is why so much of it goes back, I mean, life goes back to knowing God. Verse 7 says, For let not that man who is asking in unbelief think that he shall receive anything of the Lord Verse a a double-minded man, a man that's that's on the on the you know, teetering between one direction or another on this stuff A double man at mind of man is unstable in all of his ways. We've got to understand that when we are wavering, it might be that we have a problem in our wavering mentally. And so we're doubting something mentally. But it might be volitionally, and our desires are the problem. We don't want a certain way Or it could be emotionally. We're wavering because of our emotions and we're we're teetering back and forth because we don't feel like doing something Any in in any case, we've got to go back to knowing God, believing that His way is best and that He will supply all that we need And that's why he's going to say later on the in in in the chapter, if you'll just look for just a minute, verse seventeen, what does he say? Every good, every good gift, and every perfect gift is from above, and cometh down from the Father of lights with whom there is no variableness, neither shadow of turning Of his own will begat he the word of truth that we should be the first fruits of his creatures. God is more than enough. God is all sufficient God does know what's best. God does have the outcome in mind that will be best for us. And we've got to trust Him. And our role in this whole thing when it comes to trials is asking God for wisdom to respond in the trial in the way that God wants us to respond. And when somebody and let me just say by by way of personal testimony When I have seen people do this, I've seen it both ways. I've seen people come into a trial and they choose to respond incorrectly. And the trial persists and the problems persists and they don't learn their lesson and they bring on more problems for themselves. And there have been other people that I have watched them and they have come into trials and they choose to respond correctly. And they just choose that way. that God God's way is the right way, and they go through the trial, and it's still a trial. It's not like they leave the trial leaves them, but they are able to sort of ascend above the trial Not that they're out of it, but they're able to have they're able to keep their mind in the right place through the trial, and they they grow in their spiritual maturity by leaps and bounds. I am even now in a in a place particular situation I'm watching it. I'm watching the person s respond correctly in a trial. And I'm seeing it and it's just it's just it's it's It's just so gratifying to watch maturity happen in a person's life when you see that. That is exactly what God wants us to have in our lives as we do. as we come into trials uh that to respond correctly in wisdom so that God can mature us for his glory and for our good. Let's pray Father, we come to you and thank you for who you are. And we don't just say that just to say it, we mean it. You are a God who knows best. Who knows the right thing for us, who knows the right results, the right outcome, and we need to trust you And I pray that we would know you so that we can trust you, so that we can respond correctly to the trials in our lives, that you would be able to give us the wisdom that we need need to be able to do that, Lord, so that we can truly mature in Christ. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.