Good morning, everyone. Happy Resurrection Sunday to you all. Let's begin our song service and our worship service today by singing number 290, The Power of the Cross. Let's stand together as we sing. What's our handy? The lawn of the darkest day Christ on the road now glory. Tried by sinful men, torn and beaten and nailed through a cross of war. This the part of the cross. Christy Kingslin for us took the blame for the rest priest and forgiveness. Oh to see the pain written on your face, bearing the awesome weight of sin. Ever evil heat Crowning your blood sing. I beg sin for us, took the blame for the wrath we stand forgiveness. Now the daylight wings, now the ground beneath wakes as its maker bows his head. Hurt and torn into dead or raised to life finish the victor. Of the cross Christ be clean for us away for the rest. Have we stand for given us that wrong to be my name written in the wounds for through your soul? All three I am free. Hell is watching death Life is mine to live on through your selfless law. This the law of the cross Sono con What of course we stand for giving the law. Please remain standing for opening prayer. Okay, let's pray. Heavenly Father, we are indeed thankful that we do stand for given at the cross, Lord, but we are so thankful that it didn't just end there. But three days later, Lord, you rose from the grave. You defeated death once and for all, Lord. You sealed Your true fate, your destiny, as our Lord and Savior, as our God, and that you make intercession for us with the Father And Lord, we look forward to the day that we will be with you. We look forward to your return, your triumphant return to this earth to set up your kingdom here, Lord. And Lord, we would just pray this morning that if there's anyone here this morning that doesn't know The power of the cross and the power of the resurrection, that today would be the day that their hearts would be changed And Lord, we just pray that everything that we do here this morning would glorify you, that you would be pleased with the singing, with the service, Lord, and with our hearts That we would be attuned to the Word of God. And that we would leave here this resurrection morning just praising you even more, Lord, and being more thankful. And that would be our attitude every day of our lives, Lord, because you rose once and for all, and you are our Savior, Lord. And we can look to you and have forgiveness and have new life in the Lord Jesus Christ. And we just thank you for that. And we just pray your blessing on this service In Jesus' precious name and for his sake. Amen. May be seated. We're in John chapter 20. John chapter 20. Verses one through thirty-one. The first day of the week cometh Mary Magdalene, early when it was yet dark, unto the sepulchre, and seeth the stone taken away from the sepulchre. Then she runeth, and cometh to Simon Peter, and to the other disciple whom Jesus loved And saith unto them, They have taken away the Lord out of the sepulchre, and we know not where they have laid him. Peter therefore went forth and the other disciple and came to the sepulchre. So they ran both together, and the other disciple did outrun Peter and came first to the sepulchre. And he stooping down and looking in Saw the linen cloth lying, yet went he not in. Then come Simon Peter, following him, and went into the sepulchre and see at the linen cloth lying And the napkin that was about the head, not lying with the linen cloth, but wrapped together in a place by itself. Then went in also the other disciple, which came first to the sepulchre, and he saw and believed For as yet they knew not the scripture that he must rise again from the dead. Then the disciples went away again unto their own home. But Mary stood without at the sepulchre weeping, and as she wept, she stooped down and looked into the sepulchre, and saw two angels in white, sitting the one at the head and the other at the feet, where the body of Jesus had lain. And they say unto her, Woman, why weepest thou? She saith unto them, Because they have taken away my Lord, and I know not where they have laid him. And when she had thus said, she turned herself back and saw Jesus standing, and knew not that it was Jesus. Jesus said unto her, woman, Why weepest thou? Whom seekest thou She, supposing him to be the gardener, saith unto him, Sir, if thou hast borne him, hence, tell me where thou hast laid him, and I will take him away. Jesus said unto her, Mary. She turned herself and said unto him, Raboni, which is to say, Master. Jesus saith unto her. Touch me not, for I am not yet ascended to my father, but go to my brethren and say unto them, I ascend unto my father and your father, and to my God and your God. Mary Magdalene came and told the disciples that she had seen the Lord, and that he had spoken these things unto her. Then the same day at evening, being the first day of the week, When the doors were shut, where the disciples were assembled, for fear of the Jews came Jesus, stood in the midst, and saith unto them, Peace be unto you. And when they had so said, he showed unto them his hands and his side. Then were the disciples glad when they saw the Lord. Then said Jesus unto them, again, Peace be unto you, as my Father has sent me, even so I send you. And when he had said this, he breathed on them, and saith unto them, Receive ye the Holy Ghost. Whosoever sins ye remit, they are remitted unto them. And whosoever sins ye retain, they are retained. But Thomas, one of the twelve called Didymus, was not with them when Jesus came. The other disciples therefore said unto him, We have seen the Lord, but he said unto them, Except I shall see in his hands the print of the nails, and put my finger into the print of the nails, and thrust my hand into his side. I will not believe. And after eight days again his disciples were within, and Thomas was with them. Then came Jesus, the doors being shut. And stood in the midst and said, Peace be unto you. Then saith he to Thomas, Reach hither thy finger, and behold my hands, and reach hither thy hand, and thrust it into my side, and be not faithless, but believing And Thomas answered and said unto him, My Lord and my God. Jesus said unto him, Thomas, because thou hast seen me, thou hast believed. Blessed are they that have not seen, and yet have believed And many other signs truly did Jesus in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book. But these are written that ye might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. And that believing he might have life through his name. Continue worshiping together by singing the resurrection hymn. Resurrection hymn, let's stand together as we sing. See what a morning, gloriously bright with the dawning of hope. In Jerusalem, all to the grave closed tomb, filled with light, as the angels announce Christ is risen. He got salvation and plan, brought in love, born in pain, paid in sacrifice, fulfilled in Christ's amen. For he then Christ is risen from the dead. See, Mary weakly, where is he laid? As in sorrow, she turned from the air. Here's a voice speaking, calling her name. It's a master, the Lord praise to life again. That spends a year speaking like the bringing peace to us will sound in his voice. Christ is risen from the dead, one with the Father, angels through the spirit who goes late with her. Honor emblesty, glory, and break to the key, crowned with power and authority. And we Death is then love has won, Christ has conquered, and we shall reign with him for him. You may be seen. Now we'll sing number two uh three twenty-seven. Three twenty-seven key bands. I serve a reason Saviour is in the world. Today I know that he is living whatever man may say. I see his hand of mercy, I hear his voice of tear, and just the time I need to be. Him, he always near. He there, he there. Christ Jesus lives today. He walks with me and talks with me all my narrow way. E live, he lit salvation moving on. You ask me how I know he lives, he lives with him. In all the world around me I see his loving care, and though my heart grows weary, I never will despair. I know that he is leading through all the stormy blast, and then his appearing will calm at last. He lives, he lives. Christ Jesus lives today. He walks with me and talks with me on one life narrow way. He lives, he lives, salvation to him. You and me how I know he live, he lives with my home. Joy three voice, O Christian, lift up your voice and sing Eternal Hallelujah to Jesus Christ the King, the hope of all who seek him. The help of all who find, none other is so longy, so good and fine. Even Christ he must live today. He walks with me and talks with me along my narrow way. He lives, he lives. Salvation will in all you and me. Now I know he live, he live with me my He is risen. Amen. Very good. So I want to just welcome you all to our service today for happy Easter to everybody. Happy Resurrection Sunday. And uh it's been a good day already. Uh had a good uh sunrise service out outside. The weather was nice and the preaching was good. Um I better explain that I wasn't the preacher, so uh uh any anyway, that might sound a little funny if I was anyway. It was uh Perry did a great job, so I really appreciate and and just learned a lot, that's the main thing. Very biblical and that's the point And um I want to just warmly welcome you, th those of you who are guests with us today. Just uh we're thrilled that you chose uh here to uh celebrate Easter with us. If you would just do us a favor and and fill out a visitor's card, um you should should have received the packet as you came in. Uh if you still uh find the card in there and fill that out, that would be great. And um uh and if um And just drop that in the offering plate. That could be your your offering for us. That would be great if you could just do that. And I need to just remind us that there is no service tonight or anything at all. So you can spend time with your family. And I did want to go ahead and mention as well, this is for our you know really for our regular attenders and and members, um we do have the Easter offering that will go to our new building fund today. So uh any any suggested offerings or designated offerings will go that direction basically. So if you if you label Easter offering, it will go that direction. And um we're just praying to see what the Lord does, right, in our church and seeing where he moves us in his time and his way. And it's kind of neat to see different possibilities of where he might uh move us into a different building. And uh we'll just wait on his timing, but we want to be prepared as much as we can. And so if the Lord leads you to give that way, that would be great And I think that's all the announcements. Gentlemen, if you come forward for the offering. And let's pray together. Lord, we thank you so much for who you are. When we think of the immense truth of the resurrection, it is it is The only words that are fitting are words from your word. The Bible. And we think of the fact that it demonstrates that you are victorious over sin and death. This grand plan that occurred, that was thought up by you before the foundation of the world that climaxed at the crucifixion. And continued in an exalted manner to the resurrection, pointing forth to the ascension. And we look forward to the day that Christ returns to us and comes again for us so that we can experience a similar resurrection to Christ. We will one day, if we know you as our Lord and Savior, we will rise from the grave. Lord, that is our hope Not a hope as in we we think it might happen or we're guessing it might happen, but a confident expectation and anticipation of your return for us. And we know you have the power to do it because Of the resurrection. Father, we look at this world, we look at the fallenness of this world and the problems and the struggles and the difficulties of this world, and we would have no hope. If it were not for the fact that Christ came a man, became a man, lived a perfect life. died to pay the punishment for our sins, and rose from the grave victorious over sin and death. And that is our hope. And anytime we are discouraged or struggling or or having difficulty, we can look to the resurrection of Christ. And we can have that firm foundation, that that that foundation that is built not on sinking sand, but on the rock of Christ. And I pray today, Lord, that you would just help us to glory in the resurrection of Christ. And I pray that as we worship you today, that you would help us. to worship you in a way that pleases you. And Father, as we look at your word this morning in the book of John in a little while, we'll see from that book the kind of belief that is necessary to be rightly related to you And Father, I would pray that everyone in this room, by the end of that message, would understand what it truly means to place their trust in Christ alone. For their eternal destiny and for their relationship with you. And so I pray, Lord, that you would just be working in our midst this morning as only you can do. And Father, as we take up the offering, I pray, Lord, that it would be, and we give of our offerings, I pray that all of those offerings would go for the furtherance of your kingdom. In this area and this community and around the world, and we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. And they are not. They will never rewind. So Mary and tune in the wall, but the stone and roll away. So she hurried to tell by his book, I was made in from where she lay all with no more. Oh rejoined for the Their tears of life reign in the voice, sweetly golden. When she said for she knew with a Jesus is a life of the ball. No more in call in her women of the day. He almost only toys for he tried to God of the splendor and your things will be washed away. All the power of death will be broken. O rejoice for the rain over Oh me connaissances He promised through his always for his today. For our final song before the message, we will sing number 323. 323, Christ the Lord is risen today. Let's stand together as we sing. This time junior uh children can be dismissed to junior church. Christ the Lord is risen today, sons of men and angels say. Praise your joys and try on high Allemuyum sing ye has an word reply. Allemu lives on. Again our glorious king, where oh death is now thy single Dying once he all the things Alluyam wear thy victory o'er those. Love's redeeming work is done all. For the fight of bad homes, death in fingers. Alleluia For we know where Christ has led hallelujah, following our exalted heads. All they who made like him, like him we rise Are the cross every sky? You may be seated. Take your Bibles if you would turn to the book of John this morning, John chapter twenty. Driven around Baltimore City and seen the signs that just say one word. They say the word believe. You ever s how many of you have have have seen those somewhere on Baltimore? Okay, quite a few of you. And uh I I've driven them many times and I've just passed and all it says is one word, believe. And um I decided to do a little research on that word on on what why that came about all those signs around Baltimore City saying believe. Well, research. Sounds like I went to the Library of Congress or something. I just Googled it. Okay. But anyway. Um and and so I went in and I um So I w what I discovered was is that apparently 15 years ago Martin O'Malley uh anyway Martin O'Malley uh he started what's called the Believe Campaign And it was an effort to stop crime and drugs in Baltimore. Now I have two questions. The first one is, how'd that work out for 'em? Okay. Obviously I don't think it stopped crime or drugs in Baltimore City. It seems to be, I would suggest, on the r I think it's not even a suggestion. I think we all kind of know it's on the rise. I have another question. Believe what? I mean, really, believe what? I was looking and trying to find in this whole believe campaign, what were they believing in? What was what are they believing on? Who are they believing in? And I finally found an article Where it it in like the very last column I I actually had to watch a video, which was depressing actually, and at the end of the video it finally said, believe in yourself. That is the only thing I could find in this whole campaign and in in my you know my uh five minutes of research to to try to find or maybe ten minutes to try to find out what what this was You know, there's a lot of people that say they believe, but they don't really know what they believe in. They're not clear on what believe really means. And they don't really have a, they don't, there's not really a good object in belief. You ever heard the phrase, keep the faith? You ever heard that? We just you know what we all need to do? We just need to keep the faith. Your sports team goes goes wrong, everything goes wrong on your sports team, and you say, you know what, we just need to keep the faith. Well, what does that mean? Keep the faith? Believe? I mean, doesn't it matter what we believe, like what we believe? And doesn't it matter I mean doesn't it matter belief, doesn't it matter what it means to believe? Isn't it not enough just to say I believe without knowing the object of your belief? And not really even knowing what believe is. If you talk to the average person in our country and they said is belief a good thing or a bad thing, they would say a good thing. But if you talk to the average person in our country and ask them, do you know what the Bible says about belief? It's very unlikely they would know. Believing in belief, like having faith in faith, is kind of like getting in the car and driving and not knowing where you're going. Like literally not having a destination, not punching anything in your your phone or the GPS, not knowing where and just driving. And imagine you're on this trip, you're starting in the east and you're going west and you just keep driving west. Somebody calls you and says, hey, where are you going? You're like, I'm just driving. Why are you driving? Because I like to drive. Where are you going? I don't know where I'm going. I'm just driving. Okay, you don't know where you're going? No, I'm just driving. You know, after a couple of days on the road, people your friends are calling you and they're I'm just driving. Hey, on my drive, I'm seeing great things. I'm seeing I'm seeing um Mount Rushmore, I'm seeing the the Rocky Mountains, I'm seeing uh uh Yellowstone and all these different things. I'm seeing all kinds of things on this great drive. It's a great drive. I'm driving. Where are you going? Well, I don't know where I'm go uh going. I'm just driving. Now if you keep if somebody keeps doing that, if you keep doing that, you're just driving And you just keep going and you pop past Mount Ru Rushmore, then you go past the Rocky Mountains, then you're going to the uh you know, whatever's next, you go to California. What eventually will you do? You'll hit the Pacific Ocean, you'll sink, you'll just gotta go into the sea. There's gotta be something more than just Belief. You know, there's a lot of people in the world that say they believe in something. I believe, but they don't know why they believe. They don't know what they believe in. And they you ask them why do you believe? And they'll say. Well, uh uh uh I I believe, and you know what, as I believe, um I've seen this happen in my life. Or I've seen that happen in my life. This great thing, you know I believe, you know I believe? What do you believe in? Well, I I just believe and and this thing has happened in my life because I believe. The problem is they don't there are many people in this world that don't understand what belief is and what you should believe in. John, in his Gospel of John, has written so that people can really know how to believe. You'll see that in this passage in chapter 20, verse 31. You're going to see it here. It says, but these things are written that ye might what believe. In fact, the the previous verse says there's all kinds of things. That Christ did when he was on earth. And books can't contain all of the different miracles and signs and things that Christ did. But John wrote specific things so that people would know what true belief is. And how to believe correctly. Verse 31, these things are written that ye might believe that what? Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing ye might have life. That is not just eternal life, though, not just forever life, it's internal life. There is what it is. It's not just forever life, it's quality of life. We're talking about spiritual life, that ye might have life through his what? Through his name. John is written so that we can understand what to believe in and what kind of belief is really necessary in order to have a right relationship with God. And you know it's interesting that in full in John chapter 2, in the beginning of this passage, in this in this book, Jesus is talking with, he's actually just turned over the money changers in the temple, and uh he has he has done some miracles. And it says in John chapter 2, verse 23, it says, and when he was in Jerusalem at the Passover and the feast day, many believed in his name when they saw the miracles which he did. But then it says this, but Jesus did not commit himself unto them because he knew all men. And needing and needed not that any should testify of man, for he knew what was in man. You know, there is actually in that verse it tells us there is a kind of belief That is actually an unacceptable belief. Jesus was doing some miracles People saw the miracles that he was doing and they said, well, you know, I like these miracles, and we see he could do these miracles. I'm going to believe on him because maybe he'll do some more miracles for me. And Jesus says, they believe, but I did not accept, Jesus didn't accept their belief. There is a kind of belief That is that anybody could just sort of have, and there's a kind of belief that the that God says we need. In John chapter 1, it says it this way in this book, but as many as received him. To them gave you the power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe in his name. There is this quality of belief that is necessary in order for somebody to truly come to Christ. And we're going to look and see what that is today. Because as we look at the resurrection, the resurrection is what finally produces this kind of belief in the disciples that we can see clearly the kind of belief that John wants us to see So that we can have that kind of belief in our lives. Let's first go to the Lord in prayer. Father, as we come to you this morning, I pray that you would help us to understand what you say is necessary for true belief in Christ. We know from the Old Testament that Abraham believed you and it was accounted to him for righteousness. We know in the New Testament that we can look back and we can trust Christ and what He did. But Father, I pray today that you would help us to understand more clearly. the kind of belief that is necessary in order for us to truly have a relationship with you according to your word. And I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. I'd like you to take your Bibles and turn just a page over to John chapter 19 for a moment. And I want you to, we're going to pick up looking at the just a little part of the crucifixion story here Because John says something in this passage to get us started on this journey as we really consider what true belief is, according to the Bible. We see here in verse 31 what it says. In in chap chapter 19. And the Jews therefore had received the vinegar, and he said, It is finished. And he bowed his head and gave up the ghost. When Christ said that, he said, It's done. The payment has been made, the ransom has been paid. Those who will accept Christ as their Savior, that all have sinned, they've come short of God's glory. If they'll trust Christ as their Savior, they could be saved. Christ did the work on the cross. You can't do it for yourself. Christ did it here. But then we see here this in verse 31, the Jews therefore, because it was the preparation that the body should not remain upon the cross on the Sabbath, for that the Sabbath day was on the high high day. besought Pilate that they that their legs might be broken, and that they might be taken away. Then came the soldiers and broke the legs of the first, and the other which was the crut was crucified with him So what happened here was that they were going to experience the Sabbath, the Passover, and they needed to break these legs before uh they needed to make sure that these people were killed before the f the the the Passover. In Deuteronomy 21, verses 22 and 23, it says that that uh when the Jews executed somebody, it could not they could not stay overnight. And uh and so they were they are neat they were needing to do this. The way the Romans did it back then was a very cruel way of doing it. They would usually take a metal an iron mallet and they would uh they would take the iron mallet and they would break the legs. of the uh of the of the people that were on the cross uh when they did this kind of execution and they would tear the legs off and then they would they would immediately immediately lose lose all their fluids and they would die that way But what's interesting is that in this case, that didn't happen because Christ was already dead. Christ chose to die. Even to his very last breath, he chose it. Which is incredible, is it not? And he determined when the Bible says he gave up the ghost. And what we find in this passage is that Scripture needed to be fulfilled, and it says in Psalm 34. 20, for example, that he kept all of his bones. There wasn't any that were broken. So, in order to fulfill the Old Testament prophecies, notice what happened here, verse 33. But when they came to Jesus and saw that he was dead already, they break not his legs. Verse thirty-four. And one of the soldiers with a spear pierced his side, and forthwith came there out of blood and water. And he saw it bare and he saw He that saw it bear record, and his record is true, and he knoweth that he saith true, that he might believe that these things were done, that the scripture should be fulfilled, a bone of him shall not be broken And again, another scripture saith, they shall look on him whom they pierce. So John, why does John include this story as part of his return? It's for this reason. He wanted his readers to understand that this actually happened. There were various theories by the time John got on the scene and began to write, pen down these words. There are various theories. about what happened at the crucifixion. Some people believe that that Christ that Jesus never actually died. There was this that it was this some sort of spiritual thing that happened rather than an actual physical thing that happened. Others suggested that Christ never actually rose bodily from the grave. And John is going to make a very clear point for us to understand that these things actually happened. And that brings us to our first point, that true belief is is trust in the actual death and resurrection of Christ. True belief, trust in the actual death and resurrection of Christ. You know, there's a lot of people in this world That would like to suggest to us that our belief in the actual death and resurrection of Christ is somehow a belief that is not reasonable. There are some that want to keep it in sort of a religious category. They sort of say, you know, in my mind I'm good I'm good in that little religious category. When I come to church, okay, I'll keep this over here and my rest of my life is over here. And if you ask them at church, do you believe in the resurrection? Well, amen, I believe in the resurrection. But when you act, when you go out into the world, it's kind of like, well, no, it actually really didn't practically happen. It's just a spiritual, religious thing. They sort of separate the idea of a real bodily resurrection and death and resurrection from something that is religious. Folks, when that happens, that is what's called empty religion. What the gospel writers did in these really specific details was to demonstrate that this actually happened. This is not written figuratively. It's not fanciful literature. This is something that actually happened. And if somebody's going to really have a relationship with God, they're going to have to believe. that the death of Christ and the resurrection of Christ actually happened. He did rise from the grave bodily. There is no other way around it. The Bible tells us that if we do not believe in the resurrection, our faith is in vain. We are yet in our sin. Actually says that the resurrection doesn't happen, that's the case. But folks, if we don't believe in the resurrection, we we really don't know the Lord. There isn't any question about that in the Bible. So we have seen that John's intention in this book is to really demonstrate what belief is, what saving faith is, that belief that will allow me to have a relationship with God. And so that brings us to John chapter 20, where we see the resurrection beginning to take place here. And we see this lady, Mary Magdalene, that he sort of focuses in on. Verse 1 of chapter 20. The first day of the week cometh Mary Magdalene early, when it was yet dark under the sepulchre, and seeth a stone taken away from the sepulchre. Then she runneth and cometh to Simon Peter and to the other disciple, that's John, whom Jesus loved And saith unto them, They have taken away the Lord out of the sepulchre, we know not where they have laid him Now, I want you to notice what happens in this text. So Mary m uh Mary Magdalene apparently goes to the tomb. She gets there before everybody else does. She she realizes that Christ is not there. She makes some assumptions that that she doesn't assume that He comes he rises rises from the grave. She runs back and she tells two apostles, Peter and John. Verse 3 says, Peter therefore went forth and the other disciple and came to the sepulchre. So they are going to go forth and go to the grave. And they're going to see this what's going on here. It says, so they ran before together, and the other disciple did outrun Peter. So John outran Peter, verse 4, and came for the uh came first to the sepulchre. And he stooped down and looked in, saw the linen clothes lying, yet went he not in And so so John looks into this tomb, sees all the linen clothes that are nice, neatly folded there. and doesn't go in. Now the reason that John mentions this is to under is to help us to understand that this was an intentional thing. This was something that Christ did. It was something It wasn't uh nobody stole the body, nobody hurriedly got out of there. This was this was all planned out, and the linen clothes explain it just help us understand that And a napkin that was about his head, not lying with the linen clothes, but wrapped together in a place by itself. These are details that demonstrate that this has really happened. This is not figurative. Then went in also the other disciple, which came first in the sepulchre, and he saw. And what did John do in verse 8? He believed. It says here, he believed, for as yet they knew not the scripture that he must rise again from the dead. And when it says they knew not, they didn't understand it, Christ actually quoted Scripture to them. But they were not grasping it even at this point But John is the first one to actually believe in the resurrection of Christ, and we see that here. But this is a very simple belief. See, true belief begins in simple belief. Not complex theories on what may have happened. True belief begins in simple belief. John saw what was there, he saw what was in front of him. And he made the simple conclusion Christ must have risen from the grave. He didn't even understand everything at that point. It says he didn't understand the scriptures that that were prophesying the resurrection It wasn't like he had a full grasp of everything. He just simply said, I see what I see, and the best conclusion I can come to is that Christ rose from the grave. Now later on, we're going to see him see along with the other disciples, we're going to see that they they have clear, deep faith based upon their s their their understanding of the Word of God. But it but true belief often begins with just a simple belief. Now let me let me put it this way. When you get into the Bible, there are a lot of things that are hard to understand. In fact, there are some things that are hard to under to sort of cause there to be consistent with the world. It's like you see what's in the Bible and you sort of say it doesn't really jive with the world. It's interesting that once you study the Bible a lot and you begin to observe the world, actually it jives really well. But sometimes that's hard to understand how this all kind of works together. But there is a simple way that Romans chapter 1 tells us that God is placed within our hearts The ability to have sort of the simple belief that moves into more understanding over time. He said, in fact, in Romans 1, that no one is without excuse. And the reason that no one is without excuse is because is because they are able to see creation. And you could see creation, and you could see that there's a creator, right? That's not a hard leap, right? Somebody had to make it. You say, well, if one creation came from another creation, came from another creation. Maybe, but somebody had to start the whole thing, right? So creation came from someone, and the Bible says that the creation of the world speaks to the fact there is a creator. That's your first just believe that. It's a simple thing. You see a building, there's a builder. You see creation, you've got to have a creator. The second thing that you would see by looking at the beauty and the glory of creation, the Bible says the heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament showeth his handiwork The second thing that you could just simply see is that this creator is a detailed creator. He is an awesome creator. He is way bigger than I am. And there are these constant provisions in life that he has made. Means he's a loving creator. And if you just realize that, you can begin to understand that maybe, if not definitely, and definitely we know this to be true, That this creator desired to communicate with his people, with the human race that he created, and we have the word of God that That tells us that God is the one who wants to communicate us through his word. These are simple things That then once we believe that this is the communication of God to us, we could study it, and then we could have saving faith. Faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of God, Romans says. So it starts off with simple belief. There's a creator because there's a creation. This creator wanted to communicate with me. The Bible is the communication of God, and then we look at it look to the Bible for what God says about Himself to be able to relate to Him So true belief begins in simple belief instead of complex excuses. Number three, true belief is more than emotional fondness. True belief is more than emotional fondness. And we won't take the time to look at this, but if but you'll notice in 11 through 28, you have Mary Magdalene is weeping over the fact that she doesn't see but she she can she doesn't know where Christ is. And she actually even sees angels there, but that doesn't clue her in because she's so emotionally distraught that she can't understand what's going on and she doesn't believe doesn't know what's happening and Jesus actually appears to her and for some reason she doesn't understand that this is Jesus that's appearing to her. Maybe he was he appeared to behind her or something. And he asks two questions. He says, Why are you weeping and who are you seeking? And the two questions he's actually asking is because he wants to engage the mind He wants her to gauge her mind. Well, she's so distraught that he just finally says in verse 16, Mary. Once he said her name, he revealed himself to her, then she was able to go on and tell the other disciples. But I want to hasten then and move on to number to the to the next point here, and that is That true belief results in inner peace and joy amid external conflict. Now, we pick here up in verse 19 of this passage, and we find In verse 19, that the disciples are in hiding. They're behind locked doors because they are concerned that now that their leader, Jesus, has been crucified, that and they don't understand the right that he's ri risen from the grave yet, they they are concerned the Romans are going to come after them And so they are at this point sort of under persecution, under duress. They are concerned about things. There is great fear in their hearts. And so they're behind locked doors and they're all together. And they're praying. Thomas, one of the disciples, is not with them. The rest of them outside of Judaism, of course, and Thomas are there in this place Now, in the midst of this, Christ appears to them. He comes to them, and the first thing he says to them is that they is that peace He says, peace be with you. We find that in chapter in verse 19. He says, peace be with you. Now this is a very, very important point. Jesus had told them before he went and died, he said to them, My peace I give unto you, not as the world give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither be let it be afraid. Did you know that Jesus came to bring peace? He died and rose from the grave so that you and I could have peace with God. That's why Romans 5. 1 says, therefore, being justified by faith We have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. The Bible tells us that mankind, humanity, is at enmity with God. It's born enemies with God. But Jesus Christ came to bring peace to the world so that we could have inner peace, not outer peace. Outer peace is not something that God promises. God does not say that when you when you come to him, you'll have stop having problems and stop having conflicts. That's not true. What God promises is inner peace. And he says here, peace I give unto you. And then I want you to notice how the disciples respond in this passage. They are going to respond here with great gladness. great joy and great gladness. And this is an example of what of what occurred in John chapter 16, verse 20. It says in John chapter 16 verse 20, Christ, this is before he died, he told them they would have this gladness. And it says in that passage, most assuredly I say unto you, That you will weep and lament, but the world will rejoice and you will be sorrowful. The world was rejoicing when Christ went to. They crucified him. But your sorrow will turn be turned to joy. Then it uses this illustration. A woman, when she is in labor, has sorrow because her how her hour has come, but as soon as she has given birth to the child, she no longer remembers the anguish. But joy that a human being has been born into the world. Therefore you now have sorrow, but I will see at you again, and your heart will rejoice, and your joy no one will take from you. He uses this illustration of someone that's going through labor. Now, there's probably half of us in this room that have no idea what that's like. And I want to say up front I don't know what that's like. And I would not claim to know what that's like. But there are other another half some of you ladies in this room that have don't do know what that's like But is it not true that and I say this only because the Bible says it, so don't shoot me on this. Um is it not true that the joy from the new little one causes you is so much greater in comparison to the labor that you you had to go through. or to the struggle or difficulties that you had to go through. It's like it's like there it's so much it's so much higher, it's so much greater Almost to the point not that you because women don't forget. I know they don't forget. But but uh but but certainly the point where they would say it's worth it. Is that not right, ladies Well thank you. I'm glad you said yes. I was really going to be concerned about that. Anyway. And you know it's the same way. These disciples, they experienced joy and gladness. When the resurrection happened. And you and I, you know, there's one thing I'll tell you that happens in life. The world thinks that if they'll believe in Jesus, all their problems will go away. Or they'll be they'll have external prosperity. God never promises that for his children. What God promises for his children is inner peace and joy and gladness in spite of all the problems in this world and all the difficulties that you and I go through. It's in spite of it He doesn't fix your outside, he fixes your inside. And that's what he promises to do, so that you can go through anything, anything. And have joy and gladness and peace in your life. That's the kind of relationship that you can have with God. When you have that kind of relationship with God, that's the result of the relationship. And we see that in the lives of these disciples. Now we finally get to this man, Thomas, in verses 26 through 29. This man We sometimes call him doubting Thomas, but the truth of the matter is his problem was not that he was doubting. All of us have doubts from time to time. The problem was that he was in unbelief. Now we find a little insight into Thomas and what his difficulties are. We find in John chapter 11, verse 16. Jesus has announced that one of his good friends, Lazarus, has died and that they need to go. And this is how Thomas responds to that situation. He says Let us go also go that we may die with him. Now, Thomas was a brave man. He probably assumed that the reason that Lazarus died was because of persecution from somewhere. But he was willing to go and he was willing to give his life for the cause of Christ in this passage. But there's something else that we see here in that is that Thomas must have been probably a bit of a pessimist. He pro he he he he was the kind of guy that's always looks like worst case scenario. Um Yeah you ever know anybody like that? Um my dad's almost raising his hand over here. He so so uh I like to watch Orioles games from time to time and Ravens games and that kind of thing. How many of y'all like to rock and watch Orioles games sometimes? Okay, I've got a few. We have a very diverse church here. There's all kinds of you you guys are everywhere. Some of you are Mets fans and somehow, and some of you are anyway. So so Um so I like to watch Orioles every once in a while. Every once in a while my dad will come in and he'll watch like I don't know two minutes, maybe three. And he'll say, the guy, you know, the pitcher, uh Orioles pitcher will walk a guy. Like, ah they're gonna leave. I mean this happens I I'm like what? And uh I go why he say that the uh he just walked the gu actually that was a strategic move. He walked him on purpose trying to explain why he did that. Um and he'll walk in. So this happened like three or four times where I'm watching the game. He comes in and he says the Orioles are gonna lose. I finally said, why are you doing that? And I finally figured out he's a very smart man. Not that the overalls were going to lose because they've actually been doing pretty well overall, although anyway, they're o overalls are still doing well. The reason was because he likes to create win win scenarios. Now get this. This is my dad. I got into his head a little bit. He said on one hand, it it's a win win scenario because if they win, well they win. If they lose, he can say they lost that I knew they were going to lose, and it's still a win for him. Okay? It's a win-win scenario. Alright, see I figured this out. This is this is Thomas. Dad meet Thomas. Thomas meet okay, alright. I'm not I get front. He comes in and not they're gonna lose they're not gonna lose. Anyway. Uh so Thomas was a bit of a pessimist And when and when the disciples all tell Thomas about what happened, Thomas doesn't believe them. Thomas is probably a a a little skeptical, and pro Thomas doesn't like the idea of being disappointed. or or or or duped or whatever. You know there's a lot of people in this world that are like that? They're they they it's like they're s they don't want to believe because, you know, what if I get You know, what if I get deceived? I don't want to believe because I don't want to be deceived. You ever felt that way about anything? I'm a little skeptical about that. I'm not, you know, I'm not just this gullible guy that's going to believe anything. You know the problem is? The Bible says we're born deceived. That's the problem. We're born deceived. You think you're escaping deceiving by not believing this? No, actually, you are deceived. And if you believe this, you will then be No longer deceived, you'll see the truth. Christ said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. And no man comes to the Father but by this. I want you to see how John how Thomas does this Christ comes to them and he says, look, stop being unbelieving and believe. You gotta believe, Thomas. Look, put your hand in my side. Put your See who I am. And Thomas says this. He says, in humble submission to God, as a firm, affirmative belief, he says My Lord and my God, verse 28. My Lord and my God. Did you know that God used Timus, uh Thomas? As a climax for the whole book, he says, My Lord and my God. And friend, that's the point. True belief results. Our true belief is for us to know as to and to affirm that He is our Lord and our God. Tony, can you go to the next slide? Okay. That he s and we submit to the Lordship of Jesus Christ. That's true belief. It's not just it is not just a matter of my saying, okay, I want to escape heaven, escape hell and go to heaven. And so I gotta get my like fire insurance and then then you know if I just pray this prayer and I get my fire insurance, you know, I know I'll be going to heaven. I've got my bases covered, and I go live like I want. That is not what we find here. Thomas says, My Lord and my God. Lord is master. He is submitting himself wholly. It's like a dog who lays on his back and says Whatever. Do what you want to with me. Okay? My Lord and my God. Can I ask you a question? We go through these different kinds of belief. Do you have that kind of belief? Do you really have the kind of belief that we find in this passage that John is speaking to? See, this is what's necessary. And John chapter uh He that believeth on the Son hath life, and he that believeth not the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth on him. You see, it's not a matter of, okay, well, I have a partial belief here. I, you know, I kind of believe, but I don't really believe the way this does. I I'm probably okay. No, there's two choices. You either believe or you don't believe You either trust or you don't. You either depend or you don't. And your belief is in the person of Christ, that he's perfect and he's God and He died for you. And the belief has to get to the point where I am submitting my will to his. That is true belief. And if you don't have that belief, you don't have saving belief. The Bible tells us that He wants God says very clearly He is not willing that any should perish. But that all should come to repentance. It's his desire for everyone to have this kind of belief. He wants you to have this. But it there is an element of choice here for you. You must choose to believe the way God says to believe. You have to admit, first of all, that you're a sinner. You've got to believe that Jesus Christ died to take your sin away, and you have to choose Him as your Savior. And if you do that Not relying on your own good works or your own good person or anything like that. If you do that, the Bible says, But as many as received him, to them gave you the power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe. on his name. And what I'd like you to do is just say that I'd just like to mention this in closing. If you have not truly believed In this way. And you are unsure whether you really have a relationship with God Whether you really have submitted your life to the Lordship of Christ. Would let me just encourage you this. On the way out, would you grab my hand and say, Hey, can we can we talk? Or maybe there's somebody else here that you're comfortable with, you've seen their life, you know that they they love the Lord, and you want to talk with them. That's great too. But look, don't there is no reason for you to go out of here Not knowing how you can know for sure that you have eternity, that you're going to spend eternity with God, and you have a relationship with Him. The Bible says these things are written that ye may know that ye have eternal life, that believe on the name of the Son of God. God wants you to be able to come to Him and have that right relationship with Him by believing in Him, the way this passage explains it to us. Let's pray together. Father, I pray, Lord, that if there is anybody here that does not maybe they have They have some sort of background and belief, but they did not they don't have this kind of belief, not biblical clear belief. I pray, Lord, that today would be a day that you would open their eyes, help them to see from your word that you want them, that want to have, and you love them, and you want to have a relationship with them. And Father, I pray, Lord, that today would be a day that they would place their full trust in you, that they would submit themselves to you. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.