Everyone. So we will be in Isaiah chapter forty four. But before we go there Since Pastor Ganaum read Isaiah 44, let's turn to 1 John 5 and let's read this little nugget of a verse at the end of John's first epistle. So 1 John, John chapter number five. We'll read this and then we'll pray. 1 John chapter 5. So the title is The Absurdity of Idolatry. And kind of as a subtitle, Why Evangelism Matters. So the absurdity of idolatry and why evangelism matters. And the reason we go to 1 John 5, as you can see here, is what John writes at the end of his epistle. Little children, keep yourselves from idols. Amen. Father, we are grateful for the time to be in your word. We're thankful that you have inspired it. Lord, we know that it is your word. And Lord, we ask that you would do what you can And Lord, we pray these things in the name of Christ. Amen. So John says to the church, to the people that he's writing to, little children, keep yourselves from idols. So apparently there is some danger, even for believers. To be drawn back into idolatry. And what we have in Isaiah 44 is God speaking through the prophet Isaiah and explaining to them. Worshiping a idol is foolishness. He he almost he without wanting to be too vulgar, he he seems to say that it's stupid to worship a physical idol. He says that it's it's not what smart people do, it's not what intelligent people do. God goes out of his way in this text to say, look It's foolish for you as a nation, as a people called out by God to be a light to the world. It's foolish for you, Jews, as you remain in Babylon. It's foolish of you to worship idols So Israel calls, or Israel's Redeemer calls his people to be witnesses for him against the absurdity of idolatry. So when I immediately when I go to the Old Testament, I always feel this little bit of extra pressure because we know contextually that it was written to Israel. And yet we have this great truth found in 2 Timothy 3. 16. where Paul says all scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, for approval, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. that the man of God may be perfectly furnished into all good works, thoroughly furnished into all good works. So we understand that this text is inspired by God. And we understand that this text is profitable for us today. And we understand that originally it was written to a nation of people who had just been captured, Judah, the southern kingdom. had just been captured and was now being ruled effectively by Babylon. And many of them have been removed from their homeland of Israel, of Judah, and moved to Babylon. And that's the the context that they're living in. And so that's where they're at. They are in every way surrounded by idolatry. As a nation, they were always surrounded by idolatry. If you remember the Exodus, and you remember them coming out of the Exodus, you remember them wandering in the wilderness, and when you get to Deuteronomy, our I worked at Deuteronomy in our church on a Wednesday night Bible study, and one of the things, it's almost ad nauseum. When you work through Deuteronomy, it's God over and over and over and over again saying, get rid of the idols. Get rid of them. Remove the people from their land. Don't let them stay there. Don't let the idolatry stay. Get rid of the idolatry. Crush it completely. Wipe it all the way out. Don't give it it any credence at all. It has no place among you. Because God knew that the temptation would be to worship those idols. And God had called his people. The great truth in the book of Deuteronomy is God calls his people to be people who are separate and different. and holy and righteous and a light to the world, distinct among the nations around them. And so God is calling his people to be distinct. As they live in Babylon. He's calling them to be different. And God is calling us to be different. But we're different not just so we can uh dress nice or uh have a certain level of pride and and kind of puff up our chest and say, look how holy we are. The point of our difference is so that we can be witnesses for the glory of God in the world that we are around. And uh Candace and I were going to Thailand, as you know, and and we get to Thailand, while in America we don't have physical idols in the sense that most of the people that we know aren't bowing down and worshiping idols or burning incense at the foot of a uh uh an iron statue, but there is idolatry all around us, and in Thailand the idols are really physical idols. It's not something that they see on television, although it is. It's this literal physical thing. Our idol might be might be something that's in uh television or or whatever, but in in Thailand it's a real physical idol. And as I was As we were getting ready to go on deputation, I came across this passage. And I was really stunned at how to the great lengths which God goes to say, idolatry is absurd. It's stupid. And so our goals today as we work through this passage are to understand, first and foremost, that God, as we read already, God is sovereign. God is not struggling with what to do with Buddha or Muhammad or Hindu or Krishna. God is not struggling with that at all. He is in complete control in the in the situation. And he encourages his people, as we'll jump back to chapter 43 in a few minutes and see this, he encourages his people to trust in him Trust in his sovereignty, trust in who he is. And then the one of the reasons he wants us to see the absurdity of idolatry is we don't have to fear idolatry. We don't fear it. There's no reason for us to be afraid of it. We have a God who is all powerful, who is the beginning and the end. And then the other goal is for us it is for us to be burdened afresh again and and and to realize again that we need to care about idolatry. We need to be concerned about it in our own lives and we need to be concerned about it in the lives of the people that we are around every day, whether it's our neighbor, whether it's our co-workers. whether it's our own family, when we get together, if our family get togethers, whatever the case, one of the things that we hope to accomplish this morning is you will be burdened for idolat for idolatry and for idolaters. And that you will see again, and maybe for the first time, you will see yourself as an idolater In need of the magnificent grace of God. So let's begin working through Isaiah chapter 44, and we're going to start in verse number 6. As we said, and we won't reread it, but I we'll we'll work through it that way. But just to kind of give you a little context, again, Israel has been captured by Babylon. Their trust in foreign kings and their worship of idolatry previously has led them to this place. And despite their captivity, they're not to be worshiping idols. They're not supposed to be afraid of idols. God is writing through Isaiah to give them some measure of comfort. And here's the thing, the people of God are not always promised to be in the perfect, comfortable situation. That's what we want, but that's just not the way it is. If you are out in the world at all, you know that it's becoming increasingly more and more uncomfortable for Christians. In more and more ways, you are the oddball, the weirdo at the place that you work at. That's where we're at. Maybe you're blessed to be in an office with Christians. But for the most part, the the further it seems that we drift as a nation, the more people don't even identify, not only would they not even identify that Christ is Lord, Not only would they not understand redemption or repentance, but they don't even understand our moral values anymore. And so this passage gives us a great deal of comfort in recognizing that we can survive as a people and thrive in the middle of idolatry. So look at verse number six. In the first five verses of the chapter, God says to Israel, I'm going to pour out water on you. I'm going to The ground is going to be the the grass is going to grow again, I'm going to quench the thirsty. In verse number five, he's basically saying that there are going to be conversions. And then he says this thus saith the Lord, the King of Israel. Notice he says, the Lord, the King of Israel. He right away comes to them again and says, I am the King, Israel. You have a king. He's going to talk about Cyrus at the beginning of the next chapter. He says, You have a physical king, but I am the king. I am the one. I am the Lord. I am the sovereign. I am the one in charge. I am the one that brings kings up. Daniel 2, 21. I am the one that sets kings up and takes them down again. I'm the one that raises the king and and puts the kings down. I'm the one that puts leaders in place. I'm the one that's in charge of this. So Israel, as he reminds Isaiah in chapter number six is with the passage that we know so well. God is king still in Israel. He is still their Lord. He is still their master. God is still on his throne. And it becomes so trite for us when we hear us to say that when when we hear someone say that. But the truth of the matter is, is that gives us a great deal of confidence To minister and be effective believers in the world around us, knowing that our God is King. It gives me great confidence when I go to Thailand, as I said in Sunday school this morning. I don't have to be some super amazing person. I don't have to be perfect. I'm going to make mistakes. God is still king. We're going to be surrounded by idolaters. God is still king. You go to Christmas dinner or Easter dinner or you spend time with your unsafe father and guess what? God is still king. You work with idolatry to profane Saying the name of Christ every day, and you're fearful, but let's be rem be reminded that God is still king. He's still on the throne There's great comfort in that. He is the Lord, and he's telling Israel, you're in the midst of this pagan nation called Babylon, which name means the gates of the gods, and yet I am still the king. I'm the one who's in charge. It gives us comfort. It gives us hope. It gives us confidence. It allows us to boldly say that no matter what you do to me, You can ultimately not hurt me because I fear the one who can cast both body and soul into hell. And so God is the king in Israel. He's still in charge of them. But notice the next thing that he says. He says that he is still the Redeemer, the Lord of hosts. Thus saith the Lord the King of Israel, and his Redeemer, the Lord of hosts. He's saying, I'm still your God, the God that redeemed you, the God that brought you out of Egypt, the God that bought you back from slavery, I am your redeemer. Don't forget this morning that God bought you. Don't forget that God redeemed you. Don't forget that God saved you from a slavery of sin and slavery to Satan. and slavery to the day to the the to the devil. Don't forget that you've been bought back. Don't forget that you have a kinsman redeemer. Don't forget that you were a lowly gentile woman named Ruth Wandering in Moab, and had it not been for your somewhat depressed mother-in-law going back to Israel, you never would have met a kinsman redeemer to redeem you and save you. So it's the Redeemer. When we think about Redeemer, we think about the God who sees Abraham ready to plunge a knife into his son's neck, and you know what he does? He saves Isaac. He saves the people of Israel from Egypt. He redeemed them. He could have left them there. It would have been well within his right. To lead them there. He calls Abraham out of the Ur of the Chaldees. He redeems the people of Israel. He saves them and he redeems us through Christ. Because of what Christ has done for us, we have been redeemed. And he's Israel's redeemer He's bought them back. And and what we need to remember this morning is, just to remind us, is we were redeemed. We weren't always in the state. We weren't always Christians. You can't always be a Christian. We meet people at our church when I was on Sabbath at our church and we'd interview people. Sometimes you'd say, when did you become a Christian? And they would say, I was always a Christian. And we immediately say, No, you weren't always a Christian. At some point, you were redeemed. You were bought back. So God is the redeemer. He has saved them. He has bought them back. But not only is he is is he the Redeemer, he is the Lord of hosts. He's the Lord of the armies. He's in charge of it all. Now again, they were a recently conquered nation. They were recently conquered. And yet their God says, I am the Lord of the armies. I am in control of it all. He's stressing in this verse his sovereignty, his providential cares, his sovereign authority over all the world. And so he says, I am, now if you'll notice at the end of the verse, I am the first and the last, and beside me there is no God. So he says, there is no God. Besides me, there is no God. So go to your Greek mythology, there is no God. Go to Islam, there is no God. Go to Buddha, he's not a god. Go to Hindu and Krishna, he's not a god. Scientology, that's not a blip on the radar to God. There is no God beside him. He is the only one. And so he gives this to them and he uses this phrase as a way of saying, I was, not only was I before it all, notice what he says, I am the first. Not only am I before it all, but I'm above it all. I'm not down in the middle of it. You see, you remember Muhammad was down in the middle of it But not God. God was before it all. God is the creator and the sustainer of the universe. And so he says, I am the first and the last. It starts with me, and if you allow me to use this expression, and it ends with God. He's in control of it all. He says later in Isaiah that he declares the end from the beginning. Nothing escapes his notice. He's complete in complete control of our time and the days. And so the sovereignty of God, it causes us to have great confidence in the people who can stand up and say, all right, God's in control, so even if I open up my mouth and share the gospel with the idolater that I work with, I remember that I was once an idolatry who's been redeemed, and my God is sovereign, and he can take my stumbling Muddling, poor attempt at trying to communicate something, and he can still use that for his glory because he's sovereign. Now notice what he says in verse number seven. And who, as I shall call, and shall declare it, and set in order for me, since I appointed the ancient people, and the things that are coming and shall come, let them show unto them So basically what he says in verse number seven, he says, by the way, I set the boundaries, I declared the people groups, I put all that into play, but just for fun, he almost says, Who who can come up? Who can say anything? Who has a witness against me? It's almost as if he says, for just a second, the prosecution is going to rest, and let the defense have their go at it. But let's let's call in let's call in the other side of the argument and let's hear what they have to say. Let's hear what they are going to communicate When I say, when God is saying that there is no other God beside me, when I s when I'm saying that I am the first and the last and there is the last and there is no God beside me, now let's hear what let's hear what their answer is to that Let's see what they have. Let's see what they have to offer. Let's see what they have to put forth to the table. What do they have that's going to convince us that it's really, that really we should be putting our trust in these idols instead of the God who created everything. So he calls them, he s he wants them to come up and and explain to them why it is that they should be trusting And he wants to see, is there any validity in idolatry? Look at verse number eight. Fear ye not. Fear ye not, neither be afraid. He says it twice in two different ways. But again, what's the comfort there? It's don't be afraid. It's fear ye not And again, it's trite for us. We hear these sorts of things all the time, and yet the reminder is: don't be afraid. Look at your God. Remember God's re remember God's redeeming grace in your life. Remember all the times. Think about it just for a second. I have these these events in my life where I've Really mess things up, you know? And I pray and I say, God, can you do something with this terrible situation? And what does God do? Oftentimes for us, He does something with a terrible situation. And yet we're still afraid to take steps. We're still afraid to confront people. Listen, if there's anyone that's non-confrontational in the room, it's it's me. Like I don't like to confront people. It's very awkward for me To to confront people. I'm just being honest with you. It's not it's not my thing. You know, I I'm a little more timid when it comes to that. So these verses are for me because I need to be reminded that there's nothing that they can say or do to me. That God is not only ordained and allowing, but that God can't redeem for his own glory and for my good. And so he says, don't be afraid. And the contrast he's going to show us in just a few minutes is, here's why you really don't need to be afraid. God just gets real practical with him. Here's why you don't need to uh uh be afraid of the idolaters. Because the temptation, you remember King Hezekiah, right? King Hezekiah's temptation was to trust in the armies of the Assyrians. And God says, Don't trust in them, they have nothing to offer you. There's nothing to be afraid of. There's no reason why you need to cower down to them. And it's the same thing that Christ says in John 12. 15. He says he's riding in on the city, fear not. Behold, thy king cometh sitting on an ass's coat. Don't fear the king is here. That's what he's saying. In Acts 27, just as an illustration, God says to Paul, he says it to Paul. In Acts 24, of all his missionary journeys, and all that Paul has endured, everything that he has seen and heard, all the beatings that he's had, he still says to him, Paul, fear not Fear not. Thou must be brought before Caesar, and lo, God hath given thee all them that sail with thee. This is an illustration. He says it to the Apostle Paul, the greatest Christian who ever lived, and if he wrote Hebrews, and that's a debate for another day, and if he wrote Hebrews, he wrote more of the New Testament than anyone else And yet, God says to Paul, don't be afraid. I am going to bring you. Huh. It's not that he's going to bring us before his co-worker or before his unsaved father. I'm just going to bring you before Caesar. The Emperor of Rome, but hey Paul, don't be afraid. Why? Because God is sovereign. God is in control. We don't have to fear Then notice what he says. Have I not told thee from that time and have declared it that you are even my what? What does he say that Israel is? You are even my witnesses You are my witnesses. Don't be afraid. You're my witnesses. Now one of the great maybe paradoxes of Christianity. Is that God uses fallible human people to be his witnesses? And that's what he's calling Israel to be witnesses. When we read about Daniel living in Babylon, you know what Daniel is? He's a witness to the glory and power and might of God. When Daniel was rescued from a den of lions, Daniel is a witness to the glory and power of God. When Daniel faithfully and methodically every day prays and obeys God, Daniel is a witness. And we know that we are called to be witnesses. And what does a witness do? If we were in a court and we were to call someone up to come up here to be a witness, what would they do? They would speak, right? They would testify. They would say something. They would open their mouths and they would communicate truth. What we would hope in a court of law after they've put their hand on the Bible, what we would hope is they would communicate truth. And that's what he calls Israel here to be. They are his witnesses. He says, don't be afraid. Do not fear. I have told thee from that time and have declared it. You're even my witnesses. So what are we witnesses for? We are witnesses for the glory of God. We are witnesses that look when we get to Thailand, when we get to Thailand, We will be witnesses against idolatry. Because they're going to look at us. We're not going to have spirit houses. If you didn't hear that and it was in Sunday school. We're we're not gonna have spirit houses. We're not gonna have funny riding on our car where the monk came and blessed us. We're not gonna have elaborate eight-day funerals. We're not doing We're starkly different than they are. Why? Because our trust is in Jehovah, our trust is in God, our trust is in Christ. We've been redeemed. We're born again And we are going to be different. We're going to look different. We're going to smell different. We're going to talk different. We're going to eat different food. Everything about us is And we're going to do that not because we're trying to make them a democratic republic, not because we're trying to make them capitalist. We're doing it because We want their faith to be in our Christ, who redeemed us. And that's why we're doing it. And so notice go back to chapter 43 for just a second and look at verses 10 through 13. So I don't want you to see this phrase again, you are my witnesses. You are my witnesses, saith the Lord. and my servant whom I have chosen, that you may know and believe me and understand that I am He. Before me there was no God formed. Neither shall thou be after me. I, even I am the Lord, and besides me there is no Saviour. I have declared and have saved, and I have showed when there was no strange God among you, therefore you are my witnesses Saith the Lord, that I am God. You are right now in Glen Burney, Maryland, in the surrounding areas, in every place that you work, you are his witnesses that there is no Savior besides him. And God did not give you the job, the house, the car, the wife, the husband, the family, the relationship that you have for you to do nothing with it and sit on it. God gave you that to be a what? A witness. That's why you're there. And it could be painstakingly fearful to open our mouth and be a witness. And yet, people don't get saved unless someone speaks the word of God. And you again, you don't have to be amazing, you don't have to be awesome, you don't have to be a great communicator. You don't have to be a John Piper or a John McArthur. You don't have to be any of those sorts of things. You just have to share the Word of God with someone, and God can use your witness For him. And so these people they're supposed to testify against the absurdity of idolatry. Now notice what he says at the end of verse 8. Is there a God beside me? Yea, there is no God. I know not any. Now the phrase, the last time he uses God in verse number 8, it's translated 64 other times, 54 other times in the King James as rock. So he's saying, I'm the rock. I am God and I am the rock. I am the and it's not just rock, like when we think of rocks we have this really terrible idea of just like a little you know a rock that we we skip across a lake. But when that word is used rock, it's not talking about it's talking about a cliff, a mountain. It's talking about something that you can get inside of and hide and be safe. We get to drive through West Virginia a lot now, and not only is our uh IQ gone down a little bit, but we see these sorry, if you're from West Virginia, I apologize. So So we um we drive we we drive through West Virginia and we see these big massive rocks and all and and you you see these signs as you drive through Virginia and West Virginia and I know I think Maryland has some too. I haven't seen them in and in that side of the state. But all I all I don't ever want to see is I'm driving through there. I don't really want to see those signs that come true that say, Watch for falling rock. I really don't want to see that come true because that rock will crush us. Because it's big, it's huge, it's strong. Those mountains are stable. They're not going anywhere. I mean, you know, for for the most part, unless God were to do something with divine intervention, those mountains are staying there They're not going anywhere. You can get inside the cave and be safe. And that's what he's saying. I'm the rock. Run and hide inside of me and be safe. I'm sturdy, I'm stable, I'm a shelter. And it's a phrase that he uses over and over again in the Old Testament, especially in Deuteronomy and in the Psalms, to say, I am the place where you go and hide. I am the rock. So Ray Ortland, it says, it is to be our role is to be fearless witnesses, living proof that God alone is enough to satisfy thirsty people. And that satisfying thirsty people goes back to verse Verse number three. But what he's saying is: our role, the church's role, our role as the people of God, is to be witnesses that God alone is enough to satisfy. That's it. I think about it just for a second. Your job No pressure by the way your job is to be the one that says, I don't have to binge watch Netflix to be happy. I I don't have to constantly have affirmation on social media to be happy. I might you know what let's be honest your marriage may not be going amazingly well And the people at your work may know that. Maybe you're married to someone who's not a believer, and it's just not going well, and they may know that. And here's what you can be. Even though my marriage doesn't look good, I'm still satisfied. I'm still happy. I'm still at peace. I may be just the boss may just be all over me, but I don't need the boss's affirmation to be satisfied. Because my God is the rock. And I run inside of him. And that's what we're called to be. We're called to be witnesses that everything else in the world around us, we don't need it. So uh imagine a day or a week without your iPhone or your Android or your Windows phone, whatever you use. Imagine imagine a day without it. Are you satisfied without it? I was thinking this morning, what if I were dirt poor? What if I were dirt poor? I mean not American poor. I mean like living in the African bush hoping that the UN drops a bag of rice down for my family To eat today? What if I was that poor? Would I still really be satisfied? Would I still be a witness for Christ? And that's what we're called to be. We're called to be witnesses to the world that God alone can satisfy. So I want to connect verses 1 through 8 through 9 just a second. So God has said in ver in verse number 8 and verse number 6, is there anyone like God? And now in verses 9 and following, he's going to answer the question. He's going to show them the fallacy and the foolishnesses of working of worshiping idols. This is going to be a polemic against worshiping idols He's told them not to fear, and now in verses 1 through 8, he said, Don't fear. There is no God like me. Now I'm going to prove to you that there is no God like me and that you don't need to be afraid. So let's look at verse number nine. They that make a graven image, all of them are vanity, and their delectable, or the word is desirable, things shall not profit. And they are their own witnesses. They see not, nor know that they shall be ashamed. Now, there's a couple of things that stand out to me in verse number nine. The first thing that stands out to me is, just from a human, you know, just not being spiritual here, I read that sometimes and I go But you know what, Lord? It looks like it does profit. Because how many of you know someone that lives like the devil and has a bigger, nicer, everything than you? So we wonder, does it profit Lord? If you go to Psalm 73, maybe you just want to write this down next to this verse. But in Psalm 73, we won't go to the other day. Asaph says. I looked around and I saw how the wicked prospered and I and Asaph just summarizing here paraphrasing, ASAP, I was starting to walk that way. I was starting to drift that way because it looked like things were going really well for them, but then he says, I went into the sanctuary. I went into God's house and I was reminded the end of the wicked. So when God says here that it's vanity, what he's saying is, is it doesn't redeem them. It doesn't save them. Because here's the beautiful thing for the person that's in Christ is that God has redeemed us. He's redeemed our souls. He's redeemed our works. So even when we do things and we don't always do them well, or even when we do things with the wrong attitude, or even when we're having a bad day, God still has redeemed that. He still uses it because we're his people It's his. It has purpose. Now it's not nothing. Even if you had to fight to get everyone here this morning, it's not nothing because God has redeemed you. God has chosen you and you're his servant and he's redeemed you. So it's not vanity, it's not nothing, it has a purpose. But everything that they're doing has absolutely, positively no purpose. It ends up nothing. In Thailand they go to temples day, week after week, month after month. They tie to a temple and they throw money into a plate and they go stand before this l reclining Buddha and they drop money in there and they burn incense and they have spirit houses, but it's all for nothing because they don't have a Redeemer. They don't have Christ And that's what we have. So for us, it's not for nothing. There is a purpose, but for them it doesn't profit. They're desirous things. They're things full of pleasure. It has no profit. It has no end. There is no end state to it. All it ends is in eternal destruction. So we have this great hope that what we have is not vanity. What we have is a redeemer. We have the God of the universe. Notice that they are going to be ashamed. He says it in verse 9 that they're going to be ashamed. He says it twice in verse 11 that they're going to be ashamed. In verse 11 he says, they shall fear. Why? Because everything that they've been doing was vanity. And here's the truth. We know that it's vanity, and we're the witnesses. And while God is the sovereign of the universe, and while God has chosen some before him, before the foundation of the world, we are his witnesses. And we have a responsibility to share the gospel. That's our job. To be witnesses against this idolatry. So let me show you some. I think there's some pictures up here. It's it's absolutely stunning. Carolyn? Carol. Carol? Been to Thailand. She's seen it. If you've been to any place it's Buddhist, you see it's unbelievably ornate. The nicest Catholic church in the United States pales in comparison to the things that they did 150 years ago with half the technology. But there they are, they they worship these things. And they're all over the place. Here is the Emerald Buddha, one of the most sacred sites in Bangkok. And there's only one person who can Change Buddhist clothes. You notice that it's the same guy, but he has three different wardrobes on. And there's a I don't know which one is which, okay? But One is cool season, one is dry, and by the way the cool season is like below is like 65 in the cool season. So if you want a warmer climate, come So it's cool season, it's dry season, and then what's the other one? Um warm season, right? So that hot. And the king comes and he changes the clothes of the statue. Hey, our God doesn't need anybody to dress him. He doesn't. He doesn't need that. He doesn't need Obama. He doesn't need Bush. He doesn't need Rubio. He doesn Need any of it He he just he takes care of it. He d God's not getting cold. But that's what they do and they watch it and it's a ceremony. It's important. They think it has to be done. And if it's if it wasn't done, it would be like the whole thing would just collapse But not us, because we understand that idolatry is foolish. So let's look at the foolishness of idolatry. Who hath formed a God or molten a grave an image that is profitable for nothing? So he says, Who's done this? Now that's he's gonna take us in and give us a picture of someone making idols. The Smith Let's see, let's go to verse number 12. The smith with the tongs both worketh in the coals, and fashioneth it with hammers, and worketh it with the strength of his arms. Yay, notice. Now notice the guy building the idol, right? The ironsmith. Notice what he is at the end of the verse. Notice what he is. He is hungry, and his strength faileth. He drinketh no water and is faint. But not our God. He's a rock. He declares the the end from the beginning. He doesn't get weak. He doesn't get tired. So the first thing we notice about the foolishness of idolatry is that the person who made the idol is weak and frail and susceptible to sickness and death and disease and hunger and thirst. So there's not even anything special about the person who makes the idol. Now notice also, he fashions it with the hammers, he works with the strength of his arms. Look at verse 13. The carpenter, now he goes from what probably was one making one with iron, now he's going to a guy who makes one with wood. The carpenter stretches out his rule. He marketh it out with a line, he fitteth it with planes, he marketh it out with the compass, and maketh it after the figure of a man, according to the beauty of a man, that it may re remain in the house. And I wrote here beside of my Bible, when I said that he maketh it after the man, I wrote Buddha beside it. Because Buddha was just a man. And that statue is a statue of a man who died. Without Christ. And he makes a statue of a man, and we know this from Romans chapter number one. They are worshiping They are worshiping the creature more than the Creator, worshiping the creature instead of the Creator. Notice verse 14. He heweth down cedars, and taketh the cypress and the oak, which he strengtheneth for himself among the trees of the forest. He planteth an ash, and the rain doth nourish it. So here's the picture of a guy. He's got this he gets this land and he's working the land and he's watching the tree grow and when the tree gets to the right side and he thinks it's ready to chop it down, he goes out to the forest, it's his tree, and he chops it down That's the first thing he is. He just chops a tree down. He takes his axe, his chainsaw. That's what I would use is a chainsaw. I'm not very manly. I wouldn't even use a chainsaw. I might just give somebody money to do it. But um You know, my dad used to make me woolbarrow wood up to the house all the time, even though we lived in Georgia and we only had like, you know, like three really, really cold weeks. But we were too cheap to turn on the heat and so even though we didn't have to be and so we used firewood and so now I'm like I'm not cutting firewood ever when I get to be an adult. And so entirely I don't have to worry about it at all. So notice what he says. Verse fifteen. Then shall it be for a man now what's the man do with the with the tree that he cuts down? What does it say? Then it shall be for man to what? Burn. For he will take thereof and warm himself. Yea, he kindleth it and baketh bread. And we're good with that, right? We're okay with having a fire and being warm We're okay with cooking some bread over the fire. Yea, now notice the next thing he almost says it just kind of like in passing. Yea, he maketh a God and worshipeth it. He maketh it a graven image and falleth down thereto. So this get the absurdity of this. The thing that they burn, the thing that he just burned, is now the thing that he's going to bow down and worship. It's absurd. It makes absolutely no sense. You just burnt it. You made it. You're in charge of it. And now you're gonna worship it? It's absolutely absurd. They could walk right into that temple today. They could walk right into those temples today, and they could crush every one of those statues. And and they would be the the the statue would be defenseless. Because a man made it. A man made it. Some of the statues have been hidden that they have, some of the images of the Buddha have been hidden for hundreds of years. That's how ineffec it was it was hidden. It wasn't even there. They had to uncover it, and now they're worshiping it. They don't understand that somebody made it, that it's ineffective, that it's useless. Verse 16, he burneth part thereof in the fire with a part thereof, he eateth flesh. He roasteth roasts and is satisfied. Yea, he warmeth himself, and saith, Ah, I am warm, I have seen the fire. Verse 17. And the residue thereof he maketh a God, even his graven image he falleth down unto, and he worships it, and he prays to it, and he says, Deliver me, for thou art my God. How in the world is something that you just made going to deliver you? And we know, let's be really honest, we know that they would never admit this, right? The idolatry would never admit this They would say, no, no, that's a that because that is a a image of the God, it contains some of his power. That's something that they might say. And what God is saying here is I'm not God saying it's not even on the table. I'm not even going to consider it. It's not even a valid argument. Like don't even go there. It's It's so crazy to even consider this, is what God is saying. Like it's not something intelligent people talk about. You know, it's just you know like y you know there's like on the on the in the political world, you know, there's these debates between the Republicans and the Democrats, but there's some things you just don't uh we're not even gonna bring that up now because we know it may it's it's not even a valid argument in the debate And that's what he's saying. These things are absolutely nothing. He is trying to humiliate the idolater and in turn give comfort and hope to his people. Notice verse number 18. They have known, they have not known, nor understood. Now this is the hard part, for he has shut their eyes and they cannot see, and their hearts that they cannot understand. Now, this is the part of the sermon when they get uncomfortable because when it says that they cannot see here, when it says he shut their eyes and they cannot see, it literally means he's plastered it over. It's not like he just got his hand over their eyes. It's like plastered over. That's just what it is. And they don't understand. And the the reason they don't understand is because he hath blinded them. And that's where we get really uncomfortable. So immediately our first question is to say, well who's the he, right? Let's let's make ourselves more comfortable. Who's this he? Who has shut their eyes? Well some commentators say that it was blinded by their own upbringing and culture And that certainly happens. If you were raised a Buddhist, it would be really hard for you to understand Christianity and be attracted to it at all. Is it the Romans 1 perspective that their foolish hearts were darkened because of their sin? Or, like Isaiah 6. 10 or Isaiah 29. 10 or John 12. 40, are they blinded by God? Or are they like 2 Corinthians 4. 4? Are they blinded by the God's world? I lean toward, because of the context of Isaiah, I lean toward the They're blinded by God. God is blind to their eyes. They can't see. That makes this extremely uncomfortable. But if that's what it's saying, that could be what it's saying. I don't want to spend too much time on that. that because I don't want to get Pastor Danae in trouble, but what we have to understand is is God is in control of this thing completely and totally. Do we do we understand that? And that sometimes people can't see because their their their eyes can't be opened until God opens their eyes. And the primary means by which God opens their eyes And we know that there is no one who wants to put their faith in Christ who cannot put their faith in Christ. It's not like people are walking up to God to to God, hey I want I want to put my faith Oh you're not elect. Sorry you can't you can't get there. Oh your eyes are op your eyes aren't open. You can't get in there. That's not what's happening If someone wants to put their faith in Christ, they can put their faith in Christ. Now look at verse number 19, because God is working in their heart. And none consider it such a hard tension. And none considereth in his heart, neither is there knowledge nor understanding to say, I have burned part of it in the fire. Yea, also I have baked bread upon the coalzer of I have roasted the flesh and eaten it. And shall I make the residue thereof an abomination? Shall I fall down to the stalk of a tree? He says they don't recognize it. They don't understand what they're doing. They can't even see the fallacy of it, the foolishness of it. Verse 20, he feedeth on ashes. A deceived heart hath turned him aside. That he cannot deliver his soul, nor say Is there not a lie in my right hand? They have no ability to discern. We read Jonah 4. 11 in Sunday school. They have no ability to discern their left hand from their right hand. They have no ability to say, well, what I'm doing is really wrong and stupid and makes absolutely, positively no sense whatsoever. They have no ability to do that. Now, notice what he says in verse 21. Remember these. So the question is, is he talking about what's before or what's after? And so we'll do both. Remember these can refer to what we just read or whatever's in front of it. Remember the foolishness of idolatry, or, as he's going to recount first again, remember the awesomeness of your God. Remember both of them Remember the foolishness of people who put their trust in riches, which the Proverbs tells will certainly make themselves wings and fly away. Remember that. Remember that. When you start to get really, really l excited about one political candidate to the point where you're starting to be rude and nasty to people, remember all the other political candidates who stabbed us in the back. Because that's what happens when we put our trust in anything other than God. Remember that riches fly away. Remember that people stab us in the back. Remember that people lie. Remember that when you get that new car, then You're going to want another new car. When you get a big house, you're just going to want to get a bigger house. And I'm not saying there's nothing wrong with you buying a bigger house, but just recognize that there's no satisfaction in that. That it comes from Christ and Christ alone. And and that's the struggle that we're in in this world because we're surrounded by idolatry. Remember that this foolishness is to worship idols. Remember that you constantly have to be Ripping them down out of your lives. As Calvin said, our hearts are idol factories, and they just make them, and you get rid of one idol, and there's another idol, and then you get rid of this idol, and wait, there's another one, and it never stops. That's why we're told to mortify the deeds of the flesh. Remember these, O Jacob and Israel, for thou art my servant, I have formed thee, thou art my servant. O Israel, thou shalt not be forgotten to me. We are his servants. Israel was his servants, and he says, I have not forgotten you, but remember these Israel Or you're my people, I chose you, I made you. Here's your job to be a witness. Verse 22, I have blotted out as thick as a thick cloud thy transgression, and as I cloud thy sins, return unto me, for I have redeemed thee And the question that we logically ask here is, right? So this is what a skeptic might say, or even sometimes we think it this way ourselves, how does God just bless us Blot it out. How does God just blot it out? Well, later today read Romans 3. 21. Just write Romans 3. 21 there and see how God blots it out. We know that it's through Christ. But read Romans 3, 21-26. So God has blotted out our transgression. He's redeemed us. Now notice what's supposed to happen here in verse 23. What's the response that God expects from the truth that idols are fallacy, his people are secure, his people are safe, his people are going to be witnesses, they're going to survive, they're not going to be forgotten by God. What's the response? Sing. Now notice he doesn't say it's for us to sing. That's the odd part here. Sing, O ye heavens. For the Lord hath done it. Shout ye lower parts of the earth. Break forth into singing, ye mountains of forest, and every tree therein. For the Lord hath redeemed Jacob and glorified himself in Israel. So what's he saying? He calls the creation to sing, and if the creation is supposed to sing, what are we supposed to do? Sing, we're supposed to praise, we're supposed to be a people of praise, there's supposed to be a great response when we're reminded of the truth that God is holy sovereign and in charge, and we don't have to fear idols because our God is in control. And the great hope that we have here is that one of the great apologetics for the Christian faith is Israel. Because you know what? They're still here He hasn't forgotten them. Now they're nothing like the nation that he wants them to be. Please don't mistake me for just one for for any for other than saying that they're nothing like the nation that they're supposed to be. Right? They're nothing the way God intended them to be, but God has not forgotten them. They're still here. Just like He said they would be. They're still here. And if he hasn't forgotten them, he's not going to forgive us because it's the same God. And the same promise that Christ would redeem their sins, it's the same promise that Christ would redeem us from our sins. And so we are to be a people of praise. We're to be a people who rejoice. Now notice, for the Lord hath redeemed Jacob and glorified himself in Israel. God says, I am the one who glorifies myself. Don't be afraid to open your mouth. God will glorify himself. Don't be afraid to speak the truth to the idolater. God will glorify himself. So here's some quick conclusions. God's people rest in the sovereignty of God. He is the creator and sustainer, ruler of the universe, and he's actively involved in the affairs of men all the time. God's people flee idols because of their foolishness and because their trust is in the rock. God's people call idolaters to repentance. Notice in verse 21, remember. We're not weak knee, spineless people who let everybody get into heaven. We call idolatry what it is and when we share the gospel with someone we say, now you have to do something with what you You can say it nicely and politely and all that. That's fine. But whatever the case, they have to be called to repentance. God's people are vocal witnesses to set to the salvation of God's people and to the sovereignty of God. God's people rejoice at God's salvation. And what we learned from this passage, we don't have time to go back all the way through it, but God is at the center of all of this. God is at the center of all of this. And Christ is at the center of all of this. And again, we don't have time to do it, but when we read in the New Testament, Christ is the one in John chapter number seven and in John. chapter number four who quenches the thirst that God talked about. He says, Come to me, and you'll never thirst again. And so if you haven't put your faith in Christ, I implore you to come and put your faith in Christ so that you will never thirst again Flee idolatry, entrust and entrust your soul to the sovereign of the universe. Father, thank you for your word. We pray that you would use it in only a way that you can. And we pray this because of what Christ did for us on the cross.