It's one of those subjects, the providence of God, that has um has really meant a lot to God's people. Uh the Puritans were were ones who really grasped the the providence of God and in their devotional literature they often mention it. And um one of the things I think that's so striking about it is that it isn't something that you can really and you'll find this tonight completely get your mind around and that should cause us to stand in awe of God. When when when when we study these doctrines and we study who God is and all these things and we realize that, you know, I I don't really I know that I don't understand this entirely. Well that should cause us to sort of Say, wow, isn't God amazing? Isn't He awesome? Isn't He so much higher than I am? So much greater than I am. And uh that's what God wants us to do. When we study the Word of God, if we study it deeply enough, we will come to that conclusion On in many cases. For example, and I'm kind of stalling a little bit here because I'm waiting for I don't know if there's any teams downstairs. We might just go ahead and be able to give you a little bit m get get moving on here but um uh think of the Trinity for example. How many of you all understand the Trinity? 'Cause I want to get to know you a little later and and we can talk because and you can I believe what it says, I understand the concept of the Trinity, but to understand how three can only be one, and yet one is three That does not make logical sense to me. And yet God is clear that there is one God and yet three persons, and it's something we simply It ought to cause us to stand back and so say, Okay, it God has obviously revealed enough for me to understand that He is much higher than I am, and His ways are much greater than our than than I'm not sure if you're not going to be able to do that. plenty out here in the front lobby. There's lots of scripture passages in this handout and we're going to be going through uh uh some of them probably depending on how far we get tonight. So that will be would be helpful for you if you had that. And I think we're going to go ahead and get started here with God's providence, the doctrine of God's providence part two here. Uh this is a review from last week. Last week we looked at um the province of God's uh ongoing relations, which is his ongoing relationship with with creation. And there are three aspects of God's providence we looked at. The first one is preservation. God in it what does it mean that God providentially works in creation? Well, one, he preserves creation. And I just put to the side I I wanted to really boil it down to something that we could really grasp and remember And if we just remember God maintains his creation. And we we all know that God created everything according to the Word of God. Sometimes we don't think of the fact that without God holding everything together, it would all I don't know what it would do, it would collapse, it wouldn't be able to continue. And so God not only creates things, he maintains his creation He preserves his creation and he preserves it according to how he has set it up. That's why you have solar systems with plant you know You know, and the planet in our planets in our solar system are all working together and the right amount of space is between the planets all the time and nothing goes haywire. God is holding everything together The second aspect of providence is concurrence. That is that God works through his creation. So not only does he set the thing in motion and also preserve it and maintain it. So that everything is working the way it ought to be, but concurrence, it's working, God works through his creation to carry out his will, his purposes, and his plan. So he works through creation. And then government, God directs his creation. So God works through his creation. That's it uh in concurrence uh creation could be passive god is active and god is working through creation government god directs his creation through command Do this, don't do that. And so God is also directing his creation. Those are three aspects of God's providence that we learned last week. I d I do wonder, is there any questions about those three? Maybe you were thinking about these things over the over the last week because you have nothing else to think about. And um and you're wondering about anything within these three. Alright, well with that in mind, it actually brings up some questions that we need to answer tonight. And one of the questions that we need to answer, first of all, is how exactly are we to understand divine sovereignty and human freedom to work hand in hand? Is that not a is that not a valid question? Is that not a question that's that needs to be answered? How is it that God can sovereignly work and yet man could be free to To do things. How do these things work together? Number two, if God is sovereign, uh then why are we held responsible for the evil things that we do and why isn't God responsible? Okay, if God's sovereign, if he's working through his creation, if he's maintaining his creation, If he is actively involved in his creation and he carries out his will through his creation, well then how is it that God's not responsible for evil? That is a a question that m many people ask. Unsaved people will even ask that question. And number three, how can God be good and powerful and there still be evil in the world? How can God be good and powerful and yet there still be evil in the world? So we're going to grapple with these questions tonight. I want to tell you at the outset that I'm not sure we will entirely solve them where anybody's going to walk away and say, okay, I get it now. Now I've solved it. But we're gonna we're gonna wrestle with some of these things tonight to to try to see at least what does God's word say about these areas. So let's look at let's look at these. I want to begin by noting that there are three propositions Okay, this is where I'm going to bring the teens in here. Alright, teenagers, how many of you all taken geometry or in the middle of geometry? Okay? Somebody tell me in geometry what is a given. If I say that those these are what's given, well does somebody tell me what is what is that? Any anyone Okay. Alright, so you have a problem And and the givens are the things that they that that that are given to you that are s established. They're already there. You've got to figure out the postulates of the theorems and those kinds of things that are Well in scripture it's a really good way to start off when you're systematizing things. Okay, well let's establish what's given. And then then we move from there and we try to figure out, okay, well based upon what's given How then do we how then do we understand as much as we can about about God's providence and how it works with man's freedom and and evil and how that all works together. So number one, a clear given in Scripture. And you have the references. We won't take the time to look at all these references, but a clear given in scripture, well we're actually going to look at these separately in a minute But a clear given in Scripture is that God is absolutely sovereign. Okay? Uh that God isn't he is he is He is all authoritative. He is He is the authoritative one. Okay, and there isn't any question about that in Scripture, and you have all kinds of passages on that. So that's number one. Number two, human beings are morally responsible creatures. That is clearly in Scripture, is it not? Where would you might you go to establish in the Bible that God uh well I can't You can just cite the passages there, I guess. So asking that question doesn't make a lot of sense. But you have passages there that um that clearly demonstrate that man is uh human beings are morally responsible creatures. That is Is the decisions that they make morally, they're going to be responsible for. They're responsible for those decisions. Number three, the Bible insists that God is perfectly good That despite the fact that God is absolutely sovereign and man is responsible and that there isn't uh the the God all that God does is perfectly good. Yes. Hm. No. Yeah. Um, so uh yeah, I could have just in I could've I guess I may wa maybe wanted to establish that point, but it's definitely the case. Um and no there's yeah, they're all true. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Well the Bible's where we get the uh all three of these ideas, though they're they're given from from scripture. Okay. So now let's sort of break these down. Let's look first of all. Uh at uh the fact that God is absolutely sovereign. Let's look at that first. Okay? And we'll just establish, first of all, that God not only assigns time and place to people But he reigns even above in the most mundane natural things in life. For instance, in Psalm 104, 14 It says, He causes grass to grow for the cattle and vegetation for the service of man, that he may bring forth food from the earth. Earth. God causes the grass to grow. It's very mundane. We don't think of it that way. We think grass just grows. But according to the Bible, God causes the grass to grow. Okay. Um also we see that God's sovereignty over uh is is over even human will. God has sovereign sovereignty Well let me men mention a couple other pass uh points about this as far as causing grass to grow, those kind of mundane things. In Ecclesiastes chapter one verse seven, it actually says, All the rivers run into the sea, yea the sea is not full. To the place from which the rivers come, there they return again. Okay? All the rivers run the sea, and there they return again. So that's talking about the cycle, like the this the pattern of of uh you know vapor happening, rain going and So there's this there's this water cycle. But the Bible many times uh would prefer to simply say say things like God causes it to rain. God causes the heart rain it to rain at the right time. times and harvest and and so it's not that there aren't cycle natural cycles and natural things that God has created. But we do need to just understand that God ha God at the same time is sovereignly working to make these things happen. If God chose not to do that, it wouldn't happen. Yes. that everything that occurs is directly activities such as the wildfires in California right now? Yeah. Okay, so let's take the wildfires and okay. So Is it directly due to his activity activity? I don't um Probably. Yeah. Probably. He uses control. So um yeah, I mean he's in yeah. Yeah, that's that's that's a f I mean that's a fair point. Yes, Joy. Oh. So yeah, uh yeah, I think I think so. Um Well can't we also say that when sin entered the world that things did alter Yeah, right. So that was the other thing I was factoring in is you have the fall, which obviously does cause uh does affect the world, and you're going to have things not be Perfect and ideal the way they were originally. But we then have to assume that God ultimately is still sovereign over all of that, that He's going to use all of that to glorify Himself ultimately. Even sin. So uh so we're still we're still left with him being uh uh ultimately sovereign and and absolutely sovereign as well. So that's the first thing to understand. The Lord is always sovereign control over all over all evil that exists. And this is clear. Oh, let me talk about the gut the will of God as well. So he's sovereign over human will. Ezra 622 says this. And they kept the feast of unleavened bread seven days with joy, for the Lord made them joyful and turned the heart of the king Assyria toward them. And there's other places that God works in us both to will and to do for his good pleasure. Psalm two two says this this is a good passage to know about this. The kings of the earth set themselves. The rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed, saying, Let us break their bonds and uh And God looks at it and goes, and uh and God actually says he'll have them in derision. The Lord is always sovereign and control over the evil over all evil that exists, and this is clearly this is clear throughout Scripture. Lamentations 3. 37 says, Who is he who speaks and it comes to pass when the Lord has not commanded it? Who it it the Lord hasn't commanded it, it it hasn't come to pass. Now that does bring up obviously uh the next point. Well, let me mention a couple other things about this. Um So so the point to that is that even evil can does not escape God's influence. In other words, uh if uh practical application of this, sometimes we are so we we we can get so worried about evil in the world And yet we have to remember that God is sovereign and God even has influence over the evil. Okay. So God is absolutely sovereign uh and He never functions in such a way that but He never functions in such a way that doesn't include uh human response. So the next point then is that human beings are morally responsible creatures. So God's sovereign But then then uh human beings are morally spont responsible creatures. That is they are significantly uh th they choose to rebel, obey, believe, defy, and make decisions. They can do all of those things Right, and we see examples, many examples of those things in Scripture. Um and so God has given man the ability to have a choice, to choose to obey, to choose to rebel, to choose to believe, to choose to uh all th and all those things. And so he is also morally culpable as well. He is morally responsible. If you believe so much in the sovereignty of God in a way that negates man's human responsibility Then you have something wrong with the sovereignty of God. There's something wrong with your understanding of it. Well. Despite everything Scripture says about God's sovereignty, the Bible insists that God is perfect. Perfect. Um it's good. He does everything uh he insists that God is perfectly good. Yeah, yeah. Uh-huh. Um would you also then have Genesis in there? Sure. Yeah. Mm-hmm. Um a couple other things you could you could include in there is Acts 1730 that God commands people to repent. So if you command somebody to do something, it requires a choice. That's, by the way, the idea that man does not have any will at all. Why would God have commands? If there is no will, if man has no ability, no will at all, then why would he have commands in Scripture? So Acts 17, 30, Deuteronomy 6, 6 also, and these words which I command you today shall be in your heart. So you have all these commands, you have different things that do Demonstrate this. Alright, let's uh so point number three then despite every scripture everything scripture says about God's sovereignty, the Bible insists that God is perfectly good. Okay. God never presented uh uh so let's talk about this. God never presented uh is presented as an accomplice of evil. Nor as secretly malicious or as standing behind evil in the same way that he stands behind good. So God's relationship to evil, though he has influence over evil, His relationship to evil is different than his relationship to good. Does that make sense? So what are some well one is he condones good, but he doesn't condone evil. But he's also not an accomplice to evil. Now that's hard for us to grasp, but let's continue about with this a little bit. The goodness of God is clear and it is not negotiable in Scripture, which I'm Definitely getting a cross, hopefully. And God Himself never sins, nor does anything evil or unholy. Now, Let me just mention a couple of passages to talk about this. 1 John chapter 1, verse 5. This is the message that we heard from him and proclaim to you that God is light. And in him is no darkness at all. Light is a reference to righteousness, darkness is referencing evil. Psalm 9215, to declare that the Lord is upright, he is my rock, and there is no unrighteousness in him Psalm one fifty f uh one forty five nine the Lord is good to all he has compassion on all he has made So he's he's good to all, and he has compassion on all he has made. God himself never sins Nor does anything uh evil, uh nor um God self never sins, nor does anything evil or unholy. So we he doesn't sin, he doesn't do anything he evil and holy. We can I think we all know this. Uh one of the m one of the passages we should go to is James one thirteen. Revelation four eight is one place James 1 13, let no one say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God, for God cannot be tempted by evil, nor does he himself tempt anyone. Genesis 1825 says the same thing. that God cannot be tempted by evil. So whatever we believe about God's providence and how all this works We're going to establish clearly that God is sovereign, um that God whatever God is good, and that man is morally responsible. Those are three Themes that are many times repeated in Scripture. So let's talk about how this is all compatible. How does this work together? And I want to ask three questions. One, how are we to understand divine sovereignty and human freedom to work together? Hand in hand. I think we've already we've already looked at these questions, but we'll just remind ourselves of what the questions are. So we're we're going to ask this question how do these things work together? How how is it that These can be compatible. A man by the name of D. A. Carson came up with this. He explains that compatibilism is the idea, not to be confused with uh cannibalism. Compatibilism is the idea that the Bible as a whole, sometimes in specific texts, presupposes or teaches both of the following propositions are true. God is absolutely sovereign, but his sovereignty never functions in such a way that human responsibility is curtailed, minimized, or mitigated. Okay. So he's sovereign, but how he functions does not stand in the way or or minimize or mitigate human responsibility. Does that make sense? Let me see if I want you. I want to make sure we get that. Sovereignty has to do with God's being, who he is. This statement has to do with God's function, how he chooses to function. And God always chooses to execute his sovereignty in a way that human responsibility is not minimized, mitigated, or or or diminished in any way, or cr curtailed in any way. Does that make sense? The next proposition that D. A. Carson makes, which is yes. Bible works, God steps in. So he steps, take for instance the moving of uh coming into Egypt and said, Let my people go. And Pharaoh says, No Yeah. And yet enforces the issue. Okay. And to me that God's stepping in to change Okay, and clearly God did intervene there and does many times in scripture and does today, but how did what what God did in intervening how does that how does that impact human responsibility? Responsibility, how does that minimize Pharaoh's responsibility, for example, or Moses' responsibility, or the nation of Israel? How does that impact that? In other words, even though God comes in and intervenes Pharaoh is still culpable. He's still responsible for choosing not to let, at least initially, not to let to let the people go. He's he's still responsible. Does that make sense? Okay? And in every situation that you see in Scripture, any time God intervenes, he does it in such a way, and you could see this a lot. He does it in such a way. that the pers that the the uh the person is still responsible. That's why you have so many times in scripture like the Kings and other places you have so many times where God gives people one chance after another, multiple chances. Same thing with the with your example. You have you have one one um plague after another, which are are judgments, but they're also opportunities to repent uh one after another so that clearly in God's sovereignty he's also making sure that it's uh he's also in his in his equity uh uh Pharaoh is also responsible, clearly responsible for seeing, first of all, he sees God's sovereignty at work in creation, and he chooses to reject it. ultimate and and then until he has to uh let him go and then he goes after him again uh as well which which demonstrates his own will to to rebel. Yes, sorry. days because of like the plagues and stuff, he was constantly punishing Pharaoh for his bad decisions that we saw instantly enacted on all of 'em. Whereas Nowadays you can see something bad happen and nobody suffers a punishment for it. Yeah. It's kinda like a del you know, you I'm sure God will obviously repay that with his and displacement life but it doesn't happen. You don't always see it nowadays in any instantaneous way like that you see in the Bible a lot. And sometimes I think people confuse that for God allowing and being a part of the sin and bad things which isn't necessarily it has to do with the timing, but because the Bible's so instantaneous a lot of the time and it's not the way of looking at the good point Um so so we seed all those judgments, but we don't we kind of forget the fact that Pharaoh ruled easy Egypt for years and years and years and s built his kingdom for years and years and years with no killed babies, uh with no retribution at all. So there was still there was a delay in God's judgment there, but we don't we don't think of you're right that we don't think of it that way. We only think of the plagues and and and that kind of thing. Um uh because that's what the Bible highlights is the action that's taking place rather than the fact that that okay, well there's this long delay before he actually steps in. cases there's there is I mean in a lot of cases there still is a a delay, but we don't think of it that way. But that's a good point. Yeah. Is it really a delay? Because the reality of it is there's opposite Oh I think of just, you know, personal myself or even just a family member of mine that I know of who Of course also I think that it comes to believer or unbeliever, are they going to be chastened or not, corrected? Every every time God judges for the unsaved and chastens for the saved Every time God does that, it's an opportunity as well. And that's why you see you see his judgment tends to increase its severity in in the Old Testament. Um and so it's an opportunity to turn to him. Even for the unsaved person when they see when they when they experience God's judgment, there's almost a grace in the judgment if they'll turn from But when there's judgment and they see God's working and they choose to turn from it, there's also culpability there. There's also greater responsibility. pictures probably was or even is progression, right? So if you get the hammer today. It's soft hammer. Human beings are m next phrase here, human beings are morally responsible creatures. They can choose to rebel, obey, believe, defy, make decisions, etc. And they are rightly held accountable to such actions, but this characteristic never functions so as to make God absolutely contingent. In other words, um God's God's uh working is not contingent up on what man does. Now that's hard for us to understand, but in order for God to maintain his sovereignty, he's not con his plan isn't contingent upon us. Now, God, we see how this works out in Scripture. You see all of the sin going on, and yet God still brings forth a Messiah, for example. And later on and and so and so God man's freedom and decisions ultimately will not change God's plan, his will. And so some of that is it has to do with the right mix of who God is and how God is choosing to function. A lot of it has to do with that and understanding how it works. Ultimately, God is sovereign over all he can do anything, but God chooses to function in a way that man has a will and man has uh man is responsible. And he doesn't go outs and God doesn't go outside of of that to to uh to deal with d diminish that in any way. So God is sovereign over all things, including sin, evil, and and human beings are completely responsible uh for their sinful their sinful actions. Um So let what we want to do now is I'm going to actually go ahead and uh dismiss the teens. Josh, what you're going to do then is go through these examples And we're going to do it up here as well, but I thought I'd just have you give you a chance to do that. And you're going to go through these examples, Joseph, Job, Jesus, and see how these work out. So how does it work out that God is both sovereign and yet you have you have evil and the evil doesn't diminish God's sovereignty? God's sovereignty doesn't uh Um uh doesn't stop uh man from being responsible, all those things, how they work together. Just kind of discuss that. Make sense? Teen, you're dismissed, head out the head out the back. That's like half our group. And uh so we're gonna discuss this uh adults as well and try to see how this works out in scripture. All right, how many uh let me ask uh let me see if I can get a couple of readers tonight. Um God is sovereign over all things, so we want to look at that, and we're gonna look at Joseph first And the story of Joseph's familiar. So you can either take your Bibles or your handles, either one, to Genesis 45, 4. We're going to start there, and Genesis 50. Um who will read Genesis uh forty five, four, through eight? Volunteers to read that. And Joseph said to his brothers, these come near to me. So they came near. Then he said, I am Joseph, your brother, whom you sold into Jesus. But now do not therefore be grieved or angry with yourself because you told me here for God sent you before you to preserve the light. For these two years The parent has been in the land and there are still ice years in which there will be ice neither flowered nor arbitrated And God sent me before you to preserve a terrority for you in the earth and to save your body by a grace of So now it was not you who sent me here, but God, and he has made me a father prevailed And rules of all his house. And the rule of it throughout all the land of people. And Genesis fifteen. Verse twenty says, But as for you, you meant evil against me, but God meant it for good, in order to bring it about as it is this day, to save many people alive Okay, so we have the story of the story of Joseph. In the story of Joseph, do you have any evil going on? Okay, so so somebody tell me what the what what evil went on. Okay, obviously the brother selling him to slavery. Is that the only time evil happens? What other evil do we see? Well they threw him in a pit. They lied to the dad. What's that? They lied to the dad. Okay, they lied to the dad? What else? Okay. Injustice. How about what happened to him with Poti Potiphar's wife? False accusation, right? He ends up in jail. So you you have you have a lot of sin going on through that. But do you see God's sovereignty in all of that as well? What happens? God uses all of that to put Joseph in Second command of all of Egypt, and that was his his sovereign plan. Was God responsi uh was responsible for any of the sin that happened? No, what were were was each of these individuals were they responsible? Yes, and yet God says you meant it for evil, but God meant it for good. This is a perfect example of God's sovereignty at work. Yes. I think he was forgiving them. I don't think he was absolving them like saying that what you did wasn't sin. He said you meant it for evil. In other words, your motive was evil, but God meant it for good, and he took it and he chose to forgive as a result. Does that make sense? Because I just didn't read that into the text. I mean it makes sense. Yeah. Uh you know, those uh Joseph's brothers uh when the the when their father died Mm-hmm. They were afraid that that that he was gonna take vengeance on them. Yeah. And he was actually very hurt that they would take that Yeah, um this particular text doesn't say that. Uh yeah, yeah, Genesis fifty verse twenty says it. Uh you meant it for evil against me, but God meant it for good. That's where the the verse I think also just to see in how big that is. Yeah. And how small either it is is that we can make it again because God is so awesome and and and magnifying God and help me to proportion Yeah. Do we see that God has influence over evil in this? Yeah, I mean I mean God obviously what's an example what's a good example of that? What did the brothers want to do at first to Joseph? Does anyone remember? They wanted to kill him. What happened? Judas said don't do that. And he they ended up throwing in a pit and selling the slavery. You don't think God has any stock he he he's was it what's that? He said Judah Judah. Judah is what I said. Okay, it's obvious what I meant. But anyway, okay. So Jesus is really a different book of the Bible than that. Okay. Judah said said to them, uh no don't do that. So basically that's what hap so they didn't. God's sovereignty was even to to change to Yeah, because in this situation it's clear the good came out But then when you have just blatant, hideous evil, like why not influence there? influenced like why not I guess it's not in God's way it's the easy answer but it just like here you can see well the influence away from that but then why not other ones Yeah, that's a good question and sometimes it is harder. Um but we all n we know that sin will always be punished. There's something called hell. And so ultimately it will be punished if it's not on this side of it uh of the grave, it's on the other side. So that's one consideration. We also seem to see in scripture that hell is hotter for some people than others, actually. Uh Uh so so there seems to be levels of of punishment. Um and so um so anyway, so that helps us a little bit with the idea of God's justice there. Yes. So this whole idea of God know for God um God sovereignty. Yeah. Is it when I look at this um God didn't cause these men to do evil. Definitely not. Okay, but he wanted this to happen so many people would be saved alive. So is it just a matter of God knew what was going to happen, so he rearranged things like in his foreknowledge he knew that this was going to happen. So he arranged Change some circumstances? Did he have a good thing? God didn't cause these men to do wrong, but he used it so and God wasn't caught off guard if he has foreknowledge and he knows what's gonna happen. Right Right. So if you just kind of jump ahead and read the future? So I don't think this is my opinion, but I don't think we can relegate it to merely foreknowledge to say, okay, God all he does is see evil and work around it, basically. Okay. Um I mean that's another way of saying what you're what you're kind of saying. Okay. In order to say that then you are saying God is not doing any influencing of evil, he's just working around whatever we mess up. Um I'm not sure I could go that far. On the other hand, so that's one boundary I would sort of set is say, okay, that's not it's not quite that simple Because then God is not providentially working in and through and all those things that God are we already established that He does. He's just working around things. On the other hand, if we go if we go so far as to say that uh God causes evil or God causes, we know we've gone too far there. So so it's between those two. basically. So I'm fine saying God influences evil. I'm fine saying that God ultimately will allow things to work out for or go God will cause things to work out for his plan. But what I don't want to do is to go to either extreme where I'm simply saying there's this passive foreknowledge that he just like kind of looks ahead and works around it. It's not consistent with what we know about what God does and how he works. But I'm also very uncomfortable with the idea of either not having free will at all or not having any responsibility or somehow God is now culpable for for for that. So I think those are the two boundaries. And I think it is a little hard to pinpoint exactly beyond those two boundaries. And I think that's where we sort of have to come to. We don't want to we don't want to violate scripture by by going past one of those boundaries, but at the same time um We don't want uh I'm not sure we can always pinpoint exactly how he how he works either. Does that make sense? on the heels of that. Yeah. I think part of the tension is we we try and solve the tension with with human means and human terms. When we're in we want to call a person sovereign or maybe use the word control. Yeah. We for us to be in control, we have to we have to be physically involved directing, commanding, maybe doing something ourselves, and that's the only way we can be in control. God, while He influences influences and directs, that's not the only way he's in control. And the way I think of it is he's he's not limited by the sin and the evil and Satan. He's He he can work in such a way that um that that that he's not reacting to evil. He is proactive in that way. And we can't be like that. And I think that's that's an a a um that attributes to his majesty and his glory and how much greater he is that he can be operate on that level. Yeah. And and and we're not gonna totally figure that out, but but understand that if we try and limit God one way or the other other we're bringing him down to our level maybe not all the way but somewhat we need to keep him up there and and that that we do that by staying away from Good. Yes too. One thing to follow off of that is man's wisdom is the foolishness of God. I mean We can be as smart as we want, but God's gonna chuckle at us because we don't know what we're talking about. It just like you said, we're trying to put God into man's terms. And we can't do that. A lot of times we just gotta look at the situation and say, okay? Because we're not gonna figure out God. here gets angry at a football coach. Why did you do that? Why just you know if I was coach we would have done that he said well you know we're not the coach and so that coach assuming it's still, you know, there is a bit more experienced way to handle it than that. Right, right. Yeah, good, good point. Let's go to the next one, Job. Job is a good one to go to when when in dealing with with us. Job 120 says, then Job, of course we have to read the whole book of Job to really get everything, but Job 120 says then Job arose, tore his robe, shaved his head. And he fell to the ground and worshiped, and he said, Naked I came from my mother's womb, and naked shall I return there. The Lord gave, the Lord has taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. Now let's just pause and ask this question Who took things away from Job? Yeah, well we know from chapter one, Satan started taking things away from Job. Job. Who does Job attribute to having uh taking things away? God. The Lord gave. The Lord takes away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. Which is it? It's both, right? I mean, what we have in that situation is we actually have Satan thinking he's doing his will, but actually he's doing God's will. And God choosing to use Satan to do what God wanted to do. And Job realizes, he looks at it, he says, actually, the Lord gives, the Lord takes away, blessed be the name of the Lord, even though clearly Clearly, Satan was the was the active instrument in which was you which was used in order to take these things away from Job. It's interesting, isn't it? So so do we see then an interplay between Sat even Satan's will and God's will? We do. Do we see God sovereignly working out God is ultimately in control of Satan. And yet uh man is he doesn't there's no way we see in the book of Job where suddenly man is not responsible. Or Satan for that matter is not responsible. obviously will meet his demise one day. Make sense? Any other thoughts on Job? Okay, let's go to the next one, Jesus. We've uh this is kind of easy for us in because we've been in the book of Acts, Acts 4 and Acts 2, both talk about the crucifixion of Christ, and in both of those chapters you have You have an accusation on the part of Peter saying, who who killed Christ? So who killed Christ in Acts 4? Well, maybe we should go ahead and read it. Can I volunteer to read four uh Acts four, twenty-four through twenty-eight? Yes, and read go ahead. So when they heard that they raised their voice to Lord, you are God, who made heaven and earth and the sea and all that is in them, who by the mouth your servant David has said, Why did the nation rage and the people thought main things. The kings of the earth took their stand, and the Lord were gathered together against the Lord and against the strike. For truly against your holy servant Jesus whom you anointed both Herod and Pontius Pilate with the Gentiles and the people of Israel were gathered together to do whatever your hand and your purpose determined before it be done. Okay, and he basically says something very similar in Acts 2 22 through 44 or 24 there. So so who does Peter say killed Christ? The Jews did, right? I mean the people he's talking to are the Sanhedrin and uh and the is the P Pontius Pilate. So so they're the ones who killed Christ. Okay. Who else killed Christ? Is it true that we killed Christ? I mean our sin killed h killed Christ. We put him our sin put him on the on the cross. Yes. But he died for us. Yeah, so in the most technical sense, uh um right. Um w w there was not an act of he i Christ is taking the action And and so on the other hand, so but he would not have needed to go to the cross if we hadn't sinned. Okay. So we're the impetus by which for which he he went But who else killed Christ? God did. I mean God s God in his plan allowed Christ to go to the cross Now Christ actively went himself. He was not forced. So, but you have all of these things working together. Here you have Was it a sin for the for the Romans and the Jewish people, particularly the Jewish people, to put Christ on the cross? Was that a sin? Sure it was a sin. And yet God uses even that since the three And so that's another clear example where you have all of these things working together. And yet clearly, even though the outcome was monument unparalleled monumental m uh uh monumental um that he died for the sin of the world still peter saying you put him on the cross you you are culpable you are Responsible. Does that make sense? So just because the outcome is good doesn't mean that the person is not responsible for the action that they do. Yes? apostles and like you mentioned like we were the emphasis for that. Yeah. Any apostles kind of take that on themselves and each of you will be their own Yeah, who um I mean I'm trying to think of a specific verse, but I mean the overall d idea um Of our sin putting him on the cross is a a pretty well established thing that Paul says in the book of Romans. And I don't know if that makes if that's answered your question or not. Yeah. So. Alright, so that's that's the three examples that we have. Um we've got a couple of applications here. Uh h how should we apply all of this? Um well we ought to look to the cross, obviously, that is where that is God's goal. And then we ought to look to the end, the coming of Christ as well in Revelation twenty one three. All right, we have just a few minutes to actually pray together, so we'll go ahead and close with and close there. I have uh possibly one other lesson on this before we move on, but we'll we I have Haven't decided whether we'll we'll move on from this or not.