Take your Bibles, please turn to the book of Acts, chapter 2. Acts chapter 2, as we continue to look at the beginning of the church, the birth of the church at Pentecost. Acts 2. And let's go ahead and as soon as everybody gets there, we will read Acts chapter 2 together. I want to get make sure you have enough time to get there. Uh so that we are all on the same page in reading this. Acts two, verse one, and we'll read verse through verse twenty-one. When the day of the of Pentecost had fully come, they were all with one accord in one place, and suddenly there came a sound from heaven. As of a rushing mighty wind, and it filled the whole house where they were sitting. Then there appeared to them divided tongues as of fire. And one sat upon each of them. And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak with other tongues as the Spirit gave them utterance. And there were dwelling in Jerusalem Jews, devout men from every nation under heaven. And when this sound occurred, The multitude came together and were confused because everyone heard them speak in their own language. Then they were all amazed and marveled, saying to one another, Look, Are not all these who speak Galatians? And how is it that we hear each in our own language and uh to w in in which we were born. Parthians and Medes and Elamites, those dwelling in Mesopotamia and Judea and Cappadocia and Pontius and Asia, Prageria and Pamphylia, Egypt and all and the parts of Libya adjoining Cyrene, visitors from Rome, both Jews and proselytes, Cretans and Arabs, we hear them speaking in our own tongues the wonderful works of God. So they were all amazed, perplexed, and perplexed, saying to one another, Whatever could this mean? Others mocking said, They are full of new wine. But Peter, standing up with the eleven, raised his voice and said to them, Men of Judea and all who dwell in Jerusalem, let this be known to you and heed my words. For these are not drunk as you suppose, since it is only the third hour of the day. But this is what was spoken by the prophet Joel. And it should come to pass in the last days, says God, that I will pour out of my spirit on all flesh. Your sons and your daughters shall prophesy. Your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall dream dreams And on my men servants and on my maidservants I will pour out my spirit in those days. And they shall prophesy. I will show wonders in heaven above, and signs in the earth beneath, blood and fire and vapor of smoke. The sun shall be turned into darkness and the moon into blood before the coming of the great and awesome day of the Lord. It shall come to pass that whoever calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, as we come to this passage again, we begin to see clearly the amazing work of the Spirit of God As you inaugurate a new time period, a new dispensation where the church is the main work that you put forth in the world. And Father, we thank you just for the privilege of being able to read the recorded scriptures and to see not just what we need to do, though that is part of it. But to really see your character in this, to really see your providence, your wisdom, your sovereignty, your plan carried out. I pray, Lord, that we would always look at your word that way. We would always look at your word first as a revelation of yourself. And then obviously, as we look at your word, we want to we want to adjust to your character. We want to follow after you, and we want to apply the things that we've learned to our lives. So we pray that you'd help us to do both this morning. May we understand your word. May we we rightly divide it. Give us clarity of thinking And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. You know, it's interesting. Um I get all kinds of emails. And Facebook advertisements and all kinds of things on how to have explosive church growth. For example, I'll get things like how to get new visitors and keep them, five easy steps to filling your church, how to wow your church with awesome worship. And you know what happens with all of that that material that comes across my email inbox? I junk it. Uh I think I have looked twice at the things just to s out of curiosity to see what in the world they're trying to what sort of thing they're trying to peddle. Most of the time it none of none of it ever comes any far any farther than that. But you know there is this temptation among pastors to try to find a new way to deal with this or find it find a new way to grow your church. You would not believe how much of stuff is out there, books and pamphlets and websites and all kinds of stuff, to try to do what God says he will do his way. Imagine, so it's Mother's Day, so I need to use a Mother's Day illustration, and I love car illustrations, so I'm going to put the two together today. So imagine that um that you you buy your c you you find the most expensive car you can and you buy your mother a a really expensive car I I Googled the most expensive car. It is a it's called a Koenigsig CCXR Trevet Trevita. They are priced at $4. 8 million. And so imagine that you So imagine that you buy your mother on Mother's Day this kind of car. Now that's a t so you decide to take uh she's uh you say, Hey, get in the car and you you get the passenger seat, she's in the driver's seat, and she gets in this really, really Incredibly expensive car and top of the line in every way. And you see stars driving down the road and you're in the set you're and you're in the passenger seat and she starts pointing out all these other cars she likes. Like a Honda Accord goes by. A Honda Cord goes by and she says, That's a really nice car. She sees a Tour de Camry and that goes by, Oh, that's a really, really nice car. And then they and then you s to much to your dismay she looks at a Yugo that goes by and she says, That's pretty nice too. And then she looks by and she goes she sees a pinto and you look at that and then that's pretty nice too. And you begin it you finally say, Mom What are you looking at? What in the world? And she goes, well, you know, they're really those you know, there's nice cars and and and you say, but mom, I got you, I got you this And she says, Oh, you know, I keep forgetting I'm in it. I'm I keep forgetting when I'm driving. Yeah. It's like, well, will you please remember what you're driving? Would you remember what you're sitting in right now? You know, as silly as that illust illustration is, and it's pretty silly. We we kind of do that sometimes when it comes to our lives as Christians. The Bible tells us in this passage and many other passages in the New Testament that God has given us His Spirit to live inside of us, to strengthen us, to empower us. To do what we cannot do on our own. Christ warned the disciples, without me you can do nothing. And we are some we sometimes are looking to everything else that is so much that there's no comparison to to try to help us. When folks, what we really need is a fresh perspective on the power that we can have. And the influence that Christ that the Spirit of God wants to have in our lives as believers. As we see in Acts chapter 2, The the w the the Holy Spirit and his work is just all over these pages All over the place do we see his role, his work, how he begins, and you're going to begin to you're going to continue to see that throughout the book of Acts. Did you know that the Old Testament spans around 4,000 years? You have 49 books of the Old Testament. And, right? No, 47. Why am I missing that? I remember what in the world? 49 books? What is it, Claudia? 39. 39 books in the Old Testament. Boy, that's weird. Okay. 39 books in the Old Testament. Twenty-seven books in the New Testament, which makes sixty-six together. Okay, anyway. Alright. So so you have that many books, thirty-nine books in the Old Testament, and so and so uh And you know, in all that, you have only a hundred times that the Holy Spirit is mentioned in that book in the whole Old Testament. You get to the Gospels, and in four Gospels, you have fifty times. In just four gospels, just f and in f in roughly you know thirty years of time. And and then you get to the book of Acts, and in the book of Acts, which is probably roughly another thirty to forty years You've got over 60 times the book in in the book of Acts it's meant the Holy Spirit is mentioned What you find then is that the this is the time period with which the Holy Spirit is really doing his work in the world in a very personal way. And you're going to be able to see that hopefully in this passage And it's going to be very much verified to you and to me as we look at this. Because what we have seen so far is that the Holy Spirit has descended down on these apostles and disciples, and they have begun to speak in tongues. to a huge amount of people, oh well over three thousand. There were probably double that amount there. We know three thousand came to Christ. There we know that Jewish people came from all kinds you see the map up there, Jewish people came from all kinds of different places, probably roughly between 15 and 20 different countries. And roughly around fifteen to twenty different languages, and it's how you parse that out in in the text is different depending on how you count it But somewhere around there, and you you have all of these people that are being exposed to to the Spirit of God to start his church. And we're now going to see the Apostle Peter. As Peter now stands up and he takes the lead as God said he was going to do, Christ said he was going to do. And we see his first sermon is going to be preached, and it's going to start in verse 14. And in verse 14, then we are going to see. some things that that are going to help us to understand what has already taken place and really help the nation of Israel or the Jewish people that were there understand what was taking place as well. We'll pick up here then in verse 14 it says, But Peter, standing up with the eleven, raised his voice and said to them, Men of Judea and all who dwell in Jerusalem, let this be known to you and heed my words. Well what is what is Peter doing there? Peter is standing up. As the Bible says, he raises his voice. He makes a call that they would listen and to heed his words. Interesting that that heed my words is mentioned twelve. Uh times in the book of Acts. There's only fifteen occurrences in all the New Testament, and twelve of them are in the book of Acts. You're going to find in the book of Acts that there is much preaching taking place. And this kind of heralding of the Word of God is always a call to something. A call to the hearers to think about something, to heed, to do something. Of course, that is part of what preaching really is. You find this in the passage, and Peter is really going to help us to understand some things. Peter begins in verse 15. He begins. to explain uh something that that was a question that had had arisen that we'd already seen about the possibility of these people speaking all these various languages because they were drunk somehow, and somehow that was the way that it happened. And of course this is Totally preposterous preposterous just when it comes to common sense. How could Galileans who didn't even know other languages that certainly not fifteen or twenty other languages that were spoken here, how in the world could could they just by drinking suddenly know languages? I mean it doesn't really make a whole lot of sense. But in addition to that, Peter points out very specifically that it's only 9 a. m. in the morning. And it was customary for them to drink, if they drank any alcohol at all, if they drank wine or anything like that, it was always it was always after they ate. And usually they ate in the e uh usually after the they ate an evening meal, not not in the morning. And at this point there simpl there's sort of this this inference that we haven't even eaten anything, that this is not possible for this to have occurred There isn't that is not the case when it comes to when it comes to this this text, and and and so he explains that to them. Then what he does is he is going to preach. Now I just want to mention this that what he does, you're going to see as he preaches, is the very first message preached in the book of Acts. It's the very first message preached by the church, essentially. And you're going to see that this is an explanation of scripture. You're going to see in this passage, as we look at it this week and next week, you're going to see Joel 2 mentioned and Psalm 16 mentioned, and there's other passages they're going to mention. It is clearly an explanation of the truth of the Word of God. And folks, that is what preaching is. Preaching is not. Good biblical preaching is not. Let me stand up here and tell you my opinion about things. It is an explanation of the Word of God, and we clearly see an example in the Apostle Peter as he does this. Now it's interesting as we then move into verse 16, we see that he mentions this book of Joel. He says, but this is what was spoken by the prophet Joel. And he's going to quote Joel chapter 2, verses 28 through 32. This is an interesting passage because there are actually three, at least three, views as to how to take what Peter is saying here. Peter quotes this Old Testament passage, and it's possible, or at least there is one view that suggests that this, that what happened at Pentecost. is actually a complete fulfillment of what has happened, uh it of what has been prophesied in Joel chapter 2. The problem with that view is that although there seems to be fulfillment in some areas, there are some areas that clearly, as you see the chapter, seem to be questionable as to whether they've been fulfilled or not. And you're going to see The problem there in a moment. Another problem that you're going to consider, another view is that this is not at all a fulfillment of prophecy. But really this is just an example of the kinds of things that will be done during this time period, but it isn't a full fulfillment of prophecy at all. Peter's just using this as an analogy, I guess, or something of that nature. Then there is another possibility. The other possibility is that this is a partial fulfillment. That part of Joel chapter 2 is fulfilled in this passage, and part of it still left to be fulfilled. Now what I want us to do is to take our Bibles and turn to Joel chapter 2. Would you do that? And what I want us to do with those three options in mind, with those three views in mind, I want us to look at Joel chapter 2, and we're going to read through it, and I just want you to read through it with that in mind and to see which of those views really commend themselves to you. So we're going to take what would be called an inductive approach to this, because I want you to see this for yourselves because after we understand this, we're then going to have to be able to begin to interpret our pat the passage based upon that. And then apply the passage based upon that. So this is very important for us to establish. And if you're having trouble finding Joel like I am at the moment You start with Hosea, Joel, and then Amos. So it's in between Hosea and Amos. Joel chapter 2. And then let's pick up here in verse 28. Notice what it says here. It says, And it shall come to pass afterward that I will pour out my spirit on all flesh. Your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, and your old men shall dream dreams, and your young your young men shall see visions. And also on my ma men servant and your ma and my maid servant, I will pour out my spirit in those days. And I will show wonders in the heavens and in the earth, blood and fire and pillars of smoke, the sun shall be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood, before the coming of the great and awesome day of the Lord. It shall come to pass that whoever calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved. Now let me ask you a question. Out of those three options, out of those three views, which would you say Which would you say would be the right view? Well, the problem with the first view that it is that is entirely fulfilled by uh that that Pentecost fulfills this prophecy completely is you have things in there that seem to not be included. You have you have this day of the Lord concept that we need to further understand. And the truth of the matter is, if you're going to take this as a full fulfillment, you are going to have to take at least some of it allegorically. You're not going to be able to take this literally to be fulfilled so far in the book of Acts. And so you would need to be careful about that view. On the other hand, is it possible that this is not a fulfillment at all? Well, it sure does look like, does it not, does it not look like there are some things that are clearly fulfilled here? The pouring out of the Holy Spirit, for example. 3,000 people coming to Christ later on we'll see in Acts chapter 2. All of what the Spirit of God is going to do in the book of Acts, does it not look to that look like there is there is some fulfillment here? And let me just suggest to you then, folks, that that is the right thing. That that this is a partial fulfillment. It's not that there's no fulfillment here. It's not that there's just a complete, total fulfillment, but it's a partial fulfillment. And I want to suggest three reasons for this. Maybe I want to assert three reasons for this. Maybe we'll go a little stronger than just suggest. Would you take your Bibles then and turn back to the book of Acts? And I want you to notice something about how Peter prefaces all of this. Acts, go turn back to Acts chapter 2. And while you're looking at Acts chapter 2, I want to just give you the first reason. The first reason is that we have precedent for a partial fulfillment. In other words, folks, there are times in the Old Testament That there is a prophecy and that all that we know that it's been partially fulfilled without without without completely being fulfilled The prime example is the coming of the Messiah. In the Old Testament, you have the prophecy of the coming of the Messiah. All over the Old Testament you have that. And never did the nation of Israel think that there was it was going to be split up into two advents, two comings. But that's exactly what occurs. So you have the first coming of Christ, which was prophesied in the Old Testament, and we clearly see through the Gospels that that has been fulfilled. uh that that the first coming is a partial fulfillment, but you don't have the second coming of Christ yet. The second coming of Christ will complete that Old Testament prophecy of the coming of the Messiah. And so you have in that example a clear precedent for a partial fulfillment. And there are other examples I could give you of the Old Testament of Things that are prophesied and partial fulfillments without completely being fulfilled. Then on top of that, I want you, I I would notice with me what the Apostle Peter says. As he comments on this passage, he says, verse 17, that it shall by the way, verse 16 it says, but this is what was spoken by the prophet Joel. This is what Peter says. And by the language of that, it's very hard that doesn't help us essentially one way or the other, which is why you have different views. It doesn't say there, for example, this is to be fulfilled now or this is fulfilled now. It also doesn't say uh that it's not fulfilled. I mean it's it's the if the the most literal translation of it is basically uh something like this is that. If you if you look at the Greek you have this word this and this word that with a with a with a being verb between it and this is that is essentially what it says, which really is it is general and doesn't help us to to really identify whether this is a fulfillment or not. But understand this. Notice what it says then, reason number two, it mentions the last days here. Verse 17, and it shall come to pass in the last days, says God. Now that that gives us a time period. So when were the last days? Are we living in the last days now? Well, yes, we are living in the last days, but they were back then too. The last days actually start with the first advent of Christ. Hebrews chapter 1, verse 2 says, has in these last days has that's Past tense has in these last days spoken to us by his son, whom he has appointed heirs of all things, through whom also he made the world. So the beginning of the last days This term, last days, started when Christ came to earth and began his earthly ministry and began to preach or give us the word, his word. And that's when the last days started. So when did the last days end? The last days ends, we're going to find in this passage to be the case, the last days ends when the day of the Lord, which is another prophetic phrase. Uh eschatological phrase, when the day of the Lord begins. And we're going to see that in just a moment, what that is. And that really brings us to the third point. We have the mention of the day of the Lord in this passage. So when you see in the New Testament this term day of the Lord mentioned, or sometimes you'll see the day, look at it here with me if you would. It says in the passage down down uh Acts 2. 19, for example, it says, and I will show wonders in the heaven above and signs in the earth beneath, blood and fire and the vapor of smoke. The sun shall be turned into darkness, and the moon shall uh into blood, and the coming of the great and awesome day of the Lord. And so you'll you'll see different things. Sometimes it'll say that day in the New Testament. Or the day of the Lord. So what is this day of the Lord talking about? Well, there's a passage in Zephaniah that very clearly tells us that this day of the Lord has to do with judgment. Zephaniah chapter 1, verse 14 through 18. You might want to write that passage down. I'll read it for you. It says The great day of the Lord is near, it is near and hastens quickly. The noise of the day of the Lord is bitter. There is mighty men sh uh there the mighty men shall cry out that day is a day of wrath. A day of trouble, a distress, a day of devastation and desolation, a day of darkness and gloominess, a day of clouds and thick darkness, a day of trumpet and alarm against the fortified cities And against the high towers. I will bring distress upon men, and they shall walk like blind men because they have sinned against the Lord. Their blood shall be poured out like dust. and their flesh like refuse, neither their silver na nor their gold shall be able to deliver them in the day of the Lord's wrath. But the whole land shall be devoured by fire of his jealousy, for he will make speedy riddance of all those who dwell in the land. The point there simply is this. You have a very real clear that the day of the Lord has to do with judgment. Write down this passage. We won't take the time to turn there, but you might want to write this down. First Thessalonians chapter five verses two through six give us the timing of when the day of the Lord is, along with the book of Revelation. And I'll just simply tell you this that the day of the Lord begins during the beginning of the tribulation period. It's after the rapture, just right at the after the rapture, the tribulation begins. And the day of the Lord begins at that point. Now, why is that important? It's important then, folks, because then we have two markers here in this passage. We have the last days Which we know starts with the coming of Christ, the first coming of Christ, and we have the day of the Lord, which happens at the beginning of the tribulation period. So you have this these clear markers And so that that establishes for us then, folks, what the fulfillment is here. The fulfillment of the Joel passage in Pentecost is the first part of it, the pouring out of the Holy Spirit, which we're going to look at here. But it doesn't include the last part of it, which is the judgment, which is going to come later. And so what we have here, folks, based upon that, is a partial fulfillment. This is important then because then it tells us what applies to the church, and very specifically what applies to us Otherwise, we're not going to know exactly what applies to us. Otherwise, how are you going to know, for example, when the Holy Spirit of God is poured out? Are we going to have to wait until the tribulation period? Is that when the Holy Spirit of God is poured out? Well, that doesn't even make a lot of sense because it says in Thessalonians that the restrainer is actually taken out of the world during that time. There's not at completely as far as omnipresence, but in in the sense of a specific working in the way that he is during the church All of that to say, bottom line, is this is a partial fulfillment, and what we have here then is that the Holy Spirit is being poured out to inaugurate the church, and he's going to be continued to use that way. Now, with all that in mind, then we want to do is to look specifically at verse 17, and we want to look at this whole idea of the pouring out of the Spirit of God. It says, verse 17: that I will pour out of my spirit on all flesh, your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, and your young men shall see visions, and your old men dream dreams. And on the and on my men's servants and on my maidservants I will pour out my spirit in those days, and they shall and then again you then see the same idea of prophesying. And we begin then by understanding what it is that he is talking about when it comes to the pouring out of the Spirit of God. This word has to do like a has to do The picture here is a torrential downpour in a parched earth. The Holy Spirit of God, the fullness of the Holy Spirit has been poured out. How many of you had this is isn't even in my notes, but how many of you had a like a torrential downpour last night? Okay, there you go. I mean that's a good illustration. I mean you didn't know it was I didn't know it was coming. Until I mean I somebody told me it was coming early in the in the evening, but until then I didn't know it was coming. In fact, I was outdoors studying for this. I like to be outdoors anytime I can and so uh when I put my final parts to a message together uh illustrating things and just thinking through things and praying through things. Sometimes I'll go outside. And so I was outside and it started to rain. Uh while and I immediately packed up all my stuff when I started the sprinkling and I got inside and then it was a it was a torrential downpour. And so you have this picture here of the of the downpour of the Holy Spirit. Did the Holy Spirit work in the Old Testament? The answer is yes. Did the Holy Spirit work during the time of Christ? The answer is yes. But now, folks, during the church age, the Holy Spirit is poured out. There is a real emphasis here on the on the work of the Holy Spirit. Somebody said it like this. The Old Testament is the work of the Father, the Gospels is the work of Christ, and the church age is the work of the Holy Spirit. Doesn't mean the others did work in various ways, but there does seem to be a real emphasis on the work of the Holy Spirit in this time of the church age. Now that then begs the question, what is this pouring out of the Holy Spirit, and how do we apply this and how does this all work? You'll recall from perhaps from Acts chapter 1 when we were there in verses 4 through 8 that it says in that passage, and it says, and being assembled together with them. He commanded them not to depart from Jerusalem, but to wait for the promise of the Father, that's the Holy Spirit, which he said, You have heard from me. And John truly baptized with water, but you shall be baptized with the Holy Spirit not many days from now. And that's a fulfillment of John chapter 3, verse 17. In other words, this Pentecost time is the fulfillment of John chapter 3, verse 17, when John the Baptist said, Hey, I'm baptizing with water, but there's going to be a day where the Christ will baptize with the Holy Spirit. That's the it's the fulfillment here. Now with that in mind, I'd like you to take your Bibles and turn to Acts chapter 11, if you would. Acts chapter 11, then you're going we're going to solidify exactly what is taking place here. When it comes to this pouring out of the Holy Spirit of God here. Acts chapter 11. And this is a description by Peter on of what has happened now at this point to the Gentiles in Acts chapter 11. What has happened to the Jews, he's going to say in Acts chapter 2, is the same thing as that what's happened to the Gentiles in Acts chapter 11. And you'll notice, we'll pick up in verse 13, he says this. And he told us how he had been had seen an angel standing in his house, and said to him, Send men to Joppa and call for Simon whose surname is Peter. Who will tell you words which you and all your household will be saved? And as I began to speak, the Holy Spirit fell upon them. See a same similar kind of wording there. The Holy Spirit fell upon them as upon us at the beginning. You see the connection? He makes the connection. He says, What's happened here has happened to us before in Acts chapter 2 in the beginning. And then he says in verse 16, then I remembered the word of the Lord, how he said, John indeed, do you notice what he says there? Baptized with what? Baptized with water, but you shall be baptized with the Holy Spirit. Again, we have this reference to John chapter 3, verse 17. If therefore God gave them the same gift as He gave us, When we both believed on the Lord Jesus Christ, who was I that I could withstand God? So, folks, then what you have here is a clear, it's clearly defined that what happened in Acts chapter 2, even though the baptism isn't mentioned in Acts chapter 2, that's exactly what it is. It's the baptism of the Holy Spirit. Acts chapter 2, when the Spirit was poured out, they were baptized by the Spirit of God. Now, then, what I want us then to do is ask the question: what is the baptism of the Holy Spirit? You may want to write down 1 Corinthians 12, verse 13, if you're taking notes. And it says in that passage: for by one Spirit we were all baptized into one body. whether Jews or Greeks, whether slaves or free. So the work of the baptism of the Holy Spirit is that He, can I say it this way, He immerses us into the body of Christ. He places us into the body of Christ. He does it this, and really there's a sense in which folks Christ does it with the Spirit. We see that from John chapter 3. But also he says then as well, and have all been made to drink into one spirit Well what does it mean to drink into one spirit? Folks, what is it what happens to you when you drink something? If you drink a glass of water, what is the water doing? Where does the water go? It goes inside of you, right? And so what you have here is at the same time you're being immersed in the church, that is, you are being you are being uh um placed into the body of Christ The Spirit of God is indwelling you. Right? The Holy Spirit of God is indwelling you. Now the question then is, when does this happen? Now that's an important question to answer for this reason. Do you know that there are many people that suggest to you that you are not indwelt by the Spirit of God or you are not baptized by the Spirit of God unless you speak in tongues? Once you have done that, then you know you're baptized by the Spirit of God. And until you do that, you don't know. There are some people that would take it that far. Folks, we have a very clear reason to not believe that. Do you realize that there are only three times in the entire book of Acts that tongues is mentioned? Three different occurrences in the whole book of Acts. That is not the emphasis of the book of Acts. You have a lot more going on in the book of Acts. than the tongues speaking. And in each of those cases, you have the signifying of something that is happening that is very prominent. You have Pentecost, for example, and in and in Acts chapter 11 when When it says that they spoke in tongues again, it's it's now the Gentiles are being included in the church. And then in Acts chapter 19, there's a group of people That have been baptized by John, but they hadn't yet understood all what they needed to know up to that point, and they were baptized again and and at that point. So these have these major events that occurred that the tongues signified. And as we learned last week Tongues really has to do with a sign to the unbelieving Jew to understand that these things authenticate what is actually happening. But the point I'm simply making there is that tongues is really not the emphasis. And in in Romans chapter eight verse nine You then have a definitive statement on who gets baptized by the Spirit of God. And the answer to that is it says, But you are not in the f but you are not in the flesh, but in the Spirit, if indeed the Spirit of God dwells in you Now, if anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ, he is not his. In other words, everyone who knows Christ as their Lord and Savior is baptized by the Spirit of God. You have thousands of people coming to Christ and not speaking in tongues in the book of Acts. So that means then that thousands of people are coming to Christ, thousands of people are received are being baptized by the Spirit of God with no outward manifestation of that. And that is why we can be firm on this, folks, that everyone that knows Christ as their Lord and Savior, that genuinely that has happened, we are placed into the body of Christ. And we are given the Spirit of God. The Spirit of God then indwells us. There are two different things, baptism of the Holy Spirit and dwelling of the Holy Spirit are two different things, but they really do very much go together. to complete the established work of the Holy Spirit in our lives. Now there is something else called the filling of the Holy Spirit. The filling of the Holy Spirit is something that is maintained by us. The dwelling of the Holy Spirit, the baptism of the Holy Spirit, is not maintained by us. You'll note in 1 Corinthians where we were in 1 Corinthians chapter 12, that is a carnal group of people in the Church of Corinth. And he says they're all baptized and dwell by the Spirit of God. However, when it comes to the filling of the Spirit of God, like in Ephesians chapter 5 and other places, Galatians chapter 5 and other places, you have the filling of the Spirit of God that is, it is an influence, the Spirit of God influences us. And that is maintained by the Christian. In other words, you can be filled with the Spirit of God and not filled at different times You're always indwelt, you're always baptized, but you you can be under the influence of the Spirit of God at some times and not under the influence of the Spirit of God other times. Does that make sense? Is everybody clear on that? This is a lot of information, but I think all this is absolutely necessary to understand our role and what what it all how it all is going to work. Now, with all of that in mind, then I want you to notice the next phrase in Acts chapter 2 As he is explained, continuing to explain Joel chapter 2. So look at that and notice what it says here. He said, I will pour out my spirit on all flesh. That is, all kinds of flesh. And this we see happening at Pentecost, don't we do we not? There are all kinds of ethnic groups, there are all kinds of languages, there are all kinds of nationalities represented. They're all Jewish people. But because of the scattering and the dispersions that occurred over history by God's providence, you have then people coming to this area and and the Spirit of God is reaching them and He's pouring out pe pouring out his spirit on all kinds of people. And folks, that is to signify the fact that the gospel is now going to go forward and the Holy Spirit is now going to work the gospel in the lives of all kin kindreds and tongues and tribes and nations. Just exactly what was said in Acts 1, verse 8, where it says, that you'll be witnesses to me in what? In Jerusalem, and in Judea, and in Samaria, and in the othermost parts of the world. And so clearly we have this emphasis on reaching out all over the world to all kinds of people for the sake of the gospel. And you know who's going to help us do this? It's the Spirit of God and his special work in our lives as Christians. This then brings us to what are then the results of the pouring out of the Spirit of God in this passage. And what results apply to us now and what may not apply to us at this point. You'll notice then in chapter 2, verse 18. It says, well, verse 17, it said it as well, your sons and daughter and your daughters shall prophesy, and your men servants and your maidservants, they'll also uh you you see they'll prophesy when they pour your spirit pour spirit on verse 18. You have, folks, then this emphasis on prophecy. Notice twice it's mentioned here. It doesn't say anything about tongues It says, prophesy that the last days, this time period, is going to be marked by the Spirit of God working and pouring Himself out so that people are prophesying. Now then that brings us to another question, doesn't it? What does it mean to prophesy? Well, the Old Testament um And by the way, if you want to write down a couple of passages, Numbers chapter 11, verse 26, 1 Samuel 10, 6, we see this correlation between the Spirit of God and prophesying. But what is he talking about when he says that people, all kinds of ages, by the way, all genders and ages, it's all it's all of it is possible to prophesy here. So what is he talking about when he says it's prophesying? Well, in the Old Testament you find two two kinds of pro at least two kinds of prophesying. One is a very specific kind of prophesying, we would call it predicting. Where where God came and talked to somebody like Jeremiah or or uh Isaiah and said, this is what is going to happen to Israel. You need now to predict this. And let everybody know that it's the case. And you have that going on in specific instances in the Old Testament. But folks, that is not the only use of prophesy in the Old Testament. Did you know that prophesy Sometimes it has to do just with the proclamation of the gospel. Or the proclamation of truth. Or the proclaiming of truth. In fact Sometimes it is so generally mentioned that that it it for example in 1 Chronicles chapter 25 it says this And David and captains of the army separated for the service some of the sons of Asaph and Haman and Jeditha, that they should prophesy with hearts And stringed instruments and cymbals. They're prophesying with instruments. I meant to, I didn't do this today, but I meant to go by uh and and and say, Tracy, I hope you enjoy prophesying today when you play the piano. She would have looked at me like I had three heads, probably. So, so is it so it it can be such a general word here? That it always has something to do with the revelation of God. Something to do with that. But it can mean It can it can be talking about the encouragement of being of God revealed or the proclamation of God revealed. It has to do with God being revealed and and being disseminated in some form, in some way. And the bottom line is what we have here is clearly a general use of it. Why do we know that? Because everybody's doing it. You've got men doing it and women doing it and children doing it. I mean you've got youth and you've got older people doing it in this passage in and in Joel. And you find that this happens in the New Testament. There is a kind of prophesying that happens among everybody In fact, in 1 Corinthians 11, it tells it says very specifically that women are currently going to prophesy. Now that doesn't mean that they're going to teach or usurp us authority over men. We clearly know that that can't be the case. But we do see in this passage that there is the point here is simply this, that what God's goal for us is a church In this dispensation, and I've now used the word for the first time, dispensation means a time period where God has a specific kind of administration, and that's what you have here. That at this time in our lives, God is going to really, folks, really reveal Himself. And who is He going to reveal Himself through? The Holy Spirit of God. Now you think about this, and during this time in the book of Acts, what do you suppose is one of the greatest contributions, if not the greatest contribution in the book of Acts? It's the written word. The New Testament was written during this time period, the first sent the first century in the book of Acts. All the apostles, or not all the apostles, but some of the apostles contributed to that, obviously. Our twenty-seven books of the New Testament, I gladly I remember the number. Twenty-seven books of the New Test New Testament are all there That were written during that time period. You have the word of God that is being disseminated. But folks, also what you have is people are really beginning to understand who God is. God is revealing Himself. In ways that didn't happen in the Old Testament. It's not that God didn't reveal Himself in the Old Testament, but it was in a different way, and we're going to see in a much more personal way. You have these other things like wonders in heaven in this passage and signs and blood and fire and vapor of smoke. And the question is, is has all of that been fulfilled? And really, I'm just going to say there, I'm not sure. You have fire in there in the Pentecost, you've got all the flames of fire over the people's over the people's heads in in um earlier on in Pentecost. You have that going on. Maybe there's smoke involved there. Maybe somehow blood is mentioned. It's hard to say whether that part of the text is being fulfilled or well whether it will be filled in the book of Revelation during the tribulation period, which you see all of those things there. But clearly what is not then fulfilled is in verse 21, is in verse 20. Would you notice what it says in verse 20? The sun shall be turned into darkness and the moon into blood before the coming of the great and awesome day of the Lord. And then, of course, folks, you know that that is still to be fulfilled, and we know that to be fulfilled in the book of Revelation. Revelation 6, verse 12, particularly, is where that is fulfilled. For our purposes then we need to ask this question. So how are we, what is our role and how does this all work in the pouring out of the Holy Spirit? And we clearly see something very definitive in verse 21. And it shall come to pass that whoever calls on the name of the Lord shall what? Shall be saved. How is it that you have the pouring of the Holy Spirit of God in your life? There's only one way. It's when you call upon the name of the Lord. The Bible says in Romans chapter 10, verse 9: If thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. If you understand your sin and you understand your need of a savior, you understand that your sin separates you from God, and you understand that Jesus died to pay the punishment for your sin, and you understand that Jesus rose from the grave victorious over sin and death The Bible says, believe in the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved. It later on says Romans chapter 10, verse 13: If thou shalt call upon the name of the Lord, thou shalt be saved. And if you have called upon the name of the Lord, that is, folks, it doesn't necessarily mean that you have audibly, verbally prayed a prayer. That's not the point. The point simply is that you have you are depending upon Christ. For what you cannot do for yourself to save you from your sin, and the Bible says you have the Spirit of God living inside of you. And you have been placed into the body of Christ by the Spirit of God. And folks, that really begs an application, does it not? What, folks, should we be relying on as Christians? The Spirit of God. We ha- ought to rely on the Spirit of God in our lives. And that really brings us then To the next point here, and that is that the beginning of the church signals the start of a new way of operating. We have an entirely new way of operating now. And when I read this passage and I notice just how how much God is giving, has given, and is giving his church with regard to his spirit. And the revelation of himself and all that is included in this idea of prophesying in this passage How are we doing with re relying on all of that? I'm not talking here about we need to go speak in tongues. That's not the point at all And if you get that point, if you draw that application, you miss the point. Folks, there is an application to draw here. And I want to begin by just pointing out a couple of things here. First of all, the events of Pentecost signal a new focus. You have, if you'll remember from last week, you have this, the Old Testament reference to the reference to the Mount to Mount Sinai and the way that all of these signs and wonders occurred at Pentecost. You have a reference to Mount Sinai. And about Sinai, the emphasis was on the law. The emphasis was on the giving of the law But now in this new time, this new dispensation, the emphasis is now on the giving of the Spirit of God. Now let me ask you this simple question. Well, let me before I do this just reiterate this. Do you remember John chapter 14, verse 17, where Where it says this, the spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it neither sees him nor knows him, but you know him, for he dwells with you and will be in you. Jesus prophesied that when he left, this Holy Spirit would come and indwell them. We know this to be the case. But there is a sense in which there is a, because of this, a different economy. Think back to the Old Testament for a moment. Think back to Israel and the center of Israel being the tabernacle and later on the temple and all of the twelve tribes surrounding the tabernacle and the temple. And the presence of God emanating from the center of the community. That is, the individuals within the community of Israel back then. Benefited from the presence of God that was that began in the community and went out into the individuals. And now you have an entirely different approach. Now you have the presence of God and the person of the Holy Spirit indwelling the individuals, and then it affects the entire community. And how it affects folks the entire community does depend upon whether or not we are relying on Him. In other words, is it not true that if we're not filled with the Spirit, And under the influence of the Holy Spirit, is it not true that our influence as individuals is going to be is going to be impacted when it comes to our influence on the body of Christ? That means, folks, that our personal devotions, for example, matters to worship corporately. Just by for an example. Did you have you ever thought of it this way that your your personal worship time with God Will impact your time in corporate worship. And if we are walking in the Spirit of God and if we are under the ad If we are under the influence of the Spirit of God, when we come together and worship God, there is going, folks, there is going to be a difference. And I have to say to you just just to emphasize this with some serious introspection that we really, we really have got to make time for this. Spending time with your God. A few weeks ago I had the opportunity to go away for a little while. Prior to that time, um I you know I I've had the habit of doing devotions for I and I'm uh candidly I've had the habit of doing devotions for a very, very long time. And it it is it is it is religious for me in the sense that it is it happens every day. But you know what? There is a sense in which you can go through the ritual You can go through the motions and you and and you have you have really accomplished nothing And I, you know, in my spirit I knew that I was drained emotionally and drained physically and and uh from things, and I was pretty honest with you all about that. And I just needed to get away get away with the Lord and spend some time and allow God to minister and to feed my soul. Folks, I I don't know how else to say it, but that is the only way that you can really be under the influence of the Spirit of God is if you start out that way. You have to be in the word. You have to allow God to influence your life. You have to. You say, well, I don't really have time for all of that. You don't have time not to. I just want to say this with great encouragement to you. We live in such a busy society. Where there are all kinds of things just grabbing for our attention, distractions on every on in every facet of life. Flashy thingies everywhere. You know, I I I just would really encourage you to take a Bible and a notepad, throw your phone out the window for a few minutes. Throw it out the window, put it on the desk, go go somewhere else. And just get with the Lord. And let God you say, I use my Bible on my phone. Okay, fine. That's great. I guess. Shut it off or something so you can't get things coming in while you're reading God's Word. You can't you've got to focus. I I just would encourage you that way. There there is such folks, there is such a need for this. How we it's like we've got this great Great privilege of having the Spirit of God indwelling us. He's baptized us. He wants to influence our lives But we don't have an hour a day to influence uh to be influenced by him And I just really I no way am I trying to I'm not trying to put a guilt trip per se, but I do want to emphasize, because I know from first hand experience what happens sometimes. You can be there, but not all there. Right? And I am this Wednesday night, we are going to look very specifically at how to help in this area of devotional time and prayer. And really allowing the Spirit of God to really influence your life at that level, and then for it to then carry out into your life. And I know, moms, you you've got people hanging on you all the time. And it's hard to to to get time away. Dads, help your help your wives. Husbands, help your wives. Like say, I'll take the kids for an hour. Make sure, you know, uh we need to lead our wives, don't we? That means providing for them spiritually, and sometimes the thing that they need to do most is just simply get alone with God, and we do too. We need to set the example. And and and it it would be amazing to see what what what would happen To a church where all of the individuals in a sort of unity with each other are really worshiping God on an individual level. What God would do. With a church like that, that in a sense has a full dose of the Spirit of God working. I am not at all saying that that would re-that would suddenly repeat Pentecost. That is a misapplication. But you know what? I suspect there would be souls that would be saved. I suspect that people would grow spiritually. I suspect that people would make strides in discipleship. And I suspect that the worship of God's people would be quite compelling to the lost. And I would encourage you, I mean just a very simple application to start there. The events of the past, the events of Pentecost then thirdly signals the breaking down of national and ethnic barriers. And we see that we've seen that several times in the passage, that this is that what was a barrier that started all the way back at the Tower of Babel. Now is going to be broken down. And the Word of God and the Spirit of God is going to work hand in hand with each other. So that the gospel can go forth and break down ever all of the national and ethnic barriers of the world. And what you have today is a result of that. We have circled the globe with the gospel. Not we, the Spirit of God. The gospel has circled the globe because of that. And that is all part of God's plan in this time. And the thing that I think that we need to just realize is that our role in all of this is to be channels. only. You remember that hymn? Channels only, Blessed Master. That But with all thy wondrous power flowing through us, thou canst use us every day and every hour. We should, number one, stand. In awe at God's wisdom in fulfilling prophecy his way. How do we put all this together and how do we apply these? We ought to, folks, we ought to see all this and you say that there's a lot of facts there. You went through a lot of details. Look, if you see nothing else, just stand in awe of God's fulfilling of his prophecy his way. And he will do it his way, and it will look different than we expect. There's an application for us for our lives as well there. Number two, we should realize the utter necessity of reliance upon God's Spirit We should realize the utter necessity of reliance upon God's Spirit in our lives. And number three, we must fulfill our role as channels only. And I just need to just circle back here and say this. I mentioned in the passage earlier that that if you Call upon the name of the Lord, you'll be saved. And if you don't know for sure, you're sitting here today and you don't know for sure where you would spend eternity, let me just encourage you this way. That you can know for sure. And I would love to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you can spend eternity with God and to know God the way that this passage is talking about. And you may not have understood everything in this passage. It may not be something that you really grasp everything. But know this. The Bible says in 1 John 5. 13, these things are written that ye may know that ye have eternal life. God wants you to know. You don't have to wait till the judgment and figure it out. God wants you to know. And you know when you know the way, and the way is Jesus Christ and what He did on the cross for you. And if you need to know more about that, please come and talk with me after the service or someone else that you're comfortable with. We'll be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you can spend eternity with the Lord and have a relationship with him. Let's pray together. Father, we do come to you and we are grateful. For your word and your truth. And we see here from this passage The emphasis on the Spirit of God that causes men and women, old and young, to be able to see for truth. to have it revealed to them, and then to disclose it to others through various means. And all of that we know biblically starts with us being under the influence of your spirit. Of daily worshiping you in your presence. And I trust that the exhortation today to do so would be one that would be received. All of us. Our flesh dwells no good thing. All of us Either struggle with a routine or we struggle with the meaningfulness in the routine. And yet there is such sweetness. And such strength and such power when we are under the influence of the Spirit of God. I pray, Lord, that there would be that we would not just be hearers of the word of the day, but that we would be doers in the aspects that you lead to. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.