Good morning. Take your Bibles and turn to the book of the Revelation. We're going to begin with chapter 1 and verse 1. The book of the Revelation is the final installment of the Bible God has progressively revealed himself to us through the Word of God. We see seeds of his truth in the book of Genesis. And we really see the consummation of that truth shown to us in the book of the Revelation. In order to be able to understand the book of the Revelation, you have to have a working knowledge of the rest of the book. But I would like to propose that in order to be able to have a working knowledge of the rest of the book, you've got to have a working knowledge of the book of the Revelation. It's kind of the capstone. It's it's it's what helps us see The end of the story. I don't know about you, but I get discouraged when I look at the world we live in. And God wants us to look forward to the end of the book. And so this morning I trust that this will be a great encouragement to you. What do you think of? What conjures up in your mind when you hear the word apocalypse? I mean, it's it's not a pretty picture, but it's interesting this phrase that you see in Revelation chapter 1 and verse 1, the revelation of Jesus Christ is actually the Greek phrase apocalypsis Jesus Christos or the word apocalypsis used there literally means to disclose that which was previously hidden. This book clearly is apocalyptic. When we think of those chaotic scenes. But the word literally means a revelation of Jesus. The book has been written in three parts. It's a narrative, and it really is written with this one intent. That we would see and know Jesus as he really is. There are parts of Jesus that have been alluded to throughout the entirety of Scripture. But we see it for the very first time in fruition in the book of the Revelation, the revealing of Jesus. Look at verse 3. Blessed is he who reads and those who hear the words of this prophecy and keep those things which are written therein, for the time is near. Looked up that word near this morning. And uh you know what it means? Near. It it's kind of interesting because this was written 2,000 years ago. And John wrote it anticipating this happening any moment. And I I think one of the things that we are going to see through this book is that there is nothing but the mercy of God keeping it from happening today. The only reason God has not finished this world is that He loves people and He does not want to see them perish. And I trust that that message and that recognition will grip our hearts this morning. In chapter 1, Jesus appears to John in his glorified humanity. We see a picture of him. I remember once, I'm a picture person. I think in pictures. And so I remember praying and asking God, God, would you just show me what you look like so that I could kind of see who I'm talking to? And my mind came to this Revelation of Jesus found for us in chapter 1. This is the apostle who, when Jesus was here on earth, literally laid on his chest at the Last Supper. And now when he sees Jesus in his glorified humanity, the Bible says that he fell down on the earth as dead. This is an impacting picture, and it bears reading. Chapters 2 and 3 show us Jesus in the midst of the church. Where is Jesus today? He is right here That is what is so exciting about what we see in chapters 2 and 3. And there in those chapters, he gives us unparalleled motivation to overcome the prevailing weaknesses of the Christianity of our day. Chapters one, or parts one and two, chapters one through three are seen from Earth's perspective. And chapter four, where we're going to begin this morning. is the beginning of part three and the perspective now changes. Let me see if I can paint a picture that will help us Take our eyes off of our own earthly existence this morning and see this picture that's being painted for us. Take our eyes off of a disappointing election with two horribly flawed candidates Off of a growing worry that all that we hold dear in this beloved country is falling apart. Off of a rumble of a stomach that is already beginning to tell us that human hunger always return. It never really is satisfied. Off of a wandering mind that gets distracted because of a busy work schedule, family commitments, looming bills, and a million other things. that are screaming at us from our busy American lifestyle demanding our attention. Imagine this morning The churches across North America and Europe that are meeting, many of them look just like ours, and many of them do not. Now imagine the churches of Southeast Asia, Central, and South America. We're talking about some major similarities and some major differences. Let your mind roam to the full-throated praises of those coming from southern and central Africa. The tight security of churches meeting in secret in northern Africa, the Middle East, and much of China. Now imagine all of those churches of every tongue, tribe, and ethnic group hearing a clarion call. No one has to stop to wonder what's happening. It's the moment we're waiting for. It's the beginning of the life we've been created for. The next instant each sees Jesus coming in the clouds. And though there's a host of angels and the dead in Christ rising with him, no one can take their eyes Off of the risen, victorious Lamb of God. Come to take us home That's how the church age will end and usher in the scene that we see in front of us in chapter 4, verse 1. This book has been revealed or written to reveal Jesus. It shows us things about him we see nowhere else in the scripture. And there are four things that I want us to notice in these few chapters that I believe you'll recognize. Number one, we're going to see that God is holy and cannot tolerate our sins. Number two, we're going to see that God is just and cannot overlook our sins. He must judge sin. Number three, we're going to see that God is loving, cannot ignore our problem, that He's reached out to us and provided a way for us to be close to Him. that satisfies his holy just nature. And number four, that God is gracious and he offers his salvation from our sin and its curse as a gift. This is a different kind of a sermon. It's kind of the old-fashioned sermon they used to call a Bible reading. And basically, I'm going to read the text and give to us comments along the way. And I trust that you'll enjoy what this book has promised hearing the word. In chapter one or verse one of chapter uh um four, we see this concept that God is completely holy. And in verses one through three, he tells us and shows us the beauty of holiness. After these things I looked, and behold, a door standing open in heaven. And the first door which I or excuse me, the first voice which I heard was like a trumpet speaking to me. saying, Come up here, and I will show you things that must take place after this. Immediately I was in the Spirit, and behold, a throne sat in heaven, and one sat on the throne And he who sat there was like a jasper or sardous stone in appearance, and there was a rainbow round about the throne in appearance of an emerald. Can you imagine the startling contrast between the harsh uh climate and conditions of the labor camp that John was on the Isle of Patmos and all of a sudden, in the twinkling of an eye, he is now in heaven. And what John shows us is very important because what he gives us a picture of is what is preeminent in heaven. This is Sh coming from the Isle of Patmos into heaven, and he describes for us what he sees. The very first thing he notices is a throne. And it immediately establishes the role of the one on the throne as sovereign of the universe. Whatever is happening here on earth, it's not up for grabs. There's a throne in heaven. It's been there before this world began, and it will be there when it's gone. And that throne has been controlling and directing all of the tides of history. And I don't know what's going to happen on election day, but I know this We serve a sovereign God who is using all of these things for his good and for and for our good and for his glory. And the fact is that you and I can trust him. He's on the throne And then notice the impact of the one on the throne. It's interesting that we don't see facial features. I mean it's not like he says he had the softest blue eye. You know, I it doesn't tell us the things that you and I would describe about someone. He tells us colors The crystal clear of a dazzling diamond, the brilliant ruby red. And then the emanating aura of emerald green. I believe each of these flashing facets are demonstrating the perfect Splendor of the holiness of God. Not only do we see that God's holiness is beautiful, But we see that God's holiness drastically impacts our relationship with Him. And we see the relationship of holiness in verses 4 through 6. And in verse 4, we see representatives of the redeemed. Round about the throne were four 24 thrones. And the thrones I saw 24 elders sitting Clothed in white robes, and they had crowns of gold on their heads. These representative saints are wearing victors' crowns and clothes of the redeemed. They appear to have already been at the bhima seat of Christ, where the redeemed of the earth are rewarded And then notice the outworkings of the throne in verse 5. And from the throne's throne proceeded lightnings and thunders and voices. This is not a passive sovereign. What we see is the constant, awesome work of the throne, working side by side with the illuminating work of the Holy Spirit. Now, I don't know what that scene reminds you of. But remember I told you you need a working knowledge of the scripture to be able to understand this uh uh uh book and when you hear these words proceeding from the throne were lightnings and thunders and voices It reminds me of Mount Sinai, where God gave his law that reflects his holy character to us. Exodus 19, verse 16. There were thunderings and lightnings and a thick cloud on the mountain, and the sound of the trumpet was very loud, so that all the people of the camp trembled. God in his law has given us a picture of himself. When God says Thou shalt not bear false witness. It's not just because God doesn't want us to lie. It's because God is truth. And every single time I lie, I separate myself further and further and further. from the God who is truth. When God says, thou shalt not commit adultery, it's not just that God is trying to protect marriage. but that God by nature is faithful and loyal. He's a covenant-keeping God. And when a man breaks his covenant with his wife It is not just that he has hurt her, but that he has offended a holy God. And every one of those laws reflect back to us his character. Notice The first part of verse 6, the transcendent nature of God. Before the throne, there was a sea of glass like crystal. Some of these details, I'm kind of summarizing, some of them, I have to admit, are just my take on what's happening here. There's a lot of controversy over what the Crystal Sea is, but at least one thing we know that it visually reminds us of the transcendent nature of our God, distance between God and everyone else. No one can be holy like God is holy. The Bible tells us there is none righteous, no not one. There's not a just man on the earth that does good and sins not. We've all sinned and come short of the glory of God. And then we see the worshipers of the throne room. And in the midst of the throne, round about the throne, were four living creatures, full of eyes in front and in back. And I've got to admit to you That the description that these the old King James calls them beast Uh uh I think probably the word creatures is a better translation. The idea here is these are living beings that are something that you and I have never experience. They are described here and several other places throughout the Bible, and it is obvious that earthbound words fail to describe the spectacular supernatural beings that are in God's eternal realm. There's a world there that you and I know very little about. It's fitting that this scene in heaven now culminates in worship because God's holiness demands worship Notice in verses seven and eight the worship of the angels and the four living creatures. Each of them six had six wings. were full of eyes around and within, and they do not rest day or night, saying, Holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty, who was and is and is to come Now may ask you a question, does that remind you of any other place in the Bible? Isaiah chapter 6 and verse 1 Isaiah says to us, and I saw the Lord sitting on a throne, high and lifted up, and his train, or that visible aura, filled The temple. And above it stood Seraphim. Now the beasts, the creatures, have a name. Seraphim, each of them having six wings, with two they covered their face, with two they covered their feet, and with two they flew And one cried to another, Holy, Holy, Holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is full of his glory. In history, these two scenes of the throne room of God are separated by at least 2,600 years. And all of those 2,600 years, these angels have been so impacted by God's holy presence. That they have no choice but to call out in all to each other, holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. No wonder Isaiah said in chapter six Woe is me for I am undone Because I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips. The fact is that God's holiness is completely separated from sin. He is unequivocally untainted by any form of evil, and our sin separates us from him. And then we see the worship of the redeemed in verses nine and following. And whenever the living creatures give glory and honor and thanks to him that sits on the throne, who lives forever and ever, the Twenty-four elders fall down before him who sits on his throne and worship him forever, and they cast their crowns before him, saying, You are worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honor and power for you created all things, and by you they exist and were created. This is the ongoing rapture-filled worship of heaven. There's so much in this passage we're not noting. But we want to focus on God's character, what he is revealing to us about himself so that we can know him. These two chapters four and five, create the greatest ortorial of all time. This first movement started with an angelic quartet, and then we added to them what I'm calling the ensemble of the redeemed. And we can call this first movement the creation hymn. Now John notices something in chapter 1, or verse 1 of chapter 5. that demands his attention. And I saw in the right hand of him who sat on the throne a scroll written inside on the back and on the back and sealed with seven seals. And so this scroll, it's a book that is bound uh uh in in circular, not by a binding on the back, and it's sealed with Seals that only those who have the right authority can open. In verses 1 through 5 of chapter 5, we're going to see that God is absolutely just. Now, I don't know about you, but Many, when first introduced to God and see his beautiful holiness and his sovereign power, are forced to ask the logical question. So if God is great and God is good, then why is there so much suffering in our world? And I believe it's one of the questions that really throw a lot of lost people off. You and I need to have an answer for them. And we see in this passage the intrusion of sin. You see, God created the world perfectly. He didn't create the world with illness and sickness. The world was plunged into this curse when we humans chose to sin. Romans chapter 5, verse 12 says, Therefore, just as through one man sin entered into the world, death through sin, thus dead death spread to all men, because all You see, God hates sin and its effect, and in his justice, he must rid his world of sin and its accompanying curse In Revelation chapter 21, the Bible tells us that God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. There will be no more death. No more sorrow, no more crying. There will be no more pain, for the former things have passed away. Then he who sat on the throne said, Behold, I make all things new This book is about God bringing that about. In verses one through four, we see not only the entrance of sin, but we see the need for a judge. The scroll described for us in verse 1 contains God's blueprint for justice. to rid the world of sin and its curse. God, in justice, pronounced his plan to wipe the world clean of all of the vestiges of sin. We see it recorded for us in Second Peter chapter three and verse ten. But the day of the Lord shall come as a thief in the night, in which the heavens will pass away with a great noise, and the elements will melt with fervent heat, both earth And the works that are therein shall be burned up. In God's love and mercy, He has restrained his wrath against sin for a time. If God wiped away sin As soon as it entered into earth, every human would perish because every human is guilty of sin. We could say it this way, if God judged sin immediately, I would already be in hell. And so would every single person in this room. You see, the Bible tells us the Lord is not slack concerning his promise to judge sin, but is long-suffering toward us, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. Having said that, the Bible teaches us that all creation is laboring and longing for God's justice to free it. from the curse of sin. Romans chapter 8, verse 18 tells us the suffering of this present time is a result of the empty promises of sin. And that the earnest expectation of the creation earnestly waits for the revealing of the sons of God. For the creation was subject to futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it. in hope. And earth is waiting to be redeemed. Heaven too is ready for God's wrath against sin to be poured out on the earth. Psalm chapter 9 and verse 7 says, The Lord shall endure forever. He has prepared his throne for judgment. He shall judge the world in righteousness. He shall administer judgment for the peoples in uprightness. Could you imagine this morning an army of angels? I'm a picture person. Let's just paint our picture. And they they're they're mounted on horses. You know what horses do when they're impatient, don't you? Can you see them talling at the pavement in heaven? Can you see them rattling those harnesses? And there even amongst the ranks of the angels, we hear this rumble of voices. Lord, how long? How long? And at the front of that army is a huge angel. And he's got his Hand on the hilt of his sword, and he is looking back at the one on the throne, and he is waiting for the one on the throne to say, now. And when he says, now This tribulation that we're going to read about in verse 6 and chapter 6 and following will begin. The only, I don't know if it looks like that. I have to tell you, that's my imagination. But the only thing that is keeping this world from plunging into tribulation today is the one on the throne. And he is waiting for his perfect moment. And you and I know that he's waiting because he is longing to see some come to know Christ. No wonder Job asked us this question. Will not his majesty make you afraid and the dread of him fall upon you? The blueprint for justice needs an executor, one who can execute the plan to rid the world of sin and its curse. Reading in verse 2. Then I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, Who is worthy to open the scroll and loose its seals? And no one in heaven or on the earth or under the earth was able to open the scroll or to look at it. This blueprint for justice culminates in the glorious return of the executor as jury and judge, ridding the world of sin and its curse. And there is no one in heaven or in earth worthy to be that executor. And then we see the entrance of judge. And one of the elders said to me, Do not weep. Behold, the Lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David, has prevailed to open the scroll and to loose its seven seals. And we see Jesus Christ come onto the scene. As Lion, Christ is sovereign and judge. He is the picture of the government of God's justice. But in the midst of this picture, we see something we do not expect And God begins to reveal to us his outrageous love. Not only do we see the entrance of the judge, but at the same instance we see the entrance of the judged. And I looked, and behold, in the midst of the throne, and of the four living creatures, and in the midst of the elders stood a lamb, as though it had been slain Having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God, sent into all the earth As the Lamb, Christ is Savior and judged. The picture of the exchange Of God's love and grace. You see, the Bible tells us that every human that ever sinned deserves eternity apart from God in hell. That Jesus Christ came and bore the penalty of our judgment for us and death on the cross. And he invites every single human to go stand in his place and have his perfect righteousness because without righteousness no one can stand before God The Bible says, and he, the Lamb, came and took the scroll out of the right hand of him who sat on the throne. Jesus' execution of God's blueprint for justice will culminate in his glorious return for his bride. He will destroy the host of evil with one word out of his mouth. And then comes the exaltation of that Savior. It's almost like all of heaven erupts in song. And this second movement of this beautiful song starts by the redeemed in verses eight through nine. Now when he had taken the scroll, the four living creatures and the twenty four elders fell down before the Lamb, each having a harp, and Golden bowls full of incense, they are the prayers of the saints. We could call this second movement of this great Otorio the redemption hymn. At first, it's the quartet and the redeemed ensemble again, but now with full orchestra, little by little you recognize other voices. There's the voice of a mother, a pastor. A precious old saint in a nursing home, a child in his bed, a dad next to him. The chorus grows louder and louder as all the saints on earth Join heaven's most powerful worship song through prayer. When you and I bow our heads and close our eyes and talk to God, your voice is heard in heaven. And they sang a new song. By the way, it's new because it could never be sung until redemption took place. You are worthy to take the scroll and to open the seals. For you were slain and have redeemed us by God, by your blood, out of every tribe and tongue and people and nation. When Jesus Christ died on the cross, He took our place. He poured, God poured out his wrath on sin on him, his blood in my place. The Bible tells us, for God made Jesus, who knew no sin, to become sin for us, that we might be made the righteousness of God. That's outrageous love. God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. And this love in exchange not only removed our sins and redeemed our soul, but it transforms us. Look at the redemption song in verse 10. And having made us kings and priests to our God, and we shall reign on the earth. And then all creation joins the song. And I looked and I heard the voice of many angels around the throne, the living creatures and the elders, and the number was 10,000 times 10,000. Thousands of thousands saying with a loud voice, Worthy is the Lamb who was slain to receive power and riches and wisdom and strength and honor and glory and blessing. And every creature which is in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and such as are in the sea, and all that are in them, I heard saying, Blessing and honor and glory and power be unto him who sits on the throne and to the Lamb forever and ever. We have seen throughout Scripture that Jesus Christ and God the Father are co-equal in heaven. But this is the first time we see it in reality. When God said about Jesus, every knee shall bow and every tongue shall confess that he is Lord of Lords and King of kings, he meant it, and this is the fruition of it. With this song, Jesus is elevated to that place of equality with God. Not that he wasn't there, but now we see him for the first time. And will now begin the execution of the blueprint for justice. And then all the four living beasts said, Amen. And the 24 elders fell down and worshipped him who lives forever. I want you to see this one person with two descriptions. As the Lion, Christ is sovereign and judge. He is literally the picture of the government of God's justice. When it says that every knee shall bow, literally what that means is that Jesus Christ is the judge who sits on the bima seat of Christ, judging us. the redeemed, and on the great white throne judgment, judging every soul that refused him But as the Lamb, Christ is Savior and Judge, the picture of the exchange, Jesus is both of these things. And he will be one or the other to you. I do want you to recognize something. This is a book that reveals him to us. And in this book that reveals him to us. He is called the Lion of the tribe of Judah once. And he is called the Lamb 28 times in this one book. Jesus Christ longs to redeem you. He is showing himself. He is showing his heart and his desire. So, in chapter 6 and verse 1, Jesus, the executor of the blueprint, opens the first seal. And thus begins seven years of the wrath of God being poured out onto a sinful world. Frankly, I think we have to ask the question, why such a slow, arduous process? And the answer is, even in judgment, God is calling rebels to repent. And in this process of judging the world, God is seen as amazingly gracious. You see, he gives the rebellious a chance to repent. God could have culminated his judgment with a swift return at Jesus Christ at this point, and yet he tarries The love of God for his people and the just fulfillment of his promises to Israel demand that he send a catalyst into the equation. I don't know about you, but right now it just seems as though the world is up for grabs. I mean, it just seems like there are so many people turning away from God and screaming against the truth of God. And so what God does is he throws the catalyst of judgment into the world to make people decide. And in the process, he calls one thousand and forty-four thousand evangelists to preach the gospel to the whole world. Israel as a nation recognizes Jesus as their Messiah. Millions on earth are saved from wrath. through repentance. They recognize their curse of sin and turn to God, while others, the Bible tells us in Revelation chapter 16, verse 21, blaspheme God because of the plague. and since the plague was exceeding great. In verse seventeen it says, These will make war on the saint, and the Lamb will overcome them, for he is the Lord of Lord and King of Kings, and those who are with him are called chosen. Chapter 19, Jesus returns to earth to finally rid it of sin and rule as its rightful ruler. He has had the power to do that. Since his resurrection from the dead. But he is waiting for more to repent. No wonder he left us with these parting words. Jesus spoke unto them saying, All authority is given unto me, both in heaven and in earth. And I want you to know when he said all authority, he knew That it was all the authority to break open the seals and to come down in glory. But that's not what he told us to do now. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all things which I have commanded you. And lo, I am with you always. Even until the end of the world. Amen. All power. Go. Make disciples. Build the church. That's what God's call to us is. God gives the church in this age a chance to invite. I just wanted to see Jesus' promise at the end of the book. After the description. The judgment of Satan and his followers, after the description of our eternal home with God in heaven, Jesus ends the book with this promise. Behold, I come quickly. By the way, the word quickly does not necessarily mean it's going to happen soon. What it means is it's going to happen suddenly. I remember G. Campbell Morgan once said, if you figure out when God is going to come back again, don't tell me. Because God has set it so that every saint through the ages would be anticipating his return now. God wants us living every day thinking this could be the day. And I want you to know that promise, I, the Bible says And coming quickly. That promise is glorious to those of us who know him. I don't know about you, but I just assumed he'd come before the election. It would be fine with me You and I were made for an eternal loving relationship with God Every longing of the human soul is an actual longing for heaven itself. Yet that same promise is terrifying for those who do not know him. Revelation chapter 20 and verse 14 tells us in death and hell we're casting a lake of fire. This is the second death. And anyone not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. Here in chapter 22, verses 14 and 15, God gives us a glimpse of the two groups of people Those who are blessed and may enter into the gates of heaven, and those who are excluded because they love their sin more than their Savior. And not only do we see a promise in this last chapter, but we see an invitation. God made humans to share a loving relationship with him. That's why he made us. And he's commissioned his Holy Spirit and his church to spend this age pleading with humans everywhere. Come back to God. We read in Sunday school. Now then we are ambassadors for Christ. Though God were pleading through us, we implore you on Christ's stead. Be reconciled to God, come back to God. That ought to be our consuming occupation. That ought to be consuming our hearts in our times. Look at verse 17. And the Spirit and the Bride say, Come. That's us, by the way, the bride. That's us. That's what we're doing right now in conjunction with the Holy Spirit. The picture we painted in Sunday school is exactly what God is calling us to do. Let him that is thirsty come. Whoever desires, let him come take of the water of life freely. And then I want you to notice the very last words of the Bible. Grace Of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. And God's people said Amen. Lord, I pray that you would stir our hearts. Lord, I love you today and I praise you. That though you are the lion of the tribe of Judah, you present yourself as a lamb, as it had been slain. And in this book that reveals you to the world, you call yourself Lamb 28 times. Lord, no wonder you end this book with the church pleading for those who do not know you to come. Lord, I love that thought. Come and see the works of God. I'll show you what He's done to my soul. Lord, give us hearts that will plead with the loss. Come back to God. Lord, may it be our consuming occupation as we occupy here on the earth. Lord, this is not our home. It's going to all burn up. We don't have to worry about elections. Lord, we don't have to worry about our homes and our things. Those are all under your watch care because you are sovereign. You want us to be consumed With calling the loss. Lord, that's the, I believe that's what's consuming your heart. No wonder you're waiting because you love the loss. Lord, may we catch the heart of the Father. And may we love you and love those you love. We pray these things in your precious holy name. Amen.