And the doctrine of providence is um, well, let's just kind of we'll we're gonna we're gonna hit the ground running with this. It really, it's like the next step after you talk about creation. God being the creator of everything, okay, well then where do you go from here? Did God did God just like create everything and spin a top and let it go and he doesn't do anything else with it? What is his involvement in his creation on a day-to-day l level? And that's that's really what God the doctrine of God's providence has to do with So we'll look at what it is, and then we're going to look at several implications of the doctrine of God's providence. Since God is God is providential. What does that mean? What implications are there? I want to say this, that next week we'll talk are we'll be talking about God's providence as well, no doubt about that. And we will be dealing with some of the struggles, the issues of sin and man's responsibility and human choices. We'll get into some of that tonight. But we'll be dealing with how that works within God's providence next week. So this is not an easy subject. And you'll see that as we go through that. So some of the things we'll be dealing with next week, but we want to begin by looking at at what God's providence is. When you're look dealing with systematic theology, one of the things that you can look at is sometimes uh uh uh uh th they are now called systematic theologies and you can get a volume or multi-volume set that's a systematic theology. But y years ago it was really called something different. They would be called catechisms And so you have different catechisms. You have the Westminster Catechism and uh and you have Spurgeon wrote a catech catechism, uh you have several Baptist catechisms, there's all kinds of historically different kinds of catechisms. Well This particular catechism called the Heidelberg Catechism, which is a Baptist catechism, says this about God's providence. It says, God's providence is his almighty and ever-present power, whereby as with his hand He still upholds heaven and earth and all creatures, and so governs them that leaf and blade, rain and drought, fruitful and barren years. food and drink, health and sickness, riches and poverty, indeed all things come not by chance, but by his fatherly hand. So that's one definition of providence. The recent systematic theology put together by MacArthur and Mayhew says divine providence is God's preserving his creation operating in every event in the world and directing the things in the universe to his appointed end for them. So that's that's his that's another definition of uh of providence. So let's look at some scripture. We want to s clearly establish what scripture says about this. And you can take your Bibles and turn to Psalm 104. We're just going to read it. I won't make a lot of comment, but we do want to read through this. Um and you're going to see a lot of detail as to what what God's providen providence what includes Psalm 104, and we'll just pick up in verse 1, it says, Blessed is the Lord, O my soul. O Lord, my God, you are very great. You are clothed with honor and majesty. Who cover yourself with light as with a garment, who stretch out the heavens like a curtain, he lays the beams of his upper chambers and the waters, who makes the clouds his chariots. who walks on the wings of the wind, who makes his angels spirits, his ministers a flame of fire. You who laid the foundations of the earth, so that it should not be moved forever, you covered it with the deep as with a garment, the waters stood above the mountains, at your rebuke they fled. At the voice of your thunder they hastened away So you see now uh he establishes the foundations and now he does what he wants to with them. Um verse eight uh eight, they went up over the mountains, they went down into the valleys to the place which you founded for them. You have set a boundary that they may not pass over. So he sets the laws of creation. He sets the boundaries. That they may not return to uh cover the earth. He sends the springs into the valleys. They flow among the hills. They give drink to every beast of the field. They wa the wild donkeys quench their thirst. By them the birds of the heavens have their home. They sing among the branches. He waters his the hills from his upper chambers. The earth is satisfied with the fruit of your works He causes the grass to grow for the cattle, and vegetation for the servant service of man, that he may bring forth food from the earth. And wine that makes good glad the heart of man, oil to make his face shine, and bread which strengthens man's heart. The trees of the Lord are full of sap, the cedars of Lebanon which he planted. Where the birds make their nests, the stork has his has her home in the fir trees. The high hills are the wild goats. The cliffs are refuge for the rock badgers He appointed the moon for seasons. The sun knows its going down. You make darkness, and it is night, in which all the beasts of the forest creep about. So I could keep going. There is a lot. Let's look at pick up at verse 24. O Lord, how manifold are your works and wisdom. You have made them all. The earth is full of your possessions. You have actually interchangeable as in this passage, sometimes it's saying God created something, He created dark, He created night, and then God is working and and and doing things within His creation. There's all kinds of detail in this passage about what God is doing and how he's doing it and how he's working in this pass in this passage to show us, to establish that God's providence is rather detailed. It's more detailed, perhaps, than we would think on a day-to-day basis Um take your Bibles for a moment and there's a particular actually you don't have to take your Bibles because it's actually on your handout, but in Romans 11, three uh eleven thirty-six is kind of a key verse for you to know. Um 1136 it says, from uh for from him and through him and to him are all things. To him be glory forever. From him, through him, and to him. So we we we we usually think of God in terms of the fact that he has created all things. But he hasn't just created them, he sustains them, he does things with them, he works his ways, he works in them and through them. And two, and they're for him. So let's break this down a little bit. Let's look at, first of all, preservation. So there are three different things that we want to look at. One is when we're thinking about God's providence, God's sustaining, working in creation. Essentially, in layman's terms, to keep it going. He keeps the thing going. So it's not that he just spins the top and lets it go and let it uh lets it do what it wants. That's not the case. That would be does anybody remember what that is? From last week? Deism. That's deism. Okay? Or the he's the great clockmaker, he makes the clock, winds it up, lets it go, or spins it top, lets it go. and then creation just does what it wants. That's deism. When when did de by the way, when did deism become real popular? It was during the Enlightenment. That's really when it became a uh a a very popular time. Uh and who and and during the Enlightenment was uh who uh Who in our founding fathers were deists? Does anybody remember? Yeah, you got Ben Franklin, you've got Thomas Jefferson, and there were others as well. Those are the two most prominent. Does somebody else say another name? Those are the two that I that are most prominent that were deists. So that really goes against what the Bible says. It really is obviously clear from the Bible in many, many places, one we just read, but there are others as well But that's not the case. So how does God do this? First of all, like what's involved in his providence? Number one, God preserves his creation. He preserves it. God preserves all things according to their own properties as long as he wills them to exist. God preserves what he created. He does not create new atoms, molecules, and energy. God preserves the dynamics of nature in relative stability and predictability so that the science and technology are possible. Okay. So when we're thinking about God's preservation, we need to think in terms of what how He's preserving. Yeah. What is relative? Well, I think saying essentially there that um God can choose by his own miraculous hand to make something that not stable, unstable, that that is otherwise stable. So God is not re Like um we we know things as laws of science is just observe we observe processes and we've come up with different the second law, thermodynam thermodynamics, different kinds of laws in science. Well God's not bound. We would not want to say that God is bound by those laws. God created the laws And if God wants to break the law, if he wants to make a miracle or do something outside of it, he can. So in that sense when we're talking about God's preservation of his creation and God's providential hand and all of that, we want to say that it's relative stability rather than Complete stability. Where he can't now he's not confining himself. Does that make sense? Yeah, good question. So um So that's the idea of preservation. There's a lot of passages we could go to that for that. One real good real good passage to go to is Colossians chapter 1. And this is a good passage for creation as well as as providence. Colossians chapter 1, verse 15 says he is in the image He which is talking about Christ is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn over all creation. For by him all things were created that are in heaven and are and are in earth. visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions, principalities or powers, all things were created through him and for him. Verse 17 though, and he is before all things, and in him all things consist Hebrews chapter 1, verse 3 says, and being the brightness of his glory and express image of his person, upholding all things by the word of his power. When he had by himself purged our sins, sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on high. He is upholding all things by the word of his power. So he is preserving God is pres is preservation. So without Christ, nothing would exist. That's the doctrine of creation, but without uh I'm sorry, without Christ nothing would come into existence. That's the doctrine of creation. Without Christ nothing would continue to exist, that's the doctrine of preservation. Job thirty-four fourteen says, if he should take back his spirit to himself and gather to himself his breath, all flesh would perish together. And man would return to dust. That's significant. God pulled back his spirit. You want to know what would happen? All flesh would perish, and man would turn to dust. Yeah. price creation wouldn't have happened. Were you specifying price as opposed to having a father or is it just they're both active in creation according to Genesis one. But that passage happens to be talking specifically about Christ. Christ. Were you quoting scripture just then? Sure. Okay, so that's preservation. Next doctrine is the doctrine of that now this is within providence, but is concurrence. So God works in and through his creation. So he preserves creation, but he also works in and through his creation. Concurrence means that God cooperates with created things uh in every action. Now before we actually get into that, I wanna I want to bring up some uh a controversy I should have I'm a little out of order here, but let me I want to bring up something that has been a real controversy for uh a significant amount of time now. Has anybody heard ever heard of something called open theism? I'm curious. Has anybody ever heard of that? Okay. It must be a controversy and theologians and stuff. But here's what open theism says. This is not good. Open theism says that since God and humans are free, God's knowledge is dynamic. And God's providence is flexible. While several versions of tradition, traditional theism, picture God's knowledge of the future as a singular, fixed trajectory Open theism sees it as a plurality of branching possibilities, with some possibilities becoming settled as time moves forward. That's open theism. Have you so opotheism says, okay, if man's if there is really truly un uh man has free will then we can't say that there is a determined future. The the future must be open And then they go so far as to say that God's omniscience is even open. Because if man's really free, how can God even know what he's going to do? So this is something that is that is that took root uh in certain seminaries and things and um had to be rooted out by others. Uh This is open theism. But we do this does create a this does it it's an attempt to answer a problem with the wrong solution. Yeah. Theism kind of assumes that um God is bound by time. Like with the open theism you're talking about? Well he's not bound by our time. It's a very good point. Yeah. The real issue is how can man ha really be free ha how his will really be free? when when man when uh uh uh if if that's true and uh uh it it raises a problem. Well let's answer the problem. And we'll answer it this way. We look at preservation. We're going to look at concurrence here. Concurrence means that God cooperates with created things in every action. Okay, so he's cooperating with created things. Well that makes sense, doesn't it? Why? Yes. Okay. Um well but yeah, but we're s he's still cooperating with them. I mean they're not he's doing it the way he wants to, I guess. Maybe miracles are an exception to that. Uh c concurrence uh is a j is his general mode, maybe we could say that miracles would it would be an exception to his concurrence. Um and that's why miracles are not necessarily to say that miracles sometimes we use this term miracle And we're we're using it a little loosely because um it all depends what you mean by miracle. But if you're if you if what you mean by miracle is stepping outside of normative creative act, then that would be a an exception. What the key to this is understanding this. It's something called primary and secondary causes. Okay? And when we understand this, it it will help us to understand God's providence and how this works together. So, what is God's primary and secondary causes? God's primary cause is that God creates something. He does something. The secondary cause, a secondary cause, is that God, God's creation does something. You follow that? So primary, God does something. Secondary, God's creation does something according to how they have been created Does that make sense? Um so God creates a dog, primary cause. A dog barks, secondary cause. Who made the dog bark? Well, if you mean primar primary cause, God made the dog bark. But if you mean secondary cause, the dog made the dog bark. Right? Take a biblical illustration. What killed David? The rock or God? I'm not sorry, what killed Goliath? Ro the rock or God? Sorry. Yeah, the answer is yes. Okay? Both killed God uh killed uh sorry both killed the Goliath, excuse me Both killed Goliath. Both God and the stone killed Goliath. One was a secondary, one was a primary. Alright? So so when we think in terms of primary and secondary causes, It it's going to help us to understand this. That means then that that also means this, that God is not complicit in our sin. Yeah. How how would that fall into uh the angels that rebelled against God? Yeah. And one third one. So what they did would be a secondary cause. It we ha then have to assume that that angel angels do have a have a free will or a have a what we're gonna call so let me let me uh But anyway, they're cre yeah, they're created, and so we have to make that assumption since they rebelled. Now, let me point this out. Let me ask this question By what we're saying, does man have unlimited free will? There is no way that man can have unlimited free will It's not possible. What is man's f will, free will, if you want to call it free will, what is it limited by Okay. Physical nature. What's that? Physical nature. Yep. It's related by his created capacity. Okay? So all secondary all secondary causes are limited by what they've been created to to be able to do. Does that make sense? So a dog is not going to do certain things. A cat won't do I mean God so a human can't do certain things because they weren't created to do those things. So they're limited By what they're created to do. So to say that man has unlimited free will is actually heretical So people say use the word free will, and I often in my mind say, okay, I can live with that as long as you add limited free will to it. It needs to be limited. Otherwise you now have you're all you're in you're nearly in open theism. If you say that man has unlimited free will, you're now going into open theism, which we know is is essentially heretical actually. So yes. I mean you're limited in what you can do, but as far as limit on the will to try to do is Yeah. Well Okay. Say that again? I'm sorry? You're limited to the degree that you conceptualize the concept as far as the problem of will. Well is kind of the thought process, not necessarily the physical capability to do something. Yes, but that in of itself is a limitation. So so yeah, I can live with that limit the yeah. Um there also yeah Yep, I I could I follow that. It makes sense. Um so what this does mean though is that God is not complicit in our sin. The reason, one of the reasons to break this up, primary versus secondary causes, is Is does God sin? No. Does God cause people to sin? No. Did God create people with the capacities of sin? Yes. So man sins, but God's not complicit, because it's the capacity. The man has the capacity to sin, but God never but he chooses to sin because he has the capacity to choose to sin. Which means God's not complicit in the sense. Does that make sense? Okay? And so understanding all this is important to make sure that we don't blame God for things that we're not supposed to blame blame God for. And it leads us to understanding that within God's providence, allow God rightly understood providence allows for personal responsibility If you believe so much if if if you have if your view of God's providence does not allow for personal responsibility, then you don't uh then you've gone unbiblical. There's something not right with your Yeah. So God is permissive. Yep. Exactly. Yes, Tim? Yeah. As well as there's another I can't quite place where it's at, but it says, you know, if man Yeah. Hebrews thirteen. So you yeah, you have yeah, you have different different places like that, it's true. The next one is government, and this is where it gets interesting because now we have just said that that man does have a will within his capacity. He has a limited free will. And we have said that God is working concurrently with his creation. But now we need to understand also that God does govern his creation as well. And there are m lots of places that we I always have way more scripture than we can we can read, but um The one that you'll know is Romans 8. 28. And we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, and then they're called according to his purpose. Psalm 10319 says the Lord has established his throne in heaven and his kingdom rules over all. So God is actively ruling. So God's governing activity is universal and does not merely extend to his own people. God has a he rules over all. Now there is a special kind of rule that he has with his own people. But i there is a universal rule. Jeff? What is the activity? God's governing activity is universal. What is the activity? Uh It would be many things. I don't think it could th that's a general statement to cover lots of things how he governs. So uh I couldn't I wouldn't be able to specify. Um God is good in His government. When we think of God, we can we understand that He's good in what He does. Um He's He always ch governs in a good way. Um Daniel four, thirty-four through thirty-five, I won't take the time to look at that. Neg Nebuchadnezzar actually exp notes God's everlasting dominion in that passage. Another passage it talks about God's good um working and governing. Well the the the for the Christian the i it's eight eight twenty nine, what's God's goal for us? is to be conform to the image of his son. God is personally concerned about those who are his Um part of God's governing is that He now, you know, He has a universal governing of people, but those who are His, He has a very personal concern for them. And God is sovereign in his government. These are just things that we need to understand about how God is God is in control. Yes? I would say yes. Yeah, I would definitely say yes. He's concerned about everyone, um, but he has a special concern about those who are his and I would say those who become his. as well. Um which which an application of that is why, you know, most of you that know the Lord can think of how God worked in your life before you came to Christ. I mean and he does. He works in our lives prior. Pre-conversion. It's not like God doesn't work in our lives prior to prior to conversion. He certainly does. And actually Paul says that in Romans 7 So that's God's providence today, but let's let's let me just make a couple of applications What are some applications that we can make from understanding God's providence? Well, I'm just going to lay them out here and we'll talk about the different ones. Number one is trust. Because of how God sustains things and strengthens and provides and preserves and works concurrently, how he we can trust him. He's the all-knowing, all-powerful God, and he is not just spun atop and let it go So there is a trust that we can have. There's also a patience that we can have. Why might God's providence help us to be patient? Any ideas? Yeah, so we know he will do what he wants to do. He will work out his work. And even when we're in in difficult circumstances and The hard things that are going on, we can still have a patience knowing that God will work it out. Uh for his purposes, his way. The key is we have to be submissive to him so that we don't get torn up in the process, honestly. Our biggest concern should not be that we try to worry about it, but that we should just make sure that we are submissive to his will. Patience though allows a God's providence allows us to patiently say, okay, God is working and I can just I can wait on him. I don't have to do what I'm not supposed to do or get think that it's all on me. I can be patient. Hope is another one, yes. In that idea of patience, sometimes obviously that's really hard for all of us. So we make a move prematurely, which then I don't want to say well I guess you could say it goes against God, right? A decision that goes really against God. Yeah. And I I don't know how to say it exactly because you're not messing up the plan, right? But you really made a bad choice which affects others' outcomes or others' lives. So how do you work all that in there? So God will always I mean the simple answer is that God will always carry out his plan. But when we go against it, we will, and unfortunately others as well, we'll get co there will be consequences. Now The quicker we submit to his plan, the less consequences there are, and the farther we go in rebellion, the more consequences there are. But but Um but even for a Christian, even in the consequences, we know that God will ultimately carry out his plan. And and there's there could even still be trust in that. Yes. I always have difficulty understanding the concept of rolling against God's plan. Yeah. Because omniscience combined with the plan seems to imply that the plan is what happened regardless of what whether we go against what he would like. The plan is the plan because we know it all. If he plans this, we go against it. We're going against his plan, but he knew what was going to happen. So it's not like he he can't make a plan that's gonna fail. Correct. So his plan is what actually happens, it just may not be his desire, I guess. It's kind of how appeals to me. I don't know if that makes sense. Yeah, I think that that part of it, Rose. I think the difference between going against God is going with them. Do we want to be working to each other with God? Do we want to be working with him or do we want to be working against God? And we Yeah, I I uh both of you almost said the same thing in different words. I mean there is a desire. God is pleased when we follow after him, when we do what he wants. But the per what what is who the person who's really going to be harmed is us when we don't follow after him And and um but even that God will use for his purposes in bringing us, which is just a great comfort uh to know that. Um Uh you know, that really what is what it boils down to is that when when when a when a child of God is really a God's child, you realize that what you do um will It it it it will not thwart God's plan, but it will thwart God's pleasure in a sense in your life. God is not going to be pleased with you, and when you When when you are cr really a Christian and you're fostering a desire in your heart to serve the Lord, that's what you want more than anything else. You want to please God. And to know that you're not pleasing God. It hurts you. And that's what actually repentance is, is when we actually say, what I'm doing, regardless of what consequences or what happened, what I'm doing displeases God. And that becomes the main issue for a Christian that really understands the providence of God is that I'm grieving God, I'm displeasing him, and I need to repent because I'm grieving him. I love him. Why do I love him? He first loved me. All of those things are right, and that's why I'm repenting and wanting to turn my turn for me. So it it really has to do with God's pleasure. And I think that God's pleasure is um adjusted based upon our at least in our lives, his pleasure toward us, we do have uh influence on that based upon whether or not we follow him or not. But his overall plan will not be. Hope is another thing. We never have to be hopeless because God is in control. God is providentially working. He's doing what he wants to do. We never have to be hopeless. And gratitude. Gratitude's a big one. Don't think, I don't care what how good your job is or how hard you worked. You know, when we when we think, when we take credit for what God what we have have, we're not really factoring in the providence of God in our lives correctly. God can give, he can take away, just like he did with Job. And and when God when God works in our lives When he provides for us, when he shows his providence to us, there ought to be a gratitude, a constant gratitude for the good things that he gives us, knowing he is intricately involved. God God creates things spins the top, then I'm making my own world and I'm I'm not gonna be grateful. But if God is intricately involved in every step of the way It's going to produ and I'm aware of it every day. It's going to produce in me a gratefulness that all that in all that he is doing. Alright, and those are some applications of of providence Any other final questions about God's providence? We will cover more next week with regard to how this all works more particularly with morality and And sin and those kinds of things. But um any questions about any of this?