This is but you know we're one increase. This really is one of the kind of remind people, this is one of the three tracks that we're attempting to do throughout this semester. The other two are on I don't know if you guys have put this together enough, but the other two are on Sunday morning. It's actually all the same the same thrust is we have we have three tracks. One is um Bible doctrines, which we're doing tonight. The other is biblical biblical theology. This is uh systematic theology that and we're doing that as well, and then we're doing a practical kind of a theology, a discipleship course and this is all part of what we're trying to call adult Bible seminars. And uh really we'll be going we're we're we're actually going to be setting up a a scheduled Uh we're working on a schedule over the year and eventually I'd like to see us schedule it out three or four years. And if you go through all of this it it'll be like auditing a Bible college course. Essentially. So that's actually the plan in the long run. And so anyway, just so you I don't know why I thought I'd mention that, but I thought I would. All right. So tonight we're going to be looking at the work of Christ. That's what we're we're focused on tonight. Really, this is the pinnacle. of theology. So if you can recall, we looked we've we we started off with the doctrine of Um we I believe we started off with the bibliology and then and looking at the doctrine of God's Word. Then we moved to theology proper and the character of God and the fact that he created everything. Then we dipped real low into talking about man and and obviously we're made in hot his image, but we've fallen and talked significantly about that. That's anthropology and homarchaeology. And so now then we've talked about the person of Christ, and you really can generally break up the gospel into two parts, the person of Christ and the work of Christ. And by the way, as we said before, if you get either one of these wrong, in other words, if you have a problem with the person of Christ, you have a problem with the gospel. If you get that wrong, you have a problem. If you have a problem with the work of Christ, if you don't get that right, you have a problem with the gospel. There are some false religions who may have the person of Christ intact, but something is wrong with their understanding of the work of Christ. Anybody can anybody think of a false religion like that? Their understanding of the person of Christ is essentially intact, but their understanding of the work of Christ, there's a problem. Yes. Yeah, that's a perfect example is Roman Catholicism. Now uh you you could point to minutia on the person of Christ and say, well they add people to de I get it. But as a whole, the Trinity and the deity of Christ are intact in Catholicism, but the problem is that the work of Christ essentially is incomplete the way that they describe it and the way that they understand it. And so in other cases you have the person and work of Christ that are both uh in many cases, many false religions, cults and things like that, you have both of them that are compromised. But what we really need to do is make sure that we understand both. And much of what we will talk about tonight is something that um you will know many of the things that we were ch we talk about, but I'm not sure that we all that often combine everything together into one lesson where we're really thinking about all of the different implications of the work of Christ. So I want to start off this way Somebody tell me, like what words come to mind when we're thinking of the person of the work of Christ? What what comes to mind, just off the top of your head? Atonement, good. Redeem redemption, good. The work of Christ. Atonement, redemption. Miracle? Okay, sure. Actually it is, yep, sure. Uh-huh. Substitution, good. What else? Okay. Okay. Alright. What's that? Shepherd. Shepherding, I'm sure Okay, so we we said five things. There's probably twenty-five in our lesson today. So um that should encourage you that You none of the not too many of these terms are going to be totally foreign, but just putting everything together, it will hopefully if we if we appreciate what we see here It will really give us a great appreciation for all that occurred, not all, because we're not going to be exhausted tonight, but a lot of what occurred for uh in the work of Christ. 1 Timothy 1, verse 17 says Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners. That's what he came here to do. Other places says he came to seek and to save that which was lost. Whatever your struggles, temptations, pains, the sacrificial suffering of Jesus and his victorious resurrection provide an unshakable ground of confidence and hope for us. Where does our confidence lie? Where does our hope reside? It is in the work of Christ, the sacrificial suffering of Christ, and the victorious resurrection of Christ. Next week, we will emphasize the resurrection of Christ. This week we will emphasize more the crucifixion of Christ, but not exclusively. You'll see that in a moment. What le so so in summarizing the work of Christ, and you have your handouts there, and I think this will be helpful, if you want to sort sort of get a grasp of the summary of the work of Christ, there's a couple of ways that you can do that. And one is to consider what Christ's three essentially three roles are. What are the three roles that God the Father has given to Christ And so we want to begin that way. And does anybody know, if you looked at your handout you know, but does anybody know what they are? Somebody name one of those roles. It's okay, you can cheat and look at your handout if you like. Or not, that's fine too. Anybody? Prophet is one. What else? Priest is another, and what's the third one? King. You really can, I mean, can you think of anything? outside of those three roles that Christ's that it contributes to what Christ is doing. Most of them are going to be within those three. I can't think of too many things that are that are outside of those three roles. So look yep. Uh that's in his priesthood. It says we we have not a priest we have not high priest that cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities. So the fact that and actually um Uh ye the yeah, so it's it's it is priesthood. But yeah. Good thought good good try. Um prof uh Number one, uh Jesus as and by the way, I mean you can do that all you want, I'll just attach it to one of them. But anyway. Uh so number one Jesus as prophet. He is the ultimate revelation of God, the prophet who spoke God's word, and who was himself the word made flesh. We know God through Christ. Does anybody know a really good reference to New Testament reference to support the fact that Jesus is the prophet or Jesus is the Word? Anybody knows that the other one is a good idea. In the beginning was the Word, the Word was God, the Word was with God, the Word was God, and the Word made flesh. It's obviously talking about Christ. One that is really descriptive is Hebrews chapter 1. I would remember that one. It says this God, who at various times and in various ways spoke in time past to the fathers by the prophets. So the author of Hebrews is pointing out that God spoke various times, particularly Old Testament, by uh the prophets. But then he says, has in these last days, by the way, when did the last days start? So the so the the the last days are between the two advents of Christ. So are we living in the last days now? Yes, but were they living the last days in the first century? Yes, it's all the last days. Um so if somebody says, Well, I really feel like we're living in the last days, they're right, but but you know Well, two thousand years ago they were right too. In these last days spoken spoken to us by his son, whom he has appointed heir of all things, through whom also he made the worlds. So it points about points out that the same God, the Son, who created all things, is also the revealer of truth. He is the word, he's the prophet, he's the one who reveals God. ultimately. And so why is that important? Well when you really think about what what Christ came to do, um he came to reveal God and that's one of the major things that he did. How does that dovetail into bibliology? Do you remember that all the way back when we talked about bibliology? Say, I don't remember yesterday what I ate for lunch. How can I remember this? Um you remember b back when we talked about how you sort of understand the canon of scripture? How do we get to understanding what's to be in the canon? Do you remember? Well, we start with what Christ said What did he say was to be in the canon? Well he actually talks about uh the law and the prophets, which is the Old Testament. Then he what his his own words, he is the word, and then he actually uh has appointed the apostles to continue So just generally that's how we think of in terms of what's supposed to be be in the canon. But he is he is the prophet. Secondly, he is priest. So he's the ultimate uh high priest who mediates the new covenant between God and his people. So let's ask that question, what is the new covenant? Somebody help me with this. What is the new covenant? What does it mean that Christ mediates the new covenant? So I had a long day's work, I really don't want to think right now, that sounds kind of deep. So what is the new covenant? We we every single communion we we I read from first Corinthians chapter 11 as a continuation of what Christ said, then Paul continued as the apostles, and we as a church could should continue the same kinds of things. And Christ said, This is the new what? The new covenant in my blood. What does it mean? Okay, let's let's break yeah. Tracy Covenant, the fact that we asked for forgiveness, we offer forgiveness. Okay. Uh it's involved in the new covenant. What is a covenant? Covenant is an agreement. Okay? Conditional covenants have promises with conditions. Somebody give me an example of a conditional covenant. Mosaic covenant is a conditional covenant. How about an unconditional covenant? What's an unconditional covenant? Besides the new covenant. I just tipped my hand there. What's what's the un what's an unconditional covenant in the Old Testament? Abrahamic Covenant. Somebody Abrah say Abrahamic Covenant? Abrahamic covenant is an unconditional covenant. What in the three in the we actually went over this Sunday, but what are the three aspects of the Abrahamic covenant? Anybody remember? Okay, give me one. Somebody give me one. Okay, Christ is the last one. In thee all the families of the earth shall be blessed. Land, good. That's the first one. What's the middle one? I'll make of you a great nation. Good. Or seed, good. That's all good. Okay. So those are the three aspects of the Abrahamic covenant. Which one of those three of the Abrahamic covenant was not fulfilled even in Christ yet? The land. Okay? Really, we d we haven't seen there's no cr there's no real media cre uh nation even that's the light of the world. I mean that came came about, but They failed. So obviously we have Christ, okay? But the new covenant, what it does, and it's primarily in uh in Jeremiah thirty one and other places as well. What it does is it takes any the Abrahamic covenant was an was a unconditional covenant. The Palestinian covenant, the Mosaic covenants, were covenant were conditional covenants. It takes any aspect of the land covenant and puts it all on Christ, basically. That Christ is going to be the fulfillment of the new covenant. The new covenant is given to Israel. However, there's a provision in the new covenant, just like there's a provision in the Abrahamic covenant. And that provision is that we get to be beneficiaries of the new covenant. And how are we beneficiaries of the new covenant? Does anybody know? Through the blood of Christ. It's the blood of Christ that makes us beneficiaries of the new covenant. And that's why Christ says, this is the new covenant in my blood. So Hebrews 7, verse 26 says this: For such a high priest was fitting for us, who is holy, harmless, undefiled, separate from sinners, and has become higher than the heavens. And if you read the book of the Hebrews, you find that the mediator of the Mosaic covenant was the Old Testament priesthood, but the mediator of the new covenant is Christ Himself. He is our high priest. And so he stands between us and God as our mediator. Yes. So you said that the biggest unconditional? It is unconditional. Yes. Uh it's unconditional based upon behavior. So so yes, we have to accept it by faith in order to be part of it, but For the nation of Israel, it's unconditional. So Christ is going to come and fulfill. So some of the new covenant is not fulfilled yet The land is not given, the nation is not given, so that's going to be fulfilled during the millennial kingdom. And frankly, to put it in in no other w to put it simply, every knee shall bow at that time, every tongue will confess. Israel will have no choice but to accept Christ as their king. and the new covenant will be fulfilled. So um for us to be v beneficiaries of the new covenant we have to apply it by faith. But that's not really conditional. It is an agreement. Yeah, so you have to agree, sure. That's a good point. But it's not like the like the Mosaic Covenant, you had to f you had to f you know follow six hundred and thirteen or eleven laws, we haven't figured that out yet. Uh one of the two This is the thing that Jeff and I are going through. back and forth about what is it six hundred eleven, six hundred thirteen. If you Google that it doesn't make sense. Anyway, so um uh but that's those are conditions of the Mosaic covenant and obviously Israel could never follow 'em. So anyway, bottom line is that Christ is the high priest. He he is going he he is going to mediate a covenant and is and is mediating a covenant that is that Moses couldn't I'm it nobody else is effective at doing it the Mosaic covenant was ineffective to be because of uh of the need for Christ to do all of the work. Jesus is king as well. That's another third category. He is Jesus is king. He is the great king of the universe who rules with peace and justice. We are citizens of the kingdom of God through Christ. He inaugurated his kingdom in his first coming, and he will consummate the kingdom at the end of time. So he is the but he is he is he physically mediating the kingdom now? He is not. He is not physically mediating it now. When will he Yeah, when he comes back and he'll and when he returns, he'll set up his m the millennial kingdom and at that point he will mediate the kingdom. That's the goal. The goal is to restore the kingdom that God created in the beginning, making making us in our image, uh making us in his image, we have dominion. Uh all of that what he created in Genesis At the end, the final goal is that that Christ is is overall and it is the way God intended before the fall. Um but Christ essentially has to do all the work because man fails all the time. And you see that throughout the Old Testament, there's It's i the Old Testament is a stor story of failure. And Christ is the story of success in what he's doing. Um so Prophet, Priest, and King. The other way to summarize what Christ did is just two words, humiliation and exaltation. Now somebody tell me what might we mean by these two words. What does humiliation mean? What do we mean when we say that Christ uh was under humiliation. What would that include? Yes. Putting himself under God. Okay. Yes. I would say yes, yeah. Yeah, took himself right good. So the humiliation includes the incarnation, right? Because he's now God becoming man, so he's humbling himself that way. And then he humbl humbles himself further by by going to the death of the cross. So all of that is included in the humiliation. And um it's right in my notes here, Philippians chapter two. That is the classic passage to understand me. Uh he humbled himself. So let's read the passage, Philippians chapter two, verses seven through eleven, but made himself of no reputation is how he puts it. Verse seven, uh taking on the form of a bondservant and coming in the likeness of men, and being found in an appearance as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient to the cross uh uh uh to the point of death, even the death of the cross. Therefore God also has highly exalted him. So there you go the exalt exaltation. And given him the name which is above every name, that the name of Jesus every knee should bow, and those in heaven, those in the earth, those under the earth, and every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord of the Lord of the Father. Humbling oneself implies that prior to the act one was not humble, but he always was humbled. It's not a ref he Christ did not change his character to become a man, but he the act of what he did in becoming a man was an act of humiliation. In the and humiliation in the sense of the theological term, not like you know, you stand up in front of people and make a fool of yourself. I mean that's a different kind of word. Yeah, I mean there is a sense in which he did subordinate himself, but in his character i his character didn't change, but he did subordinate himself. Yeah, right. So so it says in the passage that um he limited his glory. Um he he made himself of no reputation. Um earlier in the passage, I think it's earlier uh he actually says that um that he did not consider it robbery to be equal with God or he didn't think it a thing to be grasped to be equal with God But made of that's the passage, made of himself of no reputation, the idea of emptying oneself. Uh and what did he empty himself of? There's a lot you if you combine several passages together, you you you basically come to the conclusion that he emptied himself or limited himself of his glory. And we know that also because in John 17 he says He praised his father. He's basically saying, I'm looking forward to being glorified again. I'm returning to the glory that we once had together after the you know after the resurrection. Good. So that's the humiliation. What's included in the exaltation of Christ? Any ideas what's included in the exaltation? Resurrection, good. That's where it starts. What else? See it on the right hand. Yep, see it on the right hand of God. Okay, and it's and you know really our classic passage is Philippians chapter two. Therefore God has highly exalted him and given him a name which is above every name. In the name of Jesus every knee should bow, and those in heaven, those in earth, and those under the earth, and every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, the glory of God the Father. So he's exalted in rising from the grave, then he's exalted in his ascension. He's exalted in uh one day taking full reign over the earth. Um he's exalted in all those ways. So when you think of the work of Christ, you could think Prophet, Priest, and King, that summarizes it in one sense. When you think of the work of Christ, you could think just generally the humiliation or the exaltation of Christ. Christ. Alright, let's talk then about the state of humiliation that he was in. And we have mentioned already the incarnation, which is part of the humiliation of Christ. And um There are a lot of different passages we could go for the incarnation. I mean, you just think of Matthew, Matthew, and Luke at the beginning there. Hebrews chapter 2, verses 14 through 17, it says, Inasmuch then as the children have partaked taken of the f flesh and blood, he himself likewise shares shared in the same, that through death he might destroy him who had the power of death, that is the devil. And release those who brought fear of death were all their lifetime subjected to bondage. For indeed he does not give aid to the angels. But he does give aid to the seed of Abraham. Therefore, in all things he had to be made like his brethren, that he might be merciful and a faithful high priest in things pertaining to God uh to make propitiation for the sins of the people. That's a that's a mouthful, isn't it? There's a lot of there's a lot there that went into what Jesus did. in order to just be be able, qualified, if you will, in God's eyes, to be able to die for us. He didn't die for the angels. He didn't become an angel to die for the angels. He died for man. And he became a man. He had to, in order to be qualified to die for man, he had to become a man. Why did he have to become a man to die for man? Because God required a substitute. To be a qualified substitute, he actually had to become a man to do that. He also lived a sinless life. Uh we all are aware of that, but he also he lived in active obedience. And there's real significance to this that I think we sort of skip. We talk a lot about the incarnation of Christ We'll talk about the death of Christ, but we actually skip the sinless life of Christ sometimes in our thinking. Why is the active obedience of Christ so necessary for us to understand? Any ideas? Why is it important to realize that God that Christ was actively obedient? Could he have just become an You know, one day become a man and the same day die for the sins of the world. Could that have happened? Yes. Okay. So good. Number one, it gives us an example. That's a that's good. What else? Yeah. Okay, he had to be the perfect sacrifice. Um yes. I think it gives um it gives preach to the Okay good also qualified in them for his death for a certification. Good. Good. Jeff a lot of it would be revealed if we cycle Oh that's true. Yeah. He wouldn't been s ha have been self uh self-authenticating. Yeah. Mm-hmm. So that takes them on to do that. So in Matthew chapter five, verse seventeen it says but Uh, do not think that I came to destroy the law or the prophets. I did not come to destroy, but to fulfill. So so w what was he what did he have to fulfill? What did Christ have to fulfill in order to be a high priest for us to be able to be sacrificed for us. He had to fulfill the Mosaic Law. Okay. The Mosaic Law was not something that you could God just shoved aside. Okay, well that doesn't apply anymore. We're just going to get rid of that and Jesus is here. No, actually, what Jesus had to do for three and a half years is to fulfill the Mosaic Law. He had to keep all of the commandments. And that's the advan that is part of it that is the significance of his act of obedience, is that he lived a perfect life keeping all of the Mosaic commandments as God intended, not as the Pharisees contended it. uh intended necessarily. And then as our representative, he dies for us. Yeah. Is that why you say down into law and how long To love the law Lord thy God. Essentially, yes. So he fulfills the law. What we find actually, I think it's in uh First Corinthians eight. He actually says that that there is a new and and also uh 2 Corinthians 3 yeah he actually says there's a new law essentially. So you have the Mosaic Law that's been fulfilled, but it's not as though we're now lawless. Now what do we do We fulfill the law of Christ. What is the law of Christ? Love God, love your neighbor. So yes, so the only reason that Christ could qu be qualified to say this is the law is that he fulfilled the Mosaic Law, and then when he died, he died as a representative of all mankind. It's fulfilled. I did what you can you what you no one could else could do. Yeah. Yeah, right. Well absolutely. Yeah Alright, so his sinless life is an integral part of the work of Christ that we often overlook. Then we have the death of Christ. So let's ask this question. What did Christ's death accomplish? So obviously his death essentially is the most monumental of what he did. And the New Testament speaks of it using several related overlapping themes and metaphors. I mean, the the the New Testament goes goes into such great lengths. to to try to dis not to try to describe what the death of Christ really means. And there are all of these different terms that sound like 50 cent terms They sort of sound like, well, what isn't that atonement and redemption and ransom? Aren't don't they all mean the same thing? He died for us. But let's just ask the question for a minute, what does it mean when we say he died for us? And and and rather than looking at it in a s in sort of a a one-dimensional the death of Christ in one dimension We should look at the death of Christ as 3D, like there's different facets of the death of Christ that we should look at to get a fuller picture of what he did on the cross for us. We are very one-dimensional when it comes to this oftentimes. And frankly, we do have to learn these theological terms in order to see the 3D picture of the death of Christ rather than one-dimensional. But once we grasp this, you start looking at it from this angle and this angle and this angle and this angle, and you really begin to see all or a lot of what is involved in the death of Christ. So let's do that. First of all, he is our penal substitutionary atoning sacrifice. Just in that one thing, there's a lot, isn't there? Our penal substitutionary atoning sacrifice. Now, if you want to summarize this, he is our s he is our substitute. I think Lisa said that. If you can't think of anything else about what Christ did on the cross, please remember that he is our substitute. That is really, really the core of what he did is He's our substitute. If you don't get that, if you don't understand that that that he took our place on the cross as our substitute, you don't have the gospel anymore. You really don't have it. So what do these different words mean? So let's let's look first of all at uh at what the nature of the atonement is So the nature um the nature of the atonement. Um actually before we get there let's talk about let's let's mention it's not up on the screen but let's look at the uh necessity of the atonement John chapter 3, verse 36, it says, He who believes in the Son has everlasting life, he who believes who does not believe in the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abides on him. Ephesians chapter two verse three says, Among whom also we all once conducted ourselves in the lust of the flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind, were by nature the children of wrath, just as the others. So that's obviously the reason is our own sin. We couldn't do for ourselves what what God need was going to do for us, or what God had to do for us through Christ. Romans or Hebrews chapter 9 verse 22 and you're I'm sure you're familiar with this, and according to the law, almost all things are purified with blood. Without the shedding of blood, there's no remission And Romans 6. 23, for the wages of sin is death for the gift of God's eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. So so the need for this is essentially to establish, first of all, we fell short. And that's obvious, and then also for God's requirements of a substitution. Let's then look at this word penal What does it mean? Well, it's talking about the penalty. That's what the word comes from. So Christ paid the penalty for our sin. Isaiah 53, 5. He was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities, the chastisement of our peace was upon him, by his stripes were healed. bore our sins in his own body of the tree, that we having uh died to sins, might live for righteousness by whose stripes We are healed. So he there is a penalty. What's the penalty? The penalty is death. We know the penalty of death. Where do we first see the penalty of death, uh of death and sin? What's the penalty for sin? It's death. Where do we find that? First first time. Yeah, Genesis, right, right. The fall as of the fall. Um and so um and so that's the penalty Christ so what did Christ do? He died. I mean you see the connection? I mean it's a very, very clear connection. Um and and there is a and really folks there is a sense in which it wasn't just a physical death. Did Christ die spiritually Now he didn't we talked about this before. He died he did die spiritually was separated from his father. Now does that mean that he he was ever non-existent? No. He was never non-existent. But he did he was separated from his father. In that sense, he was he died both spiritually and physically. So that's penal. Then we have this word substitutionary. Um And Isaiah fifty-three twelve and second Corinthians chapter five verse twenty-one it says, For he made himself who knew no sin to be sent for us. Why How you know for what reason? That we might become the righteousness of God in him. So a penal uh substitutionary atonement Um then let's so so in a nutshell if you want to really grasp what he did in dying on the cross, you really have it there. We didn't talk much about the sacrifice that Christ made, but obviously That the sacrifice is something we often emphasize. The other ones we don't as much. But that gives us a bit of a picture on what Christ did. So then let's ask the question, what are the results of the atonement? Um anybody can anybody think of any words for the results of the atonement? I'm sorry? Okay, sure. Salvation generally is definitely a result of the atonement. Let's get a little more specific as far as justification, reconciliation, good. Hebrew super things is to let us uh bring the the one who has the power of death. Yeah. Okay good. Yeah, good. Alright, let's go through these. Propitiation is one. That's the one that's hard to spell. Um uh so it's actually not that hard to spell actually if you think about it. But but propitiation. What is propitiation? Somebody tell me what's propitiation? Yes. Satisfy. Excellent. If you just remember the word satisfy, you'll get it. Propitiation means satisfied. Satisfy what? The righteous demands of God or the wrath of God. That's what Christ did. He satisfied the demands of God. So that is a result of the atonement. God is now satisfied. Okay? That's that's propitiation. Christ's death also accomplished something else that you might not be aware of. It's expiation. That's a word that may be a little bit unf Does anybody know what expiation is? Let me give you an it what's that? Did I get it? Uh uh somebody's gonna Google it, so I'll just go ahead and say it. Um what what's that? XPL1. No. So it's it's it's basically to to remove, to take away. Um John 1 twenty twenty-nine, behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. Colossians 2. 14, by canceling the record of the debt that stood against us with the legal demands, this He set aside nailing it to the cross. So you have he removes our transgressions from us. So propitiation, he satisfies the righteous righteous demands of God. Expiation, he actually removes our sin from us. Christ's death also brought about our purification. That is another word for positional sanctification. When we think of sanctification, oftentimes we think of in terms of progressive. But we're we want to think in terms of but sanctification has two aspects actually and one of them is positional. What does the word sanctify sanctify mean? Good, set apart. So we are positionally set apart by God for him from sin at the point of salvation. And then we are practically living trying to live up to our position and progressively growing in who we are in Christ until we see Christ and we'll be like him so that our position ma our practice matches our position Right now, does your practice match your position? Your your practice does not match your position. You are progressing in sanctification. Aren't you glad about that in a sense of understanding that God set it up that way? It's helpful for me to realize that. That that there is a that what we ought to be looking at is our progress in Christ, realizing that we are positionally set free and we're positionally set apart. One day Christ will be We will be like him, for we will see him as he is. That's glorification. So then right now though we are practicing our practice we want to match match our position and we're growing in that. Yes. But there are those that are probably not growing that you were addressing that the first two or four three. The position does hold true as long as they truly have accepted Christ. Is that what you mean? Well you're saying the last one is we're progressing in sanctification over scale. Yeah, so is it possible to yes, that's true. Um people certainly can. Uh Hebrews five indicates that that there could actually essentially demon Yeah. So I would explain it this way. So you have positionally you have sanctification that you're set apart um for God's service. You have one day and justification, you're declared righteous by God. One day you're you're sanctified uh you will be you will be glorified. That's guaranteed these two are guaranteed. The progressive sanctification is something that happens as time goes. How it happens, it will happen. I mean it has to happen because glorification is guaranteed. How it happens, I think probably we have some involvement in that, depending on our submission to Christ. It's primarily a matter of obedience and submission. Um so if somebody rebels against the Lord, then what does the Bible say happens to that person? If they continue to rebel, So what happens in chastening and suffering in this life is that it it re it brings us back to a place where we're now on that path to progressive sanctification. Lesson for all of us. Submit to Christ. I mean that's the lesson for all of it. Does that make sense? So that's the role of chastening in our lives as Christians is to bring us to a place where we're back on that path of progressive sanctification. Yes? The Lord is working in the thing here, like when the things are going backwards, the Lord is going to use that sometimes even the lapstein to show us the actual Sounds like progress. Yep. Sounds like progress though. May not be it may not look like progress to uh progress to us. I mean that's fair, right? But but in in Christ's eyes it's it's progress. Yes. that the the believer was not willing to submit to God's rule after correction and that is taken out for yeah so Chris uh Yeah, there is. I mean the first first John five is very clear there is a sin under death. If there is absolut well you got two possibilities. And and Hebrews 13 talks or Hebrews 12 talks about this. Whom the Lord loves, he chastens. If you're not chastened, what does that tell you? You're not you're an ill ill you're not really his child. Okay, or uh uh so so um so and if you continue to rebel then and you are his child and you continue to be chastened and you continue to rebel Uh there is a sin unto death. So um what's that? It means that the punishment he will take you home. Yeah, if you know the Lord. Yeah. First John chapter five. Now, let me preface this. Nobody can tell where when that happens, where that happens, God's timing. God is very patient. It could be years, it could be I mean we'd rather be careful. You know, it's not like we're gonna oh well he got in a car accident. It must be the sin of the death. I mean you know, you gotta be careful with all that. Um but there is that's why I said it though exactly I quoted exactly first There is a sin under death. And we'll we'll it now we're tangential at this point, so we'll we'll move on. But um anyway. Anyway, um we have been washed. He is our legal substitute. Uh let's see how much more we have left here. We're almost done, Jeff, and then we can single. Um well that didn't sound quite right. Anyway, I wasn't making light of it. Anyway. No, I really like the song. I I it was my idea to uh play it afterwards anyway. Uh this is the glorious truth of justification. Um so um he is our legal s legal substitute. And then we're going to move through this fast. So legal substitute, why could it be i because he he fulfills the demands of the law, Mosaic law, so he's our legal substitute. He's our redeemer. What does the word redeem mean? What's the word redeem mean? Thank you. Bought back or buyback. Yeah, that's what redeem means. Um Mark 10, 45, 1 Peter 1, 18 through 19. Why is it bought back? If we're born to sin, why is it bought back? Yes, he created us for himself. He owned us because he's created us, and now he's redeemed us in by in buying us back as a redeemer. Yeah. We are definitely not our own twice. Yeah. Just quickly I think it's important with the buying back that there are some who would say that it's it's like the the ransom is paid to Satan, but that's we're we're being bought back from the wrath of God. Thank you. The judgment that is just a due on And it's actually in my notes to say that and I skipped it, but but but very good. Okay. All right. Essentially to God actually. If you want to find references to that with other importance. Okay, we're done. Jeff, come on up and uh and we'll go through this.