First John chapter two, verse twelve. And we'll be looking at verses twelve through seventeen this morning. I write to you, little children, because your sins are forgiven I write to you, fathers, because you have known him who is from the beginning. I write to you, young men, because you have overcome the wicked one. I write to you little children because you have known the Father. I have written to you fathers because you have known him who is from the beginning. I have written to you, young men, because you are strong, and the word of God abides in you, and you have overcome the wicked one. Do not love the world or the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life is not of the Father, but is of the world. And the world is passing away, and the lust of it. But he who does the will of God abides forever. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for 1 John, which was written and intended. by you to give us instruction on how we can have fellowship with you. Lord, we're grateful for that. We thank you for what we've already learned in this book so far, that you desire for us to have a close walk with you And Father, I pray, Lord, that you would help us as we look at your word this morning to glean its truth, to really have a clear understanding. Of what it means to love the world and how we can avoid loving the world and loving you rather, and being in close fellowship with you. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. I want to begin by asking a question. What makes someone who has extreme wealth, who has everything that they ever wanted, continue to try to gain more wealth? Let me put s let me um at the risk of becoming uh being political, let me let me um let me mention so you can see uh how picture of this. We have the second billionaire in our nation's history that is currently uh attempting to uh become a candidate, a nomination for the for the President of the United States. His name, of course, is Michael Bloomberg. He is worth fifty billion dollars. Uh he is that's that is five times the amount of the other uh candidate that became our president over five times the amount of ten billion dollars or roughly maybe a little less than that uh of of Donald Trump. And I I was sending myself fifty billion dollars or even ten billion dollars, kinda like all the same to me. How why would somebody who has even one billion dollars or even half a billion dollars Why would somebody who has that much money want to continue to accumulate more wealth? Well Why would somebody want why why why would that be? Well, if you really think about it, it probably isn't so they can gain something that they didn't already have. Like there's some possession that they want, that they want more of, that kind of thing It's possible that that, and it doesn't have to be this way, but it's possible that the other reason is just a matter of importance. That people feel more important the more wealth they have. So so it either why do people gain wealth in the beginning? Well it may be because they I mean there there's there's normal kind of stewardship wealth, there's normal wealth that we they can be generous and give to others. Say, but at some point you begin to say, well, what in the world is going on with all of this wealth? Now I want to say there's nothing wrong with wealth. And and no m by no means am I suggesting that everybody should be on the same plane or anything else. It's sort of interesting to me that um a Democratic candidate actually has fifty billion dollars if you put those two things together. It doesn't actually make sense when you really think about it. But anyway, and I'm not intending to get a bit political here. But the whole point is of what I am saying here is this, that there are inward desires. That that we just can't get it's like whatever we have, we just want more And that's the way it is in life. If you think about your life, we think it if we're not careful, we just always want a little bit more. And that is going to play into what we're going to look at this morning. We have a passage now where John is going to give us the third hindrance of fellowship. If you recall from previous uh messages, we learned that sin is the first hindrance to fellowship. We secondly learned that lack of love for the brethren, as we learned last week, is a hindrance to fellowship. And now what we're going to learn today is that worldliness Worldliness is a hindrance to our fellowship. It's interesting how the apostle, or how John, rather, the Apostle John, how he starts. He begins this section by identifying little children. Then he moves to fathers. Then he moves to young men. And there is some understanding, misunderstanding to some degree about what those mean. Some have suggested that those are different levels of spiritual maturity. I would suggest that that's not what's going on. And the reason I would suggest that is because we never see that kind of thing, that these kind of words used with with relation to spiritual maturity in any other place in the Bible. What we do find here in this passage is that other it's already said before and he said later when he uses this term my little children, he's actually talking about the entire audience. So when he says it here, he's talking about the entire audience that he's speaking to, the recipients of this letter. And then he moves to fathers, and he moves then to young men. Well, when he's talking about little children, what does he say? He reminds them in this passage, he says, your sins have been forgiven of you. He wants them to understand, to remind them that I am talking to people whose sin has been forgiven. And we're going to see why that's so important in a few moments. And it says, for his namesake, he is summarizing this whole concept again of propitiation. that we've already talked about, that Jesus is this advocate, and he is the satisfier of God's just demands. And again, John wants to remind them, you are forgiven because of the name of Christ. The name of Christ, the fact of who he is and what he did. gives you the ability to be forgiven by God and you have been forgiven. He wants them to remind, he wants them to understand this. Now, in order to move on from this and understand verses 13 and 14, and talking about this idea of the father and uh you fathers and then you young men, what is he speaking of here? Well, we need to understand a little bit about the background here. And you'll recall from previous messages that there are false teachers. And we've called these false teachers cessationists before. These are people that are really are separating themselves from the church. They're saying that you can have a higher, better knowledge in and of yourself, sort of like the Gnostic idea. You can have a higher, better knowledge in of yourself if you will just commune with God apart from the church. It's really not necessary to really be that low that that integrated into the church. And they're really beginning to pull people away from the local church. And so this is a problem. Look, you can go beyond what Christ taught you. You can go beyond what the Bible teaches. And you can have a higher knowledge beyond that. And what John is going to do now is he's going to remind them of where they have already been. And he speaks first to, he says, you fathers. This word, fathers, is actually only found in one other place in the New Testament. It's found in 1 Timothy 5, verse 1. Where it says, do not rebuke an older man, but exalt him as a father, younger men as brothers, and that actually is the same word as young as youth here. Older women as mothers, younger women as sisters, with all purity. And in that verse it's very clear that he's talking there about different age categories. And so what he's talking here about is the same. He is speaking to fathers of uh he's speaking to people that are men that are older. And then he says, younger, he's speaking to people that are younger. Now, it's important then to know what he says to these older men. What does he say? Look at what it says. I have written to you fathers, and notice what it says, because you have known him who is from the beginning. Well, who is from the beginning? Well, if you'll just look over, if you'll uh if you'll look over, for example, at verse 1 of 1 John, it says that which was from the beginning. There we have our we have our phrase again. That which was from the beginning, which we heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon with our hands, have handled concerning the word of life. So, folks, who is him who is from the beginning speaking of? It's speaking of Jesus Christ. He says, you have known Jesus Christ from the beginning. He's also referencing John chapter 1 where Where John says, the same author as 1 John, he says, in the beginning was the what? The Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. So he's speaking of the incarnation of Christ, the fact that they, these older men, the time of the writing of 1 John is later, around 85 A. D. or so. And he's saying that there are some of you that are going to get this letter, some of you remember when Christ walked on this earth. When he walked with his disciples and he talked with them, and you heard, you were either eyewitnesses of that or you heard of eyewitness accounts of when Jesus was actually here. Remember that Remember the in the incarnate Christ. You have known the incarnate Christ. Now the younger folks would not have remembered that. This is a later enough, late enough book in the in scripture. And that's why, by the way, I'll just say uh for free that why knowing the background of these books is so important, knowing when the dating of the why would it be important to know the dating of the w date of the writing will help you understand what's going on here And so the younger men that are in that are referenced here would not have known uh would not have known uh the incarnate Christ or been there when Christ was there. But it says to them, notice what it says, he reminds them of this. He says, you have, you have Uh look at verse thirteen, I run to you fathers because you have known him who is from the beginning. I run to you young men because you have overcome the wicked one. And we know, of course, that the wicked one, as mentioned several other times in the book of 1 John, is referencing the devil. Referencing Satan. He says, you have overcome Satan. He says, I write unto you little children because you have known the Father. And then we see the same kind of phrasing repeated again. John is probably repeating this for emphasis. He really wants them to remember this. Remember who Jesus is. Remember Uh remember that you were a witness of who Jesus is. Remember that, fathers. And young men, remember that you have overcome the wicked one. But then we have Something additional in verse 14. Look at it. It says, I have written to you fathers because you have known him who is from the beginning. I have written to you young men because you are strong. And the word of God abides in you, and you have overcome the wicked one. In other words, why were these young men, or why were the Christians at this time able to overcome the wicked one? Because It says here, you're strong. Why were they strong, folks? Because the word of God abides in them. So it really points out the importance Of the Word of God abiding in us. That is where we get our strength. That is where we are able to overcome the wicked one So why does he bring this up here? Because what John is about to go into is this whole concept of worldliness. Before he does, he wants them to understand that you have gained really important ground. You know Jesus. You know who he is and what he did. You have accepted him, and you have overcome the wicked one. You are positionally who you are in Christ. You have overcome sin and the wicked one, Christ is your is your high priest, and all of this he wants them to remind them of this. And he's saying, implying here, hey, those false teachers that say you can get better than this, you can't get better than this. There is no way you can get better than Christ. There's no way you can get better than the Word of God. And in fact, if you don't aren't careful, you will lose ground in these areas. Now, they can't lose their salvation, but they can lose ground in the sense of really knowing Christ. They can lose ground in the sense of fellowship They can lose ground in the sense of really experiencing the victory that they have in Christ over Satan. And he wants them to understand that if they aren't careful, he's got to warn them about love for the world that you will spiritually lose ground. And by the way, is that not also an important application for us as Christians? That we run, we always, folks, run the wit risk of losing ground spiritually If we succumb to the love of the world, this is absolutely important for us to remember In John chapter 15, you will call it says, If you abide in me and my words abide in you, you will ask what you will, what you desire, and it will be done for you. That's going to be an important verse to understand later. By this my Father is glorified that you bear much fruit, so you will be my disciples. He says the disciples in that great passage, John 15. He says, my words need to abide in you, and when they do, you'll ask what you desire, and it'll be given to you, because your desires Your will will be the same as God's will. Your will will be aligned with God's will so that when you ask, it will be done for you. Sometime you know the the the issue I was listening to a message yesterday and he was point pointing out the fact that this the man was pointing out the fact that when we pray We ought to pray not as though we wonder whether or not God can. God always can. He always can. He can do anything. But whether God will. God can, but will God? Does God, would God be willing to do it? And we need to be beginning to we need to pray what is according to the will of God. And he is going to say here this passage, and you're going to see it reiterated later, that if if you are if you are succumbed to worldliness, to the love of the world, you will be, you will forfeit your ability to know the will of God. And we're going to see this as we go through it. Now, that then brings us to what the believers must be absolutely careful of, and what we must be careful of as well, and we pick up here in verse 15. And he says, do not love the world or the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. Why is it so important? Because love for the world cannot coexist with love for God. It cannot coexist with love for God. And so we need to understand that, and we'll pick up here this passage, and we begin we need to begin first of all by understanding a couple of words here. It says it contrasts love for the world with love for God. And the word is exactly the same word, agape. Now, some people erroneously teach that agape is only used in terms of love for God. And this verse demonstrates that that's not true. The word agape simply means love, and it can be used for love for the world. And so it's not only a God kind of love. In certain contexts it is, but not in this context. What is it talking about when we talk about love? And I'll just remind us, and we've gone over this before. But love is to give of oneself to. You think of John 3. 16, God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. Or husbands or love their wives as Christ loved the church and gave himself for it. So so love is to g it is a a giving of self kind of love. And what he is saying in this passage is You cannot give yourself to the world and give yourself to God at the same time. You can't do it. To give yourself to the world means you will not be giving yourself to God. To give yourself to God means you will not be giving yourself to the world. And so it's absolutely incredibly important. For us to understand what it means when it's talking about the world. Because if we don't get this word world right in this context, it can lead us into all kinds of misapplication and error. There are some that have read this passage and and presumed by reading this passage that we need to isolate ourselves from everything that's in the world. And the more we can isolate ourselves in the world, the more we can actually follow what this passage is saying. But they really misapply the passage when they look at it that way. In fact, this is so important to balance right. I want us to be aware of another passage that's found in 1 Timothy 4, and it says this as a possibility of error. It says this Speaking lies and hypocrisy. Oh, I'll just start at the beginning. It says, Now the Spirit expressly says that in latter times some will depart from the faith, giving heed to deceiving spirits and doctrines of demons. speaking lies and hypocrisy, having their own conscience sear with a hot iron, forbidding to marry, and commanding to abstain from foods which God created to be received with thanksgiving by who by those who believe and know the truth. For every creature, or it could be translated creation, every creation of God is good. And nothing is to be refused if it is received with thanksgiving. If you instruct the brethren in these things, you will be a good minister of Jesus Christ, nourished in the word of faith and the good doctrine. which you have carefully followed. So the passage tells us that God's creation is good. And we can enjoy God's creation and partake of God's creation if indeed we can thank God for it. And the problem with misunderstanding this whole concept of worldliness, if we're not careful, is we can begin to exclude things from our lives that God said are good. We can isolate ourselves from things that God said are good. And so we need to be very, very careful about that. There are three erroneous applications to this. The one is already up on there and it is this. It's the idea of Christ against culture. This is the idea that we, the sort of super spiritual view that I need to, I need to sort of sort of be in my little box with my friends and isolate myself from everybody in the world and then I pop out every once in a while to evangelize. It's sort of like a rabbit hole Christ evangelism. And this is a misapplication of what this passage is saying. Another erroneous view is Christ over culture. It's the idea that, well, what we really need to do is we really need to to the church needs to begin to to overtake culture or overtake the government, that kind of a thing. And frankly, I'll just say it this way, church history demonstrates that that is disastrous when that tri when when the church tries to do that. Because invariably what happens is is that there is such a mixture of government and and And the church, and it it becomes very corrupt. That is not that is a misapplication of this passage as well. The idea, and we've seen this back even in our in our own history. uh this idea of Christ over culture. The social gospel movement of many years ago was a is a demonstration of this idea. The idea of this sort of take back America. Christians should take back America kind of a thing. Is also a misapplication of this idea. It doesn't mean that we should not follow Judeo-Christian principles, which our country is founded on. But on the other hand, we do not want a Christian religious state That is not biblical. Then another misapplication of this is Christ below culture. Christ below culture And that's the idea that we just adjust to the world. The world is, the culture is, we need to simply adjust to the world. Now, folks, all of these are misapplications. of what this verse is saying. What we need to do is understand that culture, that is, thinking The thinking of a group of people, the behavior of a group of people, the mindset of a group of people, can be have elements that are good and elements that are evil. And the elements of a culture that are evil, we need to have the discernment to identify them and to avoid them and reject them. But the elements in the culture that are good, we need to embrace them. We need to understand how all of this works, and this passage is going to help us to do that So these are this is misunderstanding the whole concept of worldliness. Well then the question is, what does it mean when it uses the word world here in this verse? Well, there are three ways that the New Testament uses the word world. The first way that is used is talking about the physical earth. And John 1, it uses the word world to them to as a reference to the physical earth, the globe. And of course, that is an easy understanding of what the word world means. Another use of the word world, we've already seen in 1 John. And that has to do with the people of the world. Last week we saw this. 1 John 2, verse 2, it says that Christ came and Not for us only, but also for the sins of the whole world. That's the people of the world. But there is another use of the word world. It's all the same Greek words, the word cosmos. It's It's the same word. But there's another use of the word world that is a reference to the world system. And that's the word we're talking about. That's the use of the word we're talking about here. It is the world system And the key passage to go to when talking about the world system is in Ephesians chapter 2. You want to think there are certain passages in the New Testament. that identify concepts and help us to really understand concepts. For example, the resurrection, you would go to 1 Corinthians chapter 15. If you want to understand the resurrection, that's the passage to go to, and there are other passages that help as well. And there are other passages like that. If you want to understand the gospel in its core. Uh Romans chapter 3 and 4 are really your chapters to go to. If you want that there are different things like that. Well, in this case, if you want to understand the world and the world system and how it's being used Ephesians two is where to go. It says in Ephesians two chapter chapter two verse two in what in in uh which you once walked according to the course of this world According to the prince of the power of the air, and the spirit who now works in the sons of disobedience. That is what it's talking about. The course, the age of this world. the direction of the world. It's almost as though if you read that passage, the world has its own mind, its own will, its own emotions, its own desires. It says that the world in this sense is controlled by Satan. He is the one who directs the course of this world. And it says, Among whom also ye we walk we also once conducted ourselves in the lusts of our flesh Fulfilling the desires of flesh and of the mind, and were by nature the children of wrath just as the others That is the this is the world system that is antagonistic to God. It is the world system that every unsaved person is just That's what we're talking about here when we're talking about do not give yourself to that world. Now, how does that happen? How do we run the risk of doing that? We run the risk of giving ourselves to the world. Because the world system has certain promises. There are promises of fulfillment when we go to the world. And we look at the world system and we try to give ourselves. In other words, the world system says, give yourself to me. And I will fulfill you in certain ways. It's not that different than what Satan said in the Garden of Eden in the third chapter of Genesis. Now, very specifically we see these things in the next verse. Look at verse 16 For all that is in the world system. The lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life is not of the Father, but is of the world. Now, if we're going to understand how we can discern what true worldliness is from what is simply a world that God has given us. If we can learn to understand the elements within the culture that are worldly and the elements that are not, then we're going to have to understand verse 16. Now, a lot of people have suggested that what you have here are three different characteristics. Some have even, you may have even heard sermons where they apply them back to the third chapter of Genesis. with uh specifically, but I think frankly that's not really John does not have that in mind here. Only generally but not specifically What you actually find as you look at this is a very general overarching category of the lust of the flesh. That is, what is it's the desi the word lust means desire. It's the desire of the flesh. That is The world system appeals not to our spirit, if we know Christ is our Savior, but it appeals to our flesh. This is a general overarching idea. That the world system is going to appeal to our flesh. Think of Galatians chapter 5, where it says the w the flesh wars against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh. That's what this is talking about. Its desires are going to appeal. It's going to promise something to the flesh. And then you have two ways underneath that, subsets of this, two ways that this occurs. There are two ways. And the first way we find is the lust of the eyes. The lust of the eyes. The lust of the eyes are a reference to cravings. But often these cravings are induced and they are developed through the eye gate, and they lead to covetousness. Now we know what covetousness is. We've discussed that significantly before. This covetousness is wanting what God doesn't want you to have, basically. And the lust of the eyes are the desires that are in our flesh, not in our spirit. They're the desires that are in our flesh That we want, it's the desire for more. I want more. It's like the billionaire that keeps getting more and more billions because he wants more. That's this term. It's the idea of want of seeing something and wanting more. You want a good example of this? Just look at nearly any commercial on TV. Actually don't look at the commercials on TV. But I'm saying that if you do look at the commercials on TV, you have all kinds of ways that the eye gate is being tempted for us to want something that we didn't that that that we didn't even know we needed and didn't even know we wanted until we saw it, we're like, yeah, that looks good. Yeah, I I want that. I didn't even know I wanted that before this commercial, but now I want it. In fact I think I need it. Now that's really cool or whatever. It's appealing. Many of these commercials are appealing to this, to this desire for you to have something that you didn't already have. It could be a sexual appetite, or it could be entertainment. We have in the Old Testament, I believe, a very good illustration of this And we find this in Numbers chapter 11. In fact, would you take your Bibles and turn there to Numbers chapter 11? Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers. Numbers chapter 11. And we'll set it up as you're turning there in Numbers chapter 11. We have this idea of the nation of Israel, and they're in the wilderness. As you'll recall, they have been led by Moses and God ultimately out of Egypt into the wilderness. They've been given manna, and they're sick of it. They're sick of the manna. They had some meat apparently, but all of their meat storage is gone. And they are in a complaining mood. Now in one sense you say to yourself, you know, I can understand that. I you know, if you eat the same thing every day, all the time. I mean even if it's good, it gets old. It's happened this past week to me. eating trying to figure out what in the world I'm gonna have for breakfast. There's like, you know, when you're trying to be good, there's like very few choices. Cause so I had, you know, eggs like a lot. So I'm thinking how do I spruce up these eggs? And I'm certainly no cook, so I think I'm using a little olive oil. I'm pouring olive ocause I usually use the Pam stuff 'cause it's lower calorie. I put some olive oil in the in the pan. And my wife says, you know, that's like a hundred calories right there. And I said, I don't care. I I just don't care I I did. I immediately I I don't care. I r I really just don't care. And uh and she let you know, a couple days later I said, you know, I think I put on a couple of pounds. She goes, Pfft It's the olive oil. I mean what you know So we can all understand there's a sense in which, you know, I I you y you get sick of something. But these people were beyond just sick of something. They were they were notice what it says in verse 4. Here's here's where they were. Now the mixed multitude were among them. Notice what God wants to get across. He sets it up in this verse. They yielded, notice what it says, to intense craving. That's the less of the eyes. That's the appeal to the flesh that we find in the world here. And yielded to intense craving. Now look at what it says. So the children of Israel also wept again. They're weeping. This manna. Who will give us meat to eat? We remember the fish which we ate freely in Egypt, the cucumbers and the melons, and the leeks, and the onions, and the garlic. But now our whole being is dried up. There is nothing at all except this manna before our eyes. Now pause for a minute Do you know how stupid this is? It's utterly stupid. They say we had all of this food that we were given freely. It was free. What are they forgetting? They were slaves. I mean, their you know their two-year-olds were getting getting killed off. I mean, you're talking about ridiculous amounts of danger. If they were I mean they're they're literally contemplating going back to Egypt for this free food and it makes no sense whatsoever. And frankly, that's the way the flesh is. The flesh makes no sense. If you really examine the desires, the cravings, they're going to lead you to a place where it's just stupid. And that's what's happening here. And then notice what happens in verse 18. Then you shall say to the people, Consecrate yourselves for tomorrow, and you shall eat meat. God says, I'm going to give you what you want. Be careful what you want. Look at what God does here. He teaches them a lesson. He says, For you have wept And in the hearing of the Lord saying, who will, in other words, in God's presence, you're saying, Will you give us meat to eat? For it was well with us in Egypt. Therefore the Lord will give you meat, and you shall eat. You shall eat not one day, nor two days, nor five days, nor ten days, nor twenty days, but for a whole month until it comes out of your nostrils And becomes loathsome to you. He says, I'm going to stuff you so full of meat it comes out your nose. Because you have despised the Lord who is among you and have wept before him saying, Why did we ever come up out of Egypt? This, folks, is worldliness. This is the desire that has taken over them. Look, it only makes sense. The manna was perfect nutrition for them. They were looking ahead to the promised land where they would have all kinds of food available if they'll conquer and obey. It's not like this manna was going to be forever. This was for a time. It only made sense. This was just logical for them to eat the manna, be content with it until God gave them more, which God was wanting to do, but they want to go back into Egypt. And then you know what we're what the result was? Pick up in verse 31, chapter eleven. Now when went out from the Lord, and it brought quail from the See and left them fluttering near camp about a day's journey on this side and about a day's journey on the other side and all around the camp and about two cubits about above the surface of the ground. And the people stayed up all day, all night, and all the next day, and gathered the quail. He who gathered least gathered ten homers. That's equivalent to 500 gallons. And that's the least amount that anybody, any individual gathered. God said, you want meat, I'll give you meat. And they spread them out for themselves all around the camp. But while the meat was still between their teeth. Before it was chewed, the wrath of the Lord was aroused against them. And the Lord struck the people with a very great plague. So he called the name of the place Kibrath Hatava because they were buried they that there they buried the people who had yielded to what? Craving. That is the lust of the eyes. And God says, don't give yourself to it. Don't give yourself to this desire for more, more money, more possessions, more fame, more notoriety. Don't give yourself to these things. If you do, it will destroy you. It is self-destructive. And you cannot love God at the same time. We try to straddle the fence here. We try to give, oh I'm gonna give myself to God and I'm gonna give, but you know, I really I want more, I want more, I want more. So I'm gonna give my I'm gonna want more and I give myself to God. God says If you give yourself to the world, the love of the Father is not in you. Now do you remember we talked about the love of the Father? That reciprocal love? Where you know the love of God and where you are giving the love of God and you know the love of God more, you're off that track when you give yourself to the world and you just want more. And that's what we find here. Then we have the second desire here. It says in 1 John, the pride of life. This is talking about the elevation of status. The word life can can uh can mean position. It's the elevation of position. Even possessions that cause us to feel more important could be a reference to politics, actually, believe it or not. Or more money and power, the feeling of empowerment. That's what this pride of life is. And we have a very good illustration in the Old Testament of this. Do you remember Naaman? In 2 Kings chapter 5, Naaman was a man who it says he was the commander of the army of the king of Syria, a great and honorable man in the eyes of his master. He had been given victory over Syria by God. This was a great man. But the man was a leper, as you'll recall. He had leprosy. In one of the campaigns that he that Naaman oversaw, they took an Israelite slave girl. And she was the handmaid of Naaman's wife. This slave girl noticed that Naaman had a problem, obviously, and she said, You know, I know a prophet in Israel that can cure. So Naaman, being the kind of guy he is, says, you know, I'll contact the king, give him all kinds of money. He's going to solve the problem of money. I'll contact the king, give him all kinds of money and possessions and everything like that. I'll contact the king of Israel. The king of Israel gets this all this money and this request to heal him of leprosy. And the king goes, what am I going to do with this? I'm not a god. I can't heal somebody of leprosy. I don't know how to do this. But Elisha gets wind of this. And as he gets wind of this, he offers to help. And of course, you know the story. He says, go dip in the Jordan River. To Naaman. And you know what Naaman does? Verse eleven, Naaman says, But Naaman became furious. He's furious at this. He is angry. That's what a first when someone is full of the pride of life, that's what they are. They get angry. When you can and he says this, and went away and said, Indeed, I said to myself, He will surely come out to me and stand and call in the name of the Lord his God and wave his hand over the place and heal it leprosy. Are not Abana and Farfar Farfar these are strange names the rivers of Damascus because uh better than the waters of Israel Could I not wash in them and be clean? He's still thinking worldly. He's still thinking that his problem is going to be solved by money and the right river. He's not thinking at all about who God is. This is the kind of mentality that he has. I'm going to throw money at it, I'm going to solve it. In fact, even after he's healed, he goes back and he says, hey, here's money. And then you've got a guy, a servant of Elisha, who's who lies and says, after Elisha says, no, we're not taking anything, goes around to him and says, oh, he changed his mind. Talk about the love of money. Folks, what we find in this passage is a man who finally Through God's working, he's finally going to say, by the way that this all transpired, because there was no use of the world in this at all, I know now that there is no God except the God of Israel. Why? Because worldliness will keep you from seeing the true God. Pride will keep you from knowing the true and living God. So, why is it so important? We finally have this argument here that is just really wraps everything up. Look at verse 17. It says this. Why is it that we can't give ourselves to the world and the lust of the eyes and the lust of the flesh and the pride of life? Why what what why is it that we can't give ourselves to that to him to them? Because the world system is passing away and the desire of it. But he who does the will of God abides forever. Do you know? I I would take this two different ways. The world passing away. It's temporary. And it's temporary in two ways. One way is the world system is going to ultimately pass away, isn't it? It's going to be completely gone. Christ is going to come back. Aren't you looking forward to that day? So to try to give yourself to something that is going to be completely gone means you're going to live a useless life. Candidly. But there's another way in which this could be taken, and I think it could be taken both ways. The desires of the world are temporary. In other words, you'll never have enough of them. The way that the desires of the flesh work, you want more and more and more. It's never enough. You never get enough. And you keep keep going deeper and deeper and deeper into what you want that God is not saying you should have. And it's never enough. It's temporary. But folks, there is a better way. And the better way is to give yourself to the Lord. And we find this so important. It says, but he that doeth the will of God. The will of God is in opposition to the desire of the world. You can't follow the desires of the world and follow the will of God. In Romans chapter 12, verse 2, it says this. And be not conformed to this world, the world system there. But be transformed by the renewing of your mind that you may prove. The word prove means to discern. that you may discern what is the good and acceptable and perfect will of God, which is eternal. If you want your life to count for eternity, if you want it to be something that is that you're living for the furtherance of God's kingdom, you've got to discern the will of God. And you cannot discern the will of God if you are following after the desires of the world. You can't do both. One set of desires is self-destructive. You will be destroyed eventually. It will destroy you if you don't repent. The other will lead you to a place where you are in the will of God. God offers contentment and joy. The world offers covetousness and constantly wanting more. Which will you choose? So in summary it rising all of this and looking at all of this, number one Some of us we need to look but while we're in any time we're and frankly all of us are are susceptible to following the world. When we want what we want and we don't want what God hasn't given us Or we want self-importance. By the way, this other idea, this pride of life, it's this idea of self-importance. You know what God offers in exchange for self-importance? Acceptance. God says, you don't need self-importance, you need my acceptance So the world offers covetousness instead of contentment, and God says contentment. And God offers He offers uh acceptance instead of pride, uh instead of instead of self-importance. And worldliness, folks, true biblical worldliness. Not the stuff we were talking about before where we're isolating ourselves, but true biblical worldliness. will keep us from gaining ground spiritually. In fact, it will cause us to go the other direction. Giving yourself to the world will cause you to lose spiritual ground. Do you notice that in your life as a Christian? When you give yourself to the world system, when you follow after the things of the flesh, do you realize that you are forfeiting spiritual ground in the process? Number two, being constantly aware of the world's promises to satisfy your cravings for God, for more than God, gives you desire. Let me put it let me say it again. Be constantly aware of the world's promises to satisfy your fleshly cravings. Be constantly aware of this. The world promises to satisfy your fleshly cravings. It never will. And if you ever come to the place where you're satisfied, it's because you're gorged. And it was self-destructive. It will destroy you. That was the lesson God had to teach the nation of Israel through the whole quail example. And number three, I can go ahead and put it up there. Denying the worldly desires of the flesh enables us to discern God's lasting will. Denying the worldly desires of the flesh enables us to discern God's will. You say, I'm struggling with discerning God's will. Make sure that you're not following after the desires of the flesh. If you're following after this wanting more or this self-importance, you cannot know the will of God. But if you will put away this desire for wanting what God has not given you, and if you will follow after the Word of God, you'll be transformed by the renewing of your mind. Then you will begin to know the will of God and you'll pray the will of God and you'll begin to see God work. God does not work on our timing. He doesn't work the way that He wants Him to. But often we struggle with knowing the will of God and even how to pray, not always because of the desires of the flesh, but sometimes because of the desires of the flesh. Let's pray together. Our Father, we do come to you and we we thank you for this passage. We thank you for the reminders of your word and the and the teaching of your word that helps us to To really see what it means to love the world instead of loving Christ And I pray, Lord, that you'd keep us from deceiving ourselves into thinking that we can give ourselves to the world system. We can follow after that desire for more. And desire for self-importance, and to think that we can give ourselves to you at the same time. That is a deception. And I pray, Lord, that you would help us to identify if we are being deceived that way. Rather, I pray, Lord, that you would help us to love you And to give ourselves entirely to you. And to know that what you offer may not be as as exciting in a sense As what the world offers, but ultimately it is contentment and joy and peace. And there's going to be a day where when you return, where Christ returns, where it's going to get real exciting. Lord, may we remember, may we know that that's the better way. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.