Uh how many of you all have ever taken a vector analysis test? Who's take who's taking that here? Okay. If you say a what you probably hadn't taken it. But um a vector analysis t few of you, a c a couple of you have. It's basically during an employ uh some employers will give them out basically it it It tells you your s it you have to fill out your strengths and weaknesses. It'll say things like, What do you think your strengths are, what do you think your weaknesses are, what are other people think your strengths are, what would other people say your weaknesses are. Basically it's just sort of goes over those things. And some of them are a little bit difficult to figure out. I I at least I have a hard time for them. Well I I isn't everybody this way or isn't everybody I'll I'll say, well I think I'm that way sometimes, sometimes I'm not But the but one thing that when I'm when I I fill filled them out a couple of different times and one thing that always stands out to me is like, yeah, that's me is is analytical. Like every time I come to that, I'm like, yeah, I uh yeah, I am, and other people would say I am. I just sort of marked that down uh pretty clearly. Well this passage is actually talking about Analyzing, but per there's a particular a particular uh thing that it's talking about, a particular context is dealing with when it comes to analyzing. Let me ask you this question. What is the w if you think of pros and cons of analyzing, like everybody knows what analyzing is. what analysis is, being analytical is. So what are the pros and cons of an of of being analytical? What's the start with the pros. What are the pros of being analytical? Okay. Good. What else? Yeah. Not v not usually impetuous or impulsive, good. What else? I think there are far more weaknesses than pro uh strengths actually, but um usually you ha yeah, you can't do it. Yeah, good. Yeah, ten tend to be able to sort of separate emotion from from rational thought. Not entirely but s but but a lot. Radializing putting blocking. Okay, Billy be be be able to prioritize, good. What else? Uh ability to problem solve. You're you're usually able to sit take a problem, pick it apart and figure out what the problem is and put it back together. You know, be able to problem solve. So there's some of the pro so what are some of the cons? What are some of the problems with being analytical? I've analyzed this a lot. Yes? Being able to separate emotional a decision from the emotions. That's a con? It goes both ways. Okay. I'll have to analyze it a little bit. Lack of sleep. Lack of sleep. Okay. Yes. Lack of sleep. Just overthinking. I think Yeah, you just ov uh have you ever done that before? You just you just overthink it. Okay. It's a yes. Procrastination. Procrastination. Yes. Yeah, right. You see all the details and you don't see the force anymore. Good. Yes. Okay, good. Yes, those who are overly analytical tend to s sometimes squeeze out faith in the process. Now, let me keep that in your mind. And then what I want us to do is I'm going to ask a couple of questions that have to do with analyzing God's ways, particularly. Okay. So I'm just going to point out a couple of questions that I thought of when after studying this passage. Have you ever struggled in your faith and obedience because you just couldn't understand why certain things were happening to you? Have you ever struggled in trusting God or obeying God because you just you were struggling so much with what was happening to you? Okay. How about this one? Do you ever fret or worry or try to analyze circumstances even to the point of losing sleep? I think this has kind of already been mentioned. Because you're trying to figure out what God is doing in the situation. Now we're we're what we're doing here then is sort of bringing God into the picture here, which is a good idea, right? Okay Do you ever try to determine whether or not you're doing right based upon what is happening to you You follow that? You ever you ever say, you know, I I'm being blessed, so maybe I'm doing right, or I'm not things aren't going so well, so maybe I'm doing wrong. You ever have those thoughts? Let me illustrate it this way. I'm going to give you a really vivid illustration. So when I was up in Pennsylvania toward the end of my time there, I had decided, I had gotten counsel from five different pastors, and I decided I needed to resign. I had gotten wind that there was it the church was I basically assessed the situation, probably really overanalyzed it, but I did assess the situation, and I thought the church was going to split if I didn't resign. And so I I uh um basically had decided that this is what was going to take place. I was very, very overwhelmed with grief. and worry and I was really str I felt like a failure. I was really struggling m emotionally. Um and uh but I knew I was doing the right thing. I knew that biblically I was on good footing. Uh I had lots of accusations that were false, but I I knew that I was doing the right thing. Then I'm driving in my car on my way to see a pastor friend of mine to talk about the details, and I crash my car. I mean, it's totaled. The car I had just two weeks ago taken off of full coverage. So I got it's not your fault. It's my decision. So so I got nothing for it. And it was my fault. I ran through a red or I didn't run through it was a four-way stop. I did stop, but I did not see the car coming. I should have seen the car coming. It was my fault. It was clearly my fault. And it he just broadsided me. Thankfully nobody was hurt. And I looked there and I said, Lord, what am I doing wrong? Can you im I mean can you think of that? I mean wouldn't that would that like I just said okay maybe I'm doing I started to second guess myself. I was on good biblical footing. I I I don't think there was any unconfessed sin in my life. I don't think there was anything wrong that I hadn't I mean I you know, we all sin, but I con I was con I mean everything seemed to be r right relationally with my Lord and with the people that I was rubbing shoulders with and with my family but I like totally crashed my I mean, at the really bad time. And I began to just say, well Lord, am I is there something wrong here? Am I doing something? Are you trying to show me something here? And I think that that's just a good ra rather vivid ex and the truth of the matter is I w no, I I I think probably if I wanna if I analyze it looking back Basically I was overwhelmed with grief. I wasn't paying attention. And a card hit me. Okay, basically. Um was God trying to teach me things through that? Well, he was teaching me a lot of patience, a lot of endurance, a lot of trusting him. But was he trying to correct my behavior with that? And I looked back and I said, no, he wasn't trying to do that. But at the time, when certain things happen to you, you begin to question, well Lord, what are you trying to tell me here? Or what are you What am I supposed to learn about you? There this becomes very this can become a really difficult situation in our lives. And we can even become so frustrated to the point that we just want to give up. We just can't get it. We just don't understand what God is doing. Now I'm just curious, how many of you would say, well, I I have there's been times in my life where I felt that way. Okay. Well y uh n most half of you at least, the re uh half of you honest ones answered c answered affirmatively The rest of you are honest, I think, but just like the P plead the fifth or something. The truth of the matter is we do feel this way sometimes What this passage is going to do, it's really going to help us. I wish that I had studied that passage back after I had that car accident. Because it took me about four or five days to get out of my funk where I thought Maybe there was something I was wrong doing wrong because this happened to me. This passage is going to deal with this. And it's going to help us because the truth of the matter is God gives us analytical skills for his purposes. But when we go too far, we cannot outthink God. You can't do it You can't always understand his ways. And that's what this passage is going to teach us. And I think this could be very uh I believe it'll be very helpful for us as we go through it. So if you'll pick up here in uh chapter 8, verse 16, it says, When I applied my heart to no wisdom And to see the business that is done on earth, even though one sees no sleep day or night. So he says, Even though I'm apply I'm seeing the business on earth, I am watching circumstances, I am analyzing how things work to the point where I am losing sleep. I remember when I was uh in one particular situation in a in a particular ministry and it was I was struggling and uh I I had I I just started struggling with insomnia. I just was not sleeping. I my mind was racing so much every single night and I was not able to sleep properly And I would the problem was I was overanalyzing the situation, and very candidly it was a spiritual thing. I just wasn't trusting the Lord enough. I can look it back now and see that. I think most of us probably can say that there are times in our lives where we have been so occupied with the circumstances around us that we do, we can't shut our brains down and we lose sleep over it. That's this man, that's Solomon's situation here. He is trying to know, he applies his heart to know wisdom. Wisdom in this portion of the of of Ecclesiastes is a good thing. This he doesn't have bad motives here. He wants to understand what's going on, but he and he is analyzing to the farthest extent possible to try to figure things out and he can't sleep day or night and he says in verse 17 and this is kind of the main main crux of this it says Then I saw all the work of God, and a man cannot find out the work that is done under the sun. He makes this statement here. I look at the work of God. Number one, he recognizes that circumstances around him are the work of God. But secondly, he looks at the circumstances and says, No man is able to figure out what God is doing. You know God's working, you know He's sovereign and He's in control, but to try to to discern and to understand this, he says, this is not possible. For though a man labors to discover it, he says, man, this labor, this idea is just to be diligent to try to figure it out, though a man labors to discover it Yet he will not find it. Moreover, though a wise man attempts to know it, he will not be able to find it. His point is simply this, when you look at circumstances and you try to figure out what God is doing, you can't figure it out Now let me just put it this in perspective. What this isn't factoring in is God's word. This is under the sun. So if we don't factor in God's character, if we don't factor in God's what God has revealed him about uh revealed about himself, and we're just looking at circum circumstances And we are trying to determine God's character by circumstances, we are going to have real problems. Have you ever talked to somebody who says, how can a loving God allow such and such? What's their problem? The problem is that they're trying to base God's their concept of God's character on circumstances. You can't do it, he's saying you can't do it. It's not possible. And as much as you try to figure out why God does what he does in the world, you're not going to be able to figure out his character solely based on your circumstances around you. You can't do it And he's going to explain why in this passage. Why is it that this is not going to be a possibility? And he says, the wise man, though he claims to know, he cannot find it out. So what do you so that sort of leaves you kind of like, okay, so that means I just can't underfa- I can't understand what's going on? I can't figure out what's going on. Um it could lead us to a point where we start saying to ourselves, well maybe, you know, maybe I just need to become like a deist. You know what a deist is? A lot of our founding fathers would do this actually. Basically, um basically it's like the the universe is a top and God created the universe and spun it like a top and let it go. And then it just does what it does. God doesn't have specific workings in the world. He is just kind of created everything and spent like a top. Well, that's not accurate, is it? We see clearly from Scripture that God is intricately involved, intimately involved in his creation. And he's going to point that out in this passage next. He says, For I considered verse chapter 9, verse 1 For I considered all this in my heart, so that I could declare it, that the righteous and the wise and their works are what? They're in the hand of God. The righteousness, the righteous, and the wise in their works are in the hand of God. So he declares this. So on one hand he's saying, I'm looking at circumstances and I can't figure out what's going on. Nobody can figure that out, what God is doing. But he has this settled declaration that what happens, God does, it is in God's hands. And what the w wh and God is able to determine what righteousness and wisdom is in the world. In other words, God can identify when someone is being righteous. God has the ability to identify when someone is being wise, but he's going to continue to say, you can't identify it by what God does. In other words, well, look at look at what it says here then. It says, People know neither la people know neither love nor hatred, but anything they see before them. So he's so here's the scenario. The scenario is, let's suppose you're looking at God's working in another person. And you see you see bad circumstances happening to them You can't say because bad circumstances are happening to them, you can't say why God is doing that, that He's doing it because of love or hatred. You follow that? In other words, sometimes we're tempted to say, well, that thing is happening to somebody else because, you know what? They're not living for God. Be careful there You can't determine that. And frankly, you can't determine it for yourself. In other words, looking at your circumstances and saying, well, based solely on my circumstances, I must not be living right, it's a false assumption. Let me just like add a parenthesis in here. How should we be thinking about this What does right living what is right living based on? This is it. It's God's word. That's what right living is based on. If you're looking at your circumstances and you're saying, you know, I'm having a r I'm having a lot of calamity on myself coming on me, well, you need to stop And say, okay, wait a minute. Rather than saying, I think I know God's disposition to toward me based upon my circumstances, I need to simply look at God's word, look at my life Make adjustments where I need to and and serve the Lord. In other words, there might be something in your life where you say, okay, well, I need to confess that. I need to I need to correct that Do it and but don't look at your circumstances and make the assumption that you know why God is doing what he's doing So he's really saying that's not a possibility. It's not a possibility for me to do it for myself. It's not a possibility for somebody else to do it for me either. Or for me to do it for somebody el This is all not something that God intends for us to do And he now is then going to explain why this is. Why is it that the hand of God is indiscernible? Now, let's just pause for a minute and set this up this way. Is God in control of all things? Yes, he is. Are there sometimes bad things that happen? Yes, there are. Are there sometimes good things that happen So why can't you determine God's disposition toward you if he's really in control? Why can't you determine God's disposition toward you based upon whether good happens to you or bad happens to you? Why can't you do that? And the answer is in this text, verse 2. All things come alike to all. He says, one event happens to the righteous and the wicked, to the good and the clean. and the unclean. That's probably a contrast, good slash clean and unclean, to him who sir sacrifices and him who does not sacrifice. As is the good, so is the sinner. He who takes an oath as he who fears an oath. Did you catch that? So why? Why is it that we can't determine, based on our circumstances, God's disposition toward us, or even more importantly, God's character? Why can't we do that? Which the same thing happens to both the good and the bad. Yeah. I mean just take the events of life. Do you suppose that at nine eleven the However many people, over th over eleven hundred people died. Suppose some of them knew the Lord. Three oh three thousand? Okay, sorry. Do you do do you suppose some of them knew the Lord? Well sure. Do you suppose some of them were evil? Sure. Especially the ones flying the plane. Um So do you what do you make by that? No, bad things happen to good people and bad people at the same time. Good things happen to good people and bad people at the same time. There is no way for you and I to know what God is doing. Now, if you look at Scripture, you can you could see from God's perspective when he chooses to reveal it how he'll take He'll take the prosperity of one and the calamity of the other and put it together to do what he wants to do. For example, uh the Babylonian captivity. He takes he takes He actually blesses, essentially blesses bad people, Babylonians, and brings the nation of Israel into captivity. through the Babylonians, then he finally actually ends up destroying the Babylonians. And so you can see if God says this is how he's doing it, how he's doing it, it's not as though he doesn't have a plan. It's not as though he doesn't have a purpose, but what can't we figure it out figure out? We can't figure out what that is. Do you know how you know what God's purposes are for you as a Christian? It's what God says. He says, for example, all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purposes. He says that. So when a bad circumstance comes in my life, I need to not say, oh, maybe God's disposition to me is not good. No, I simply say what God says, that this will be for his purposes and for his glory I need to believe what God says rather than looking at circumstances and determining his character and his disposition by the circumstances that I find myself in. And I will tell you that just in counseling and and working with people, discipling people, things like that, I have seen a lot how this trips people up Young Christians particularly, sometimes even more mature Christians, we expect God to work a certain way, and He doesn't work the way we expect Him to, and we think either something's wrong with Him or something's wrong with us. And the truth of the matter is it might be neither. It might simply be we don't understand and we're not really supposed to. That's why God says in the book of Proverbs, Trust in the Lord with all thine heart and do what? Don't lean on your own understanding. In all your ways, acknowledge Him. And he shall direct thy path. So now there is a lingering question here. And the lingering question is, well, let's look actually before we get to that, let's look at verse 3. It says, This is an evil in all that is done under the sun. That one thing happens happens to all. Truly the hearts of the Son of Men are full of evil. Madness is in their hearts, and while they live, and after that they go to the dead. Now what he's saying here basically is this there's one event event happens the good, some happens the bad, and because you because a part Apart from the Word of God, you can't figure this out. There are some people that stay in evil because things are going good for them. So actually, this whole scenario and some people that continue or go further in evil when bad things are happening to them. The fact that an unsafe person can't figure all this out Even if the saved person is not using God's word, can't figure all this out, will plunge somebody into more sin. And he's pointing that out here. Now, let me just then there is a lingering question I think probably in most people's minds When certain things happen, can you identify them as something good or bad in your life? For example, can you look at something that happens in your life and say, God provided that? Can you do that? I'll give you an illustration. A couple of weeks ago, did I mention this? I think I might have mentioned this already. If I did, forgive me, I'll just mention it again Um I was talking with Cheryl Ignazek on the phone. Did I mention that? And the warming and and and we were talking about getting a warming thing for like potlucks, a chafing dish or whatever for potlucks. And then I get an email from another guy, cre good, solid Christian, who says, I got something didn't know about this. Got it, hey, I've got this chafing dish in my basement. Does your church need it? Okay. Any problem with me looking and saying, Well, God provided. No, there's no problem with that. Why why is there the problem with that? God provides everything. Yeah, b well, because the Bible says God provides. In other words, I'm taking my the basis of which I would make the decision that that's God's provision is based upon the Bible says that he's our provider. Then I look at the circumstance and I say, okay, well that's consistent with God's word. The foundation is God's the provider. I look at that circumstance and I say, boy, sure does look like God's provider, even though it's a small thing Right? No problem with that. But folks, when something happens and you look at it and you say, well, this doesn't isn't consistent with God's word, what I know about God, it's since something doesn't seem to match up. What must we do? We simply say, I believe this, and whatever that is, I just don't get it. And it's okay that I don't get it There is a point where we can analyze something to the point where we just have to simply ultimately just say, you know what, I just don't really understand why that happened. I don't understand the circumstances. I can't figure it out. But I know God is a good God. And I know God is a just God and a loving God and a gracious God and a holy God. I know who God is, not based on circumstances. Don't ever base your concept of God on circumstances. Base your concept of God on his word. Does that make sense? And then you interpret circumstances by the word of God. not the other way around. And that will, and understanding that, just realizing that, having that very clear in your mind, will really help us to not falter. in our in our understanding of who God is and how He works. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we just come to you and we look at your word here and we see uh what Solomon clearly says that we cannot understand because uh you uh allow good things to happen to bad people and you allow bad things to happen to good people and the same event can happen to both good and bad because that is the way the world works We are foolish to think that we can understand and interpret your disposition toward us or others based upon what you're doing. So Father, I pray that you'd help keep us from doing that. Keep us from confusion or faltering because of this dilemma. Help us rather to simply know your word, to believe your word, to trust your word, and to take the circumstances of life and to either say we just don't understand it and it's okay or to acknowledge your what is tr something true about you to see your your sovereignty and your providence Lord, I pray that we would just have the discernment and the maturity to know the difference. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen