Uh if you could take your Bibles and turn to Ecclesiastes, we're going to be looking at chapter one tonight. And we'll look at verses one through eleven of Ecclesiastes. A preacher by the name of Alistair Begg gave an illustration of a man who was a police officer who approached a uh a man who was got to jump off a bridge in order to end his life The police officer proposed to the man that he would um he would be asked him why he was doing it, the man said I just have come to the end of my life I've just come to the place where I want to end my life. And the police officer proposed that he would he said, why don't you come down from there and you explain for fifteen minutes why you want to jump off that bridge And in your life, and I will explain 15 minutes for 15 minutes why life is worth living. Well, 30 minutes later they both jumped off the bridge. And the s the moral of that story is essentially this. As Alexander Beg told it, he said that the reason that the The police officer end up jumping off the bridge as well as because you never actually took the time to consider life. If he was Going on doing his business one day after another, like many people are, never considering considering the weighted matters of life and the significance of life and when he when He when he came to grasping what life was really all about and really contemplating it, he was plunged in despair as the man that was next to him and they all they both left to their deaths. Well that is a very um very depressing story, isn't it? And to be more depressing, it was Hemingway who said this. He said, Life is a dirty trick A short journey from nothingness to nothingness. There's probably the most famous man, famous writer in the 20th century whose philosophy of life is that it is a dirty trick. Ecclesiastes is a book where Solomon is dealing with life. And he is questioning, he's asking those questions that others sometimes never even get around to asking. And sometimes don't are they're profutal, uh they they ask to no avail. For eclip for Solomon, the problem of life is not the problem of tragedy. It's the problem of trivial o triviality. He does not think the problem is not that life is hard. For Solomon it never was hard. You really think about it how all the wealth it wasn't life was not biblical for Solomon. But for Solomon, life was intensely boring. And the problem with life was that he was attempting to try to find He knew that life, everybody had innate in them a desire for significance. And so he goes, he embarks on a journey to find the significance of life Randy Jangley, who wrote a commentary on this, he said this about this man Solomon. He said he desires a sense of gain He desires a sense of gain in life, of satisfaction in the world around him, and the progress of the world around him, but this eludes him Now, I'd like you to consider just life in general. When a child is born, if they're born into a loving family in a normal situation, a child we often say is full of life. And that child usually has a fairly optimistic outlook on life. In fact, we would even say idealistic approach to life. Even after someone if they're n if if if circumstances don't don't change this, someone graduates from high school and they get into college and they graduate from college and they did a decent job and they embark on life, they still can have a bit of an idealistic view of life until something happens in their life to bring them to reality or to bring them to sort of a thud in life. If it doesn't happen before, one of the times that it often happens is what we know as the midlife crisis. I'm sure all of us have heard that phrase of midlife crisis where a man or a woman comes to begin the middle of his life, his or her life, he realizes that perhaps he has more years behind him than he does ahead of him. And he has accomplished much of what he had he set out to do. And if you think about it in life As a child you're not really aware of a lot of the goals, then you get to a place where you're setting goals and then you spend a lot of time meeting those goals and you're just getting one goal after another after another uh under sort of a traditional kind of a family you might graduate from college and you get your job and then you get you maybe you get married and you done whatever and you you do that and and then you have kids and you're sort of taking one step after another after another after another in life Until you get to a point where it's like, well, I'm not sure what step to take. And the midlife crisis sort of comes about that Uh one way or another a man or woman will get over its midlife crisis. He doesn't have to have a midlife crisis, by the way, if he approaches life in the right way. But if he does, doesn't have that, he'll get over it one way or another. He comes to the end of his life and he realizes As he looks back on life, maybe now he has some regrets, he has some difficult, he has some things that he would do over again, and he begins to notice some things that he really considers to be most important in life If you can imagine being age 70, or some of you are not that far from it, that's not hard to imagine. Some of us that's a little bit hard to imagine. Some of you that's unimaginable. Whatever stage you're in, if you can imagine being 70 plus years old, and looking back, I would imagine those who are in that age category would say that the things that were important to them when they were kids are not nearly as important to them now that they are on the other end of life. On the other hand, those things that are not as important in life uh that um when they're kids may very well be much more important. See our priorities change. If you if if if you are going through life, whatever stage of life you're in, And you're thinking of the next stage ahead of you. Can you imagine what it would be like to know what the end is going to be to that stage? Let me illustrate it with you this way. We have here a maze. You know how some maze how many of you ever done maze is you know like on the back of a news newspaper, only have newspapers anymore Some kinds of mazes you have like entrances to a certain pla a certain place and you choose an entrance and then you and then you trace the engine and you might if you got if you chose the wrong entrance you hit a get in. Well the only way to know which entrance to go into without hitting a dead end is to look at the end first and then trace the end to the entrance and go into that entrance. Can you imagine what it might be like for we have some lots of teenagers in this room, for someone who has lived a life To tell you what dead ends you'll hit, so that you don't have to go down those dead ends, enter into those entrances before you get to dead ends To tell you sort of like don't don't go down that road because if you pursue that low here art, it will end in the dead end. Don't pursue this, it will end the dead end. Well really the first six chapters of Ecclesiastes deals with pursuits that if we completely pursue everything That's the death these things are dead ends in life. Very, very important and first principles to understand. As we get into this chapter, we see that Koaleth, we've called him, or the preacher, or the assembler in verse 1. Is this man Solomon, who is the son of David and the king of Jerusalem? He says, starting out this book in verse 2, Vanity of vanities. saith the preacher, vanity of vanities, all is vanity. Now, so far This is quite encouraging, isn't it? I mean everything we said, we've talked about death and talking about the end of life and talking about the futility of things, and now he says in this great book of the Bible, vanity, vanity, all is vanity. Well he's not going to just say it there, he's going to say it throughout the book, but we see here he's going to use he's going to repeat the exact same phrase uh over again later on In chapter twelve, verse nine, I believe it is, where he says, um And moreover, because the preacher was wise, he still taught the people knowledge, yea, he gave good heed and sought out and set in order many proverbs. No, that's not the verse. Is it verse 8? Yes, vanity, vanity, saith the preacher, all of vanity. You have based the repeat of that. And what you have in between these two sections is what you call is called It's it's grammatical construction called inclusio. It means that everything in between these two uh these two uh these two phrases has to do with this idea, is going to deal with this problem of vanity. Now, in order to understand this book of Ecclesiastes, which uses this term vanity many many times throughout the book, we've got to understand what this term vanity means. And so let me just say this, that what we have in verses 1 through 11 is essentially a prologue for the book. It is also written in poetic form. And what Stalin is going to do is he is going to take us and plunge us into the depths. of the problem, of the question of life, what is really significant in life. And he's going to do it from the perspective of a secular man, of one who is not, who has really no relationship with with God. Someone who is not factoring in God at all. And so as we go through this, what we want to do, what I want you to want to do is just Work through this, and I'm going to warn you, it's not going to be encouraging. It's going to be depressing. It's going to be discouraging. But the reason that Solomon does this is because you really cannot appreciate what he is going to say when you begin to identify the significance of life. Until we first go through the depths of the valley with him. Once you've gone to the valley and gone to the depth of the valley Then when you get to the mountaintop, you appreciate that mountaintop so much more. And so as we go through this, I could go through this in a way where I keep I I I We contrast it and we say, well, this is what it is with a man w with without God, but this is what it is with God. But we would we would lose the full weight of that plunge toward the valley, and so we're going to avoid doing that. Let me just warn you that, well let me just enlighten you this way. We will come to a mountaintop. We will, not today, it will be another another day. We will come to, in fact, there are several different peaks throughout the book of Ecclesiastes But to really appreciate the significance of life, we must understand how insignificant life is apart from God. So he says vanity. Vanity, all is vanity. What does this word vanity mean? In Isaiah chapter 57, verse 13, we have the word breath. It's the exact same word, it's not used met metaphorically in this passage, verse thirteen. And so it says, But he that puteth his trust shall possess the land and shall and shall inher inherit my body. This is uh let me read verse thirteen. uh both first. When thou criest, let thy companies deliver thee, but the wind shall carry them away, vanity shall take them But he that putteth his trust in me shall possess the land, and shall inherit my holy mountain This word vanity has a lot of different usages. Basically, you have three different possibilities at least, if not four. The word futility, which is actually in our in the first point, is one possibility The word emptiness is another possibility. You think of the words emptiness, utility, or meaningless. When this word vanity is used, it may mean all three of these in the passage. Or it may mean only one of these, the passage. And you have to determine the context by the context which one of these is talking about. Now, let's talk about this distinctiveness between these two When we think of the term emptiness, what does emptiness mean? What does emptiness mean? Yes. Okay. Okay, good. Lack of fulfillment. If you think you're fulfilled in life, emptiness is the exact opposite of that. Good, very good. What is futility? What is futility? No point. No point? Okay. That was so yes. Honey with uh The information both process. Good. So utility has to do with you're pursuing something. You're going after something and and it's futile. Like it's just not working. Everything you're trying isn't working. It's futility. And then you have this last word, meaningless. What does meaningless mean? Making progress and significant button. So meaningless is this is a lack of significance. It's insignificant. Okay. Right? Unimportant. And he says this. This is vanity, and in this case, it's all three of these things. And notice what he says. Vanity of vanities, said the preacher. Vanity of vanities, what does he say there? All is vanity. All is vanity. Everything is vanity. And he is now going to prove this point. He's going to prove that everything is vanity, that all is vanity. And so he says this. He's going to uh he says this verse 3. What profit hath a man of all his labor which he taketh out of the sun? So his proposition is, all of life is vanity. And his question is, his rhetorical question is, what profit hath a man of all his labor which he taketh under the side? In other words, if somebody works, somebody works for a living, for example, ultimately what profit does he have? Or what significance is there? What profit does he have? Or to put another way, what advantage is there? The question is, what advantage does a man have for his labor, or does a person have for his labor on earth? Alright, let's think about this for a minute. If you were asked a question, here's the question. Why do you go to work? Now, we're taking God out of the picture here. And you say, well, what do you gain from going to work? What's your answer? Okay, you gain money. And what do you do with money? Okay, you support yourself. What does it mean to support yourself? Okay, take care of your needs, what's your basic needs? Food survival, food, clothing, shelter, right? Okay, so that's you go to work to c to to pay for your food, clothing, and shelter, to do what? To go back to work. And you go back to work to do what? Come home and eat and sleep and live? To go back to work? See you trying to find stories. Okay, so you have things you want and you build and you and you buy things you want. So so if you okay. Yeah. And eventually you die. Sounds pretty meanless, doesn't it? Sounds pretty expansive. I mean really, you go to work to live, you live to work, you work to live, you work to live and see you by And apart from them, I mean that is it's vanity. And so he says, vanity, vanity, all is vanity. What profit is the labor? Now He is really thinking back to Genesis chapter 3. Do you remember Genesis chapter 3, one of the effects of the fall? Verse 17 it says this in Genesis chapter 3. And unto Adam he said, Because thou hast hearkened unto the voice of thy wife, and hast eaten of the tree of which I commanded thee saying, Thou hast not eat of it, curses the ground for thy sake, and sorrow shalt thou eat of it all the days of thy life. Thorns also, and thistles shalt thou bring forth in to thee, and thou shalt eat the earth of the field. In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread, till thou return unto the ground, for out of it wast thou taken, for dust thou art, and unto dust thou shalt return. Alright, so before the fall, what do you have? Does it do you die? You don't die before the fall. Is is work harder before the fall? You know, I think they had work before the fall. I do. I think they worked. I think we are created to work. And I think that Adam worked and he tended the gardens and he had responsibilities. And eve is well, they work before the fall. But the toil of the ground and the sweat of the brow and those things are as a result of the fall. And then after that, you return the same way you came, from dust to dust This is this is the the the cause of of the fall. Before the fall, you live and you have You live in the presence of Christ and everything is right. After the fall, not only do you go from dust to dust, in between his heart. And he says, all advantage. What is the answer to verse 3? The answer to verse 3 is that there is no advantage. There is no profit to your labor. Because all is vanity. Now, lest you still be idealistic, he's going to prove this by observing creation. And he's going to point out the cycles of creation, how there is this constant, monotonous cycle in creation. He says These are examples of futility in verses 4 through 7. He says, the generational cycle. Maybe I can have kids. Maybe that will be fulfilling to me. Well, what did he say about that, verse 4? One generation passeth away, and another generation cometh, but the earth abideth forever Now the word forever there does not mean you need to be taken as eternal. It just means that as long as the earth is, it stays the same. So it says here though that generations pass away and other generations come and they're the pass away. You have this endless generational cycle Not only that, he then moves to verse 5, we have a chronological cycle. He says, the sun also riseth And the sun goeth down, and hasteth to its place where it arose. Every day it comes up, every day it goes down, the next day it comes up Every day it goes down. 365 days a year it goes up, it goes down. Year after year, every day it goes up and down. It is an endless, monotonous cycle. And then he says this Rosical Cycle verse six. The wind goeth toward the south, and turneth about unto the north. It whirleth about continually, and the wind returneth again against its uh against two circles. This constant cycle of the wind going one way Then the wind goes the other way. But don't worry, the wind will come back this way. And then the wind will go that way again. You're getting bored hearing me say that the wind will go one way and the wind will go another way. You get the idea here, he's saying that it's this endless monotony of life, whether you're having kids and then they die. And you're having uh cr uh I mean sorry, it's it's trying to practice. And and you're and you have this chronological cycle of of one day and then another day. And if you didn't like that day, just wait again, you'll have another day that you won't like. And then you have the meteorological you have the wind that goes one way and then goes another way. And you have the water cycle, verse 7. E the rivers, it says, right into the sea, and yet the sea is not full. It's like it's never full. Like where do these rivers ever go? They're always going to the sea, and they're always flowing to the sea, and the sea is not full. Unto the place where whence the rivers come, thither they return again. This constant cycle. He's looking at all of life and he's saying this is a constant, monotonous boring cycle of life that we have to just go through. All is empty. All is vanity. And if you're not already depressed enough, he then says verse 8, you're now going to move and he's going to talk about the reality of futility. He says these are arguments based upon the observations of the individual. So now he's looked at all creation, and now he comes to the individual, he says, okay, this man who sits in all of this monotonous cyclical light. He says here in verse 9, the thing that hath been is the thing which shall be. Actually, I'm sorry, verse 8. All things are full of labor, man cannot utter it. The eye is not satisfied with seeing. Nor the ear filled with hearing. What does he say? Well, he says, number one, we have, he is realizing that the individual is completely dissatisfied If you pursue all the things in life, you are going to end up dissatisfied with life. Life is full of dissatisfaction. All are full of labor, he says. Man to none of it. So God didn't take away the labor, but he made the labor to be And because of the fall. The eye is not satisfied with seeing, nor the ear filled with hearing. Then he says in verse 9a, the permanence of this light, not only is this the reality of light, that the eye is not satisfied, the hearing is not satisfied. And by the way, let me just ask you this question. Let's tell this a little deeper. Because it's so exciting. What um have you ever felt satisfied by seeing something? I mean just practically, have you ever felt satisfied by seeing something? Well sure, right? Have you ever felt satisfied by hearing something? Well sure, right? So he's saying you're not satisfied by those things. What is he saying? At some point you can want to hear and see them again. Okay, it may be that some like it's like a river that like a sea that never has enough river coming into it It's never enough, you're always gonna want more. Rose? Well I think because we feel against the satisfaction for a case that something maybe you're just looking at something. Sometimes there's a little kind of action there. I don't know if that's what you guys realized for that. Okay. Okay. No, I've worked with that. Okay. If there is any glimpse of satisfaction, it's temporary. And if you pursue those things that are that are satisfying. For instance, let's just take um well, I don't want to take anything. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. So we can take it to the case. And it stays here actually. I think the Lord said it uh well in John 7, I believe. Okay, good. Alright. Verse nine. He then says all of this dissatisfaction is permanent. You'll never get out of this dissatisfaction. You'll never go beyond this dissatisfaction. You will constantly be dissatisfied in life. The thing that hath been, it is that which shall be. And that which is done is that which shall be done. And there is no new thing under the sun. And you have this phrase that we know of here in 9B here where it says that there's nothing new under the sun. And why would that be why why would that be significant? Well, we he's basically saying that there's there's no such thing as actually discovering anything. Because everything's already been discovered. If you talk to if you talk to a philosopher, if you talk to somebody, I'll give uh if you talk to um somebody who's into you know And they say what's the well. You remember that debate several years ago between Bill Nye and Ken Ham? How many of your watch of the paper? Okay, unfortunately. Do you remember? Do you remember and actually it wasn't all that scientific they talked more about um philosophy than science actually And do you remember what Ken Ham said was the purpose of life? Okay, well we're not talking about that. So what do you remember what um do you remember what he said uh what Bill and I said was the purpose of life is? He said it's to discover what the purpose of life is. That's what he said Penham asked him, what's the purpose Pinham asked him what do you think the purpose of life is? He said, that's what it is. It's to discover it. So every generation is still trying to discover the purpose of life. And then the next generation is, again, their whole purpose of life is to discover the purpose of life. Even his very answer is total utility in man in life. And so there is nothing new under the sun. He then verses 10 through 11 talks about the futility of two transcendent pursuits. Now here's the point. He says, okay. So at this point you're reading this, you're going, okay. Nothing under the sun is worth anything. It's all vanity. It's all futility. I am going to transcend all of this. I'm going to try to get myself out of this. I'm going to have to think beyond the here and now and what's under the sun. And there are two ways that man attempts to do this apart from God. One way Is discovery is the idea of discovery. Verse 10. Is there anything whereof it may be said, see this anew? See this anew? In that it hath already of old time which was before us. Basically, he says, somebody says, I've discovered something new. And he's and and Solomon says, no you have it. They discovered that a long time ago. You ever Isn't it fun to watch your kids like enjoy learning new things? And they come through and say, hey daddy, look at this rock. And you have to pretend like that rock is something significant, even though you know like they make four thousand and not they make God make four thousand four hundred billion rocks in order to earth And you know, they come up with this, hey look at this rock and you say, Yeah, they make. Yeah, they make the whole time, it's work down to Alright. That's what he's doing, basically. He's saying, you can't discover anything new, it's already been discovered. So you can't that's not going to transcend this futility of bandity this uh existence, you're not going to discover anything new. It's already been discovered. There's nothing new under this under the sun. Now by the way, I know that you know like an individual has discovered, for instance, you know, one time the beginning of this country we only had discovered that somebody discovered the Messi River, for instance. Yeah. Um and they discovered the the You know, there's different discoveries, Lewis and Clark extra. But ultimately there was somebody else there who was there before Lewis and Clark The Indians work, okay? So it's all been there at some point, discovered by somebody. And the other way is legacy, and this is the one that really hits home, doesn't it? Because there's some people that say, well, you know, mock what I'm going to do is I'm going to try to leave a legacy behind. Maybe with my kids and my grandkids. I'm going to leave a legacy. Verse 11 says There is no remembrance of former things. Neither shall there be any remembrance of the things that are to come, with those that shall come after. You want to you want do you want to be remembered for something? Don't worry, nobody's going to remember you. Please. You know, you have people that say, I want to leave my mark on history. It's not gonna happen. And the truth of the matter is, isn't that really true? I mean, we we only know a very minute amount of facts about anything prior to 65 to you know three four thousand years ago. A lot of what we have is in the is in the Bible, but outside of that you you have very little information. It's always being discovered, but it was already there. So the point of all of this is what? Is he correct? Is Solomon correct in saying everything is empty, everything is futile, everything is meaningless? Under the sun. True or false? True. Under the sun. And so he uses this term under the sun in the To identify where all of the vanity is. Now he used it sort of figuratively because we know that God is everywhere, right? God is above the sun and under the sun But when he uses this term under the sun, he's essentially saying everything under the sun, God's done under the sun, in his mind in the way that he's saying this, everything under the sun is so vain and empty and meaningless. And the only lesson we have for tonight that's positive is simply to understand that life without God is meaningless It's absolutely meaningless. Now for the Christian who has God, we're to learn about how that all works. And we're learn more about the utility of pursuing various four different things he pursues long and hard. And we're going to learn how all that works. But the general lesson is life without God is meaningless. If you're living life without God, you're living a meaningless life. And the the the longer we the the the quicker we realize that the more we can learn how to live a meaningful life. And so I need to close and I know everybody's gonna walk away and be depressed. Look, nobody goes jumping off bridges. Okay. The best is yet to come. But I did think we need to go into the we had as well delve into the valley so that we can and by the way, there is a point in life where everybody begins to realize this Right adults? Isn't that true? All of us, we at some point, we get we begin to realize this truth. That's disillusionment. Solomon came to the point where he was disillusioned by life. And he's now going to try to find significance in the various areas of life. And we will continue this study Ecclesiastes. And I can promise you it will get more encouraging as we as we go along here. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you, Lord, for your word. We thank you of we thank you that it It tells us how things really are. It is realistic. It tells us how life is under the sun. And it is true that we can never really appreciate life with you until we realize what life without you is like. I pray, Lord, that all of us would remember that life lived for ourselves is futile. Life live apart from God is meaningless. And when we are tempted to just pursue our own pursuits, help us to realize that we are caught in cre in the fall, in creation's fall, and may we understand that there is something better, there is something far more fulfilling. And I pray that you would help us to understand these We pray the same to Christ came in that