Not something that that is often thought about or or preached about even, and yet it really gives more significance to all that God went through in order to bring us um to bring us redemption through Christ. And um Really, the Old Testament prophetic revelation, all of it points to Christ. And so we get to look at that more to this tonight as we look at Jeremiah. And we're looking at this man, he goes by different names in scripture. He he uh Jechaniah or Koniah or Jehoiak uh get the right one. His father was Jehoya Ken. He w he is Jehoiakim. And um so knowing the difference is important because they're two different people. J I'm sorry, Jeho Jehoya Kin is the son. Jehoya Kim is the father. So the one with the N. L M N O. So L L M N M M comes before N, and that was the Father. So you can remember it if it's it's alphabetical the last. Anyway, okay. So let's go ahead and pray. Ask the Lord's blessing our time together. Father, as we look into your word tonight, I pray that you would help us To see your working, your the working of your mystery and your providence in our lives and cause us to have hope in you. We can look at the great lengths to which you brought us redemption, and that gives us hope that you will bring us to the day of redemption, where we will be conformed to the image of Christ. And um just studying these things cause us to to stand in awe um of what you've done. And it encourages us and strengthens our heart and helps us to know you more. And I can't help but think of Paul's words when he said, That I may know you and the power of your resurrection. His greatest pursuit was to know you. And even in this book, Jeremiah tells us that we ought not boast and and in strength or in might or in riches, but let him that gloryeth glory in this that understandeth and knoweth you And so I pray tonight that you would help us to know you more. And as a result of that, it would adjust, it would change us. The more we know you, if we know you as our Savior, the more we are adjust able to adjust to you. And I pray that you help us to do that. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Alright, so this man, Jechaniah, or Jehoiakim in this passage, we found this morning that he was a man who was cursed by God. He did not do right in the sight of God. We'll go ahead and pick up here in verse 20 of Jeremiah 22. It says, Go up to Lebanon and cry and lift up the voice of Vashan And cried from the pa uh from the passages, for all thy lovers are destroyed. And spake I spake unto thee in thy prosperity, but thou saidst, I will not hear This hath been thy manner from thy youth, that thou obeyest not my voice. Now it's interesting that all many of the other kings You can s it it tells very specifically what he what how they disobeyed God in one way or another. It's it's usually pretty specific I can't find any of the passages, any specifics on how he disobeyed. It just says in every passage, in the first in the 2nd Kings passage, in the Chronicles passage, in this passage, it always just says he disobeyed God. It doesn't really actually say how he disobeyed God. And I just personally think that that perhaps this uh uh uh Ganiah here is used as a um as an as the ultimate example of what God thought about the kingly order. Um I can't be dogmatic about that. The Bible doesn't explicitly say it that way, but it is interesting how it's how he's not specific about about the disobedience that he that he had. Probably it had to do with idolatry. It seemed like every king was getting And um it probably had something to do with that. Uh so if you look um here uh uh then also at verse um 30 you see the the clear curse from the Lord. Thus saith the Lord, write ye this man childless, a man that shall not prosper in his wet days For no man of his seed, and this is very specific, of his seed shall prosper sitting upon the throne of David and ruling any more in Jud in Judah. Now this is um This is more of a Sunday nights or more of a lecture. Does anybody know how? How is it that God fulfilled this curse? And nobody from his seed ever sitting on the front of David David, and yet fulfilled the kingly line at the same time. How did he do that? What did he use immediately? Now later on we know he used the virgin birth, but what did he use? Immediately. Tony? Yes, very good. The Babylonian exile, the Babylonian captivity. Take your Bibles and you'll see that over in Kings here. Let me get to my new 2 Kings 24, if you turn there with me, this is the narrative of what happened to this king, and you'll see exactly what happened here. Of course, Jeremiah is the prophetic uh statements from God on this man. Uh Second Kings just gives the gives twenty-four and we're gonna get through six six and six and eight is is primarily. Primarily what we're gonna like look like. Second Kings twenty four. Hopefully I have my passages right tonight. And okay. Verse 8 says, Jehoiakim, so the same man, was eighteen years old when he began to reign, and he reigned in Jerusalem three months. And his mother's name was Jehushah the and the daughter of uh Jonathan of Jerusalem. And he did that which was evil in the sight of the Lord, according to all that his father had done. So then verse 10, so what happened to this guy? Well, at that time the servants of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came up against Jerusalem and the city and besieged it. And Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, came in against the city, and his servants did besiege it. And Jehoiakim, the king of Judah, went out to the king of Babylon. And he and his mother and his servants and the princes and the officers and the king of Babylon took him in the eighth year of his reign. So we have no king Basically. The answer was that God said, I'm going to I am not going to allow anybody to sit on this throne. Babylon's going to take take over now. and and going to take captive uh the nation of Israel in Babylon. And how long did that last? Yeah, so so uh so they're in ba in in captivity and really there is never a never a legitimate king that sits on the throne again. Would you take your Bibles then and look over now to the book of Matthew? Now there's a significance to the book of Matthew. Matthew is written to primarily what people? Yeah, he's written it's written by a Jew to Jew to the nation of Israel. And so he's very specific about things with regard to the kingdom. You see the term kingdom used all over the place in the book of Matthew. And uh he really it really is demonstrating Christ as king in in this whole book. And um if you take a New Testament survey class, that's that's kind of that that becomes obvious as you look at you compare the different um uh different gospels. You have four gospels, three synoptic gospels, and Matthew is definitely the one that that displays Christ as King. And in Matthew chapter 1, what we find here is, and by the way, I didn't have you turn there, but in Jeremiah 23, so we were just in Jeremiah 22. Jeremiah twenty three, the next chapter over it says this, verse five Behold, the days come, saith the Lord, that I will raise unto David a righteous branch, and a king shall reign and prosper And shall execute judgment and justice in the earth. In his days Judah shall be saved, and Israel shall dwell safely, and this is his name whereby he shall be called the Lord our righteous. So right after he pronounces this this curse on on uh this man, on this king, then he he again says, Hey, I am going to raise up a righteous branch, and he will be king. And by, you know, at that point, I could just imagine people reading this prophetic revelation and going, how is this going to happen? I mean, how in the world is this ever going to take place? And when the Babylonian captivity came in and conquered everybody, I I think it's very unlikely that they thought, oh, this is how this is all going to work. And there is a kind of a lesson and and and they're they're in the middle of Babylon captivity. I I would bet that nobody thought to themselves, okay, well well we're here because uh because of this curse and he's gonna I don't think anybody thought that way. They're just in the middle of Babylon captivity and they can't see they can't see why God is doing what he's doing. In fact, if if you look at some of the minor prophets, it becomes very clear that God is going to use Babylon to chasten Israel. In fact in uh Habakkuk several weeks ago um when half the church was gone on vacation and th they after the something after the thing Thanksgiving, we went we we studied the book of Habakkuk and we uh um and we looked at that and we looked at the fact that that he He was going to use Babylon to chase the nation of Israel. It is just incredible when you look at all this and how God just uses the nations the way he wants to. I mean, they're like just in the palm of his hand. The idea of king kings raging against each other, the Bible says in Psalm 2, God laughs at that. Because God's up there with the chess pieces going, okay, this is how I'm going to use you now. And they think that you know every king thinks they're you being used of their own of their own uh cognizance and will, and God says, I'm using you the way I want to use you. And uh and he is doing that with our leadership in our country. As much as we despair over some of the policies, he's still using it. Using them. And other kings in other countries. God's doing what he is doing. And we can't see the end from the beginning right now, but God can, and he does. He knows exactly what he's doing. And when you go through difficult times in your life and you ask yourself the question, why is God doing this? What is going on? I don't get it. I don't understand No, you don't. Neither did very likely the nation of Israel during the exile. They had no clue what was happening and what was going on. Then after that, you have 400 years of prophetic silence. 400 years. You just think about that. Our country is not even 400 years old. And there is complete silence from God between the testaments. And then we come to Matthew. And we're in Matthew here, and we have this genealogy, and we get to, and we see some things here. You pick all the way up the book of the generation, that's the beginning there, is what the Greek word is, beginning. The generation of Jesus Christ, the Son of David. So we see right at the very outset. He doesn't start with Abraham. He starts with David. Why would he start with David? Why would Matthew choose to start with David instead of going back to Abraham or even back to Adam? Yes, because he wants to emphasize the kingly line of David. We're going to look at Luke in a minute. Luke doesn't start with David. And there's a reason for that. We'll get to that in a minute. But Matthew starts with David. And we go through here the generation of Jesus Christ or the genealogy of Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham, begat Isaac, so he wants to identify that he's the Christ as the son of David and then begins with Abraham. Abraham begat Isaac, and Isaac begat Jacob, Jacob began, and we go through here, and you see all these names, and Jesse begat David, you can see there verse 6. And you see all these names, Solomon, Rhabom, and and so on. But I want you to pick up here, and you see you might say to yourself, well what's the what's the value of genealogy? Please name him. Begat so-and-so, begat so-and-so. Well look at verse eleven. And Josiah begat, there's our man, right? Jekonias. Now, if you were reading this text, you probably would glaze over the next phrase, but it's very significant now, isn't it? And his brethren, about the time that they what? They were carried away to Babylon. Now, first time you probably read that, I mean you've read these genealogies before if you're reading through the Bible. Maybe, maybe, or maybe not, you didn't maybe you did see the significance. Maybe you didn't. But there's great significance to that. Verse 12, and after they brought to je uh to Babylon, Jechanias begat Selethiel. But he's not king. Right? Solotheel's not king. They're under Babylonian captivity. And you have the rest of the line here. All the way until you get to um uh you get to let's see, verse 17, all the generations of Abraham and David are 14 generations, actually verse 16, and Jacob begat Joseph, husband of Mary. of whom was born Jesus, who is called Christ. Now, it's really incredible. Joseph Is is Joseph Jesus' is Joseph Jesus' father? Okay, not biologically. Do you remember the prophecy over in Jeremiah? What did he say? None of your seed Will sit on the throne. You see how specific he is? Your seed will not sit on this throne. And what you find is that that's not that doesn't happen. However, God is so incredible in the way that he works all this out that what we actually find here is that he we've got this sort of situation here where the where Joseph is from the line, the kingly line. Now what's the significance of that Joseph is not the is not the biological father of Christ, certainly. But what is he? He is the legal father of Christ. By law, he was the father. Through what? Through marriage, right? Okay? Marriage was so legally binding back then, and really um It really should be today. Was so legally bindling back then that you were considered their child. And he used the Kingley line so that there would be no question about this. Yes. It does, and we're gonna get there. Yep. Yeah, it does. That's right. Yeah, you're just ahead. You're one step ahead here. Okay. All right, so it's very, very significant how God worked all of this out to bring forth two things Someone who is going to sit on the throne to produce a kingdom that God from the very beginning wanted to do for humanity. To produce a kingdom. But there was something what caused the whole breakdown in the beginning in Genesis? Sin caused the breakdown. Okay, that was what compromised the whole plan in the first place. So, what does God do to deal with that when it comes to Christ? Alright, well take your Bibles and turn to the book of Luke now, which is where Tony wanted us to go. Alright. Luke, and we're going to go to chapter 3. Luke, chapter 3. And Luke chapter 3 is now going to give us the other line. And you all are aware of this. This is not something that's new to most of you. But verse 23 in Luke chapter 3, and Jesus himself began to be about 30 years of age, being, but notice what it says there. You see the parentheses? What's it say? As was supposed the son of Joseph. Alright, so he identified he's so s scripture so specific. And he and what do you have here? It's a recognition that it was as supposed to be his father. Joseph was not actually his father. Okay, he was his not his biological father, but he was legally his father, so it was supposed to be his father. But then it says the son of Heli. Alright. Well, why wait a minute. I thought we already had Joseph's line in Matthew. This really, Heli was Joseph's father-in-law. Okay, this is Mary's line here. And why did not why is Mary not mentioned here? Because culturally, sorry ladies, it just was not it was just not usually that important. And so you have a a and it goes all the way back to Abraham. So so you have both the physical line preserved So that that Jesus is from from the line of Abraham all the way through the Davidic line. You have to ph all everything's preserved there physically And you have everything preserved legally because Joseph marriage, and Joseph is from Jekoniah's line, and you and he is and And God has, in his own way that nobody else could ever imagine, has skipped Jechaniah. He made two things that would not seemingly work together. And God's uh and and Jegani's curse and his promise to put David uh somebody from the throne of David on the on the king on the on the throne. Uh he put th two things that would you would not think would ever work together And God does it here. Now, what does that tell you? What does that illustrate, folks, about our God? Well it ought to illustrate for us that he knows he he is just far beyond us. He knows way more than I mean and you say, well I know that. But how many times in our thinking do we question God? How often do we think, well, how is it that God could allow this to happen? Or how is it that God could do this and still be this way. How could he allow sometimes we go that we're on this side. How could God ever allow this to happen and still be just We're still, you know, Ahaz is a pretty wicked guy from this morning, right? You put your own child on the altar to an idol, it's pretty wicked. And yet God still uses him in the nation of Israel. So we're on that hand going, how, if God is just, could he work through Ahaz and preserve him? And on the other hand, we sometimes go, well, how could God, who's such a loving God, be so be and so, how could he be benevolent and loving, and yet such atrocities happen? And, you know, there's a point at which when you come to understanding of Scripture and when you look at who God is, you want to look at all what God says about Himself. And realize that when there are things that are contradictory or there are paradoxes in Scripture, that you're willing to simply say, you know what, I don't get it now. Just like more than likely the people in Babylonian captivity didn't get how in the world there was ever going to be somebody sitting on the throne of David that could fulfill all the prophecies that were mentioned ahead of time. We're assuming that that's the case, it's very unlikely they would have figured all that out. We're the same way. There are things that we're going to understand in heaven when we see the Lord. We won't understand, we won't know all. Do you realize we'll never know all? If somebody says, well, we'll negate to heaven and don't know everything. That's wrong. We'll never know everything. We're not omniscient. We never will be. That's something of God that's true of God that never will be true of us. But boy, we will be able to understand things a whole lot better than We understand them now. I am what are so let me now let me just ask you. I'm gonna get a little uh I might be a little controversial here. But What are some of the paradoxes in Scripture? What are the some of the things? I'm just curious, what are some of the things in Scripture that you say, you know, I mmm really str or maybe just in life? What are some things that even people God's sovereignty and our free will. Yeah. There's always a tension there between our sovere God's sovereignty and our free will. Um and it's there's been a tension for years, uh thousands and thousands of years, and if you think you're gonna be the one to solve it, um you might have to deal with something called pride or something, okay? I mean it it's not been solved Okay? God gives us what He wants us to know? Is God sovereign? Yes. Is there is there a free will? Yes. Is it unlimited free will? No. I mean there's some things that are boundaries there biblically, but to try to solve this. Oh, I got this all figured out. hasn't been solved for thousands of years. I would be very scared to solve that. Because then I'd get to heaven and problem and more than likely find out I'm wrong. Okay. Alright, so that's one. What else? Okay, and that goes along the same, really the same thing, but but yeah, that that whole issue there. What else? We mentioned one this morning in Sunday school. I'm not sure how we got on. Okay. Alright, that one. Okay? How is it well I don't my position would be I think babies I think I think They do go to heaven. Can I prove that from Scripture? I can't prove it from Scripture. I just simply uh would appeal to the character of God and say that it makes the most sense to me that that he would be able to use the substitutionary tone of Christ and apply it to those who can't who can't by faith apply it to themselves. But I can't prove it I just have to say and and I can't understand how I mean I this is just a it's just there's a point where I go, okay, but God He's got it all figured out, but we just don't know what it is yet. What else Yeah, the Trinity. How can you have one and three and three and one? As soon as you start talking too much about the Trinity and how it works, you slide into error. Okay? Yeah, I have to be every time I talk about the Trinity, I have to be real careful. I have to say, okay, one in essence, three persons. Um I have to use scriptural because it's sorry And uh illustrations, you can take any illustration and and suddenly it'll break down if you're talking about the Trinity. It'll uh uh an illustration of the Trinity will lead you to to uh taking too far will lead always lead you to her almost every time I've ever heard anyone will lead you to heresy. It's really, really yeah, so that's one, yeah. I think the biggest one is probably People that aren't faith is God let seven thousand people die at once. Right Um how is it that God can allow tsunamis to happen and all kinds of people die in one fell swoop? How is that how is that possible? Um what's your ans what's your answer. It's a tough one, isn't it? Yeah. That'll that'll go over real well. Yeah. Yeah. We all deserve to do that. It is true that we uh we all deserve to die, that's true. Um but uh so that's a tough one though. So how many of you let me just ask you, if you look at the last year How many of you, if you observe the last year, 2014, would say there is something that has happened to you that you just have a hard time wrapping your mind around I would just be curious. Can you raise your hand? I'm not gonna ask you what it is, don't worry, I'm not gonna call you out on it. Okay. Look around. I mean, i there's a lot. Not that I'm nobody asked anybody else that because this sometimes those are personal person Okay. Uh it happens all the time. But these kinds of lessons encourage us that we why was the Old Testament written? It's written for our learning, that we, through patience and comfort of the scriptures, might have hope. God wants us to have hope in this life. So we look at how God worked constantly in the Old Testament in spite of people. I mean, it's so infrequently that God used God worked because of people. It's clearly quite amazing. Far more often he's used he's working in spite of people. He's working on the basis of his mercy or the basis of the fact that of his own promise. And in fact, if you look at the Old Testament with regard like if you think of the Mosaic Covenant, which was a conditional covenant He had to destroy the the I mean he had to pretty much say, okay, well the well the we're gonna we gotta fulfill the Mosaic covenant so that we can bring in a new covenant that's unconditional And you have the new covenant that takes some of the elements of the Mosaic Covenant but makes but places it all on on the Lord and not anything on on somebody else's effort because w we are just completely incapable And yet God is so merciful and gracious to us, somehow He's He is used He still uses us for His for His service and And that's something that should we should be very, very thankful for. Let me just ask you, um this is actually all finished faster than I expected. I looked at my message this morning or yesterday and uh let's let's look at a couple of actually I always for see this is why I ha I have Tony do this um because I just forget about it Completely. Um God told Jeconiah that he forfeited the right uh for a seed. He reassures that um that that a Messiah will come out of the front of David, and Jeconiah is isn't is in his line. And we have the virgin birth there. Christ could adopt the lineage of Joseph through marriage, and he was conceived of the Holy Spirit. And then we have the virgin birth demonstrates that So that when by the time we get to Hebrews 9, let's read Hebrews 9, and this is sort of the end of, this is more toward the end of the New Testament revelation. Hebrews nine says this neither by the blood of goats and calves, but by his own blood he entered in once into the holy place. Having obtained eternal redemption for us. For if the blood of bulls and goats and the ashes of an heifer sprinkling the unclean sanctify it to the purifying of the flesh, How much more? And by the way, it only purified the physical. It didn't purify the spiritual. How much more Shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal spirit offered himself without spot to God. Christ, when he died on the cross, was without spot. He did not retain the the his sin nature. Why? He wasn't born with it Now, there have been some that have said, well, there's all kinds of conjecture on that. Um some say, well, it's because he wasn't born of a man and this and the And the sin nature comes for the man. Well, there's nowhere in scripture that says that. But what we but what we do know is this We know that there is a direct link. There is a solidarity, is really the best word to use between Adam and us. But with Christ, because of the virgin birth, there's not that same solidarity. The solidarity is broken. He's not, there's no there's no clear unity there between the The two of them. And so that's why the Bible says that he is the last Adam, or sometimes the second Adam. Because of this whole con this whole idea of the virgin birth Which is something that only of course only the Lord could do in a miraculous way. And so that so that Christ was conceived of the Holy Spirit. Let me just uh this is one of my favorite quotes that if you if you're reflecting on last year and thinking ahead to 2015 even This is literally one of my favorite poems. He said it says this. God moves in mysterious ways his wonders to perform. He plants his footsteps in the sea and rides upon the storm, deep in unfathomable minds of never-failing skill. He treasures up his bright designs, and works his sovereign will. Ye fearful saints, fresh courage take, the clouds ye so much dread, are big with mercy, and shall break and blessing on your head. Judge not the Lord by feeble sense, but trust him for his grace. Behind a frowning providence, he hides a smiling face. His purposes will ripen fast, unfolding every hour The bud may have a bitter taste, but sweet will be the flower. Blind unbelief is sure to err. and scan his work in vain. God is his own interpreter, and he will make I learned first learned this poem in um my freshman year of college, and it has stuck with me all through this time uh uh from that time Till now. And uh it is one of these one of those that just to me I will sometimes when thinking about God's working and how he works and in ways that we never ever thought possible or planned. We had a couple of people over last uh on last Friday over our house. a few people from the neighborhood and they were and it all it sort of came out they asked me how long I've been there at that house and so I basically I mean there's some interruptions in there but I grew up there is what I tell them And um there's some interruptions like college and seminary and going up to Pennsylvania, there's all kinds of interruptions. But but uh anyway, so I grew up there and uh there they're sort of I never thought in a million years I would be I would be 34 and living in a house I grew up in. I never thought I never thought a lot of things. And yet God God works in the way He chooses to work. And um and his ways are, according to Romans, past finding out. And it ought to cause us To really just rest in him and trust him and that he will bring to pass what he wants to bring to pass. And um there's just great comfort in that And great right encouragement