Good morning. Good morning. We're going to be in Psalm thirty-three this morning. I hope that you enjoyed those wonderful hymns of praise. to our Lord and Savior. Today we're going to be talking a little bit about having a heart of praise. Before we begin reading in uh Psalm thirty-three, I just want to give you a little uh information about the book of Psalms. The entire collection of Psalms is entitled Phrases or Book of Phrases. The Hebrew text. And the Septuagint, which is the Greek translation of the Old Testament, they changed the name to the Psalms or the Book of Psalms. And these book of Psalms constituted Israel's hymn book. like we have. And uh this book was constituted as a book that uh gave uh definition and defined proper uh spirit and content for worship And uh just as we have in our hymns today, we have different types of hymns. We have hymns that are phrase hymns, we have hymns that are gospel hymns, we have hymns that are thanksgiving hymns. And many others. But in uh Psalm thirty-three, this is a psalm that we don't have a title for it. It was never given a title. We don't know the author of this Psalm, but one thing that we do know is that this psalm exhorts the people of God to praise the Lord with passion and with freshness and with skill. And it gives reasons why we should praise God in this way. So follow along with me if you would in Psalm 33, and I'm going to read through the whole Psalm, and then we'll get into it. Rejoice in the Lord, O righteous. For praise from the upright is beautiful. Praise the Lord with the harp. Make melody to him with an instrument of ten strings. Sing to him a new song. song, play skillfully, with a shout of joy. For the word of the Lord is right, and all of his work is done in truth. He loves righteousness and justice. The earth is full of the goodness of the Lord. And by the word of the Lord the heavens were made, and all the hosts of death by the breath of his mouth. Let all the earth fear the Lord. Let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him. For he spoke, and it was done. He commanded, and it stood fast The Lord brings the counsel of the nations to nothing. He makes the plans of the peoples of no effect. But the counsel of the Lord stands forever. The plans of his heart to all generations Blessed is the nation whose God is Lord, the people he has chosen as his own inheritance The Lord looks down from heaven and he sees all the sons of men and the places of his dwelling he looks and on all the inhabitants of the earth He fashions their hearts individually. He considers all their works. And no king is saved by the multitude of an army. A mighty man is not delivered by great strength. A horse is a vain hope for safety. Neither shall it deliver any by its great strength. Behold, the eye of the Lord is on those who fear him, on those who hope in his mercy. To deliver their soul from death and to keep them alive in famine. Oh, our soul waits for the Lord. He is our help. He is our shield. For our hearts shall rejoice in him. Because we have trusted in his holy name. Let your mercy, O Lord, be upon us just as we hope in you. Before we begin, let's uh open in a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, I come before you this morning. Lord, there is nothing special about me. I have no great power, no great strength. I am in your grace and your mercy this morning, Father. I am your vessel that you have chosen to use this morning, so I pray that God, by the Spirit, by your Holy Spirit, that you would guide my thoughts. That you would guide my lips, that everything that you want to be brought out this morning would be brought out by you and your power. And Father, I pray that you would open up the ears of the hearers And take the scales off of our eyes, Lord, that we may see you afresh and anew this morning as we come into your word. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Before we begin, I want to begin with looking at the reasons. Instead of starting in verses 1 through 3, we're going to look at the reasons. uh for this phrase and then we will come back to the verses one and three. You need that. Okay. Can you hear me now? Okay, so when we start looking here, being in awe of our sovereign God is the foundation of the heart of praise. Being in awe of our God, who is sovereign, is the foundation of a heart of praise. So what are these reasons? that the writer gives here to us for our praise in these first three verses. Before we begin that, we need to grab two truths here that we must recognize and we must understand. And so I'm gonna give you those two things first. We must recognize and understand God's sovereignty over natural history. Over creation. It's mentioned here in these scriptures. And we also must recognize and understand God's sovereign providence. Over human history. We must begin here, that God is the creator, God is the sustainer of all life, God is perfectly holy, He is all wise, He is all knowing, He is all powerful, and He is all mighty. In uh Isaiah chapter 55 verse 9, the writer writes here, and this is actually God speaking, for my thoughts are not your thoughts. Nor are your ways my ways, saith the Lord. For as the heaven is higher than the earth, so are my ways. Higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts. This kind of puts us, puts things in perspective when we start thinking about Rejoicing and praising the Lord. A heart of praise. We need to understand these things that are written here. So let's look now at verses four and five. I'll read them and then we'll talk about that for a moment. In Psalm 33, verses 4 and 5, it says, the word of the Lord is right, and all his work is done in truth. He loves righteousness and justice. And the earth is full of the goodness of the Lord. So when we talk about this here As we continue in Psalm 33, we will see and we will learn that God's word and his works Are dependable. We can depend on them. We can trust in them. And then they are characterized by his righteousness and by his justice, by his grace, and by his truth. God's word and works can be trusted as evidence in creation. And we're going to be looking at this next passage about that. But We're talking about here what is the reason for the praise in these first three verses. And so remember that his word can be trusted. His works can be trusted. We can rely on God. He is dependable. He will do what He says he will do. So if we are reading the Scriptures and we are struggling through something in life, we can trust the Scripture to be true to God's word. So here we find in um I want to look at verses six, seven, and nine where he's speaking about the Lord and his word in creation. Remember, we're talking about the word here at the moment. By the word of the Lord the heavens were made, and all the hosts of them by the breath of his mouth. He gathers the waters of the sea together as a heap, and he lays up deep in the storehouses. Listen to verse nine. He spoke and it was done. He commanded and it stood fast. Creation is spoken into existence. You and I can see creation all around us. The problem that we need to be careful of is that we are not in awe of the creation and not in awe of the creator who created the creation. It's so easy to be awed by things that are created. than the one who creates it. And this is a lesson here for us. But I want to take a minute and I want you to use your imagination. Just think about this now. God comes out of nowhere. God comes out of nowhere. He is eternal. He has no beginning and no end. He comes out of nowhere and he takes Something from nowhere. There's nothing. He takes something there and he speaks it into existence. What an awesome God. Can you do that? Can we do that? I would have loved to done that when I was building my uh deck out back. What do we find here that he speaks something into existence. And can I say something here? He didn't just create little snowballs. We can do that. Well we can't create them, but we can make them. But God didn't just create snowballs here and little things, but he spoke planets into existence. You know, I think a lot of times we take things for granted. Oh, it's sun came up this morning, good. It's going down to season, good. Rain came. We take things for granted, but we don't sometimes think of the one Who is providing it, the creator and sustainer of all life. Look again at verse 9. It says here in verse 9, for he spoke. He didn't have to take his hands and take different materials like I did with that deck. He spoke it into being. And I like what he says in the second part of that. He commanded and it stood fast. Think about that. Being a little silly. Do you remember Goldilocks and the uh three bears? Some of you kids might remember that, older kids. But I was thinking about that. God creates the earth. He creates the moon. He creates the sun. The sun is so hot You can't even look at it first of all because it's so bright it'll blind you, but it's so hot we can't even get near it. We'd be fried. So the remember when Goldilocks came in to have the porridge? Whoa, this one's too hot. Hmm. This one's too cold. Hmm. This one's just right. I think about that when God created the sun and the heat and it gives light And without it we would not be able to exist. This is amazing. He creates the moon, puts it out there. And it's cold. And one of the other things that he does here now in this He talks about the creation of earth. And if you would for a moment, I want to turn over to Genesis chapter one, just to get a look at this. In Genesis chapter one, uh verses one through five. It says here, in the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. The earth was without form and void, and darkness was on the face of the deep And the Spirit of God was hovering over the face of the waters, then God said, Let there be light, and there was light. And God saw that the light was good. And God divided the light from the darkness. And God called the light day. And the darkness he called night. So the evening and the morning were the first day. Did you notice that when God spoke it, there was no hesitation He speaks to us. We're kind of hesitant, aren't we? But the power of his word, when he created it, he spoke it, there was no messing around and fumbling. It happened. And he commanded it. And the greatest thing that I see from this, and that we all should be in awe of God, is that all of these years They are still in place. He commanded them and they stand fast. You know, we we used to think the world was flat back in the day. I wasn't living then, but I might look like it but I wasn't. But anyway you think about that and it w it's amazing because a lot of times people think That the sun comes up over here, goes down over there. We don't really take into consideration that the earth is spinning on an axis. The sun is moving. Do you know that our sun orbit Is moving. Guess how fast that thing is moving? It moves 515,000 miles an hour. Do you feel like you're flying through the air? That's our solar system moving. We don't even see it. We don't even know it. Of course if you fast forward in your video in the sun and the moon, that's a different story But we find out here also about the stars that God puts in the sky. I'm just in awe of the planets and all that. He just spoke into existence. You know, there are the Big Dipper and the Little Dipper. How many know about that in the story. When you look up, it's amazing. And there's a great bear. There's other things up there. And in Job he talks about as God said, Did you create this? Look at uh we get that passage real quick. Job thirty-eight, he says, Can you bind the cluster of the Pleiai or loose the belt of the Orion? Can you bring out Masareth in its season? Can you guide the great bear in its cubs? Do you know the ordinances of heaven? Can you set their dominion to the earth? He's questioning Job. We're going to come back to Job in a little bit. But when you think about that, even in that day, they recognized the different things in God's artwork in creation. He spoke it into existence And this is amazing to me. And do you know that he creates the trees and everything else? Do you know that a large tree can provide enough oxygen for four people for one day? Did you know that? Did you know that the trees are given off oxygen for us to breathe? Do you know that they take the carbon dioxide that we breathe out and take it in? They also take in carbon monoxide, they breathe in all this stuff But that that amazes me how God sets up the ecosystem. He put a protection around the earth. We have an atmosphere. We have oxygen. And it's just amazing to me that I take so much for granted. So if I'm going to come here praising God the way he's telling us here in the first three verses which we're going to look at, we ought to be in awe of God. The fact that he could speak it into existence, not build it out of something else. He took something from nothing and made it something. So he commanded everything to stand in its place. And uh we talked about the solar system there. And uh do you know that if our sun solar system Went around the whole Milky Way, it would take two hundred and thirty million years. That's the spance out in space And this just is awesome that God just spoke it in the creation. Are we getting this? Are we in awe of God? This is one wise, all wise mind that designed it all, the universe, everything. And he spoke it into existence. And he commanded it and it stood fast to this day We are here in this place because God is keeping it in place. So, not to mention the creation of the human body, even. If you think about the human body, we have a mind. And do you know what? I can remember in my mind, even though I didn't take a picture, I saw it. But I remember when I was young and we built a uh tunnel down through the snow drift Yeah, up next to the road. We had this bank that was up probably ten, twelve feet, and the snow would blow out and it would block the road so we didn't have to go to school. So what we would do is dig tunnels down and come out onto the road until the cars started coming But I remember that. I have a we have a photographic mind. Not only that, but we can think, we can add, we can subtract. Think about the eyes. We have zoom vision. I'm looking here and I can look back here and see Brother Pat just like that. Your camera won't go that fast. You try zooming the camera? Shh. God is amazing. When you think of it, I can move his hand, keep this one still. I can't turn my head all the way around, but that's okay. Wasn't created that way. But when you think about it, he gave us a heart that pumps the blood through the body and the food that we eat gets digested to supply the nutrients and everything we need in our body and then it goes out Amazing. We should be in all of God. We should be in all of Him. As we think about this and thinking about God's greatness, that He can speak. anything into existence as he did. I want to look now at God's sovereign providence over human history. We see his hand over creation. And we oughta be in all just of that. I sit out on my porch at night and I look up at the stars and the sun and it amazes me I spent more time on that new deck than I did before. But I don't know why I keep bringing that up. But anyway, let's talk about the history here. If you would look at the uh Psalm 33, we'll read verses 10 through 19 again. The Lord brings the counsel of the nations to nothing. He makes the plans of the peoples of no effect. The counsel of the Lord stands forever. The plans of his heart to all generations. He says that blessed is the nation whose God is Lord. Is the Lord. And the people he has chosen as his own inheritance. The Lord looks down from heaven and he sees all the sons of man. He can see everybody, everywhere at the same time. He also looks in on the inhabitants. He says, from the place of his dwelling he looks up in heaven, and all the inhabitants of the earth, he fashions their hearts individually He considers all of their works, or he understands all their works. And he says here that no king is saved by the multitude of an army. A mighty man is not delivered by great strength, a horse is vain or hope for safety, and neither shall it deliver anybody by its great strength. And it says in verse 19 or 18, Behold, the eye of the Lord is on those who fear him. His eyes on you and I. He says that on those who hope in his mercy, to deliver their soul from death, and to keep them alive in the famine. When we look at this verse 10 here where he talks about he sends all their plans to nothing, you know, there's nothing that man can do to thwart God's plan. And we see examples of that in the history of Israel and how God took them from not being a people to being a people Bringing them through, bringing them out of Egypt, bringing them into the promised land. We were studying it in uh um in our Sunday school class this morning about the kings and and so on, and how we see there that God was in control of it all And if they didn't do what he said, they went into captivity and everything else. But God was in control and he always kept that one remnant for us so that we We can have Christ come through David's line. But here we see also the counsel of the Lord. Oh, now I see what happened. The counsel of the Lord uh stands forever. God's word, God's promises Is already wrote in history. We already have it in history. He's already written the book. God has already written everything down for us, His Word, and it will come to pass. And we think about the fact here that he says the counsel of the Lord will stand forever. We can trust in God's word because we have it and we know it will come to pass. If I am trusting in Jesus Christ as my Savior and my Lord for my salvation, believing that one day Christ is going to come and He's going to rapture me up and I am going to spend eternity with Him in heaven. Do you believe that? You believe that? Are you in awe of God's design for us to be his children? All that he did. And I and also to his son dying on the cross, being buried in the tomb, third day he rose. Amazing. Amazing. We should be in awe of God. And we say we think here too that his plans uh of his heart is for all generations. That's why we have the Bible today. That is why we have his gospel with us Which is still being proclaimed uh throughout in spite of man's attempt to silence it. We are finding that more and more in our nation that they're trying to silence. God's word. Let me turn to Psalm two here real quick and share something that uh Pastor Jim shared the other week. But it says in Psalm two Why do the nations rage and the people plot a vain thing? The kings of the earth set themselves up, and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed Let us break their bonds in pieces and cast away their cores from among us, and he who sits in heaven laughs. at them. And he puts them in derision. And he warns them in verse 10, now therefore, be wise, O kings, be instructive, you judges of the earth. Serve the Lord with fear and rejoice with trembling. Kiss the Son, lest he be angry, and you perish in the way. You know It's a good warning to us. In 2 Peter, he talks about the great and precious promises that are given to us. We are secure in Jesus Christ. And that is because of his word and his being, his heart plan for all generations. We have that even today And so to us, we are secure in Christ in our sovereign God because of his sovereign word, and because he is sovereign Verse twelve says, Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord, the people who have chosen as his own inheritance. And we see there I it's believed that they're talking about uh Israel there, but it also can be talking about the church. We all we're not a nation of course. And the nation part is probably talking about Israel. But we are his inheritance, are we not? Think about this now. In verse thirteen and fifteen Look what he says in verse thirteen. He says, The Lord looks down from heaven. He sees all the sons of all, of all the sons of men, and the place of his dwelling he looks down on them. and all the inhabitants of the earth, He fashions their hearts individually. God is the creator and sustainer. This is talking about, remember uh in Romans 9 where he talks about the potter and the clay? And he talks about the potter and the clay also. in Isaiah twenty-nine. And he says this in Isaiah twenty-nine, which is um Isaiah twenty-nine, and we look at verses uh fifteen and sixteen. He says, Woe to those who seek deep to hide their counsel far from the Lord. And their works are in dark. They say, Who sees us? Who knows us? Surely you have things turned around, God says. Shall the potter be as fiend as the clay Shall the thing that made was made say of him who made him? He did not make me. Or shall the thing formed say of him who formed it? He has no understanding. God is the potter. We are the clay. He fashions our hearts. And I think this is an amazing thing too. He fashions our heart individually Now I want you to look at 16 and 17 real quick. 16 says that no king is saved by the multitudes of an army. And a mighty man is not delivered by great strength. And a horse is a vain hope for safety. Neither shall it deliver any by its great strength. Armies and weaponry are no match for God. You know, we should never put our trust in our military or any other type of thing. God is the one we should put our trust in. Because it tells us here in Proverbs 21, 1, it says the king's heart, those who are in charge, is in the hand of the Lord, like the rivers of water He turns it. God turns it. Wherever he wishes. God is in control of the heart of the leaders. And we see that here in uh Psalm 20, verses one uh six through eight. It says, some trust in chariots and some in horses. But we remember the name of the Lord our God. Today, throughout the world, we have many. Nations all over the world who have great armies, they have great powerful militaries and weaponry. But you know what their mindset is? Their mindset is this That they can wipe out everyone else and be in control. Isn't that amazing? That they can wipe out everyone. else. God looks down at them, what does he say? He laughs at them. God is directing, they don't even know it, but God is directing them. Now some do, but some most don't. They don't know that God's directing. But God, who is watching over his creation, lasts from heaven. And we see that in Psalm 2, 4, and 5. Now let's go to verses 18 and 19 here, talking about our sovereign God. He says in verse eighteen, Behold, the eye of the Lord is on those who fear him, on those who hope in his mercy To deliver their soul from death and to keep them alive from uh during famine. Our sovereign God personally keeps watch over you and I Those who fear him and in reverence and hope in his mercy, his gospel, salvation, we hope in Christ's return because of his salvation he has offered us. Verse 20 and 22 is a prayer of praise from a grateful and thankful heart of praise. And especially look at verse 21. It says here, for our hearts shall rejoice in him because we have trusted in his holy name. When we come to worship God here in the church, even this morning, Hmm. Were you thinking about your week? Were you thinking of the good things that God has done that Excites your heart and brings joy to your heart? Were you thinking that when you were singing these praises? Or was your mind in something else? Maybe you didn't know the song, so you don't follow along and don't sing? We gotta be careful. We gotta be careful. God is watching us. He knows our heart. He knows our thoughts. He knows our mind. And when we sing with a grateful and thankful heart of praise It honors God and it brings joy to God. It is a beautiful thing. Now I want to go now to verse eight. We skipped over verse eight and I want to go there. This is where it really brought things together for me. It says in verse 8, let all the earth fear the Lord, and let all the inhabitants of the world stand in what? In awe of God. Hmm. A true heart of praise can only praise God as recorded here in verses one through three when it stands in awe of who God is. Are you in awe of God this morning? We probably haven't even thought about it in in all actuality. I didn't until I read the scriptures here as I was preparing. But uh I want to share something with you about Job. Everybody knows Job, right? We know Job. He was a righteous man. And God took everything from him. He allowed Satan to do that. But if you look at verse chapter 38, Here is where, as you know, for the other thirty some chapters, he's complaining and grumbling. He dun he doesn't understand why this happened, because he was a righteous man. He was right before God and all his friends are telling him he sins I'm and all this and that. But here God comes And says to Job, He says, Then the Lord answered Job, out of a whirlwind, and said, Who is this who darkens counsel? By words without knowledge. Now prepare yourself like a man. I will question you, and you shall answer me. Can you imagine this? I'd be shaking in my boots. He says, Where were you when I laid the foundations of the earth? Tell me, if you have understanding. Who determined its measurements? Surely you know, you know everything. Huh. Or stretched out the line upon it. To what were its foundations fastened? Or who laid its cornerstone? You see this where God's going. God goes through two chapters of this, and we end up over here in chapter 42. When you see Job, answer God. Remember, God said, You're going to answer me these questions. Back and forth they were having this conversation. But here you find Job answering. Job answers the Lord and said, Listen to this I know that you can do everything and that no purpose of yours can be withheld from you. Number one, you and I this morning. We know who God is. We know who he is. We know that all his plans and his promises will not be foiled. We know this. Listen to what Job says. You ask, who is this who hides counsel without knowledge? Therefore I have uttered what I did not understand. And he says, things that are too wonderful for me. You know, I've been studying and reading there's some things that are too wonderful for me for me because I don't understand them yet. And I I pray to God for help and for understanding. But it's too wonderful for me, which I did not know, he says. And he goes to God and he says in verse four, listen, please, let me speak You said, I will question you, and you shall answer me. Now listen to what Job says to God. I have heard of you by hearing of the ear. Faith cometh by hearing, hearing by the Word of God. Job came to Christ, or came to God, because of his word You and I this morning have God's word. We are hearing it. It's how our grow our faith grows. But he says here in the second part of verse 5, but now my eyes seize you. Therefore, I abhor myself and repent in dust and ashes. You know what happened to Job after this visit from God? He was now in awe of God. God opened his eyes, took the scales off, unplugged his ears He heard the word. We all have God's word. But are we in all of God? What will it take for us to be in all of God? We cannot worship him and praise him as it talks about here fully, having that heart of praise, without acknowledging The awesomeness of God. We have just touched here the surface of who God is. And these few scriptures, we did 22 verses. The Bible is full of who God is And his revelation of himself given to you and I. It's also a book of instruction. As we learn new things about our awesome God. It gives us fresh reasons, a new song to praise God for, to praise Him. Is your praise each week afresh? Is it new? Are you seeing God doing something during the week? These discipleship uh groups that we're doing, it's trying to get ourselves in to understand and try to see what God is doing in our life each week and and praying for each other, seeing the awesomeness of God working in our lives. So, as we learn new things about our awesome God, it gives us a fresh reason to praise Him. I would like to put two questions before you this morning. Before we go on, and these I don't think I gave you, uh, Brother Pat. How important is God's word to you? How important is God's word to you? We would all probably in here say it is very important to us. Let me ask you a second question. How do you see your time in God's Word causing you to be in awe of Him How do you see your study of God's Word putting you in awe of Him? As you read and learn new things from the Scriptures, are you in awe of God? The value that we put on God's Word and our desire and effort to know Him more by studying the scriptures will reveal Our awe of God. If we study a little, our God is small. If we study a lot, He's going to be a lot larger. We're going to be more in awe of Him. But if we don't study He's a small God. It says here, uh saying Augustine or Augustine In reading Galatians 6. 14, where Paul says, But God forbid that I should glory or boast except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. And it's quoted by Saint Augustine, Christ is not valued at all unless he is valued above all. Okay. Let's turn now to back to the beginning of the um Psalm to verses one through three. I'm going to read them again. Follow along if you have your Bibles open. It says in verse 1 through 3, Rejoice in the Lord, O you righteous, for praise from the upright is beautiful. Praise the Lord with the harp. Make melody to him with an instrument of ten strings. Sing to him a new song. Play skillfully with a shout of joy. Charles Spurgeon states it this way. Out of these three verses, he says in these three verses, joy is the soul of praise. Joy is the soul of praise. And he says to rejoice in temporal comforts is dangerous. And he says to rejoice in self is very foolish. And to rejoice in sin Is deadly and fatal. But he said to rejoice in God is heavenly. What does it mean when he says, sing to him a new song? Well in Revelation chapter nine, we find here when Uh remember they had the s the uh scrolls and they couldn't find anybody to open those scrolls? Listen to what the people say. And they sang a new song, it says in Revelation 9. They sang a new song saying, You are worthy to take the scroll and to open its seals. For you were slain and have redeemed us to God by your blood, out of every tribe, tongue, and people and nation, and you have made us kings and priests to our God. And we shall reign on the earth forever. You're seeing here he's talking about the gospel. So when we think about singing a new song, Let me say some things about the gospel. The gospel is in our hearts. We know we are saved. We know we are going to go to heaven. We know that God has called us for a reason and a purpose And it is ever new to us. And we must sing praise with fresh appreciation of its great efficiency and blessing. Did you catch that? It is ever new to us. Why is it ever new to us? We live from faith to faith. One thing happens, we get through it. We praise the Lord for that, another thing comes, sometimes it's good for quite a while and then all of a sudden we come into a trial, faith to faith And in this, every time we're coming through something, we should have that fresh appreciation. We now are reminded again that I am God's child. A lot of times when we sin, we get this idea that maybe we're not saved. Or maybe God's angry at me. Maybe this, maybe that But we have the comfort if we're truly saved. We have that trump comfort that God will forgive us if we repent and turn away from it. He will forgive us. That's a reason to praise because you're not being held to the law, but you're being held by Christ's blood and his shed blood on our behalf. So, we should never get bored with the gospel. It is music to our ears, is it not? We sung about it this morning. Is not the gospel music to your ears? Do you think about it during the week? We should never become bored of it. And do you know what? A grateful and a thankful heart, singing praise to God, as it says here, is beautiful. It's beautiful to God's ears. Because it is the power of God unto salvation to everyone who believes, it says in Romans 1. 16. I want you to catch what it says in Romans 1. 17. For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith to faith. I think this is just So important for us. The Bible says in Ephesians 2. 8 through 10, and we all know this passage. It says, For by grace you have been saved through faith. And that is not of yourselves, it is what? The gift of God. That right there should cause a heart of praise. We couldn't earn it. We couldn't save ourselves. We couldn't stop it. Only Christ could do that Are we in all of that? And not of works, lest anyone should boast, for we are his workmanship. And we are created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God Himself prepared beforehand that we should walk in them. Are you walking in the good works of God? Are we allowing him to use us or are we hesitating? Are we like the planet that might not want to be created and stop and not be created Sometimes we are stopping God from doing what he wants to do because we do not want to do it that time. We have something else that we want to do. And so this is a great reminder to us. Every time you and I fall short, and every time that we are reminded of God's gift, of His grace It brings you through another trial that you've been going through, another sin forgiven and forsaken. This is what causes us to sing a new song. This is what causes it. And uh in uh Psalm fifty verse twenty-three it says, Whoever offers praise glorifies me. God accepts this, God says that. No awesome thing in creation was meant to give you what only the Creator is able to give. Every awesome thing that we think of in this world Every created thing is designed to point you and I to the one who alone is worthy of capturing and controlling the all of our searching and hungering heart. So many people as we know put other things in their lives. They're seeking for that peace. They're seeking to have a right relationship with Christ. But they just can't get there. They put other things in there. They'll put Things that they like to do, they'll put alcohol, they'll put drugs, they'll put fun things, they'll buy different things and do different things, they'll put their house in there and they'll build the house that they dreamed of and all these things. But God says That it's not the creation that we should be worshiping or praising God for. It is the one who created it and spoke it into existence. I want to finish with a few questions. There are three or four of them. And I just want you to be thinking about these, and maybe you can use them in the home group tonight if you like. But the first one is this. How might being in all of God change some of the misconceptions about worship? There are so many misconceptions concerning worship. How do you think being in all of God might change some of those misconceptions? The second question is How can we keep praise from becoming merely a lifeless routine? We come every Sunday morning, we come every Wednesday night. How can we keep that from becoming a lifeless thing? We just come in and we sing the hymn and that's it. Is the words meaning anything to us? Are we grateful for what God done that week He brought us through the week. He protected us. He provided for us. And the fact that he does not turn his love away from us should be one good reason to praise. So, question three is, what other reasons can you think of to praise God for? We only looked at a few here. The Bible's full of them. Be thinking about that. The last thing is what stood out to you most about Psalm thirty-three today? You know what stood out to me most? Verse eight. I think it's the key to the whole passage Let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him. Conclusion. What we find here is this. Number one, the foundation of our praise is being in all of God. That is the foundation. Being in all of God. The second thing that we get from this is the soul of our praise is joy. It says that in there, rejoice in the Lord. And he says, shout for joy. Joy should be the soul. We come because we're joyful, we're thankful, we're grateful for God. The third thing is the cause of praise is trusting in God and His Word. That causes us to praise because when God answers prayer, when you see His Word come to life in your life, I think about uh uh Brother Joe and uh Erica and Erica's sister. You know, just sharing the gospel with her and she puts her faith and trust in Jesus Christ. We need to keep her in prayer that God will find a church down there for her and get her established there to have someone disciple her So, as we close in prayer, I guess my question is, are you in all of God? Let's close. Heavenly Father, we are grateful this morning for your word. We are so thankful, Father. And Lord, we all fall so short in remembering Lord, we have so many things in life going on. But I pray that through this study of Psalm 33, I pray that you would use your word there, Lord. To light a fire in our hearts and our souls. Father, that we would actually be in awe of you. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.