Or alone, like no one cared about you? Have you ever think of a time in your life when you were discouraged? by something that was going on in your life or maybe overwhelmed about a circumstance that's in your life. Can you think of a time when you were uncertain or felt uncertain about your future? or even fearful about what would be the outcome. Have you ever been fearful? And struggling with besetting sins and what might be the hope for you to get away from them In thinking this and getting our minds set around this thought of times of discouragement or times of loneliness, times of circumstances and uncertainty The question would be this morning, where do you go for help? Where do you go for help? Some of you may say that, well, I go to God for help and prayer. Some may go to friends who are close friends that you can confide in Some may just go into God's Word and start studying and trying to find answers to the situation. Some of us might buy subject books about the situation I'm in to try to get help there. Some may even go to doctors and try to find help and solutions to your problems that you struggle with in life. And we all have them. We all have struggles in life. And God has made that clear to us. that we will have tribulation. So in thinking about this, where do you turn for help? All of those things I mentioned are good. But this morning I want to look at a scripture that we are going to be going into. It's a very familiar scripture, and I'm certain almost all of us probably at one time or another have been to this passage. I have been there several times in my own life. But this morning we're going to look at this very familiar scripture, and I want to talk about something in a moment here. It was written by a young man. A young man who was a shepherd in his young age. He was also a poet. He was also a musician. He was also a soldier, and he was also one of Israel's greatest kings ever, under the Lord Jesus Christ. He was an ancestor of Jesus Christ, as a matter of fact. He was in the family line. He was listed in the Hall of Fame in Hebrews 11:32. And he was a man described by God Himself as a man after God's own heart. That is the writer of this passage that we're going to look at this morning. This same man Committed adultery with a young lady. And not only did he commit adultery, but he had her husband sent out to the front lines to be murdered so he could marry this young lady. This man also directly disobeyed God in taking a census of the people. This man also did not deal decisively with the sins of his children. And this man also There was a king who desperately wanted to kill him and chase him down. He also was a man who killed a great man, a giant, with one single stone. Yet in all of this, all of this, this man pinned one of the most blessed passages of Scripture in the Bible, other than the gospel. We are going to be looking at this passage this morning. But the question is, how does this happen? How can a man who had all these great things going on in his life, also with the other things going on in his life, the things that he has done that were not godly. How can a man like this pin Such a wonderful passage. If you are have your Bible with you this morning, I invite you to Psalm 23, and we're going to be reading through 1 through 6. Psalm 23, David says, The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures He leadeth me beside the still waters. He restoreth my soul. He leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his namesake. And yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil. For thou art with me. Thy rod and thy staff, they comfort me. And thou preparest the table before me in the presence of mine enemies, and thou anointest my head with oil, and my cup runneth over. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord. Forever. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, I come before you this morning in weakness. In fear. And God, I know that in myself there lieth no strength. So I'm asking this morning that you enable me, by the power of your Holy Spirit, to correctly handle your word. For your praise and for your glory. That Lord, as your word goes out, you promise us that it will not go void, but it will do what you sent it forth to do. So I'm praying that you will work in each of our hearts this morning, that we would be challenged, that we would be encouraged, that we would be blessed by your word. And we ask these things all for your glory in Jesus' name. Amen. So because David in his early years was a shepherd to his family's sheep. Probably he wrote out of his own experiences in describing his Lord as his shepherd. And David understood the sheep very well. He knew that they were completely dependent upon the shepherd, him. For provision, for protection, and for guidance. David understood these things about the sheep And he was familiar. And we know that throughout Scripture, this is brought up several times about the shepherd and the sheep. And here, likewise, we as the Lord's sheep Are completely dependent upon our Shepherd Jesus Christ for his provision, for his protection, and for his guidance in our life. If you would not mind, David begins the psalm by recognizing his Lord as like a shepherd. And I would like you to turn over to John chapter 10. And we will find here Jesus Christ revealing that he is the good shepherd. And so in John chapter 10, we will be looking at verses 1 through 16. Jesus says, Verily, verily, I say unto you, he that entereth not by the door into the sheepfold, but climbeth up over, the same is a thief and a robber. But he that entereth in by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. To him the porter openeth, and the sheep hear his voice. And he calleth his own sheep by name, and leadeth them out. And when he putteth forth his own sheep, He goeth before them, and the sheep follow him, for they know his voice. And a stranger they will not follow, but will flee from him For they know not the voice of strangers. Now when the spiritful was spoken, the people could not understand it. And so Jesus again in verse seven Brings it back. He says, Verily, verily I say unto you, I am the door of the sheep. All that ever came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not hear them. I am the door, and by me if any man enter in He shall be saved, and shall go in and out and find pasture. The thief cometh not but for to steal and to kill and to destroy. I am come that they may have life and have it more abundantly. I am the good shepherd, and the good shepherd giveth his life for the sheep. But he that is a hireling, and not the shepherd, whose own the sheep are not, seeth the wolf coming, and he leaveth the sheep and fleeth. And the wolf catches them and scatters the sheep. The hireling fleeth because he is a hireling and careth not for the sheep. I am the good shepherd, and I know my sheep, and I am known by my sheep. As the Father knoweth me, even so I know the Father, and I lay down my life for the sheep And verse sixteen, and other sheep I have, which are not of this fold, them also I must bring, and they shall hear my voice And there shall be one mold and one shepherd. Isn't it wonderful that We have a God who makes things kind of clear that we can understand it And when you think about David being a shepherd, he understood his sheep. And being out there in the out out in the fields at night or during the day He was watching over them sheep and he loved them sheep and he took care of them sheep. And I'm sure through these times as we read in the Psalms he had time to meditate with God. God gave him that strength to kill the bear and the lion to protect. He gave him the staff to protect the sheep from wandering off, and he was a good shepherd to those sheep. And he recognized his God as being a shepherd over the flock. The sheep hear his voice, it says in this passage in John 10. And it reminds me of Romans 10, 17, where it says, so faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. And so the sheep hear his voice. And this is important for us. And it says here that he calls his own sheep by name. Very personal. Do you know that one day when we get to heaven, Jesus is going to give us a new name? He knows your name right now. He knows each one of us. He knows his sheep. And the other thing that I love about this is that he leads us. And he goes even before us. And so the sheep will follow. And why do we follow Christ? Because we know his voice. We hear his voice and we know his voice. In verse 10b, it says, I am come that they may have life, that they may have it more abundantly. And I think about the t shirt that says I'm half full or half empty. And here David says that my cup runneth over. I wonder How that would apply to us. Verse sixteen says he has other sheep to bring in. We are that sheep. Aren't you thankful Aren't you glad that God is still calling people to Himself. He's still calling for sheep. One of the things that I learned about John chapter 10 and about the Lord being the shepherd. This is personal. I have and you have a personal relationship with Jesus Christ, with the shepherd. He knows us personally. A lot of times we get so caught up in this world that we think that maybe God doesn't know what's going on. Maybe God doesn't know my problem. And we go and we pray and we go all over the place to try to find that help. Or we're not hearing when he's answering sometimes and we get kind of confused. But here it's very clear. He says, The sheep hear my voice. And when I think about this, he says they follow me. So there is obedience involved there. But I I really like this fact that it is a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. And he makes that very clear. In one B, he said in uh back in Psalm uh twenty-three, he says, The Lord is my shepherd, and one be is I shall not want. And when I think about that, I think of Philippians 4 4. 19. We all probably think of that one. Where it says, My God shall supply some of my needs some of the time. What's wrong with that? My God, it says, shall supply all your need, according to his riches and glory, by Jesus Christ the Good Shepherd. May we turn to Isaiah just for a second in Isaiah chapter 40, we find this same kind of a uh description given. As uh Israel was getting better getting ready to be released from captivity of the Babylonians, Jesus gave Isaiah these words and he says Talking about Jesus. I shall feed his he shall feed his flock like a shepherd. He shall gather the lambs with his arm and carry them in his bosom and shall gently lead those that are with child. When you think about God's mercy, God's grace, and God's kindness, and how gentle He is. Um when we think here, most people, most of us if we're honest, we want to feel good. We want to avoid discomfort. We want to avoid pain. We want to avoid the trials of life. And though we may not always get what we want, there is something here that we can learn. By trusting Jesus, our Savior, our shepherd, Our attitudes and our appetites can change. And not only can they change, but they'll change from wanting this and wanting that, to accepting his provision and power to live for him. And in this we find contentment. But we're so busy. The world is so busy. We have so much going on. We have families. We have jobs. We have church. We have sports. We have this. We have our little things that we like to do. Everything is so busy that sometimes we lose the difference between the want and the need. And we think we want this and we want that. Um, I knew a person that was always one of those when and then. When I get this, then I'll be happy. When I get this, then I'll be happy. It never, never works out. So here we find that if we are following Christ and accepting his provision and his power to live for him, we will find contentment in life. And it says in verse 2, He, my shepherd, maketh me to lie down in green pastures. He leadeth me beside the still waters. And it reminds me of a child. When I was a child, I was born and raised in uh five miles outside of Chambersburg, Pennsylvania, on Crottles Town Road, all farmland And it reminds me when I was young. I had a cousin and a neighbor that we always were running around through the woods and stuff, but there were times when I would go out by myself And I loved laying down. We had this uh big meadow. I mean it was huge and it had a creek down at the bottom and I used to lay in that grass. And just look up. And I can still see it today, the blue sky and little puffy clouds now and then. It's amazing what you do as a child. Things were more simpler, weren't they? What's this guy doing out in the field? But uh the other thing that I remember of is that they used to grow alfalfa uh for feeding the uh Calz and all and that alfalfa when you get laid down on that field you could look and just seeing the breeze bring waves over that green, bright green alfalfa It just reminds me of this here when he's talking about uh maketh me to lie down in green pastures and lead me beside still waters. The green pastures here is speaking of tender grass. And it's not necessarily in respect to food, but as a cool and refreshing rest that God gives us It's another time, another way of looking at it is we have time to enjoy God's provision. Do we take time, really, to enjoy God's provision? We find here that the still waters, and literally waters of stillness it is, the calm water was necessary for sheep to drink. They would not come around. They're kind of giddy and jumpy, just like we are, we're never satisfied, and they jump around. If it was calm water they could come and drink it. And David knew that. And he writes that in here that he leaves me beside the still waters. And uh still water invites repose To be peacefully calm and restful. This is God giving us rest as we need it. Philippians 4. 7 says And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. This peace of God This is talking about right here, I think, what he's talking about. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures. He leadeth me beside still waters. And he goes on to say in verse 3 that he restoreth my soul And to restore the soul is to revive it or to quicken it. And we find here that because God knows the green pasture, because God knows the still water, He knows that that will restore us when we're going through battles or we just come through something. We have that time to settle and reflect upon him and his goodness to us And it says here in verse 4, he leads me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake. You know, when we allow God, our shepherd, to lead us, we will have contentment. But it's when we wander off and want to do things on our own. We don't want to take that thought that the shepherd is leading me through life all the time, all every day So when we choose to go our own way, we are actually sinning against God. We cannot blame God for the environment that we create for ourselves. A lot of times we got so much going on and we allowed it to do that. We can't blame God because we have so much. We can't blame God because we do this or we had that. Our shepherd knows where the green pastures and the steel waters are that will restore us. So we will reach these places only by following him obediently. The Bible says in John 10, My sheep hear my voice. and they follow me. If we want to be on the path of righteousness, where the green pastures and the still water, no matter what comes our way, we can get through Because we are following obediently the shepherd who is leading us. And you can see that even in David when he was leading the sheep around, the different pastors and all. You know, we always think that the Grass is greener on the other side and so a sheep will wander off thinking he's going to get better grass over there. And David brings him back gently. And that's the same way with Christ. We think sometimes the things over here are going to be so much better than what we have. And yet we should stay where we're at and not move. We cannot walk in these paths of righteousness either, unless Christ is leading us And not only will he lead us into those paths, but he leads us constantly through them. So if we want to be on that path, the only way to do it is to follow the shepherd. to follow the Lord Jesus Christ. What about uninvited circumstances? Well, this just happened and this and that and not sure. But, you know, we are without excuse. We know that God has been gracious to us. He has been merciful. He has been patient. He has been kind. How many times do we do things that we know we ought not be doing? How many times we stay home just because we want to watch a TV show or we want to sleep or we want to do this and we'll come later? You think about that. But here we find in Matthew 11, 29 through 30, Jesus says, Come to me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Verse 29, Take my yoke upon you and learn from me. For I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy and my burden is light. And he also says in 1 Peter chapter 5, verse 7, casting all your cares upon him, for he cares for you. Do we really catch that? That God does care for us. You know, it's kinda hard sometimes when you can't see God face to face and touch him and talk with him. But at the same time, we know his presence is with us, and not only that, but we have brothers and sisters in Christ who he puts beside us. We are to edify and lift each other up and encourage one another. And John 1633 says that in me, your shepherd, you may have peace. Uh in the world you will have tribulation, we know that. But we are to be of good cheer because Christ has overcome the world. And if we are following him, he will bring us through it. Yes, we will have trials. Yes, we will have things come up. But if we stay focused and trust him, he will bring us through it. And it says here in verse 4, Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil. For you, my shepherd, are with me, and your rod and your staff, they comfort me. Do you know that when a sheep is out in the field with a shepherd He recognizes and knows what the staff is because the shepherd uses it to bring him back. He's never jerking his sheep back. He's gentle getting them back into the fold. And so here we see also they recognize the rod. When the bears and the lions came to the sheep to kill them, they recognized that the shepherd killed the bear, killed the sheep, and protected them. And the same way with you and I. We recognize God's protection. Sometimes that rod of protection is because of our sin And we need to be corrected. And God does that gently. And the other thing here is his staff. They comfort me. When you think of God's word and the scriptures that we have, we can find great comfort there. And I think of Psalms as one of the places that I go to a lot for comfort. But when we think about uh death Death can cast a frightening shadow over us because we are entirely helpless. in its presence. We all know that one day we will all face it. I love what uh brother Heshem was talking about this morning. We don't have to fear death. But here we take a look at this, and uh I like the way David brings this about. He says, Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil. Death can be frightening because we are entirely helpless. We can struggle with things like uh having a surgery or having something done here, struggling through the enemies of pain and and uh suffering, maybe a disease that we catch and have to get better, maybe in an automobile accident. We can struggle through them by the grace of God But strength and courage cannot overcome death. It's the final word in life here on earth. But, glory be to God, only one person can walk with us through death's dark valley and bring us safely to the other side. To heaven. Jesus, our Lord and Good Shepherd, who is the God of all life, because life is uncertain We should always be following our Good Shepherd. Because when that time comes that we are going to stand at death's door. To leave this world, we don't have to fear. I like what Brother Heathan said, but I would be willing to say that most of us If it's not a sudden death and you've got some time where you're suffering and struggling through it, we can get thoughts going in our mind that man, I wish I'd have done this, I wish I'd have said that, I want to see this child saved, I want to see this These things can go through our mind and that's kind of normal. And that's why it is really important for you and I to be following the shepherd while we have this time on this side. We can do that But if we're not following the shepherd, we're not going to be aware all the time. I mean most of us in here would be willing to agree that we would want our children to be saved. And I would be in agreement with that. But here we find that when we're following Christ, our good shepherd, he will lead us right on into eternal comfort in his presence. And I like also that here we remember his rod and his staff that they comfort me. They will comfort me when I come to that day And Matthew Henry makes a quote that I liked. He says, The shadow of death is like the shadow of a serpent. The shadow of a serpent cannot strike you, it cannot sting you. And he says also that the shadow of a sword cannot kill you. It's the shadow you can't it cannot kill you. And here we find that He's talking about the shadow of death because Christ has already conquered death. And so when we go from this life to the next, we go into his presence right away. And so If you have a moment, uh we'll turn over to First Corinthians. You I assume you have a moment because you're still here. First Corinthians chapter 15. I want to look at a passage here that Paul put in here and look at verses 55, 15, 55 through 58. And matter of fact, we'll do fifty-four. So when this corruptible shall put on incorruption, talking about our body, this mortal shall put on immortality Then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written. Listen to this. Death is swallowed up in victory. Christ has conquered death And if our faith and trust is in him, we have that victory. O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory? The sting of death is sin, and the strength of sin is in sin is in the law. But thanks be to God, which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. We can go right through death without fear and anxiety. Look here at verse 58. Therefore, knowing this, my brethren My beloved brethren, be ye steadfast, unremovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, forasmuch as ye know that your labor is not in vain in the Lord. And that's the talking about the work there, that is us being on the paths of righteousness as He's leading us uh in this world And so, verse 5 says here, you prepare a table before me in the presence of mine enemies. We all have enemies in this world. sin and Satan and all of his work. But he says here, you anoint my head with oil. Here describing the gladness that he has He said, You anoint my head with gladness. And he says, My cup runneth over. I have abundance. I have all that I need. We may feast on God's blessing without the fear of our enemies in life. We are confident that as we follow our shepherd, his favor will always be upon us. And when you think about that, you know, I think of David, when David committed adultery and then murdered the young lady's husband so he could marry the woman. When you think about that, a man after God's own heart, how do you think he felt after that? When Nathan came to him, we're going to learn something about David, which I'm going to do at the end here. But David was quick to recognize his sin And it's something that is important for us, and we'll look at that a little later. But here he says now in verse 6, surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. And I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. What are your thoughts on that? Most assuredly, here David is saying, Goodness and mercy. Shall follow me all the days of my life. If we are on the paths of righteousness, following our shepherd, yes Surely goodness and mercy. Because goodness and mercy followed David all through his life. And I can tell you that past experiences in David's life, and also in yours and mine, teaches us To trust that the goodness and mercy of God will follow us as his sheep all the days of our lives. You know, I've had people come to me and say, Why does God allow a little baby to die at birth? Why does that happen? What kind of a God is that? That's a time when I have to trust in the goodness of God. It is His creation. And I trust in His goodness for that child I don't know the future of that child, but I do know this. God is a good God. He is holy. He is righteous and he is just. He would be perfect in every way. So it should always be our desire and our determination to seek our happiness in the service of God here and now and hopes to enjoy his love forever in his house. Is that what you desire and determine to do in your life daily. While serving here on earth, the Lord can make any situation pleasant by the anointing of his Holy Spirit and the reminder of the joys of the salvation we have. That no matter what we're going to go through, we're going to end up with Him in heaven on the other side. So he can he tells us, I think it's in James, where uh count it all joy when you fall into various trials. Knowing that the testing of your faith produces patience, do you know that each time we go through a trial and we come out the other side, we are stronger? And we also are prepared for the next time something comes up to know that we are to trust our shepherd and follow him. So here we find with the blessing of his house I like this little quotation. It comes from Matthew Henry. I use him for little quotations. I like him. But it says here, with the blessing of his house, we must keep close. to the duties of it. We are in God's kingdom. We must stay close to the position that He has placed us in and the responsibility that He gave us. We need to stay close in that. And when he, verse four, the shepherd, brings out his own sheep, you and I, he goes before us, and the sheep follow him, and they know his voice. Yet they will by no means, this is in John 10, yet by no means will they follow a stranger's voice. But will flee from it, for they do not know the voice of the stranger. Let me ask you a question this morning. Are you aware of the stranger's voice? Are you aware of the difference between the shepherd's voice? And the stranger's voice. Sometimes things come to us that sound right, but are absolutely not. And so we have to be careful to make sure that we are following the shepherd. And as we are following the shepherd, I believe everyone here would recognize and understand if you're still hearing his voice And you're following him, when we are hearing his voice, he's talking about when we are studying his word, we are grasping it. James says, don't be a hearer and not a doer, because that's not going to be anything for you. So we must not only be the hearer of God's word, but as he's talking about here, we need to be obedient to it And that's critical in life today if we want to stay on the path of righteousness and not wander off like some sheep have. First Peter 5 4 says, And when the chief shepherd shall come and appear, he shall ru we shall receive a crown of glory that fadeth not away. Hebrews 13, 20 and 21, it says this. Now the gospel of peace that brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus, that great shepherd of the sheep. Through the blood of the everlasting covenant, make you perfect in every good work to do his will, working in you that which is well pleasing in his sight Through Jesus Christ, to whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen. Why does David say that he leads me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake? Because it is for his glory, because he is the shepherd. He is the one who saved our soul, and he is the one who deserves all the glory and all the praise. So I'd like to take just a moment to mention some things that we might learn from David and how David could take his life and all that was in it, the good and the bad, and be able to write such a Precious, precious psalm. I think there's three things we can learn. David had a willingness to honestly admit his mistakes and his sin. He was quick to do so. Turn to Psalm fifty one, you will see. As Nathan came and used an analogy, and when he told David that it was him, David fell because he was so bereaved that he had sinned against his God and he recognized that he had lost favor in the midst of that. But look at Psalm fifty one. And he says, Have mercy on me, O God. And this is believed to be the Psalm that he had written after he had sinned. with Bathsheba when he had the husband killed and married the lady. It says, Have mercy upon me, O God, according to thy loving kindness. according unto the multitude of thy tender mercies. Blot out my transgression. Wash me thoroughly from mine iniquity. And cleanse me from my sin For I acknowledge my transgressions, and my sin is ever before me. Against thee, and thee only have I sinned. and done this evil in thy sight, that thou might be justified when thou speakest, and be clear when thou judgest. David knew This quickness to repent and ask God's forgiveness. And we're going to look at the second part of that verse in a moment Behold, I was shapen in iniquity and in sin, and my mother did conceive me. Behold, thou desirest truth in the inward parts and hidden parts. Shalt thou make me to know wisdom? Purge me with this, and I shall be clean. Wash me and I shall be whiter than snow. I want you to listen to this next verse. This next verse is kind of very relevant today. He says, Make me to hear joy and gladness, that the bones which thou hast broken may rejoice. Do you hear that? There's a true repentance here. He knew he was going to lack the joy of his salvation. Just like you and I, when we are into things that we ought not be, we're getting away, we're wandering off you lose that great joy that we have in Christ, that dependence, that trust. And so he says here, create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me And cast me not away from thy presence, and take not thy Holy Spirit from me. Restore me to the joy of thy salvation, and uphold me with thy free spirit. It's such an encouraging part there. And we think about the mistakes that we make in life and David. The second thing that we learn from David, not only was he recognizing and quick to understand But David understood God's mercy too. A lot of times we think God's mercy is he's going to forgive us and that's it. But here David understood it. He understood God's mercy. He understood God's forgiveness. And he also understood that even through the forgiveness of the sin that he had committed, there were going to be consequences He recognized it and knew it was coming. He knew there was going to be consequence and there was great consequence for David's sin. But he was willing to bear it because he knew that his God was right, his God would be just when he deals with him. So the first thing was is that David was quick to confess his sin, and he also understood that there was going to be a consequence. So a lot of times when a consequence happened from something that we did because we didn't listen and wandered off, I tell you a lot of times where we find this is in marriage where people want to get married and One thinks that they can save the other one. They love them so much they're blinded. Or any kind of condition like that. And when you stray away from what God is really showing you There's going to be a consequence down the road. But yet we're blinded by the love and desire for that person that we don't see it that way. We think we can save them or we can help them and so on. So it's always better to go in With your eyes open with good counseling, and then choose a maiden. But here we find also the third thing that David knew and we need to know and understand. He knew and understood that God greatly desired us to trust him and worship him only. And we find that uh in David when he said that thou might be justified when thou speakest and be clear when thy judge. He knew that God was holy, and he kept uh asking God to uh replace or to take away and forgive him for the sin, not take it away, but forgive him for it. And then he wanted to be restored. And he wanted him to create a clean heart in him. And that God would renew a right spirit in him. He knew that God wanted him to trust him, and he wanted him to worship him only. Isaiah 53, 6 says that all we, like sheep, have gone astray. We have turned everyone to his own way, and the Lord hath laid upon him the iniquity of us all. Talking about Jesus Christ, what he has done for you and I. Do you know this morning you may be here and you're not certain about whether or not you even know Jesus or Him as a shepherd or would He even care about you. The Bible says that um God says himself that he would not that any should perish, but that all would come to repentance. And so being open, he says, For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son If he so loved the world, who's he talking about? He so loved you and I, that he gave his only begotten son, that whosoever believeth in him shall not perish, but have life everlasting And so Romans tells us, actually, if we are in Genesis, we know that God originally, God is a holy God. God is a holy God and He created us in His image to be holy. And we're told now as we become a believer to be holy because He is holy. So God has created us to be holy. But we know that in the garden Adam and Eve had sinned and fell, and that caused a separation, that sin fell upon all man. The Bible says in Romans three twenty-three that uh The w um for the w uh all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. I kept going to the next one I like But uh all have fallen short of the glory of God. And he says that the r the uh result of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life. So God offers us the opportunity to put our faith and trust in Him. All have sinned and come short of the glory of God because of Adam's sin. We are born that way. But he has provided a way through his son, Jesus Christ, that we might come to know him and put our faith and our trust in him and become his sheep. He will be our shepherd If you're here this morning and you uh would like to talk to someone about that, you can see me afterwards or uh have a couple other gentlemen or if you're a lady, you want to talk to a lady We have them here. Come see me afterwards. And we will be glad to show you from the scriptures what it says about the Bible and about salvation. It tells us in 1 John 5 that you may know that you have eternal life He tells us that. And so we can know. And if you're not certain this morning, I would invite you to come see me afterwards. Let's close in a word of prayer. Father, we are humbled this morning by our own weaknesses and our own frailties, Lord. We are bent on wanting to do our own thing. Well, we are grateful for your grace and your mercy. And Father, we are grateful that you have put in your word. this morning, this wonderful psalm. And about a man who trusted you through everything that he had done in life. And he knew that one day he would be with you. And Father, that's our hope and our desire this morning. That as you lead us through this world, Father, that when death comes knocking, we will not be afraid, for you have conquered death. And so, Father, if It be that we might be wandering off in areas of life. We would ask that you might use your staff, use your word and your spirit to draw us back to you. that we would become faithful to you. And Father, we ask that in all things, as we walk on these paths of righteousness, we do it for your glory and not our own. Father, we're thankful for the grace. We're thankful for the mercy. We're thankful, Lord, for each one here this morning. And we pray, God, as we go our way today, that we will meditate upon this good shepherd that you are to us, that we might remember the green pastures of still water. And Lord, we just thank you for the salvation you have provided. through your son, through your death, burial, and resurrection. And we ask now that you be with us as we go, and that Lord, in all things, may you be glorified and lifted up in Jesus' name. Amen.