Take your Bibles, if you would please turn to the book of Acts, chapter ten this morning. Acts ten. And we are continuing Our look at the narrative of Cornelius and Peter, God's working in the life of Cornelius. I rarely r raise illustrations from um from current events, but uh today I just was struck by the fact or this yeah last night actually I was struck by the fact that we had uh very horrific event that occurred in Pittsburgh uh yesterday morning at uh Tree of Life Synagogue where eleven people were killed, the the gunman was open fired on eleven people. How many of you all heard about that? Okay, most of you. I assume that would be the case. And um is if you as you'll recall, uh July ninth, President Trump moved the embassy from um uh where it was to Jerusalem. And um there is uh the climate, the political climate right now at least lends itself to the idea that this was prob may have been at least s an anti-Semitism. If you think of throughout church history The church has really been a friend overall to the to the Jewish people and to the nation of Israel, and rightfully so. That has really essentially been the position of the Christian church. There's been exceptions to that, but as a whole, that has been the case. If you think about it, it could be argued that that that started here in Acts chapter 10. In Acts chapter 10, what you have is Cornelius, who is a clearly a Roman centurion. He's a Gentile And his everybody around him is a are is it his family's Gentile family and his friends are Gentiles. And God chooses him essentially as a representative of the of Gentiles everywhere. um to to be to co be converted to Christ and uh that You're going to see a change from this point forward. We've seen other other Gentiles come to Christ, we've seen Samaritans come to Christ in the book of Acts so far. But you're really going to see an emphasis now that's going to move toward the reaching of the Gentiles with the gospel and the joining of Jews with Gentiles, Christian Jews with Gentiles in Christ. And I want us to just remember how how amazing that is. It was unthinkable that a Jewish person would eat at the table of a Gentile at this point in in its history. It actually wasn't prohibited by the law in the Old Testament, technically But it was it was thought to be absolutely un uh untenable for that to happen. And and so this was something that was that was uh very serious that was going on here. that that Peter now had to have a paradigm shift to go the other direction now where he is going to embrace Gentiles, not just tolerate them, but embrace them And we're going to see this unfold in its very early stages in this narrative where God calls and reaches out to Cornelius. A man who is devout, a man who is worshiping the one and only true God, but doesn't know about Christ yet A man whom God has clearly prepared, as we learned last week, to receive Christ. And God, at the same time, if you recall from last week, was preparing Peter to go and to preach the gospel to An entirely Gentile household. That's the place we find ourselves in. And the thing that is encouraging to us when we find a world of such Unrest is that the gospel is a gospel of peace, and Christ is a God of peace. Ephesians 2 verse 14 says, For he himself is our peace, who has made both one and has broken down the middle wall of separation. I'm quite sure at this time as though as the Gentiles begin to be reached, the Jewish nation probably had no idea that eventually the Gentile Christians would entirely outnumber the Jewish Christians Until today, obviously that is the case, that you you have far more Gentile believers than you have Jewish believers At this point, that certainly is not the case. You have primarily Jewish people that have come to Christ starting at Pentecost and branching out from there. That all is going to change because and it and in doing so it really demonstrates the power of the gospel We're going to look at verses 24 through 36 today. We'll read those now, and then we'll pray before we get into our text this morning. So Acts chapter 10, picking up in verse 24. And the following day they entered Caesarea. Now Cornelius was waiting for them and had called together his relatives and close friends. As Peter was coming in, Cornelius met him and fell down at his feet and worshipped him. But Peter lifted him up, saying, Stand up, I myself am also a man. And as he talked with him, he went in and found many who had come together. And he said to them, You know how unlawful it is for a Jewish man to keep company with or go to one another one of another nation. But God has shown me that I should not call any man common or unclean. Therefore I came without objection as soon as I was sent for. I asked then for what reason have you sent for me? So Cornelius said, Four days ago I was fasting unto this hour. And at the ninth hour I prayed in my house, and behold a man stood before me in bright clothing, and said, Cornelius, your prayer has been heard, and your alms are remembered in the sight of God Send therefore to Joppa and call Simon here, whose surname is Peter. He is lodging in the house of Simon, a tanner, by the sea Then he comes, or when he comes, he will speak to you. So I sent to you immediately, and you have done well to come. Now, therefore, we are all present before God to hear all the things commanded you by God. Then Peter opened his mouth and said, In truth, I perceive that God chose no partiality. But in every nation, whoever fears God and works righteousness is accepted by Him. The word which God sent to the children of Israel, preaching peace through Jesus Christ. He is the Lord. He is Lord of all. Let's pray together. Father, as we look at your word this morning and we see unfold your providential plan in the lives of not just the Jewish nation, but now the the Gentile nation or the nations and the joining of Jew with Gentile in Christ. We uh help us, dear Father, to stand in awe of the power of the gospel and to glorify you as a result of being in awe of the power of the gospel. Clearly, Father, we see here your working, and I pray, Lord, that as we see the outworking of an impartial gospel, you would encourage us about how we are to respond correctly. to that impartial gospel as well, and to be encouraged by your plan of peace in our world. We live in a world that where there is much confusion and much um dissonance and problems. But Father, I pray that you would help us to rest in your plan, your sovereign plan, to bring about your peace, your way. Which was entirely different than what the nation of Israel expected. And we stand in awe as well of the mystery of your plan as we look today at it And I pray, Lord, that this would just be really an encouragement for us today. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, we begin in verse 24 of this passage, and Peter now is standing before Cornelius God providentially really brings Peter to Cornelius. And as they are gathering, then Peter is going to Peter is uh Cornelius is actually going to fall down and worship Peter. Notice that in verse 26 Peter lifted him up, saying, well, verse 25, and Peter was coming in. Cornelius met him and fell down at his feet and worshiped him. So this man falls prostrate on the ground. Luke does not exclude this pagan practice from Cornelius. This is an indication that Cornelius has not come to Christ yet. Cornelius has been met by an angel, and the angel told him to listen to Peter, but I don't think but we know that Peter's uh certainly the angel didn't tell uh Cornelius to fall down at Peter prostrate and then to worship Peter. There's no question that Cornelius is sincere here. There's no question that Cornelius wants to do right and wants to follow after the things of God, but of course he doesn't have the information to do that. And we know from verse 26, of course, that Peter says, don't, I'm just a man, I'm a mere man. Don't worship me. I'm not the person that you ought to be worshiping. And it's ironic, isn't it, that now, many a couple of thousand years later, you have statues of Peter all over the world. And people go on frequent occasions worshiping Peter. What do you think Peter thinks of that, if he knows about it? I'm sure that Peter is not happy about that kind of a thing. He would say the same thing that he told Cornelius: Do not worship me. Even though it's happening all of the time. You have a very similar thing that occurs in Acts chapter 14, uh verse 15, with Paul and Barnabas In that passage it says, men, why are you doing these things? We also are men with the same nature as you and preach to you that you should turn from these useless things to the living God who made the heaven and the earth, the sea, and all things that are in them. None of the apostles promoted worship of them. They only promoted worship of the living Savior, Jesus Christ. And so when we think when we think of this, we ought to just realize that any worship of anybody besides Christ Himself is idolatry and of course does not glorify God. Now, Peter then is going to begin after Cornelius gets up and is no longer worshiping Peter, Peter is now going to begin to tell his side, his testimony of God's working in his own life. And you'll recall from last week, won't you, that as um God uh or the rather uh a vision came to Peter by God's sovereign work There was a bunch of all kinds of what were formerly unclean animals that and the command was to kill and to eat. And Peter said, Not so, Lord, but three times he was compelled. to kill and to eat in this vision. And you'll recall last week as well that Peter was not able to really completely understand exactly what was happening, um why this was occurring and why this vision had come about. He was beginning to understand, but he wasn't completely And his understanding of things. And as he was thinking about these things, the the um Cornelius's uh friends came and and got Peter, and Peter went with them. Well, by this time then, as I would assume as Peter is traveling with them, it was about 30 miles of travel. By this time now Peter has been able to meditate on the things that he has seen and understand more of what is happening. And he says to these this group now that is gathered. Cornelius has gathered his family, perhaps extended friends as well. There's been a crowd that now has gathered, a small crowd that has gathered. To listen to this man Peter, whom God has brought to them. And he says, Peter says, it's now the word, the way it's worded here, verse 28, is unlawful For a Jewish man to keep company with one of another nation. And it really probably would be a little bit more clearly rendered Uh it's against our laws rather than it's unlawful in the sense of uh the old testament law saying that you can't eat with um with Gentile believers. It actually n are Gentile people. It actually doesn't ever explicitly say that. It says you can't uh eat of the kinds of food there's certainly unclean food and most of the time the Gentiles partook of those kinds of unclean food so there had to be all kinds of ways of getting around that And throughout Israel's history, that did occur where there would be different ways of dealing with that. For example, some Jewish people would refuse to enter a house of a Gentile at all and would disapprove completely of any kind of tail fell uh table fellowship with Gentiles. Sometimes a Jew would choose to bring his own food rather than uh at the invitation of a gentile rather than turn down the invitation. Sometimes uh uh uh throughout Israel's history um There would be food served that was not prohibited by the Torah, and they would be able to partake of that, but make sure they were distinguishing properly. And sometimes he could only eat certain foods by the host, and there was an agreement that that would take place at the invitation of a Gentile. But at this point at this point in Israel's history, it just didn't happen anymore. You did not, there was and it and and you actually find in the rabbinical writings prohibitions against eating with uh with Gentiles. This was something that was prohibited. I think it's helpful for us to understand why this this came about and what the Old Testament mandate actually was. And I read this passage last week, but just to remind us of it in Luke, or I'm sorry, in Leviticus chapter 20 Verses 24 through 26, we find this prohibition against eating common food. And then we see at the end, we see why. Verse 24 it says, But I have said to you. You shall inherit their land, and I will give it to you to possess, a land flowing with milk and honey. I am the Lord your God, who has separated you from the peoples. You shall therefore distinguish between clean animals and unclean, between unclean birds and clean, and you shall not make yourselves abominable beasts or by bird or by any kind of living thing that creeps on the on the ground, which I have separated from you as unclean Why? Verse 26, and you shall be holy to me. For I the Lord am holy. and have separated you from the peoples that you should be mine. So God had promised that the nation of Israel was going to be able to go in and occupy the promised land, but As they did so, they were to remain distinct and separate from the occupants of the land. And so there was and to signify this separation They were not allowed to partake of certain kinds of food, to identify as a symbol that they were a peculiar people, a set-apart people for God's kingdom purposes. But what occurred now was this with this vision, there is something new on the scene. There's a a new order, if you will. And Peter begins to recog recognize this. Now keep in mind this about Cornelius. Cornelius was a Roman centurion. This means that he was in regular contact with pagan deities and pagan rites. He, in and of his very vocation, would have been considered by the Jewish people to be unclean. But we find then that Peter says something. He says, and he puts all this together, he says, uh uh as the real issue God has shown me that I should not call any man common or unclean. Did you catch the difference? Jesus or God says in the vision, at least through the angels, says, Don't call, or God actually Christ says, Don't call clean what I've called common. God has cleansed you, uh what God has cleansed, you must not call common. But Peter makes the application that he should not call any person unclean. That it is in it is inappropriate for that to happen. And of course, Peter makes the right application, and it opens up the opportunity for the gospel to be given to Cornelius and to all those that are in Cornelius' house at the time. And then Peter asks this question. He says, What is the reason you have sent for me? Now that's just a lead-in question to then give Cornelius the opportunity from his perspective. To find out more about what why why was he sent for. All God said to Peter was, just go, don't have any objections, just you just need to go. And Cornelius, then, this is quite impressive. But beginning in verse 30, we find Cornelius is a man who is who is incredibly open. Notice verse 30, he's fasted for four days. There is this indication of urgency upon him to desire, to seek after God, to find out what's true, to He's in prayer. This is a man who, though he doesn't have the completed truth yet, he is in search for it, and we would make the assumption, since no one seeks after God, we make the assumption that God is drawing him. And we find that there is this gratitude in verse 32 where he says, You have done well to come. There's this expression of thank it's almost like he said, thank you so much for coming. And then in verse 33, he identifies that He is in the presence that they are all in the presence of God, and they are ready to hear all the things commanded by Peter by God of Peter by God. So what do you have with Cornelius? You have absolute open receptivity. Some of you teach various things, a few of you preach. But I think of when I read this and thought of Cornelius being so open, I think of the passage in Timothy that says that we need to be, the preachers need to be willing to preach in season and out of season. But there are some times where the audience is going to receive the truth, and there are other times where the audience is going to be against what is being preached. And the preacher who is preaching the Word of God and the whole council of God needs to preach it either way. I can tell you that I have been in situations and in contexts where the audience was not really receptive. to the truth that was being preached, and I had to choose to preach out of season, if you will. I had to follow that command. And I will, but I will tell you, it's hard It is difficult to do that. Um you just have to choose to do it anyway and preach the word and let it go where God wants it to go and Let God do what He's going to do in the lives of the the listeners, the people that are listening. They can either choose to reject or accept it. I'm thankful for our church. I have I have I'm I'm very grateful that As a whole, I have always felt a receptivity to the word as it's being preached by most people. And I'm thankful for that. I'm thankful that when I come and stand on the pulpit, that there is there is generally an openness to the truth of God's word. And it's much easier to preach to people like that, just so you know. Um it doesn't make it easy, but it's easier. When you know that you have opposition in your midst, it is much more difficult. Peter has open receptivity. I mean he is just it it he has this wide open door. Cornelius just is totally open. To whatever God has for him. We could even say that Cornelius is ready and he has a heart of submission. I think of 1 Samuel chapter 3, verse 9. You remember that passage where God is calling out to Samuel? And uh Samuel goes to Eli, he thinks it's Eli a couple of times, but Eli realizes that it must be perhaps it perhaps is the Lord and Instructs Samuel on what to say, and when the Lord speaks to him again, he says, Speak, Lord, for your servant, for this is your servant. Your servant hears. Speak, Lord, for your servant hears. And that, folks, ought to be the kind of heart that we have before God. Every day of our lives as we open the Word of God, as we sit sit at the feet of the of the Word of God on Sundays and other times, there ought to be a desire to just hear from God Even in our own personal devotions, there ought to be this constant prayer, Lord, would you speak? Your servant is listening. And so often I think we're so busy and so preoccupied and running around like chickens with our head cut off, heads cut off. And we're not really listening to the still small voice of the Lord. That's how he speaks. He speaks through the word. There's no question. He never speaks in opposition to the word. It's really in the quietness of our own devotional life before the Lord or Or amongst other believers, as the Word of God is preached, that we are able to openly receive it. And may we have the heart of Cornelius to receive the word. James 4:7 very simply says, submit to God. Arrange yourself under God. It is we don't like that word submit. We don't like that idea that we're going to have to submit to the to the authority of anyone. We want to be our own authority. Our flesh chafes against going against authority. We don't like that idea of submission submitting to authority And yet God wants us to be humbly submissive to his will. Well, Cornelius, with this open openness about him and ready to receive the truth. Peter has this open door to begin to preach the word. And that's exactly what Peter does. Peter begins by citing the very character of God in verse 34. He says, I perceive that God has no partiality. He said there is no partiality with God. This is a consistent theme throughout the New Testament, even in the book of Romans, chapter 2, verse 11. It says, For there is no partiality with God. This is something that the nation of Israel really toward the at this point really probably had wrong about who God really was. There was not a real clarity about the fact that God was an impartial God who did not pick favorites. What does it mean that God is not a God who picks favorites, or God is not a God who is partial? He is an impartial God. We actually find this concept in the Old Testament. This is not new to the New Testament. In Deuteronomy 10, verse 17: For the Lord your God is God of gods. The Lord of Lords, the great God, mighty and awesome, who shows no partiality, nor, and this is a key phrase, nor takes a bribe. You find the same wording in 2 Chronicles 19, 7, many years later. Now therefore, let the fear of the Lord be upon you. Take care and do it, for there is no iniquity with the Lord your God, our God, no partiality, nor taking of bribes. And this last phrase of both of those verses helps us to understand what this idea of partiality is. Now just think of what a bribe is. Uh we don't have this a lot in our country, although we probably have it more than I'm aware of, but um but if you think of going to other countries, uh the idea of bribery is is is is almost commonplace. You think of a police officer who should be upholding the law and and um giving someone a ticket or or dealing with a dispute correctly, but he is he is bribed, he is given money so that he doesn't ha he so that he chooses to overlook things and go look the other direction Think of a politician, and that does happen in our country. Think of a politician who votes based upon a bribe of a particular lobbyist group or something. But God is not that way. You cannot bribe God. You cannot say to God, Lord, I'm going to do a certain kind of thing. I'm going to be a good person and I'm going to do this thing. And I I hope you'll accept me because I do this. Or I'm going to give this amount of money. And Lord, I hope that you'll over just kind of look the other way when I'm sinning against you because I'm giving you this amount of money. Those kinds of things we s we we tend to have in our thinking because because that's the way we are I mean, you ever heard the phrase every man has his price or every man has his uh can be bought with a certain price? God is not, you can't do that with God. There is only one price. And it's already been paid. And that's Jesus Christ as He shed his blood on the cross for us. And folks, frankly, it is an insult. For us to think that we can somehow match the work of Christ on the cross and somehow doing what Christ has already done. That's bribery in a sense. And God is impartial. He cannot be bribed, as the text tells us in Deuteronomy and Second Chronicles. God, when He chooses people for Himself, when God calls people to Himself, God doesn't do so by any merit of theirs. Well, this is a good person. He'll make he'll make a good person for my kingdom, so I'm gonna do uh you know he seems like a good guy, so I'll do it that way. Uh uh uh That is not the basis of how God calls people to himself. He is not a God who is Who is partial? He's not partial to any nation. Did you catch that? God is not partial to the United States of America. So I hadn't thought of it that way. Well, you know, we're a Christian nation. Really? Really? I mean the last vestiges of the Christian nation perhaps is the fact that of us being a Christian nation, perhaps is the fact that we are still allied with Israel. Folks, as a whole, we are not a Christian nation anymore. Oh. And and and to think that I mean, you think of a Burgerfell and what happened a couple of years ago, I mean To think that we are, and to s make the assumption that God is on our side, folks, is we need to be careful about that kind of theology. Righteousness exalts a nation, and sin is a reproach to any people. And we are no exception to that as a nation. Would to God that we would turn to him as as uh as ones who with a moral conscience, this country was founded upon the necessity of a moral conscience. God is not partial. And this is really what the text says. Peter basically says this. He says that God will accept any nation that is that fears him. And in the Old Testament, when you have this fear of God, it's inseparably linked with belief. Those who feared God in the Old Testament are those who believed in God. And that's essentially what Peter is saying. Those who place their dependency upon God, and he's going to later on explain through Christ, are those whom God will accept. And it can be from any nation, because God is not partial to any nation. The Bible says then, Peter says here in verse 36, verse 35 will pick up. He says But in every nation whoever fears him and works righteousness is accepted by him. The word which God sent to the children of Israel preaching peace through Jesus Christ He is Lord of all. The text then tells us that the nature of Christ's plan And God and Peter here, and of course, God wanted the Gentiles to know what is God's overall plan. His overall plan is a plan of peace. Do you remember in Luke 4 verse 18 it says, The Spirit of the Lord is upon me because he has anointed me to preach the gospel? Jesus said this to the poor. He has sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and recovery of sight to the blind, to set at liberty those who are oppressed. Psalm 107. 20 says, He sent his word and healed them and delivered them from their destructions. There is Isaiah 52 verse 7 says, How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him who brings good news. Who proclaims peace, who brings glad tidings of good things, who proclaims salvation, who says to Zion, Your God reigns. We have the fulfillment of Isaiah 52 in Luke 1. 79, which says, Jesus was come to give light to the to those who sit in darkness. And of the shadow of death to guide our feet into the way of peace. Luke 2. 14. Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, goodwill toward men. We know from Romans chapter 5, verse 1, it says that we have been justified by faith having peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. The gospel is a gospel of peace. Jesus is a God of peace. He is the Savior of peace And when he came, he was the fulfillment of the Old Toss Testament prophecy to bring forth peace. Well, that brings up an interesting question. In Christ's first advent, did Christ bring peace? It's interesting that in one place Peter Jesus actually said, I came not to bring peace but a sword. So, what is Christ's plan for peace? I mean, how can we actually say that the gospel and Christ and his first advent brings forth peace? Would you take your Bibles and turn to Ephesians chapter 2 for a moment? And we're going to see here exactly God's plan. And it is entirely different That the Jewish nation ever expected the prophecies of the Old Testament of the Messiah coming and bringing forth peace. His plan was very different than what they anticipated when the Jew when when the Messiah came. And I want us to notice that this Sovereign plan includes the merging of the Jews with the Gentiles Really, the key passage is the passage that we're looking here at this subject. In Ephesians chapter 2, verse 12, it says this: that at that time you were without Christ, talking about Gentiles. Being aliens from the commonwealth of Israel and strangers from the covenants of promise, having what? Having no hope and without God in the world But now in Christ Jesus, you who once were afar off have been brought near by the blood of Christ. The position of the Gentile prior to Christ's coming and shedding his blood, living a perfect life and dying to pay the punishment of the sins of the world was that they were afar off. They were strangers from the chosen people of God. But God has this incredible plan. When Christ came in his first advent to promote peace through the gospel, would you notice what it says in Ephesians 2, verse 14? For he himself is our peace. Jesus is our peace who has made both one and broken down the middle wall of separation that's between the Jew and the Gentile. having abolished in his flesh the enmity, that is, the law of commandments contained ordinances, so as to create in himself one new man from the two, thus making peace. God's establishment of the church through Christ and what he did was God's plan to bring forth peace, to bring Two one uh two two separate entity entities together in Christ. He did this by abolishing the command uh the commandments, the law of the commandments contained in ordinances. We know from Matthew five, that Christ did not come to destroy the law, but he did come to fulfill the demands of the law. So that the demands of the law, for example, like the the ceremonial system and and uh the sacrificial system and the uncleanness of animals, all of that is fulfilled in Christ. Why? So that the Jews and the Gentiles can be brought together. That there can be made one of two. Ephesians chapter 2, verse 16, that he might reconcile them both to God in one body through the cross. thereby putting to death the enmity. Now there's a new status, verse 17. And he came and preached peace to you who were afar off and to those who were near. Paul's recognizing the those that are far off, the Gentiles, and those who are near the Jews. He came and preached peace to both For through him we both have access by one spirit to the Father. Now, therefore, you are no longer strangers and foreigners But fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God. Now, the nation of Israel in the first Advent thought that Jesus was going to, that the Messiah was going to come And he was going to bring peace by a sword. But what got what he did rather was bring bring peace by the gospel. The very nature of the gospel is a common ground where people can come together for those who accept it. And then Peter says this in laying out this plan, he says he is, speaking of Jesus, is Lord of all. Now Jesus is Lord of all. We know this from Philippians chapter 2 verse 9. It says, therefore God also has highly exalted him and given him a name that is above every name. That the name of Jesus every knee should bow of those in heaven and those on earth. and those under the earth, and every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father Clearly through what has happened, through Jesus' humiliation and and condescending to become a man, to Lay aside his glory, to limit himself, to become a man, to live a perfect life, to die to pay the punishment for our sin, to rise from the grave. God, as a result of that, has highly exalted him and made him Lord of all. He is Lord of all. Colossians chapter 3, verses 14 through 15 says, But above all these things put on love, which is the bond of perfection And let the peace of God, how are we supposed to apply all this to our lives, let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to which also you are called, in one body and be thankful Say, you know, oh, you've been talking about this peace. Well, how does this apply to me? Here's how it applies. We can number one, we can look forward to the day where Christ is Lord of all and everybody knows it. Are you looking forward to that day? Are you looking forward to the coming of Christ where God sets everything right? He sets it all straight. It's a mess right now. He sets it all right. He sets it all straight. All will be under the rule of Christ, and there will be both spiritual and practical peace. But folks, until then, what Colossians 3 tells us is that we ought to allow the peace of God to rule in our hearts. In other words, don't look for peace out there. Because you're not going to find it. Never will there be peace in the world as a whole. There's going to be wars and rumors of wars, and we know that to be the case. The last days, which actually is defined by the first and second comings of Christ, the entire period, are full of wars and rumors of wars. There is not going to be political peace until Christ comes. But until he comes, God tells us that we ought to let the peace of God Rule in our hearts as Christians. Can I ask you this question this morning? Is is can you say that as you settle as you sit in your seat this morning? Can you say that there is there is this peace that passes all understanding, that I am settled I am settled in my heart. And I am allowing God's peace. The gospel is God's peace. I am allowing God's peace to rule my heart so that I can, as it were, live above the rat race. It doesn't matter what's going on out there. It doesn't matter what's going on all around me. I think I can just I can live above it. I can I can just I can move through it and have this inner peace that can only come from Christ. And God gives this to those who know Him as their Savior. The Bible actually tells us in Colossians 3 the way that this occurs is to allow the to let the Word of Christ dwell in us richly. The richer the Word of Christ dwells in us, the more we are saturated with the Word of God, the more we know who God is, the more that peace is able to rule our hearts. And we are able to live the way God wants us to live as we are called in one body, one with another. You know, you have a church that's not at peace with each other? It's because people aren't ruling letting the peace of God rule in their hearts individually. Requires us to individually when we out when we get All bent out of shape over one thing or another that's happening, whether it's in our families, our church, or workplace, or vocation. Folks, we have to remember that it just isn't going to be right this side of heaven. But what what is right is what's in our hearts. What can be right is what's in our hearts. As we let God's peace rule through his word, having a close fellowship and walk with him. And one of the major things that I would just encourage you with this morning as we have looked at this is number one, it really requires the same kind of attitude that Cornelius had. Cornelius was a one- was one who was submissive to the rule of God. He was open and just wanted to listen to God's truth and just was ready to follow it. When we have that kind of submissive spirit before God, whatever it is, whatever whatever direction God leads us, wherever uh that we're fine just le following Christ one step at a time. When we have that kind of an of a submissive attitude, knowing that God will take care of us. He'll take care of his own. It allows for that peace to flood our souls. And then we ought to stand in awe of God's plan. This whole idea of Jews joining together with Gentiles and the gospel doing that and Christ uh separating the middle wall partition, all those kinds of things, this is something that The Jews never fathomed as a as a fulfillment of the Old Testament prophecies of the Messiah coming and bringing peace. But folks, can't we look back and just stand in awe of God's plan and what God's what God can and has done. It's really incredible. I mean if you really think about it, just even the fact that as a whole, Christians have been friends and even in some cases protectors of Israel and Jewish people as friends. Why is that? It's because of the gospel And even many Jewish people, although they want to follow their customs, unsaved Jewish people will still at least regard Christians as friends. Why is that the case? It's the gospel that has allowed that to be the case. And it's not always the case, by the way, but it but it can be. We ought to be standing in awe of God's plan. And number three We ought to just really realize that as Christians that we ought to be characterized by God's peace. That ought to characterize our hearts. It ought to characterize our lives. And I have to admit before you that that's not always the case in my life. Sometimes I I get frustrated. I know you all never get frustrated, but from sometimes I get frustrated and I think things ought to be a certain way. You know what I'm talking about. It I didn't know the name of what you just uh And we're not having God's peace. I remember one time my my mom was up in Pennsylvania and I was frustrated by a few things up there. Um it was actually we were actually trying to buy a house and it was not going well at the point and my mom had my mom was uh had been diagnosed with cancer at that point and I I look back and I can't even I can't even understand why I was venting to my mother about this, but I was just frustrated with the with what was going on. Uh not the house wasn't s the house we wanted to buy wasn't going through and things like that. And and my mom just said, you know, Jim, God doesn't want you to be frustrated. Uh you know what do you do with that? Uh a l uh uh uh a woman who is um suffering greatly. and uh has every reason in the world to be frustrated from our from a human perspective. And I'm worried about a stupid house It puts things in perspective. You know, the truth is if we have food and raiment, we ought to be content. And we ought to just we ought to just have peace. With what God is doing in our lives and allow that peace to rule our hearts. Let's pray. Father, we come to you and we ask, Lord, that you would help us. To live out the life that you want us to live, one that is has that is ruled by inward peace As we look at your plan unfold in the life of Cornelius and the people around him and how you are working in Peter's life to bring him to a place where he will accept. And embrace the Gentiles and all of what is taking place here. I pray, Lord, that we would stand in awe of your wisdom and your sovereign plan. And And that we would we would have the kind of attitude that Cornelius has just to be open to your word and your will and just ready to do what you want us to do. And to apply this in a way where, yes, we don't have peace right now in our world, but we can have peace in our hearts The unrest that the world faces and the tr the attempt to try to control what can't be controlled, to try to legislate what probably can't be legislated. And we can certainly make wise decisions and be prudent, but we don't rely on that. We don't rely on our wisdom or our prudence. Lord, we rely on your sovereign plan. And we rest in that to give us that peace that does pass all understanding, that guards our hearts and our minds. We pray that we would experience that today. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.