I'm singing that song, curious. Alright, quite a few. Um any songs that are picked during Christmas time are my fault, so you can blame me. I I don't really know what everybody knows and what they don't, so I just pick what I know which is which is uh maybe dangerous. Isaiah nine Let me ask you a question as we begin. How do you see our world? When you think about our world, when you just take a good hard look at our world, How do you view it? I think that the majority of the world, nearly everyone, would agree that there are many problems in our world If you're young, you're probably on the idealistic side. But as you reach middle age, some would suggest that there you're more realistic, and by the time you're elderly, you're pessimistic I'm not necessarily sure that's the case, but it could be. But regardless of whether or not you're you're idealistic, realistic, or pessimistic Regardless of whether that is the case, really it's true that we can all identify that there are many problems in the world. In fact, I have heard recently that many Many uh there's this common idea now uh that I'm hearing on the news and other places that the the world has so many problems that maybe we should just consider not having kids anymore. Have you heard that before on the news and other places like that? It's kind of crazy. But when you have no hope Outside of Christ, perhaps it's almost logical. For the Christian, our hope is not in this world. We look at the problems and and and the world is looking for solutions to the problems and we understand what the problems are and where they come from and we know the solution. And really, the Christmas season is all about the solution to the problems of the world, or really the problem, the problem of sin. But really when you don't have God, when you do not think of God as the solution to the problem, You are left with humanity trying to solve his own problem. A man by the name of Bertrand Russell wrote this. He said Even more purposeless, more void of meaning is the world which science presents for our belief, that no heroism, no intensity of thought and feeling, no preserv preserve uh can preserve an individual life beyond the grave. That all the labors of the ages, all the devotion, all the inspiration, all the noonday brightness of the human genius Are destined to extinction in the vast depth of the solar system, and that the whole temple of man's achievement must inevitably be buried beneath the debris of the universe in ruins. Only within the scaffolding of these truths, only on the firm foundation of unyielding despair, can the soul's habitation henceforth be safely built. Talk about pessimistic. If you don't have the Lord, if you don't have the light, the gospel, that is where you end up. An attempt to solve the problems of the world. Uh the the New York Times said this a few years ago. They said the meaning of Christmas is that love will triumph and that we will be able to put together a world of unity and peace. In other words, we have the light within us, and so we are the ones who can dispel the darkness of the world. We can overcome poverty, injustice, violence, and evil. If we work together, we can create a world of unity and peace. And the question I would have is, well, why hasn't it happened yet? Humanity has been around for a little while. There was a man by the name of Vaklav Havil. He was the first president of the Czech Republic. And he Recognized he was the first president of this country, and he recognized the immensity of the problems of his own country and of the world around, and he said this. He said, pursuit of the good life will not help humanity save itself, nor is democracy alone enough. He said, a turning to and seeking of God is needed. And then he said this. The human race constantly forgets, he added, that he is not God. It's a very astute point by this man. It's almost as though we tried to solve the problems of humanity with humanity. And yet we are powerless to do so. The Bible depicts the problems of the world through a concept that we would call, or the Bible calls, darkness. And darkness is associated in the Bible and the Old Testament with sorrow. For example, in Isaiah 5. 30 it says that. And it's associated with judgment and curse. In Isaiah 13, verse 11, it says, I will punish the world for their evil and the wicked for their iniquity. The same passage that talks about darkness. In Psalm 69, verse 23, it says, Let their eyes be darkened, and that they see not, and make their loins continually to shake. In Lamentations 5. 17 it says, For this heart is faint, and these things our eyes are dim. For these things our eyes are dim. Darkness makes us so that we can't see what's really there. We look at the problems of the world and we know that there are problems, but we don't understand how to deal with the problems. We don't understand how what the how what the solution to the problems are because we ourselves are in darkness. But the Bible is the light. And the Bible tells us that the darkness of the world finds its root in the problem of sin. The world, the whole world is under a curse Because of the sin of Adam and Eve, the original sin, and so now darkness is everywhere. And we grope in darkness. We walk in darkness. We are in deep darkness. And certainly that is the case in our world as well. Well with that in mind, let's go to the Lord in prayer and ask his help as we see how Christ will bring forth his light. Father, we come to you this morning and we pray that as we look at your word, that you'd help us just to glory in the fact that Christ is the light. And to see not just the fact that Christ is the light, but how he has chosen and his vast wisdom to bring light to the world. And Lord, for those of us who are going through difficult times, even in our own thinking, in our own lives There's a sense of darkness in our lives. I pray that today would be an encouragement for us that as we see your word and we see the work of Christ in our world, It will also encourage us to see the work of Christ and the light that God that you give us in our lives as well. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. We pick up here in Isaiah 9, verses 1 and 2, it says, Nevertheless, the gloom will not be upon her who is distressed. And when at first he lightly esteemed. The land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali And afterward more heavily oppressed her by the way of the sea beyond the Jordan in Galilee of the Gentiles The people who walk in darkness has seen a great light. Those who dwell in the land of the shadow of death, upon them the light has shined. This passage begins by saying that though the gloom that is currently on the area, the region, will be dispersed by the light. And it notes this that this Zebulon of Naf and Naphtali, which is a reference to the northern area of Galilee, who were who was first conquered by the the uh by the Assyrians, that this area will actually be the first to receive this light. And we find that this is the case in the Old Testament or in the New Testament as we come to it. And I want to say something about this as we go through this. Isaiah chapter 9 is a chapter Where we really lay the foundation for what Christmas is all about. We really lay the foundation for how Christ came into the world as that light in a dark world to shed his light for all to be able to see. And we need to understand as we look at this passage, there are some great things to help that will really help us. One of the questions that was asked even of my kids a couple of weeks ago, one of my kids said, How do we know that the Bible is not just made up? I think that's a good question, isn't it? And the truth of the matter is, as we read the Bible and as we study the Bible, as we go through it, we see that there are prophecies, and then thousands of years later, or hundreds of years later rather, they are fulfilled It's incredible. There is no other book like this. You can't find a book that's written in a span of 1,500 years. With 40 different authors, and there are prophecies at the beginning of that time that are fulfilled at the end of that time, and they are fulfilled with very clear specificity. You can't find that in any other book. And it validates the truth of God's word. It encourages us and lifts our faith. And I want us to see that here. That you've got these very specific names in this passage that are mentioned. And then you have over in Matthew chapter 3, it says, then Jesus came from Galilee, the very region that this passage talks about. He came from Galilee to John at Jordan and was baptized there. And in Matthew chapter 4, verse 12, it says, And when Jesus heard that John had put uh been put to prison, he departed to Galilee. He begins his ministry in this region in Galilee. Jesus does hundreds of years later. In Matthew chapter 4, verse 15, it says, The land of Zebulun. It quotes this passage, the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, by the way of the sea, beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles. He goes there first. And in Matthew chapter 4, verse 18 it says, And Jesus walking by the Sea of Galilee, saw two brothers, Simon called Peter, and Andrew is his brother, casting his net in the sea, for they were fishermen. He chooses disciples out of Galilee first. He he fulfills exactly what it said what was what was said to be prophesied in Isaiah. It's incredible that that's the case. And we see something of the character of God in going to the humblest of areas. Frankly, that area in Galilee was a depressed area. It had a ter it had a bad reputation, which is What it's referring to at the last in the middle part of uh chapter one of of uh or verse one of chapter nine where it says, and when it at first he highly esteemed, is talking about the fact that this area was not respected And yet Christ goes to these humble people first. That tells us something of the character of God. He goes to the darkest place first and shines his light. That's the way God is. The Bible says God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble. And very likely one of the reasons that he went to Galilee was because there they would be humble. God resists the proud and gives grace to the humble. It says in verse 2 that the people who walked in darkness has seen And indeed, the time of this, when this was written in Isaiah 9, was very dark, exceedingly dark. Darkness, the darkness of this passage is a reference to death. There was much death during this time. It's also a reference to ignorance and unbelief. In Psalm 82, verse 5, it says, They know not, neither will they understand. They walk on in darkness. All the foundations of the earth are out of course. In Isaiah 8. Just the previous chapter, verse 19. Talks about there's an example of darkness there. It says, and when they shall say unto you, seek unto them that have familiar spirits, and unto wizards and that peep. And that mutter should not a people seek unto their God for the living to the dead to law And to the testimony, if they speak not according to this word, it is because there is no light in them. It was an extremely dark time. In fact, we should look at this for a minute. Take your Bibles and look just for a chap a chapter over, chapter 7. And I want you to see just how dark of a time this really was. What was the extent of the darkness? Well we find in chapter seven we find there's a man here, a king named Ahaz. Ahaz was an extremely wicked king. You find this to be the case in 2 Kings chapter 16, which we won't take the time to turn to, and 2 Chronicles chapter 28. In 2 Chronicles 28, we find that this man sacrificed his own child. It says in 2 Chronicles 28, 1, Ahaz was 20 years old when he became king. and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem, and he did he did not do what was right in the sight of God as his father David had done. And he walked in the ways of the kings of Israel, and was mo and had made molded images for the Baals. He burned incense at the valley of the son of Hinnem, and burned his children in the fire, according to the abomination of the nations whom the Lord has cast out before the children of Israel This is perhaps one of the darkest times in all of the history of Israel. In fact, this is during a time where the northern part of this was Judah. Ahaz was king of Judah. But in northern Israel, of course, if you recall, they separated. You have northern Israel and southern Israel, which is Judah, the twelve tribes of Israel in the north and the two tribes of Judah in the south. And during that time, uh the northern uh northern Israel, they they they allied with Syria. And Ahaz was felt threatened by that. And the reason that the northern tribes they they were allying was because they saw Assyria, which is different than Syria, they saw Assyria was gonna come and conquer them. Tiglath Pelezer was the guy's name. I love saying Tiglath Pelezer. We'll call him Tiggy for short. Okay. You'll all remember Tiggy. You won't remember Tiglaph Pleaser. Now you'll remember Tigglaf Pleaser because I said Tiggy. So okay, so Tiggy com is gonna come. And he's going to conquer everything. But these two gu these two regions, they get together and they say, we're going to ally so we can fight against Tiggy. And so Ahaz, so Ahaz is going, man, I need to ally with somebody. And God sends Isaiah to say to Ahaz, look, you don't need to ally with anybody. God sends that's where we pick up in Isaiah 7. Look at what it says. Now it came to pass on the days of Ahaz, the son of Isaiah. J Jotham the son of Uzziah, king of Judah, that Rezin, king of Syria, and Pikah, king of Ramiah, Ramaliah, king of Israel, went up to Jerusalem to make war against it, but could not prevail against it And it was told to the house of David, saying, Serious forces are deplored in Ephraim, so his heart and the heart of the people were moved as the trees of the woods are moved with the wind Then the Lord said to Isaiah, Go out now to meet Ahaz, you and uh Sheer Jashu, your son, at the end of the aqueduct from the upper pool on the highway of the Fuller's field And say to him, Take heed and be quiet. Do not fear or be faint-hearted for those uh for those two stubs of smoking firebrands. That's how it describes Syria and the northern kingdom of Israel. For the fierce anger of Rez in Syria and the son of Ramaliah, because Syria, Ephraim, and the son of Ramaliah have plotted evil against you. They were going to try to conquer Judah. Let us go up against Judah and trouble it, and and let us make a gap in its wall for ourselves, and set the king over them, the son of Table. Thus says the Lord God, it shall not stand for, nor shall it come to Judah for the head of Syria in Damascus, and the head of Damascus in resin, within sixty-five years Aphraim will be broken. So that it will not be a people. And look down at verse, so that basically Isaiah warns Ahaz, hey, they're not going to be around. Don't try, don't worry about them. You don't need to ally with anybody. Verse 10. Moreover, the Lord spoke again to Ahaz, saying, Ask a sign, ask me a sign, any sign you want for yourself from the Lord God. Ask it either in the depth or in the height above. So he's saying, look, if you want a sign that I'm going to take care of you, I'm going to protect I'm going to protect Judah. Look, look, just ask. Look at verse 12. But Ahaz said, I will not ask. Nor will I test the Lord. Then he said, Hear now, O house of David, it is a small thing for you to weary men, but will you weary my God also? So he refuses to even ask Isaiah and God of a sign. And you know what he this man, it's not in the text, but you know what this man does? Ahaz goes and he actually allies with Tiglath Pelezer. Dumbest thing he could have done. Tiglath believes is not going to stop just because he allies with this man Ahaz. And what ended up happening, what ends up happening is what exactly you might expect. He allies with Tiggy, and Tiggy and Ahaz, they're uh Ahaz thinks he's on the same side as Tiggy, and Tiggy just takes over everything. And then you have Assyria coming in and taking over everything, and then of course you know Babylon takes over Assyria, and then you have the Babylonian captivity for 70 years. This is the kind of darkness that you see in this area at this time. Idolatry is rampant. You have a king sacrificing his own children. You have a king not listening to prophets. You have a king that is totally in darkness. You have God who in the midst of darkness is sending light, and everybody is refusing to see the light. That's the darkness that you have during this time. And God says, Well, I'm going to give you a sign anyway. Look at 7:14. Therefore, the Lord Himself will give you a sign. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Emmanuel. That means God with us. Curds and honey he shall eat, and he and he may know to refuse the evil and choose the good. For before the child shall know to refuse the evil and the good and choose the good, the land that you Dread will be forsaken by both her kings. And the Lord will bring the king of Assyria upon you and your people and your father's house. Days that have not come since the day of Ephraim departed from Judah. He prophesies, Isaiah prophesies exactly what happens in that land. And then we find that that is begin ends up being a complete fulfillment in Matthew chapter 1, verse 25 And we're going to go over this more next week, but Matthew 21, verse 23, it says, Behold, the virgin shall be with child. And it quotes Isaiah 14. and shall bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which is translated God with us. God has this incredible Yet mysterious and awesome way of his light coming into the world at just the right time in the person of Jesus Christ. And he prophesies this many, many years before to prepare God's people for this event. It tells us something about just who God is, the greatness of our God in shedding the light of Christ on the world. And then we see, turning back to Isaiah 9, we see then that this light is going to bring great joy. Notice what it says picking up here in verse 3. It says, and you and you have multiplied the nation and increased its joy. They rejoice before you according to the joy of harvest, as men rejoice when they divide the spoil. For you have broken the yoke of his burden, and the staff of his shoulder the rod of his oppressor, and in the day of as in the day of Midian. For every warrior's sandal from the noisy battle, and garments rolled in blood, will be used for the burning and fuel of fire. Now what this is talking about is this. He's saying that this light that's going to come, this this light that's going to pierce the darkness, it begins to explain what is going to happen. And the brightest light ultimately demonstrates God's work in the world. You see this. The working of God's light in the world, number one, it says that your nation is going to be multiplied. Now that's interesting because that is still yet to happen. The nation of Israel has not yet multiplied. It will happen in the future in the second coming of Christ. And it says that light will bring an increase, the light of Christ will bring an increase in joy, verse 4. It then says it has this picture of a sovereign hand of God in chapter 5. And we see here, I want you just to know, we don't have time to go through this in great detail, but you'll see in verse 5 it says, For every warrior sandal from a noisy battle and garments rolled in blood will be used for the burning and fuel of fire. Now catch this. God says through Isaiah during this Extremely dark time, that a light will come, and you'll find that when this light comes, God will have used all of this war and this turmoil and everything God will use for his purposes. They're just pawns in God's plan, in God's sovereign plan. And folks, that is certainly the case. And it's always been the case. That's why you find in places like Psalm 1, where it says, the Lord is in the heavens and will laugh. He'll have the rulers in derision. They think that they're rising up and and conquering and all of that. And God's like God's up there in the fr and the only time we find that God laughs in the Bible is in Psalm 2, when all these kings are doing all this kind of stuff and they're ruling and they're making allies and they're, and God sits up and laughs and says, I got you exactly where I want you. There's darkness on the earth, but God is not in darkness. God is light, and he sees exactly what's going on, and he's going to use it for his glory and for our good. Now it's interesting, and it's something that I want us to pay attention to, that during the darkness of this time During all of what has happened here in a very dark time in Israel, God always, always will give a glimmer of light to those people who will hear And in fact, he gives a glimmer of light to people who don't hear. In fact, do you remember in Isaiah 6 where he tells Isaiah, who will go for me? Remember that passage? And Isaiah says, I'll go. And then he says to Isaiah, I'm going to send you to people who will not listen. I'm going to send to you to people that will not hear. Why won't people hear? The Word of God. Why won't people see the light of the Word of God? There's a reason for that. The Bible says that men love what? They love darkness rather than light because their deeds are evil. Why is it that the world sees all the problems and they look at the they say, well, this is the way we could fix the problems of the world. And really, those problems are not going to be fixed by their solutions because they're the problem. You can't fix humanity's problems with humanity because humanity is the problem. But they can't see that. Why can't they see it? Because they're in darkness. And why can't they see the darkness? Because they love the darkness. Men love darkness rather than light because their deeds are evil. And when they see the light, it's foreign to them. They see the light and they don't want the light. Folks, if if you have received the light, it's because of God's working in your life to see the light. And that's what we find in this passage. We have, and there's an application I want to make with this. And that is that we are living in times of darkness now, aren't we? There's no question in our world, if you watch the news, and you shouldn't watch too much of it in my opinion, because you'll just like it'll plunge you into depression probably. Like do it in s small doses. If you watch the news, you're gonna find all kinds of problems, all kinds of proposed solutions. And darkness is everywhere. And folks, isn't it true that we as human beings, we, you know, even if you're a Christian, you you grow up in darkness. I mean It's even in your own life, even in our own lives, there is darkness. There are times where things are confusing and you don't know what God's doing and you don't understand what happening and you don't know how to plan ahead and you don't see the future and it's darkness. And I would propose to you that there's a man that can help us with this by his example. And there's actually several men in the new in scripture, but one particular that I want to point out to you, and that is the man by the name of Simeon. Do you remember Simeon in the New Testament? In Luke chapter two? Take your Bibles and turn there for a moment. Look at Luke Luke 2. We're going to be back in Isaiah 9, but look at Luke 2 for a moment. We've got this man Simeon, and I want to set it up this way. Do you realize that prior to the prior to Christ coming, you have 400 years of prophetic silence. 400 years between the Old Testament and the New Testament. Where, as far as we know, there is very little prophecies given. This darkness is incredible. You have light in the midst of Babylonian captivity. You've got light that you know you have Daniel there and Ezekiel that's that's God prophesies to. You have light in that during that time. But after that time, you've got lots of darkness and you have very little prophetic light except God still has his light in the midst of this, and you've got a man by the name of Simeon who recognizes the light. Notice what it says here, picking up in verse 25 of chapter 2. It says this, and behold, there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon. And this man was just and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel. And the Holy Spirit was upon him. And it had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he would not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ. That's incredible, isn't it? That this man Simeon was so faithful to the Lord, we'll just assume that. And he wanted to see Christ. He wanted to see the light that God chose To say to Simeon, hey, you're not going to die before you see Christ. Before you see the light Verse 27, so when he came by the Spirit, the Spirit of God was the one that was working in Simeon's life, into the temple. And when the parents brought the child, Jesus, to do for him according to the custom of the law, he took him up in his arms and blessed God and said, Lord, now you are letting your servant depart in peace. According to your word. For my eyes have seen your salvation, which you have prepared before the face of the peoples, a light to bring revelation to the Gentiles, and the glory of your people Israel. This man Simeon, unlike Ahaz, Ahaz, Isaiah comes to Ahaz and says, We'll give you any sign. Pick a sign and we'll give it to you. Ahaz refuses the light. We got a man by the name of Simeon who doesn't refuse the light. The light that he's given, he latches onto and he believes it. And as he is given, and then when he sees the light of Christ coming, He recognizes by the Spirit of God. Why? Because he is receiving the light that God has given him. And I'd like to make this application to you. Perhaps you are living in a very dark time. Well, we're all living in a dark time, but maybe you're just in a very confusing dark time in your life. Maybe you're struggling with the fact that there is confusion and doubt and disappointment and problems. It's just confusing. My exhortation to you, brothers and sisters in Christ, is to receive the light that God has given, because you will be given light. And the truth of the matter is we are often given less light than we want. We want the whole thing laid out for us. God doesn't usually work that way. He's 400 years of silence between the testaments, lots of darkness in the Old Testament. You see darkness everywhere. God doesn't take the darkness, the curse of sin, and say, okay, well, I'm going to remove it from the earth. He will one day, by the glorious light of the second coming of Christ And we all look forward to that day. That's the hope of the believer. But until that day comes, we are living in darkness and are and and we are personally living in darkness. And what we've got to do is look for the light and follow the light and receive the light of Christ in our lives. And I want us to learn how to do that, and we're actually going to learn how to do that from Isaiah 9. So would you take your Bibles and turn back to Isaiah 9? Because the truth of the matter is, the brightest light comes from the brightest person. And the more we look at who Christ is, the more we will be able to see his light. Would you know this then, what Isaiah says, picking up in verse 6. For unto us a child is born. And we're going to see how this all comes about. This is all foundational. for the Christmas story as we see it unfold in the next several weeks, the next couple of weeks here. For unto us a child is born. Unto us a son is given, and the government will be upon his shoulder, and his name will be called Wonderful Counselor, the Mighty God, Everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. What I want us to do is I want us to sit to just identify a few things here about who this person is, as the passage lays it out. Notice, first of all, I'll just mention this. It says, For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given. Even in the Old Testament, you have this glimmer of the deity of Christ. It says, unto us a child is born. That tells us that it's going to be a human being. But then it says, unto us a son is given. That indicates that there is this divine gift. And that's exactly what happens when Christ comes to earth. He is both completely human and completely divine. He is the God-man. We have this prophesied years before the Old Testament. Unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given, and the government will be upon his shoulder. His responsibility will be the government. We know that will happen later on in the second coming of Christ. But I want us to notice then this man, Jesus, this God-man, notice his characteristics that are here that are so comforting for us In other words, in the Old Testament, we don't have a lot of light, but we've got enough light that we can focus on who Jesus is, and we know that He will continue to shed His light. We can receive His light. Light. Notice. Notice this. First of all, it says, his name will be called Wonderful Counselor. Now, you could separate these where you say wonderful and then counselor. Sometimes it's it's translated both ways with a common between and and I think probably these two things go together, but either way, um he is wonderful and he's a counselor, isn't he? Let's just identify what he's talking about here. The idea of wonderful is that this that Christ is full of wonder. He's extraordinary. He's miraculous. And isn't that exactly what happened when Christ came to earth? Did he not do m perform many miracles? Why? Because he wanted to identify who he really was. He was a wonderful, a wondrous, and incredible counselor. He was full of wonder, full of miracles on one hand, but he was also He was also a counselor. In other words, he was empathetic. You have here the fact that Christ came and dwelt among us. There's this wonder about Christ and also this familiarity about Christ because he is human. And he went through the difficulties that we went through. Hebrews 4 15 says, For we have not an high priest which cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities, but was in all points tempted like as we are yet without sin. That's Jesus And no matter what you're going through, you're going through a dark time right now, or as we all are in this world, we're going through darkness. Jesus has been through it. He was in all points tempted as we are, yet without sin. He is that wonderful counselor. You know, there's something about being counseled by somebody that has at least an inkling of what you're going through. And the truth of the matter is, as you're going through hard times, difficult times, nobody can have can exactly mirror what you've gone through usually. But if somebody has absolutely no clue, I remember knowing of a seminar where the guy was single and he had a whole seminar on marriage. W what nonsense? Like he doesn't even know. You know. My my dad went to the seminar, he said, No, you ain't going to that Why? Because he doesn't know about marriage. I mean he you know nothing wrong. If he's just preaching the word, fine, but he was given all kinds of extra things that he didn't know what he was talking about. So Christ is a counselor. He is like this, he knows what you're going through. He can identify when nobody else knows what you're going through. Christ knows what you're going through. He is that wonderful counselor. One novelist put it this way. Dorothy Sayer, she said, the incarnation means that for whatever reason God chose to let us fall to suffer, to be subject to sorrows and death, he has not nonetheless had the honesty and the courage to take his own medicine. He can exact nothing from man that he has not exacted from himself. He himself has gone through the whole of the human experience From the trivial irritations of family life and the cramping restrictions of hard work and lack of money to the worst horrors of pain and humiliation, defeat, despair, and death. He was born in poverty and suffered in an infinite pain, all for us, and thought it well worth his while. That's Jesus Christ. It's incredible when you really think about it. He is the wonderful counselor. He's also the mighty God. This tells us that he is, again, we have in the Old Testament clearly identifying Jesus as God, as deity. He is the mighty God. But it also identifies him as one who is a mighty warrior who goes and protects on behalf of his people. In Isaiah 10, it says this And it shall come to pass in that day that the remnant of Israel and such as have escaped to the house of Jacob will never again depend on him who defeated them. but will depend on the Lord, the Holy One of Israel, in truth. The remnant remnant will return the remnant of Jacob to the mighty God. God will make sure that the remnant of Israel will return to Israel. God is the one that fights on behalf and protects. He is the mighty God. And then we have the everlasting Father. This is a reference to the care of the Father. A concept in the Old Testament that was very foreign. In the book of Psalms, you have David understanding, who was a man after God's own heart. He understood that God was his father, and he writes about it. Several places in Psalms. Psalm 21, Psalm 72, Psalm 61. But outside of the Psalms, you don't see God often mentioned in the Old Testament as a father. By the time you get to the New Testament, Christ gets on the scene, the idea of Christ being, or God being a loving personal father is foreign to these people. Yet Christ reintroduces the idea of God being the Father. This is talking about the care of a Father. Did you know that Jesus is one who cares for you? Deeply, and who knows how to apply the right kind of care to your situation. If you think of a mother who is able to care for her child, who just instinctively knows what her child needs. This idea of a father is is combined in this father-mother kind of a kind of it's definitely masculine, but there's a father-mother kind of a role here where there's this nurturing. This idea is a nurturing idea where he just knows what you need. So not only is Christ aware of what you've gone through Because he is tempted at all points, like as we are yet without sin. He's lived the life of suffering and loneliness and pain and darkness. Christ has lived that life But he also is this father who cares for you and knows exactly what you need when you need it. That's Jesus Christ. He is the everlasting Father. And then notice this, finally, he is the Prince of Peace. The Prince of Peace This is the word shalom in the Old Testament. And the word peace here is not just the absence of conflict. When we think of peace, we often think of the absence of conflict. And certainly it includes that, folks. But the word peace, this word shalom, has to do with a wholeness. He is the prince of wholeness, of completeness, of complete tranquility. And in a world of darkness where we don't feel quite whole, where we don't really even our own hearts that are deceitful and desperately lick wicked when there is darkness and confusion. Christ is the Prince of Peace. There is wholeness in Christ. This demonstrates that there is going to be that Christ will fulfill the prophecy of peace in 2 Samuel 7 when he says to that that there will be a person who sits on the on the Davidic throne and he will bring peace. And Christ has chosen in his first advent. to bring us peace internally. He wanted us to see, to experience peace inwardly. There will be one day where we will experience peace in this world, but we have the opportunity to experience peace now. That's why it says in Romans chapter 5, verse 1, that we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. We are at peace with God if we know Christ is our Lord and Savior, and we experience peace with God internally because Christ is the Prince of Peace And then we find in verse 7, of the increase of his government and peace there will be no end. We look forward to a day, folks, where this hasn't happened yet, but this will this will happen. And just as sure as Christ literally came in the beginning, uh a few thousand years ago, he literally came to earth and was born as a baby and and live the perfect, just as sure as that happened. And we know, not just from the Bible, but many historic documents, that's exactly what happened. That one day Christ will come again. And when he comes, he will set up the throne of David, and there will be no end to it. And there will be peace. The world will be made, after a thousand years, the world will be being made new. All will be set right. It will be exactly as God originally intended before the fall when he had made heaven and earth in the beginning. And it says to order it and to establish it with judgment and justice for that time forward, even forever. The zeal of the Lord of hosts. will perform this. So what can we learn from all this? And just recapping everything, let's just these three these three things we just really need to to settle in on. Number one The world's problems and your problems result from darkness. Look to Christ, who is the light. Realize, folks, that your problems and the world's problems are a result of darkness. Which is the curse, which comes from sin, and the light is Christ. We ought not look to try to solve the problems other ways. We ought to look to Christ. Number two, in God's time, he will fully shine his light, and there will be no darkness. Until then, receive the light that God has given. God will always reveal himself. And frankly, folks, isn't it true that he has given us more of a revelation of the self than any time in histrail or church the church's history? We have the entire completed Word of God. There is plenty of light. Yes, we live in a dark world where there is confusion and it's really weird out there. I mean, it's strange. I'm watching we watched a couple of Christmas movies that there was some really s weirdness in them that we didn't realize was going to be in them. Um my wife and I are looking at each other like and what? I guess we're gonna have to resort back to Hall Hallmark or something. I mean anyway. No, no Not really, we won't do that. But I mean it's weird out there, and it's very dark, and there's odd things. Receive the light that God has given. He still gives us light. And number three, as we reflect on who Christ is, we will be able to receive Christ's light. The key, folks, to receiving the light of Christ is to remember who Christ is. He's the wonderful counselor, the mighty God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. This is a great summary of who Jesus is. And as we reflect and meditate and think about who Jesus is, then we will begin to see that He is the light in our lives. In the midst of darkness, in our own souls, and in the world. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and we understand. That the world is dark. It groans. It waits until the day where Christ returns and sets everything right. And we wait for that glorious day. We're so thankful, Lord, that you have given us so much light in your word. And we see the prophecies of the Old Testament and we see them being fulfilled. in the New Testament, as we'll continue to see next week. And we see your wisdom and your your mercy and all your character, Christ's character to us and being the mighty God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. I pray, Lord, that you'd help us in our own lives as believers to understand the light of Christ in our lives in the midst of confusion and darkness. Thank you for doing far more than we could ever fathom in sending your own Son, Jesus. To come into the world, to live as mere man, to humble himself, and to suffer and die for our sin. Lord, when we go through things, may we just live in the gospel and realize that this great light that you've given to us Causes us both to find comfort inwardly in Christ and also look for the glorious return of Christ. Lord, may that be our hope. May that be our stability. May that be our light. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.