Passage has to do with God's way of spiritually reviving his people. You've you see there in verse uh four The New King James says restore. The King James says revive. Restore us, O God of our salvation, and cause our anger toward us to cease. Let me ask you this question. Do you ever feel spiritually drained? What I mean by that is not that you not that you are feeling spiritually disobedient or rebellious or um Or unfaithful, but just sort of like you're not filled up. Like you're empty, like your spiritual gas tank is empty. That happens a lot because of discouragement or disillusionment. And that's the context in which we find this psalm is written. This is during a time where the nation of Israel has been in captivity for 70 years. They have come out of captivity, and Korah is going to write this psalm in reflection of them coming out of captivity. If you can imagine being in captivity for seventy years and then coming out of captivity. the kind of excitement that perhaps you would you would be anticipating your freedom and the rebuilding of your nation. But as they left uh left the land of Babylon and went into their homeland, they s they they the memories that they had were memories of a intact infrastructure and a temple that was running correctly and a wall that was built. And when they came back, everything was in ruins. It didn't look it there it it wasn't it wa and and when they saw the way it was, it was extremely, it was discouraging for them. There was so much to do. There was so much work to be done just to simply restore it. to the place that it it previously was. And if and they were struggling with this they were struggling with with having the motivation to be able to do this. And so that's that's when Korah writes this psalm. The psalmist writes this And he said, or um and he says this, he picks up here in verse uh uh Psalm 85, Lord, you have been favorable to your land You have brought back the captivity of Jacob. You have forgiven the iniquity of your people. You have covered all your sin. All their sin. You have taken away all your wrath. You have turned from the fierceness of your anger. Restore us, O God of our salvation, and cause your anger toward us to cease. Will you be angry with us forever? Will you prolong your anger to all generations? Will you not revive us again, that your people may rejoice in you? I said earlier that verse four said revive in the King James. I don't think it does actually. I think that's verse five where it says that, and it says, or verse six where it says that, and it says the same thing in verse in the New King James. Verse 7. Show us your mercy, Lord, and grant us your salvation. I will hear what God, the Lord, will speak, for He will speak peace. and his people, and to his saints, but let them not turn back to folly. Surely his salvation is near to those who fear him That glory may dwell in our land. Mercy and truth have met together. Righteousness and peace have kissed each other. Truth shall spring out of the earth, and righteousness shall look down from heaven. Yes, the Lord will give what is good, and our land will yield its increase. Righteousness will go before him and shall make his footsteps our pathway. What we want to talk about today for just a few moments is the whole idea of the need for spiritual revival in our own hearts. and how that spiritual revival comes about. And what I want to do here is make some applications here from this text. R. A. Tori said this with regard to this concept of revival. He said, many pray for a revival. That certainly is a prayer that is pleasing to God. It is all along the line of His will, but many prayers for revival are purely selfish. The churches desire revivals in order that a membership may be increased, or in order that the church may have a position of more power or and influence in the community. in order that church treasury may be filled, in order that a good report may be made at the Presbytery or Conference or Association. For such low purposes as these, churches and ministers oftentimes are praying for revival, and oftentimes too, God does not answer the prayer. Why should we pray for revival? For the glory of God. Because we cannot endure it that God should continue to be dishonored by the worldliness of the church. by the sins of unbelievers, by the proud unbelief of the day, because God's word is being made void, in order that God may be may be glorified by the outpouring of his Spirit on the Church of Christ. That these reasons, first of all, and above all, we shall pray for revival. Many a prayer for the Holy Spirit is purely selfish prayer. When we think of revival even in with regard to our nation, particularly, or a church, or revival of some kind, the kind of revival that we ought to be praying for is internal revival. A revival of spiritual life. In fact, that's what revival really is in God's terms. Is is the is the is the uh uh coming to life of something that is otherwise uh dimmed in its in its um in its life, in its energy Now the question then becomes when we are when we need spiritual revival, what do we do? If you've ever I I know that if you've lived the Christian life any length of time, there are there have been times where you feel as though your gas tank is just empty. So what what do you do? The first thing that I would suggest to us from this text is that we need to recognize and establish the conditions for revival, that what God has done for you and I in the past. What we find in this text, you find six times in verses one through three, you have done this, or thou hast done this, depending on what version you're reading. You have done this, you have done that, you have done this, you have done that, and you find that six times. The psalmist is reaccounting of what God has done in the past for the nation of Israel. And that is intended to provide a basis for what God would do in restoring the nation of Israel. And I think that we can make the same application for ourselves as individual individuals in our relationship with God. If you're feeling as though you are drained spiritually, take some time and look at what God has done for you in the past. Look at how God has blessed you. Look at God's grace in your life. Look at his undeserved favor toward you. And it won't be long if you look back at your life and you see how much you God has given you, with of course the most thing being spiritual blessings and salvation being the most important thing. Onto physical blessings and all kinds of blessings. When you begin to look at what God has given you and how He has done great things in your life and the blessings that God has given you That then provides the basis for you to be able for for you to be able to s to to go to the next step, which we will talk about in a few moments. We see in verse 1 that Korah recognizes the favor of God. Lord, you have been favorable to your land. You have brought back the captivity of Jacob. They were coming out of captivity, and he needed to recognize at the very outset that this was something that that was showing a demonstration of God's favor to them. And they he recognized that that he that uh uh God had forgiven them in verse two. He realized the faithfulness of God and the forgiveness of God And those are the kinds of things that we have to remember as well in our lives. Those are true of us as well, isn't it, aren't they? It is true that God has forgiven us. It is true that God is faithful to us. That's why why it says in Leviticus or we can certainly um agree that in Lamentations 3, 22-23 it is of the Lord's mercies that we are not consumed. Because his compassions fail not. They are new every morning. Great is thy faithfulness. And if you want to begin to have a experience spiritual revival in your own heart, You need to begin by just reflecting on God's faithfulness and forgiveness in your life and his favor in your life And it won't be long that you will be able to say with the Psalmist in Psalm forty, I waited patiently for the Lord And he inclined unto me and heard my cry. He brought me up out also out of the horrible pit out of the miry clay and set my feet upon a rock and established my goings. And I would ask you this question. This is something that is helpful for us to sort of do our own soul searching. Is there something in your life that is keeping you from being able to appreciate and to reflect on the goodness of God in what He has done in your life in the past? It might be an unforgiving spirit, or bitterness, or jealousy, or failure to admit fault, or thinking that you deserve something that you don't really deserve, deserving more than you really deserve. Those kinds of things in our thinking will prohibit us from recognizing God's blessing in the past in our lives. But if there is nothing like that, maybe what we simply need to do is to take some time and just reflect. We're not good at that, are we? We're not good at settling down and being quiet and reflecting on the goodness of God. I was feeling particularly drained not too long ago. And I realized I needed I needed this. And so for me, what I did was I I took a very long walk. I went all over the pla walked all over different places in Elk Ridge. I just kept walking and walking and walking. I didn't have nowhere I didn't even I didn't had no destination. I was just walking all over the place. And while I was walking, I started thinking about what God had done in my life and and the blessings that God had given me and the grace that He had given me in my life and the and and just began to reflect on what God had done, his faithfulness, his goodness. And it isn't long when you start reflecting on those things and you start focusing on those things that it's like the beginning stages of this spiritual revival that you beg that begins to happen in your life. And so I I can't encourage you enough to take time and look at what God has done in your life is just as the psalmist did as well. Then what we have in verses four through five is a sincere desire for change. Or restoration, if you will. He says in verse 4, Restore us, O God, our salvation, and cause your anger toward us to cease. Will you be angry with us forever? Will you prolong your anger to all generations? And so he says you need to restore or turn us. We we we we need to go the other direction. We need to move forward. And he praised that. He asked God to do that in his life, to turn him from disillusionment and destroy and struggle and despair. And then to turn and ask uh to to God. And uh um I it's interesting, I think, the order here. He doesn't ask for restoration first. He first reflects on the faithfulness of God, and then he asks for restoration for the future. And I think that order is important. When we come to God, I think sometimes if we come to God in frustration. Lord, why aren't you doing this in my life? I want this done. Maybe we wouldn't be quite so overt, but we sort of have that in our mindset And what God wants us to do is to first reflect on the goodness of God, the faithfulness of God, the forgiveness of God, the grace of God, and then To then, with that kind of a mindset, okay, Lord, you have done this for me in the past, you have given your grace in the past, would you seek to would you choose to do that again? Would you restore Would you choose that to do that again in my life? Then we find here in the passage in verse in verse, we'll move on here to verse 6. And he says this, will you not revive us again? Or would you give us, he prays, spiritual life? He is no doubt reflecting on the fact that the presence of God had not been in the temple for a long time. He is praying for that to occur He's praying for the worship of of God's people to occur again. He uh to in in a in a in a in the way that it was prior to when they were taken into captivity. He's very concerned about these things, and so he prays with that in mind. And then he says this. He says, and this is, I think, the key He says, will you not revive us again that your people may rejoice in you? Do you know what spiritual revival is? It is when you can genuinely rejoice in God. Not just in what he has done. Not just in your circumstances that you happen to be favorable toward or not favorable toward, but that you can really have this settled rejoicing in God alone. And and that is something that God desires of us. I think, in fact, that God sometimes allows us to go through hurt. and loneliness and pain. And sometimes God does not supply for those things in the way that we think He is He should Because what he really wants us to do is to turn to him so that he fills it himself. He gives us himself as a as a fulfillment of those kinds of needs. How do you know whether or not you are experiencing spiritual revival? Well the really the answer is are you rejoicing in God? When you are rejoicing in God, then you are experiencing spiritual revival. Then he says this, when we are experiencing spiritual revival, there are some results that occur. Picking up here in verse 7, he's actually this is a prayer, verse 7, show us your mercy, Lord, and grant us your salvation. Then verse 8, I will hear what God the Lord will speak. For he will speak peace to his people and to his saints. But let them not turn back to folly. Surely his salvation is near those who fear him. Why? That glory may dwell in our land. Now here's what happens. What happens when people and when God's people experience spiritual revival? What occurs in in your life practically? And the answer is found in verse ten. Mercy and truth have met together. Righteousness and peace have kissed. Truth shall spring out of the earth, and righteousness shall look down from heaven. Have you ever found it difficult to balance things like mercy and truth? I mean, think about it in your own in your own uh par okay, think about it in terms of dealing with your kids. Do you ever find it hard to balance mercy and truth? Um, or to balance righteousness and peace? You ever have to find it hard to say to go to to to know the difference, to know the balance between, okay, I need to stand up for what is right But if I do that, it might not be the most peaceful posture. Okay? Righteousness and peace don't seem to always go together And mercy and truth don't seem to always go together. But do you know who embodies all four of those? God does. God is both merciful and truthful, and he is truth. God is both righteous and a God of peace. And when we are enjoying him and rejoicing in him and having spiritual life the way that God intends for us to. These ta kind kinds of things tend to come into balance in our lives practically. And that's just by way of application What it meant for the nation of Israel was is that when they began to worship God as a corporate entity again and they began to to fulfill what God had intended them to fulfill, those things would occur in their corporate nation, mercy and truth, righteousness and peace. But I think practically for us, those things happen in our lives. Maybe not like maybe not w just in all of our circumstances. But in the way that we interact, in the way that we um uh we behave those things come into balance. But the key to having those things into balance is that we have the kind of life that God wants us to have that only occurs when we are experiencing the re revival that God wants us to And he says verse twelve, Yes, the Lord will give what is good, and our land will yield its increase. Righteousness will go before him, and shall make his footsteps our pathway. And that is something I think is a Important for us to just take time to reflect on from time to time, to remember in our lives as Christians Psalm 37 says it this way. Delight thyself also in the Lord, and he shall give thee the desires of thine heart. Commit thy way unto the Lord, trust also in him, and he shall bring it to pass. That passage is not telling us that if we delight in God, He will give us everything we want. It is telling us that when we delight in God, He will give us the the He will give us the delights that we are supposed to have. He will He will give us um the the kind of desires that he wants us to have, and then those desires of course will be fulfilled by him So the question for us is this. Where in this psalm, and this is becomes a very good reflective psalm for us, where if we are spirit feeling spiritual drain, where are we going wrong here? Is it, number one, is it possibly that we are not reflecting on God's goodness and grace and faithfulness in our lives? Is there something that's keeping us from doing that? Or are we depending on ourselves rather than turning to God and saying, God, would you restore me Would you help me to see the joy of my salvation? Would uh would you give me that that fresh relationship with you that I'm really rejoicing in you? Or are we uh are we trying to live by our own strength rather than strength that God gives us? Are we enjoying God? Are we truly just enjoying God for who he is? You know, by the way, that's something that nobody could ever take away from us. No matter what circumstances you're going through, no matter what happens to this nation in the future. Um Somebody suggested and I think this is probably true that what's happening right now is that the the deck chairs are being arranged on a Titanic. Okay. And they're being arranged a little better right now. But the whole thing is eventually going down. Okay. Um and we know that from I mean it it it So what is our hope? And the bottom line is that nothing can take away our enjoyment of God. That ought to be our constant source of help and strength in time of need. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you and thank you, Lord, just for the time that we could spend in your word tonight. We thank you that your word does give us Truth that helps us to enjoy you. I pray, Lord, that you would help us to do that on a very uh personal level. I pray that we would wake up in the mornings and go to you the word and go to you in prayer and find our source of strength from you every morning. That we would see your faithfulness, that our mer we would see your renewed mercies every morning. And that that would cause us, Lord, to be able to just rejoice in you no matter what else is happening in our lives. No matter what circumstances we are facing, whether it's positive or negative negative, whether it's good or bad, there is this joy and rejoicing And delight in you that you want all of your children to experience every day. And Lord, we admit before you that we are often distracted and we are we are diverted and derailed from those From that pursuit, I pray that you would help us. And when we do, we lose that spiritual freshness. So I pray, Lord, that you would help us to get back on track, to put you first, to rejoice in you, to reflect on your faithfulness in our lives. So that we can experience the revival that you want us to experience spiritually. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.