Begin by asking you a simple question. How many of you have ever had a crisis hit your life? Would you raise your hand and I will remind you that I know you. And if you didn't raise your hand, um I mean I know most of you and I know you've had different crises in your life. All of us at some time or another Has had a crisis hit our lives. And I want to begin this way. How do you respond to that? How does someone naturally respond or react to the crisis that hits their lives? I remember when I was I had first really sort of discovered that um my mom had cancer. And uh I was I I my mom had decided that um she didn't want anybody to know for a little while and so she and my dad were the only ones that knew and I knew something was going on but I didn't know what and I began to get really concerned so I asked several qu you know s I kept asking questions. and finally researched enough to know what what it was talk they would give us give me just enough to to to s pacify me basically and then I I you know, I'm kind of a researcher so I just researched and figured it out. And then I went and talked to them about it and I was in the m my dad's I was in a my parents' basement and uh finally I said, Dad, what's going on here? and talked to him and And uh it really just sort of all broke loose from there. And I remember my beginning reaction was, well, how bad is it? That was my first question. And what do we do to solve this problem? I mean my thinking mentally was okay it was very focused on the problem. Let's fix the problem. We got a problem here, and so I'm mentally thinking to myself, okay, well what need what steps need to take? Where is she at? What needs to What needs to happen? We need to put put a plan together, you know, plan together. What's the oncologist saying? I started asking all kinds of questions like that. That was my way of dealing with it mentally. And then when I began to s it began to really settle in that it had metastasized to her brain, it was like a neck like a second phase to the same crisis where I began to emotionally sort of I s I sort of just broke down emotionally. I I I I didn't despair, but I certainly cried, I wept and um and I remember I remember vividly that time where it just hit me with a crisis. And uh all of you can think of times in your life where you have been hit with crisis. That's not the only crisis I've ever had, uh, but it uh it's one of 'em. And all of you can talk can think of times where you have been hit with a crisis. And usually our reaction to the crisis is to become preoccupied with the problem. We become just Just maybe sometimes even all consumed by the problem. But let me ask you a question: Is that how God responds to the same crisis? Does God respond the same way we do to the same crisis? How does God respond when crisis hits our lives? Folks, I'm going to argue that his response is entirely different. His perspective is entirely different. That his focus when crisis hits our lives is entirely different than our natural response is. I don't think there's anybody here that was listening to me account of just the basics of when I w hit crisis in my life was anybody who was going, well what was your problem? Like, man, why'd you act that way? I mean that was a natural response to both of the b both of the things, both mentally and emotionally, were natural responses to the crisis that was hitting my family. But it isn't the way God responds to the same crisis when we pray to Him. about crisis that hit our eyes. Because eventually prayer comes up pretty quick when you hit a crisis. You know, we don't we go along alright for a little while. We don't always we don't always pray about things like we ought to, but crisis hits and we're praying. We're on our knees. But when we pray to the Lord, are we thinking in terms of His perspective? Or are we thinking in terms of only our perspective when we're praying? Folks, what we've got to do is we have got to we've got to see our crisis And what God's mind is on it. We've got to see our crisis when it hits our lives and see God's perspective on our crisis. It will help us the next time we go through a crisis. Maybe you're saying right now, well I'm not in a crisis right now. Hopefully not everybody's in a crisis right now. But it won't be long you'll hit another crisis, won't you? I mean, if you just think of the average just reader for you like anyone. And throughout their life they have different crises that hit their life. Things that they just don't expect, they have no experience, they have no they have no frame of reference to deal with, things that surprise them, they're just they're just plunged into situations that they have absolutely no way, no understanding of how to to deal with. And things that often require immediate attention. The narrative that we're going to be looking at today has that situation in mind. But before we get there, we're going to see the broader perspective of what Christ is looking at as he ministers He is moving from the group of Samaritans that have responded to Christ in true, genuine, authentic faith. And now he's going to move from Samaria and he's going to move up to the region of Galilee. And in the region of Galilee, he is going to encounter something different than the reception that he re that he gave got from the Samaritan people. And you're going to see that in a few moments. Before we do that, I think we need to go to the Lord in prayer and ask his blessing and our time together. Father, as we come to you this morning, I pray that you would help us to understand just the greatness of Christ. Christ and the wisdom of Christ and His love in pursuing us in causing us To have faith that is developed enough. I pray, Lord, that you would help us to understand exactly your intentions for us. When we hit crisis situations in our lives, I pray more importantly that we would understand what is acceptable faith to Christ and what is clearly unacceptable faith. And I pray, Lord, that you help us to understand Christ's working to bring us to a place where we have acceptable faith. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Name. Amen. We're in John chapter four, but in Mark chapter 9, verses 16 through 24, it tells of a man who has a son. And this son has been his body has been ravaged and his spirit has been ravaged by demons. demons are in him and possessing him to the point where he is falling on the ground and convulsing. All kinds of things are happening. He can't he he just can't even manage correctly because of the situation that he finds himself in. And this man comes to Christ, and Christ says that if your faith is strong enough, you'll be able that it will deal with a situation. If the strength of your faith will depend it will it will be able to take you through the situation that you're in, says to the Father. And the Father responds this way. It would be a way that we would all respond, I think, or be at least tempted to respond if we were in the same situation. Verse 24 of Mark 9 says, And straightway the father of the child cried out and said with tears, Lord, I believe. Help thou mine unbelief. When we hit crisis, when we hit things in our lives where our experience does not prepare us for what we are dealing with. When we hit those kinds of things in our lives, we don't want to say we don't believe. I mean, we believe in God, we believe in his ways, we believe he's all powerful, but there is a sense in which we sort of go Lord help my unbelief. I think all of us can identify with this father who has this son who is not in his right mind because of he's being ravaged by demons. We can understand his approach. He's like, I just want, I got my son, I believe, Lord, but help my unbelief. And of course, in that particular passage in Mark 9, we Find that Christ does help his son, doesn't he? And Christ does cast the demons out. For the belief versus the unbelief that this man so authentically and so genuinely expressed to Christ in his crisis situation. When we come to this passage in John chapter 4, Jesus is moving from Samaria and he's moving into the region of Galilee. Before we ever get to the crisis situation that this price that this passage is occupied with we've got to understand some of the background of what Jesus is dealing with in his ministry at this point. In verse 43 of chapter 5, we or chapter 4 we see this. It says, Now after two days he departed thence, he's in Samaria, and after two days he departed thence and went into Galilee. For Jesus himself testified that a prophet hath no honor in his own country. Then, when he was coming to Galilee, the Galileans received him. Having seen all the things that he did at Jerusalem at the feast, for they also went unto the feast. So Jesus comes to the Galileans, and the Bible says that the reason he comes to the Galileans is because he says in this passage that a prophet has no honor in his own country. There's been quite a bit of debate as to what Christ was talking about there because Galilee was really the region which would have been Christ's home region. So why would he be going to Galilee if he has no honor in his own country? More there's a lot of different explanations for for the for the po different possibilities of this, but I think the most reasonable reasonable explanation for this is simply that Christ was rejected particularly in Nazareth, which was in Galilee. And we find actually all four Gospels have this phrase in it: that Christ had no honor, or a prophet has no honor in his own country. When Christ was saying this, though, let's get a little bit of background as to why Christ was saying this. I'd like you to take your Bibles and turn now to another passage that will help us with this. Turn to Luke chapter 4 for a moment. In Luke chapter 4, actually, all like I said, all of the Gospels use this phrase, but Luke chapter 4, we find a probably the best, the most thorough explanation. Of why Christ would conclude that a prophet has no honor in his own country. And it's going to tell something about these people that are in Nazareth that really reject Christ, but particularly They reject a certain aspect of his ministry that is absolutely vital to not reject, to believe in. And we'll pick up here in verse 14. We're going to read kind of quick. Quickly, but we we'll we'll pick up here in verse fourteen of this chapter, to Luke chapter four. It says this and Jesus returned in the power of the sp in in the power of the spirit into Galilee. And there went out a fame of out a fame of him through all the region roundabout. And he taught in synagogues, being glorified of all. And he came to Nazareth. Where he had been brought up. And as his custom was, he went into the synagogue on the Sabbath day and stood up for to read. And there was delivered unto him the book of the prophet Isaiah or Isaiah. And when he had opened the book, he found the place where it was written. The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because He has anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor. He has sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to preach deliverance to the captives. And recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty them that are bruised, to preach the acceptable year of the Lord. And then notice what Christ says here. He doesn't say much, he just reads Isaiah. That's all he does. He reads the book of Isaiah, a particular passage in Isaiah, and then he says this, verse 20. And he closed the book, and he gave it again to the minister, and sat down. And the eyes of all them were in the synagogue were fashioned on him. Now notice what he says then next, verse 21. And he began to say unto them, This day is the scripture fulfilled in your ears. The only phrase he says This day is the scripture fulfilled in your ears. In other words, folks, what Christ does is he reads the text and he explains the text and he applies the text. Really, in one sentence. So how do these people respond, verse 22? And all bear him witness and wonder to the gracious words which proceeded out of his mouth. And they said, Is this not Joseph's son? And he said unto them, Ye will surely say unto me this proverb, Physician, heal thyself, whatsoever we have heard done in Capernaum, do also hear in thy country. for in other words he was pernium another another uh city in Galilee. He'd heard they had heard the miracles that he had done there. And so they were they he knew in their hearts that what they were expecting to do was not to get up and read a passage of scripture and expect it. But they were Expecting him to do is the same thing he did in Cat Capernaum, and that was to give him all kinds of miracles and signs and wonders. Verse 24. And he said, Verily I say unto you, no prophet is accepted in his own country. But I tell you of a truth. Many widows were in Israel in the days of Isaiah, when the heaven was shut up, three years of six months, when great ca famine was throughout all the land. And he continues on his explanation there Why would Christ at that point say to these people of Nazareth that was contracted from the people in Capernaum, even though they were all in the same region? region. That's why I'm s think that when he says no prophet has honor in his own country, he's specifically talking about Nazareth. Why would Christ respond that way in this situation? Because folks, what did the people of Nazareth reject? They rejected the Word of God. They rejected the clear explanation of the word of God from the mouth of Christ. They rejected God's word. Now, with that in mind, I'd like you to take your Bibles and turn back to John chapter 4. And you're going to begin to understand the emphasis that John now is placing in this passage. And I want to do so I want us to understand this by looking again at the reception of these Galilean people because it's gonna be give us a is it will clue us in as to the what Christ is really perceiving and looking at. He says here, verse um verse forty three, now after the two days he went to Galilee, they were first Verse 43 and verse 44, where Jesus himself testified that the prophet no one of his own country. Then, when he was coming to Galilee, the Galileans did what? They received him, okay, but why? Why did they receive him? They saw the miracles. Why did they receive him? It was because of the miracles. Now here's what I want to do. I want us to look at w how why the re why the Samaritans received. Because there's a contrast here. There's a reason in other words, folks, that John John now is at the heels of Christ working with the Samaritans, now comes to the Galileans, and there is a different different there's a contrast going on here. Would you notice in the passage if you'll just go up to let's go up a few verses here and you're going to be able to see what the Samaritans how the Samaritans believe. Look at verse 39. And many of the Samaritans of the city believed on him for the saying of the woman which testified He told me all that ever I did. In other words, folks, the the initial trust or the initial awakening of these people, the Samaritans Was brought on by the Samaritan woman and the testimony that she gave. However, their faith didn't stop there. It only began there Would you notice what it says next in this passage, verse 43, or verse 41? Actually, look at verse 40. For when the Samaritans were come unto him, They besought him that he would tarry with them, and he abode more two days there two days. And many were bel many more believed on of him, I'm sorry, and many more believed Because of his own what? Do you see the difference? In fact, Christ John wants to emphasize this so much that he goes on to explain that these very people who believe because of the word of Christ. Recognized why they were believing. Look at verse 41 or 42. And said unto the woman, Now we believe not because of thy saying. For we have heard him ourselves, and know that this is indeed the Christ, the Savior of the world. Do you see that there? You have this, yes, this initial awakening of the Samaritans by this woman who testifies of how Christ was able to identify her sin even though he didn't know her But the faith continued by listening to the very word of Christ, where they received what the people of Nazareth rejected. So you have a contrast here. So when he comes to Galilee, why were the Galileans receiving him? They were receiving him based upon the miracles that they wanted him to do. In other words, folks, there is a kind of faith that says, Well, I believe that God can do things for me. It's not acceptable to simply say my faith is based upon God's focus on my situation and what he can do for me. Fall short of the kind of faith that God wants us to have. It is this kind of faith that is of faith, not of faith alone or by the word of God, but by but this faith that is by sight. In other words We know that God's a good God. We know that God has intervened for us in the past in various situations. And so we just simply say, well, God, would you fix my problem? And I know you can. I know you can fix my problem. And my faith is based upon the fact that I think that God, or know that God, can fix my problem. There is a different quality of faith. That Christ desires for his people to have. In fact, this is the kind of faith that is necessary even for saving faith But it is also necessary for us if we are going to live by faith, because the Bible tells us in 1 Corinthians 4, verse 7, for we walk by faith and not by sight. So Jesus contemplates their unacceptable faith. But let's continue in the passage. How is it now that Jesus is going to deal with this? When the Galileans receive him for the wrong reason, essentially How is it that Jesus is going to deal with the well in the past? Do you remember over in Roman John chapter 2 after he had uh he had dealt with the temple situation, he gone in and turned over the money changers And things like that. Afterwards, he did a bunch of miracles. And it says in that passage that he just didn't believe their belief. He didn't accept their faith. And it just went it just goes on from there. But in this situation, Jesus is now going to deal with this problem of insufficient or unacceptable faith. He's going to confront it. But I want you to notice how he's going to do it. And we pick up here in verse 46. So Jesus came again into Cana of Galilee, where he made the water into wine. And there was a certain nobleman whose son was sick at Capernaum. Now, let me just pause and just set the situation up this way. Here's a man who is probably, the Greek word behind this indicates that he is probably part of Herod's court. He's probably in the in the in the in the uh under the reign of of Herod. He's a nobleman. He is a he's a very important person. But this is a man who has more than likely exhausted all the medical possibilities in his situation. He has probably had access to the best doctors. He has probably had access to the best health care available, if you will. But now he is this man is desperate. He is at the end of his rope. His son is sick. He is in, he is in, folks, a crisis situation. It is very important for us to understand the desperate kind of situation that this man is in. It is not dissimilar to the situation that we were we referred to earlier where the man's son was just riveted with all these demons. He i it's a crisis. He's in a serious situation. And I think all of us can understand, if if you're if we're parents at all, can understand The kind of crisis situation that we find ourselves in if our kids are in danger. There isn't anybody else, and I'll I'll be honest with you, I think that that is a greater situation, it is a more serious situation than even the death of a parent, particularly an older parent if you're an adult. We are dealing with the prospect, can you I mean I know that even if my kid gets a serious fever, I want to take it from him I think to myself, man, I would really rather have this fever myself than to see my child go through this kind of a situation. I'd rather empathize with this. I'd rather take this on myself. And all of us as parents can understand the situation that this nobleman is in, and he heard that this man that this man Christ He may not have known a lot about him, but he knows he can do miracles and heal people, and he's just running to the situation to try to get help from Christ. And so, with that in mind, look at verse 47 When he heard that Jesus was c w was come out of Judea into Galilee, he went up unto him And he besought him that he would come down and heal his son, for he was at the point of what He was at the point of death. We're talking about a very serious crisis situation. He comes to Jesus and he says, My son is going to die. Would you heal him? Would you come and would you heal him? Now, if somebody comes to you in a kind of a crisis situation like that, what is your response? Well, anybody would immediately want to do whatever they can. I mean, right? Wouldn't be the natural response of mo of of someone who is human to just simply in the situation that that If somebody comes to me and says, my child is dying, the very first thing I'm going to do is, well, what can I do? Let's get him to the hospital. Let's go. Let's get let's go let's do something That's not what Christ does here. He does not respond that way. I want you to notice of the text in verse 28 what how he responds. Then said Jesus unto him, Except ye see signs and wonders, ye will not believe. Does that sound a little cold? Does it sound a little harsh? That we're dealing with a situation that is a crisis situation, and Christ looks at the person and says, look, unless you see signs, you won't believe. And by the way, the word ye is plural. Okay. One of the advantages of the King James Version is you still have ye. It's not like you could say y'all all the time. And so for some reason, I don't know why this ever happened in the English language. There's a lot of improvements that have happened in the English language. But one of the pro one of the problems with the English language is they just like threw out the second person plural. But in this case we have a second person plural in the Greek is very clear. Anyway, so it's second person plural. So when Christ says this, what is he doing? Folks, he's really indicting all of these people that are around. He's indicting the whole region of Galilee. He is saying to all the regions of Galilee, look, unless you see sides you won't believe. But he's dealing with his individual situation as well. He's sort of saying, look, here's an example of someone who's not believing for the right reason. He all he wants to do is see a sign. And at this point, folks, we've got to begin to understand This illustrates perfectly God's focus versus our focus. We come to a crisis situation and we are preoccupied with the problem. God comes to the situation and his focus is not the problem. His focus is us. Do you follow it? Do you understand this? This man's pre-in fact you see, look, would you notice next what he says here in verse 2049? The noble man said unto him, Sir, come down ere my child die. He's just in a crisis situation. He's focused. He's preoccupied with a problem. And everyone here would understand that, wouldn't we? And yet, Christ is not preoccupied with a problem, he is focused on the person. He's focused on Christ. He's focused on the people, and he's saying these people don't have the kind of faith they need to have When you come to a crisis situation, do you know what God's perspective is for you? Do you know what his primary concern is? I'll just be very candid with you. God's primary purpose is not to solve your problem. God's primary purpose is to work on you through the problem. God's primary purpose when you and I come into crisis situations. is that we would, he would develop our faith. He would move us forward in our faith. That's why it says in James chapter 1 Kind of all joy when you come into diverse trials and temptations, knowing this that the trying of your what? Faith worketh endurance. Let patience have her perfect work. That ye may be entire or mature and wanting nothing, lacking nothing. See, when we come into a problem, we come into a crisis, we come into a situation, we are occupied with the problem, and it's understandable, but what we have got to do is we've got to begin to see things from God's perspective. And we have got to see why is it, and I'll just ask you the question, why is it that Christ is more preoccupied with us than he is the problem? Very candidly, because the problem ain't no big deal for him. It's a big deal to us. But God can do this with the problem. The problem's not the problem. The problem is us. And so when he looks at it, see, he takes all of these problems that we have that are really a result of the fall. And he uses all these problems to hone us. All these problems to develop us. All these problems to to inst to strengthen and increase our faith and to develop our faith. This man has unacceptable faith And you can sort of see it from Christ's perspective. Let's look at Christ's perspective a minute. If Christ solves this problem, he says, okay, I'm going to go and I'm going to heal this person, I'm going to heal your son, does that help this man's faith? No, he simply has faith in what he had faith in, in that Christ would fix the problem, and he goes on his merry way. See, Christ is, when Christ deals, wants to deal with us and work in our lives, remember this. He is not as focused on the problem as he is on the development of our faith. He's focused on us. Now How does Christ deal with this problem? We are going to see here some incredible wisdom as he deals with this problem. Would you notice what he does here in the passage? The nobleman saith unto the unto him, Sir, come down, verse 29, come down ere my child die. Jesus saith unto him, Go thy way, thy son liveth. Now, so what does he do? What's he do? He doesn't come with he doesn't come with the man. What he does is he says, Go, just leave. And your son lives. You know what he does here? Christ uses such amazing divine wisdom in dealing with the situation. He requires faith without sight. Christ is going to solve the problem, and in the process of how he solves the problem, he is going to develop this man's faith. It's incredible what he does here. He says, he says, look, just go. Your son's healed. This man has to take a long journey back to Capernaum on faith that Christ has said has done what he has said he has done. And of course what we find in the narrative is clearly when Christ comes back or when this man goes back to Curunium, in fact the servants come out to meet him. It's like the the the man is healed on the seventh hour at the exact same time Christ says it And they're coming out and they're uh they're they're they want to tell the nobleman, Hey, hey, this man is th that that your son's healed You know what this really demonstrates for us? Can you see this here, folks? Do you see the wisdom? God's wisdom. Do you see the wisdom of God? God is an alwise God. Do you know why God sometimes doesn't deal with your problem and solve your problem and get the problem out of your life and Just do you know why God does that, doesn't do that? It's not because he hates you. It's not because he doesn't like you. It's not it's because God has a certain way of dealing with our problems To help us in the process, too. God is not content just to solve our problems. What God does is He deals with our problems in a way that gives us the ultimate The ultimate benefit of the problem, so that we learn from the problem. And we learn who God is in the midst of the problem, and our faith is developed into a kind of faith That is truly acceptable faith. In understanding and describing the wisdom of God A man by the name of G. I. Dagg said this, a theologian of the 19th century. He says, the wisdom of God as consisting in the selection of the best end of action. And the adaptation of the best means for the accomplishment of that end. Wow, that's incredible, isn't it? That's what God does. Sometimes we hit our problems and we begin to recognize, you know, we sort of say to ourselves, yeah, I've got a problem and I've got to deal with a problem and And we pray to the Lord to help help us to uh to deal with the problem. And on one end, we have sort of one perspective that says, Lord, would you solve my problem? And that's my faith. We have another perspective that says, Lord Would you solve my problem? Lord, I know that I know that this problem is because you want to work on me. I'm aware of that. So Lord, I guess I can't expect you to solve the problem. Well you know sometimes God is such a good God. He's so wise that sometimes he chooses to do both. He chooses to solve the problem, but in a way that develops us. But let me just remind us of this. What's the priority? The priority is us. Do you know that God, if you look at Scripture and you look at all of what Scripture says about His working in the lives of men? But this is the case even with the unsaved person. Did you know that God is constantly pursuing the unsaved person to try to bring him to himself? to himself. Were you aware that God even uses the circumstances of the unsaved person in their lives to draw him to himself? God is not willing that any should perish, but all that all should come to And so God uses these circumstances, whether we are saved or whether we are unsaved, to get us to the place where we will either accept Him or reject Him by faith. In the case of the people of Nazareth, they rejected the Word of God. They rejected him. But in the case of this nobleman and all of his household, we see the result here in the final verses in verse 53. So the Father knew that it was the same hour in the which Jesus said unto him, Thy Son liveth, and himself believed. And his whole house. This is again the second miracle that Jesus did when he was come out of Judea into Galilee. We serve a wise God. We serve a God who knows how to deal with our crisis and our problems in a way that number one, most importantly Most importantly, we are we come to a place where we grow in Christ's likeness, we grow in our faith, we are developed in our endurance. God knows what he's doing with us. That requires faith, doesn't it, for us to just really believe that. And that God will use a problem. And very frankly, I'm convinced that He will keep a problem in our lives Until we choose to allow him to develop our faith, that we will submit to him That we will become malleable and humble and adjustable and flexible until this occurs in our lives where we just say, Okay, Lord, I'm going to walk by faith, not by sight. This man did. I mean this noble man man he's d he's in desperation but he w he turns around after Chr after he's talking to Christ, Christ says, Go your way and he goes his way. Okay, Lord, I'll do what you tell me to do. And he goes his way and he has to all drive w walk drive. He has to walk the whole way back. He should drive the whole way back at Caperdium in his in his Rolls Royce, you know? But he has to have faith, doesn't he? And his faith has to be developed. What crisis are you going through, or what struggle are you going through? what difficulty you're going through. Just in final final understanding of this, you know, I'll be honest with you, my desire for you is to you be that you would just genuinely be encouraged by this by this message. Number one, Christ's pursuit of us should encourage us. Christ goes after this man Christ deals with this man. He he he isn't just left to say, I mean he walks away from Nazareth, but when it comes to this, in this particular case, he pursues him. And if you know Christ is your Savior, Christ will relentlessly keep Keep pursuing you. That ought encourage us. Number two, Christ's shaping and developing of our faith through life's circumstances should what? Should encourage us. And number three, Christ's wisdom to bring the best possible ultimate outcome In our crisis situation, should encourage us. His wisdom to bring the best possible ultimate outcome to our crisis situations should encourage us. You are look, this is an encouraging passage. We got a man who comes to Christ by faith, the right kind of faith, because of the working, the wisdom of Christ in this passage. And God God's going to do the same. Same thing with us. God says that He will complete the work that He started in us. Isn't that wonderful? Isn't it wonderful that it does not all depend on you and me to do the work? Last Sunday it almost sounded like it, didn't it? And of course we have a passage there where Christ is clear that we've got to work. And that we've got to do the will of the Father. That is the work that God has called us to do. But now we have a passage here that balances this out a little bit, and we say, we're, we're just, I'm just thankful. I'm thankful that God is doing the work in us and will perform it under the day of Jesus Christ. We are just in a few moments going to prepare our hearts for a time where we're going to have the Lord's Supper. And so I'm going to pray here and just close the message and ask the Lord to help us apply this message to our own hearts and lives. Afterwards, we will have a time of silent prayer before the Lord. This is not a time just primarily where you're just saying, okay, well, I need to confess my sin. Do you know, folks, that the communion table is not just to confess your sin? You understand this? The primary purpose of the communion table is Now if God brings to you to you remember Sin in your life, that you need to confess them, then by all means confess it. This is to be a time of celebration. It is to be a time where we just we just are grateful and thankful For Christ and what He's done for us. And when we do this collectively as a body of believers, when we all gather together, it's like the it's like this is the thing that binds us together. It is the thing that that that is the foundation of our faith, the death of Christ and what he did for us in securing our redemption through his blood. And so I encourage you to th to to uh prepare our hearts that way. Let's go to the Lord in prayer uh as we get into our communion time. Father, we pray, Lord, that you would just help us We are we all at times in our lives can identify with this with the man that we talked about in the very beginning of the of the message. Where we say, Lord, help our faith. We have faith, but help our unbelief. And perhaps there would be some here today who would admit that their belief, their faith is not is not up to what you would want it to be. I pray that we would just trust you. We would depend upon you to do what we cannot do for ourselves. And that we would just be humble and flexible and malleable and just let you do to us and through us and with us exactly what you want to do. I pray, Lord, that you would do that and that we would let you. And that we would be encouraged to know that you desire to do this for us. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. We'll just give a few minutes now where you can pray before the Lord in silent reflection, and then we'll come together for the communion time.