Turn to James chapter three. We're going to be looking at a new chapter tonight. And I want to begin by asking you a question about James. If you had to use one word, just one, to describe the purpose of the book of James, why James was written. What word would that be? I do have a very specific word in mind, but I've mentioned several times a sort of a purpose statement for James, but I've not I want to narrow it down to one word. I think we can grasp one word Very important as we're studying any book of the Bible to have a clear understanding of the purpose of that book. It guides our interpretation of the book. So what word would that be? Yes. Excellent. Very good. Tony Good It's a star or something. Alright, so so maturity is the answer. Okay? That is the purpose of Jane James's writing this so that God's people would mature. It says let's But patience or endurance have her perfect work that ye may be perfect or mature and entire wanting nothing. That's the purpose statement in James. And one of the things that is that is most most apparent with people that are mature versus people that are not do have to do with this area of the tongue and speech. And so what I want to do is I want to do this again tonight inductively. So I'd like to read through the passage. While we're reading the passage, what I want you to do is just ask ourselves you know let's ask ourselves what is this passage saying? What's the main point of the passage, and then we'll look at the details of the passage. Make sense? Alright, three one. And we will read through verse twelve. My brethren, be not many masters. That word masters, by the way, I'll just stop there. It means teachers. It's translated in nearly every other case teachers. That's what it means. Knowing that we shall receive the greater condemnation. Network, I'll have to stop there. Again. Condemnation means judgment. Okay? The greater judgment. I might stop a couple of other times because sometimes the way that in this particular passage is translated um the meaning is not apparent sometimes. So I'll Make it a little more apparent. Verse 2. For in many things we offend all. If any man offend not in word, the same is a perfect man and able to bridle the whole body. Behold, we put bits in horses' mouths, that they may obey us, and we turn about their whole body. Behold, also ships, which though they be so great, and are driven of fierce winds. Yet are they turned about with a very small helm whithersoever the governor listeth. Alright, whithersoever the governor listeth. Wherever yeah, wherever the pilot desires. Okay? That's what it means there. Um yeah, listeth is definitely an old King James word. Um even so the tongue is a little member and boasteth great things. Behold, how great a matter a little fire kindleth. And the tongue is a fire in a world of iniquity. So is the tongue among our members, that it defileth the whole body, and setteth on fire the course of nature. and it is set on fire of hell. For every kind of beasts and of birds, and of serpents, and of things in the sea, is tamed, and hath not and hath been tamed by mankind. But the tongue can no man tame. It is an unruly evil, full of deadly poison. Therewith, bless we God Even the Father and therewith we uh curseth we men, which are made after the similitude of God. Out of the same mouth proceedeth blessing and cursing My brethren, these things ought not so to be. Do the fountain send forth at the same place sweet water and bitter? Can the fig tree, my brethren, bear olive berries, either a vine figs? So can a f can no fountain both yield salt water and fresh. Alright, so that's the passage that we're going to be looking at tonight. What is the meaning of the what's the main point of the passage What's the main point? Yes, Kim. Okay, right. eat or our taste buds or something, obviously it's talking about our speech. Okay? That's the that's the main we have this thing and and it's gonna t it talks quite a bit about what it does and how it works and what it can't what you can't do with it and what you're supposed to do with it. So he begins, he says, My brethren, so who are we talking to? Alright, talking to believers here. He says, Be not many teachers, knowing that they shall receive greater judgment. Now, let me ask you a question before we get into particularly about teachers. Do you think that James' primary point, when you read the entire ver all these verses, do you think his primary point is to talk about teachers? It doesn't seem like it to me. Now, he has something to say about teachers, and it's important that we understand that. But his overall point seems to be about the nature of speech. And he starts off by talking about that there shouldn't be many people that are teaching. Okay? So he says, Be not many teachers, knowing that he sh we shall rece uh And notice he says we. Okay, so what is James saying about himself? He's a teacher. Who is James? Anyone know who's James who James is? Right, he was a half half brother of Christ. Okay. us that okay all right so he was he was a pastor and he was obviously if you're a pastor you're a teacher okay so so he says here be not many of us Not many teachers, okay, knowing that they receive greater judgment. Now, why would a teacher receive greater judgment? Okay, greater r greater level of responsibility, uh responsible for communication, yes. Okay, right, right, good. All those are all those are true. Uh how much does a teacher talk? Yeah, you know I I'll be honest with you just as a person uh from a personal note. I mean Proverbs ten nineteen says in the multi to the words there wanteth not sin. And I I talk a lot. It makes me a little concerned sometimes, you know. I mean honestly, I I I do a lot of talking. I not just on Sunday mornings and on on Wednesday nights, but throughout the week I'm talking hours on the phone and in meetings and in counseling and in I am talking all of the time. And and I'm not I'm just talking about me, but others that are teaching do the same kind of thing When you're in a leadership position and particularly when you're when you're in any kind of teaching position, you do a lot of talking talking. It is it is to some it is often very sobering for me to think about how often I talk. And Scripture says in a multitude of words there want to not sin. And yet I have to talk a lot. I mean a teacher has to talk a lot, particularly if if he's like James, who's a pastor And so he says, you know, don't there shouldn't be that many people. He says, be not many teachers. What is he saying there when he says that? Be not many. Okay, there shouldn't be a whole lot. All right. Now, um doesn't mean that you if you have people have the gift of teaching. We have a quite a few churches in people in I'm thankful for that. But he says he just sort of warns on that. But now why does he do that? Why is he concerned about it? Well, they'll receive greater judgment. So a teacher has to realize that. He has to realize he's he's got he's gonna receive greater greater scrutiny. Now, this judgment, let me ask you this question. What what's he talking about when he says he was received greater judgment? What are the possibilities? Yeah. Could be rewards. That would be our first Mm would go sort of judgment from the Lord. But what's another possibility? I think it was thinking I really have a lot more people studying our careful. So it could be talking up here when it says greater judgment, it could be talking about greater scrutiny among people Is it possible? Okay? It could be talking about that. It may not be talking about it's very hard to tell from the context if it's talking about judgment from the Lord or judgment from other people Scrutiny from Lord or scrutiny from the other other people. It's little a little hard to tell. Truthfully, if you put other passages of scripture, what conclusion might you come to? Both. I mean there's no question that he that a person who teaches is going to receive scrutiny from those he teaches as far as you know questions and um examination. That's that's goes with the territory. But also there's no question that because he has a place of influence, he is also going to receive greater accountability and judgment from the Lord as well. So it could be both here. It's probably my best guess on it, to be honest with you. It is hard to tell which way it goes here. But um my first inclination would be the Lord, but it would not it doesn't necessarily have to be that way. But we know that the primary concern of James with all of this is in verse 2. For in many things he says, we now the word offend there means stumble. And many things we stumble. You could just now you could take it a couple different ways, but this this verse is not likely saying here In many ways we cause others to stumble. That's what how it reads in the King James. But if you if it's structured, it's really structured in a way that it's really saying, it's not saying in many ways we cause others to stumble, really what it's just saying is any many many ways we stumble. Okay? Lots of ways we stumble, he says. We stumble all kinds of different ways. If any man stumble not in word Okay, and and his speech, if he doesn't stumble in his speech, the same is a what? Okay, and uh are we so far in the book of James is perfect mean flawless? Doesn't mean that, it means mature. Okay. The same as a mature man and able also to bridle bridle the rest of his body. He's able to bridle everything else Okay. Alright, so let's ask this question when it comes to when it comes to this issue. The point he's making here is this. It's really hard it's hard to bridle your tongue. Right? I mean essentially that's what he's saying. It's very difficult to do. He's gonna even later on go in go in even more detail here. It's why Proverbs chapter 10 verse 19, as I've already quoted part of it, I said, In the multitude of words there wanteth not sin, but I didn't quote the rest of it. But he that refraineth his lips is wise. And so a person that chooses to refrain from speaking is a wise person. That's why it's so hard as a teacher, because a teacher has to speak. I mean sometimes you know it'd be it sometimes I just want to shut up. Honestly. Sometimes I just want to stop talking. Okay? But I don't have that option. I have to keep talking. Okay? Now sometimes I should still I should probably But it isn't as though a a teacher, and I'm just using myself because it's I cannot really identify with this, but anybody in the church that is teaching in front of people and is known as a Bible teacher is one who is going to have he has to talk. And he's got it it's it's there's a lot of a lot a lot to it. And so he says, so James says Not everybody should be doing it. That's really what he's essentially saying. Okay. Um So he's going to go on and explain something about the tongue here. He's going to move on and really talk about Well, let's let rather be saying it, you tell me verses three and four what he's what he's what is verses three and four really pointing out here? He uses two illustrations. He has the illustration about a bit in a horse's mouth and a rudder on a ship. What is he trying to point out here? Yes. Okay. Lots of influence. The tongue has a an extreme amount well and and arguably the most influential um um part of your body. Okay and so he's pointing out that the the level of influence or the the the power or the influence that the tongue has. Just like a a a bit on a horse and a whole thing gets the whole horse gets directed by that bit or a sh a rudder on a ship, you take the whole rudder and redirect the entire ship one way or the other. And it's wherever the small uh wherever the helm goes it's wherever the pilot desires it to go. You do have this sort of idea here that there's there's this Back it's not really uh it's not really overtly said, but sort of this background that with these illustrations that it what are we saying So if the bit controls the horse and the rudder controls the ship, what controls the bit and horse? Well the person, right? More clearly, who controls the rudder? Okay. Alright? The the pilot or the helmsman does that. According to what? According to his desire. So we have a connection here between a desire and speech. Okay? It's just implied here though, so we won't camp out on it too long. Verse 5, even so the tongue is a little member and boasteth great things. Behold, how great a matter a little fire kindleth. So his point here is that the that the tongue has a great it it's a you know just like you start a fire, how you start a big forest fire by what? One match. Sh in the wrong area, right? Everybody has smoking the bear in their head in their heads at this point. Okay? Um and so I mean that that is true. Even so the tongue is the little member, and boasteth great things, behold, how great a m matter a little fire kindleth. Have you ever said with a slip of the tongue something? And you walk away and you go, oh, that didn't come out how I expected it. Or that didn't come out how I planned it. You ever done that before? There have been more times I have driven home, not whether it's from church or from somebody's house or or from situation where I was talking a lot, which is a lot. Um and I'm thinking to myself, man, I hope the person took that right. I hope man, I hope they did I've been I may have to clear that by that. I'm not sure they handled that right. I'm not sure Am I the only one that does that? Okay. Thank you. Okay. And so and so it it is it is one of those things that and the reason I do that, why do you think I do that? Because there's no well yeah but there's a there's there's some time there's been a few times where that rudder really turned the ship and I didn't realize it until later Okay, and so I thought I I've I've sort of learned from experience that man if I think something's miscommunication or if I think there's something not quite quite right, I need to I I want to try to correct that as quickly as I can if possible. And I can't even catch everything. I don't think really anybody can. But definitely understanding the influence of the tongue is is significant. Verse 6. And the tongue is a fire, a world of iniquity. So is the tongue among our members, that it defileth the whole body, and setteth on fire the course of nature And is set on fire of hell, he gets very very pointed in his discussion about the tongue. What is he saying here in verse 6? He says that the tongue defiles the whole body. What does he mean by that? How does the tongue defile the whole body? Any ideas? Okay. So if you set it you must have designed it Okay, that's true. What else? Jason? you like very well, you know, follow the scriptures and stuff. But then you know the way you talk can't ruin it all. Okay. It doesn't take much Good point. Good point. That is good point. Okay? Yeah. Say the wrong thing to the wrong person, they can define a body. Okay. Yeah. That'd be a literal s very literal sense. Yes? Uh-huh. Yeah, it's actually in Matthew and in Luke, which we're going to get to, but yeah, definitely true. Okay. Good. Let me just offer another possibility here. Have you ever thought about something, but you actually didn't confirm it in your heart until you spoke it? You you follow what I'm saying there? Like your mind kind of goes over the possibility of something until you speak it and it's like you confirm your thought. And I think that may be what he's talking about here, when he says that the that it defiles your whole body, but your speech defiles your whole body. It sort of solidifies how you think We often it is true that uh that we think and then we speak, but it's also true that when we speak, it confirms our thinking. Does that make sense? That's why Lloyd Jones in his book on spiritual depression says we've got to learn to preach to ourselves the right things And that's why David says in Psalms, he says, Why art thou cast down, O my soul, hope thou in God? He's preaching to himself And so part of this might be that what he's really saying is that when we speak, we're really confirming our own thoughts in our mind. And so um that's why even confessing to the Lord our sin, for example, is necess is so necessary. Rather than denying we have sin or putting it out of our mind, confessing it. to the Lord. And declaring to him that it is sin is something that is is a necessary thing in our lives. Um so so anyway, all that is i it it it can defile the whole body. And set on sets on fire the course of nature and of course and it set it on fire of hell where obviously it has extreme repercussions. It can have extreme repercussions on life. And he says this. Now verses seven verse seven is very interesting. He says this, for every kind of beasts and of birds, and of s Serpents of things in the sea is tamed and hath been tamed of mankind, but a tongue can no man tame. It is an unruly evil full of deadly poison. Alright, so it says here, you cannot tame it. You can't tame the tongue. No man. The tongue can no man tame. That sounds pretty, that sounds like a pretty defeatist attitude, doesn't it? Right? I mean what hope is it if the Bible says the tongue can't be tamed? You could tame big animals, but just but just like a fire that at some point becomes unmanageable So the tongue at some point becomes unmanageable too. So how what do we do with this? Okay. Kim? Well I think it goes back to the Um the fact that the Bible teaches that our unregenerated heart is evil. I mean like it tells about that once your heart comes out of your mouth, the Flesh's tongue and flesh's heart can never be famous. That's why we need to be man. Right. I I really think that's that's the the the Bible does say in in couple of different places that um he was saying for example, Christ says to to uh to the Pharisees, Oh generation of white before he calls them white sepulchres with dead men's bones It's a very vivid picture, right? Alright. Before he says that, he said or after he says that he says, O generation of vipers, how can ye being evil speak good things? How can ye being evil speak good things? For out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks. He says the same thing, Luke 8, 6. 45. A good man out of the good treasure of heart bringeth forth that which is good, and an evil man of the evil treasure of his heart bringeth forth that which is evil. For of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks. Alright, so what can't we tame? We can't tame the tongue, so where do we gotta s where do we have to start? We've got to start with our hearts. When our tongue is unruly, we've got to ask ourselves, what's wrong with my heart? Something maybe that isn't right. So let's ask that question. Do we ever do we ever I I mean just Just a you know now, uh let me just say this. Let me let me get this out of the way. Sometimes we just miscommunicate. Is that fair? Okay. Sometimes we mean to say something, doesn't come out the way, it uh you know, so it's not a heart problem, it's just we miscommunicated. what we're trying to communicate. So that's just called being very human and flawed. Okay. But if we really did, if something came out that wasn't just a miscommunication All right. When we examine our heart hearts, what possibilities might there be? What are the possibilities? Does it mean that we are just evil people and that I mean, I know that categorically we're born evil. I know that. But does it mean that we're just poor evil intentioned people? Is that why we might say something that's sinful? So so what is it? What are the possibilities? Any ideas? But there are more than one in my mind. But yes, Kim? I mean the first one I can think of is pride. Okay. But sad can also be how you were brought up. Okay. Around the people you were brought up. Okay. Okay. So pride would be one very common one when you want to defend yourself. Um when you're this but uh certainly conditioning does have at least something to do with it. But when we're talking about heart thing, probably would be a heart heart problem. What else? Is it always pride? What what else is a possibility? Okay. Just your can you elaborate or just generally thinking about? Where is your mind usually going? Is it focused on on God or is it Okay, good. That's a good point. Like if you're focused on the Lord or if you're foc what if you're constantly focused on yourself. Okay? And then somebody messes with you and you're focused on yourself, probably the reaction is not going to be quite right. Pride might be it, but it might also be insecurity. Have you thought of that I might react wrongly because I feel insecure about something. Is insecurity a sin? Insecurity is a sin. Okay? Now it might not be as as um I don't know, as despicable as pride is, but but it is sin because insecurity is uh is is essentially saying I'm not finding my security in Christ. Christ and who I am in Christ, my position in Christ. Okay, so we might react wrongly because of insecurity. Why else might we react wrongly? Yes. Why don't you bring it in because you're eyes? Okay. Okay. Your perception. Alright, good? Yes, Carol. Yeah. And I think they're separate. Fear would also might also cause you to react. in a wrong way. Perhaps fear in a previous experience. That might go kind of along with with you know living uh growing up in a particular background we have people yellers that they're yelling all the time. Um you know family that that you grow up that way and and well what do you end up doing? Well maybe you fear if you don't get you know, you're gonna get run over if you don't yell you know, if you don't yell back or if you don't or whatever. Uh but fear I think is a very, very common common heart problem that would cause us to have wrong speech. Any other ideas? Yes. I think probably two all of them go into the flesh. But I think it's just not being sometimes it's just not being well grounded and and walking in my spirit. I mean speak speaking for myself, I think feel very spiritual and feel very good until somebody sets in my color. Mm-hmm. And then all of a sudden the flesh you mm. It's like the tea bag gets gets you know, teabag you it looks great until you stick it in boiling water and then you see what comes out basically. And uh um now I didn't make I didn't come up with that illustration about the Jim Burger Illustr first chapter changes of image candles illustration. Um yeah, so those are those are different a couple of different with the idea of two where you have the um Uh in the in the book we're saying where you uh you take action, the action becomes a habit, the habit becomes a character. Yeah. this habit of how you react. You have to force yourself to react differently. Or you're always gonna my dad used to say you keep doing what you're doing True. Rose, did you have something? Well, what about something I thought was the same thing around saying it's time. Uh impatient and other people. Impatient is another one. Think about it, or sometimes I really need to pray about it before I think when I need to kind of jump things. No. You ever you ever um think you know what somebody's gonna say, so you just cut 'em off I am really bad about that, I'm telling you. I I you probably know that. All of you probably know that about me. I I just figure I you know I've got you know two thirds of it and I can extrapolate the rest and I I And I need to get going and I'm always busy and it it's really a problem with me, I'm telling you. Um and I think about it later and I'm like, oh man, I cut that person off. I said no done that What was I thinking? Anyway. Um so yeah, it can be it could be some which is impatience is what it is. It's not it's wrong. It's not it's you know there's not So all those things what let's just get a little more practical here. How do you deal with those heart things? Just practical how do you deal with them? Yeah you gotta identify it. Good. What else? I I did this, I I'll just tell ya, it was but it's kind of strange Interesting because in God's sovereignty He sort of allows this to happen. But I was up this morning and uh usually I get up about a half hour before my wife does and I do sort of my own personal time with the Lord and then she gets up and we do it together. But um this morning I was reading through Psalms and I was just taking some time to pray and I was just thinking about my own heart. And you know It's amazing how things get in there that are impure. And it doesn't seem that way, but it usually with me it's like it's like poison, which is what this is saying. It's like You know, and if I if I am telling myself I'm so frustrated because this tax guy ought to be we're paying him good money to do our taxes, he's not getting I mean, I start talking myself the wrong way and then and I poison my heart that way Or if I t talk to my wife that you know, I can't what's wrong with this tax guy? What you and I'm poisoning my heart that way. And so some of it s i i I think I think just a practice on practically just in the morning mornings or whenever, or any time during the day, when you realize it's, you know, if if you if you're quiet before the Lord and you have this sort of time where you're you're really concentrating on your heart. And saying, Lord, is there is there poison in there? Is there dross in there? And praying. If you if you know you can't pray, if there's something like you can't really pray to the Lord, maybe there's a heart problem. If you can't really, in your own quietness before the Lord, pray the Lord. So being sensitive to that is a problem. Now you can become more really introspective. There is that possibility. I've been that way before where you're you you almost become preoccupied with it. It gets a little it gets a little weird that way. So you have to be careful with that. But just generally sometimes taking some inventory and And saying, okay, what what's in there that might not might not be be good for to be in there and and actually be wrong to be in there. And and a lot of that is is Is then that when we come up against something, we're going to respond in the right way because our heart's already prepared correctly. Rather than when we come up against something, our heart is already adulterated with something. And so we respond incorrectly. Does that make sense? I really think that that's the only key to the thing. I think if we wait and we say, okay, well, if I play out these five scenarios, this is how I'll react to each scenario. What's the problem with that? The sixth scenario will happen. Okay? You know, you'll play out every scenario you think. You can't prepare for every possibility. Believe me, I've tried. You can't you can't, okay? What you've got to do is just say, you know what, Lord, I i my heart needs to be right I got my heart needs to be right before the Lord so that when I come up against a problem then I respond correctly. And uh I really think that that is the key. You can't tame the tongue. Any other final comments or questions about it? We're gonna actually continue this uh next week because there's there's quite a bit more that we we didn't cover um on the tongue and frankly it's a very practical um practical passage of scripture. Any other thoughts on the tongue? All right. Well I again I think that the main application that we can make from this, it's very hard to control the tongue. It's very hard, it is it nobody does it perfectly. But the key is our hearts. We've got to check our hearts. And um, you know that's something else that's just a good practical application is we've got to be patient with each other, don't we? Because all of not if it's that hard to tame, all of us, you know, all of us are gonna not be able to do it all the time correctly. And we've got to be patient with each other, and we've got to be loving toward each other and And all the things because what happens if you're impatient with somebody that's reacting? It gets into your heart and you're gonna react. Or if you fear, or if you get mad or you have bitterness, bitterness was w bitterness is a big one. It defiles many, scripture says. We didn't even mention that. All those kinds of things are are things that if we if we don't respond correctly, then it'll get into our heart and we'll end up responding incorrectly. That's why it's sort of it said hurting people hurt. people. And uh so we have to be careful about that. Alright, let's go ahead and close the word of prayer. Father, we thank you, Lord, for your word that is does it knows life a whole lot better than we do. It understands how our world works so much better than we do. And as we discussed the tongue tonight and in speech tonight, I pray, Lord, that you would help us to examine our hearts and that really you would do that for us. We admit before you that we're not even capable of doing it. I pray, Lord, that we would just be in your word and know you, and so that when you your light is shed in our hearts, we can see um what our hearts really are and we can confess it before you, Lord, and that we can we can stop sin on that level. Um and Lord, I pray that as a result of that we would learn how we would then be able to speak in a way that is a blessing to people and honors you um rather than a curse to people and and and dishonoring to you. And we pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen. All right, you are dismissed. That was interesting. Yeah.