Take your Bibles, please, and turn to the Book of Malachi. We've had the opportunity now a couple times to dive into this text, this book of the Bible, and uh Discover what God had to say through the prophet Malachi to his people back then. And just sort of uh by way of bringing some things to remembrance, it's been a few weeks since we've been here So remember that the book of Malachi is the last prophet that the Lord sent to his people. He um and the occasion of the book is well it's not under the greatest of circumstances. If you remember, the people had had drifted from where God expected them to be And the Book of Malachi really is a time where God has decided to warn them, to show them their sin, show them Where they have faltered, where they have strayed. And as we've seen in this book, there are multiple elements, multiple times where God uses What I've been calling divine argumentation, where he anticipates what the people would say uh to uh his warnings. Um One of them is is that first one right there in chapter one where God says, I have loved you, and they said, Wherein have you loved us? Or how have you loved us? Because he knows their hearts. He knows where they are in their mindsets and in their actions And so, through the Prophet Malachi, God is explaining to them their hearts and how far they have really gone from them. You know, as as we were going and listening to to the message this morning from Pastor Jim, I couldn't help but notice some of the the things that tie into the message tonight. A couple times Pastor Jim spoke about the uh how God expects faithfulness. uh of his people that and felt faithfulness not just to not just to him but to each other right and uh that is definitely a theme that we'll be looking at tonight Um the book of Malachi is is broken up into six different sections and they are uh Each one is, you might call it, an indictment or a burden that God has to give to his people. We've been through the first two And tonight we are are on the third. And if you remember, I don't have any um I should mention I don't have any slides tonight. I forgot to uh put that part together. You know, I even had an extra week and I have no excuse. But uh so we'll have to do it kinda old school tonight and then that'll be all right But you may remember that there are six indictments altogether, and the first and the last, the second and the fifth, and the third and the fourth are all connected. And so beginning in uh today will be beginning in chapter two in verse 10 And really the third and the fourth are all together. We're only going to be able to get tonight, we'll only be able to get to probably uh chapter verse 10 through 16. Which is a smaller chunk uh than we've been covering so far, but um I wanted to attach the rest of of the uh this this indictment, which goes into chapter three, but I did not think that we would be able to do justice to the text and what's going on. So just a handful of verses tonight. Most of the time my practice is to read the entire passage, and tonight we're not going to do that. Tonight I think it'd be better to see the progression. Step by step, and I think it'll it'll help us uh gain a better understanding of what's going on. Uh I will say that there is a verse in here that the commentators said This is the most difficult passage to or verse to translate in Malachi. Oh great, okay. So there are some interesting elements to this passage And um but I think we'll be benefited greatly. Uh the title for tonight is oh there's the uh the structure. Look, you know There is Pat Ignaziac is significantly underestimated, in my opinion. He pulled that out of an old uh out of an old uh PowerPoint presentation. So there you go. There there is it there is there it is set together. And uh yeah, we're in the third indictment, uh verses nine through sixteen. So that's where we'll be tonight. Before we go any further, let's go ahead and pray and um and we'll we'll continue in in the book of Malachi. Father, we thank you for uh the portions of scripture that you've allowed and that you have uh kept and preserved to bring to our attention and uh Lord, we we recognize that all scripture is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. And while your message to the people of Israel in Malachi's day wasn't a happy one, the truth is we can learn so much, Lord, and I pray that you would help us. uh to glean these truths that we will see today and apply them to our lives, that we would be changed. And Lord, I pray that you'd help me that The truth that comes from these pages of Scripture would go forth clearly. And I cast my dependence on you for that. We pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen. So if I say the word betray or the word betrayal, what comes to your mind? Maybe who comes to your mind? Probably, and especially in this setting, maybe the first person that comes to your mind is Judas. He he betrayed Jesus, right? He's probably the most infamous uh person in the Bible as far as a betrayal goes. Maybe uh in our country, maybe you thought of the person uh Benedict Arnold It's probably someone you might remember from history. He was a general under George Washington and he is infamous because he portrayed George Washington and defected to Britain. And there's a lot that went on with that, but that happened during the Revolution or after the Revolutionary War Something that may also come to your mind as going back a little bit further is uh Julius Caesar. He was betrayed, right? by Brutus and that those famous Latin words. If you don't know any Latin, you probably know what? Et tu brute, right? And uh because he was being stabbed by Brutus You know what does it really mean to betray someone else? What is the criteria? Well The Webster's dictionary, part of it, I'm not going to quote the whole thing to you, but one of the one of the summations of what the definition is that he it mentioned in there was a violation of a person's trust. or confidence. A violation of a person's trust or confidence. And some synonyms that we could have for the word betray or betrayal would include backstabbing. Disloyalty, double cross, faithlessness, falseness, infidelity, treachery, treason, and unfaithfulness You know, with words and definitions like that, I think we would all agree that a believer should never have their name associated with such a practice. But does it happen? Does it happen from time to time where believers betray someone else? Do we at times betray God? Well, if we're thinking about the synonyms to betrayal, we should also look at some of the antonyms. Well, you might be already have some of them in your minds. Word like loyalty or faithfulness Or commitment. Now the truth is God deserves our complete commitment to Him And really, we're going to see today that God wants us to commit to him. He wanted the people of Malachi's day to commit to him fully, and he wants us to commit to him fully as well. Commitment to God, commitment to one another. That is what God expected of his people, Israel. And the truth is Israel at this time in its history, for the majority, they were doing neither. They weren't committed to each other. They weren't fully committed to God. And we will see from these verses tonight that commitment to each other and commitment to God are linked They're together. God expects us to not be people of betrayal, but rather people of loyalty. So let's begin now. In verse 10, in verse 10, it says, Have we not all one Father? Has not one God created us? Why do we deal treacherously with one another by profaning the covenant of the fathers? Let's stop right there. The first thing, the first element here that we want to look at How do we demonstrate a commitment to God? How do we demonstrate a commitment to God? Well, the first way that we demonstrate our commitment to God is by remembering his faithfulness. Remembering his faithfulness. And uh under this I've I've said that this is uh this is an act of the heart. What do we mean by remembering his faithfulness? And where do we see this in the text? Well, you'll notice that this is the beginning of the third indictment. And this one actually begins differently from some of the others. The others very much are God says what he says about the people or about himself. And then immediately following that, the people have a a uh a quarrel, basically, with what God has said. And in this case, the indictment begins with three questions. Have we not all one Father? Has not one God created us? And why do we deal treacherously? If we want to be committed or faithful to God And it starts by us remembering his faithfulness and his commitment to us. So in these two questions, these first two questions, have we not all one Father? Or has not one God created all of us You could re-package that question to say this. Why? Why, seeing that we have one common origin, why do we deal treacherously with one another? Since we come from the same stocks, since we come from this since we have the same history, why do we deal treacherously with each other? Now, what does this common origin have to do with what's going on here? We have, it says here we have one, why don't we have one Father, right? We have one God who has created all of us Now, you might have a translation, they sort of differ whether or not that word father is capitalized. And the truth is it's it's kind of ambiguous. Maybe it's talking about God the Father. If it's not, then it's likely talking about Abraham, their father, the first father, right? But I think we'll see either way, the the uh the idea is the same. I prefer the idea that it's Abraham in this case, but it it uh won't matter ultimately. But it harkens back to the unconditional covenant that God had with his people God had an unconditional covenant that he had with his people, and it began with Abraham, and it was reiterated to his descendants, Isaac, Jacob, and so forth. It serves as a reminder, this question serves as a reminder of the promises given to Abraham And that have been kept. They are an are the nation. They are the nation that God said would come from him. Think about it. Since those initial promises were given to Abraham, since God chose Abraham and his line to eventually become the nation of Israel, and here they are. Now, are they where they want to be? Do they have the land right now? Are they being dominated by other nations? Yes, and we've covered those things before. But nevertheless, God has remained faithful to his people And it started way back then. They are the nation that God said would come from them. God has been the ultimate example of faithfulness and commitment. But have you noticed in the second question there, it says, has not one God created all of us? You know, not only does it hearken back to that unconditional covenant that God has with his people, but it also harkens back to the one God expecting his people to keep their covenant with him. Later you see in that verse it says, dealt treacherously with one another, and profaning the covenant. You see that there? What covenant is being talked about? Well, really, you'd want to go back to Deuteronomy 6 and really that whole chapter deals with so much. But one of the most popular or most uh remem memorable portions of that chapter is starts and begin uh in verse four, where it says, Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one god uh one Lord You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your might. And these words that I command you today shall be on your heart. Ultimately, the question being asked in verse 10 is this: hasn't God actually always been faithful to you, his people? Hasn't he always been faithful? Now we know from other portions here. In Malachi, where the people have questioned God's love for them, right? The people have questioned his justice, right? And so I think it's no stretch to believe that if you are at to ask the common Israelite of that day If they were asked that question, they would probably say no. No, God has not been faithful to us. Because here we are. Yes, we're back in the homeland. Yes, we're we're we're here, but we're not prosperous All the nations around us are doing so much better than we are. There is no king over us that is a Jew. No, God has not been faithful to us. But we have seen that their view of God is twisted and inaccurate, and their word about God can't really be trusted. You know, and when we think about that, we need to pause for a moment and consider our own hearts and consider our own attitudes towards how God has been faithful to us. If we look back at our lives and determine that God has been unfaithful in some way, it is likely because we have reinterpreted God's actions or inactions It is likely that we have a skewed view of God one way or another, or perhaps we've even defined faithfulness for God from God in a particular way. And God has not met those specific expectations. My friends, God does not have to operate according to our expectations, does he? But if we have eyes to see, and if we have ears to hear, we will see God is a God who not only often will meet the expectations that we have, but Well, blow them out of the water and do above what we would ask or even think at times. Often, though, it's not how we would expect. We sometimes like to place God's goodness in a box and leave it there. And God's goodness means this. And i if if anything else happens outside of that, well, it's automatically deemed by us as not good And we have to realize that God's goodness does actually pran out farther than our little box that we created for Him We talked about that a little bit today in Sunday school, and many of your kids we all went through the same thing this morning, right? As I was there with the teens, we talked about Job And how Job, in that first chapter, we see four servants come to him in a row, all giving him terrible news, right? And you would automatically say, what happened to Job was bad. It was awful. It was the worst news you could possibly receive at any time, in any way. And yet when he says there, I came into this world naked, or I came into this world with nothing, and I will leave this world with nothing. The Lord has given, the Lord takes away, blessed be the name of the Lord. He's saying, in everything that God does, he's good. And I will trust him with that. You know, that is a significant element here. With the people of Israel, they do not trust their God. They do not trust him. So we have seen then in these two questions God's unconditional covenant, his promises that were made back with Abraham, are true and they remain And God, way back then, from Deuteronomy and before and so forth, God has expected his people to keep the covenant with him. Instead of profaning it. If God is truly faithful to us, then it says here in verse 10, why do we deal treacherously against one another. And that really brings us then to our second point. The first one was we demonstrate our commitment to God by remembering his faithfulness, which is an act of the heart Number two, we demonstrate our commitment to God by maintaining our commitment to each other. We demonstrate our commitment to God by maintaining our commitment to each other. If the other one was an act of a of the heart, we could say that this is an act of the will Here it says to deal treacherously. Wow, that is some strong language. Which is why we talked about the word betrayal earlier. While the word betrayal doesn't show up in this text, the closest word to it would be this word treacherous or to deal treacherously What is he saying here? Why do we break faith? Why do we deal unfaithfully with one another? Or you could say, why are you betraying one another? God is not mincing words in this and their activity with each other, it has been the worst. So, what has been taking place? What has been happening with the people of Israel that causes God to use such strong language? Well, we find that in the very next verse, verse 11. It says, Judah has dealt treacherously, and an abomination has been committed in Israel and in Jerusalem. For uh Judah has profaned the Lord's holy institution, which he loves. He has married the daughter of a foreign God. Here we have in this context and what's going on here is a profaning of the Lord's holy institution. What is he talking about there? Well he's talking about proper marriage. He's talking about marriage And the marriage that he expected to have them to have with one another. And what does it say here at the ver at the end of the verse? It says, And he has married the daughter of a foreign god or a strange god. What does that mean? Well it's it's women Who are not within the realm of Judea, and they are pagans. They are women who worship idols. The Jews were supposed to marry within their own nation. Failures to do so were acts were acts of unfaithfulness among themselves as well as to God. They it was a involved a disregard for the nation's corporate nature and it was a disobedience to God. Now look at what happens What God says to the man, he specifically talks to the men, the men are apparently are at fault in all of this. He says to them in verse 12, May the Lord cut off from the tents of Jacob the man who does this. Being awake and aware, yet who brings an offering to the Lord of hosts. What's going on here? What is he saying? Well The to be cut off from the tents of Jacob, it either means that that man, may he die Or that his line would cease and he would have no more descendants. That's what God is saying about this type of man who would do this. When it says there, him that watcheth and answereth, you might have a translation there. I think the King James says master and scholar, the New King James says uh being awake and aware. However, it says the idea is that this is a man who has his faculties together. He understands what's going on, he knows what he's doing. And yet he proceeds to act this way, anyway. Let this man be cut off from the tents of Jacob. And then it says here, and um says uh, yet who bring an all who brings an offering to the Lord of hosts. What he's saying there is that it emphasizes the hypocrisy in this man who brings offerings to God. And expects everything to go okay. He's insensitive. His attitude is one that is desensitized to the committing of this sin He still brings offerings to seek the Lord's favor. You know, this surely speaks volume about any believer who harbors sinful activities. But outwardly continues to live and serve as everything is alright. Verse 13, let's keep going here. And this is the second thing you do God says, there's one more. There's an additional thing here that needs to be said. You cover the altar of the Lord with tears, with weeping and crying. So he does not regard the offering anymore, nor receive it with goodwill from your hands. This is taken a couple different ways, but The way that seems to make most sense most sense contextually is that these tears are from the men themselves because they recognize That their offerings, their service is not accepted by God anymore. It's being rejected. Doesn't this Doesn't this remind you of a New Testament passage where God says to those who are treating their wives, If they were to treat their wives improperly, that their prayers would no longer be heard. You remember that It's interesting. God says, I will have nothing to do with your offerings Now look what it says in verse 14. Remember the those elements of divine argumentation? Well here you go. God provides for us exactly what they would be thinking. Yet you say, for what reason? Why, God? Why do you continue to reject my offerings to you? Why do you do this? You know what this proves? It proves that they were so blinded by their sin. They're so blinded by their sin they can't see why God would reject their offerings. Well, what is the answer? It says, for what reason? Because the Lord has been witness between you and the wife of your youth. wh with whom you have dealt treacherously. If she is your companion and your wife by covenant What God is saying here is that he sees what the people are doing. It is not hidden from his eyes, the prophet says. And we see here that this phrase here at the end where it says, And your wife by covenant, she is your companion, and your wife by covenant. Uh most of the commentators said that this is kind of has a double meaning. Yes, the marriage relationship is a covenant between the man and woman And many of you might be thinking too, not a contract. Yeah, that's the idea here, but it also harkens and possibly has to do with the covenant between the people and God himself. So that The sin that was being done against these wives was a sin against the daughter of Israel and is a sin against God Himself. And we'll see here what God's intent was. Why is God so being so um Why is there so much emphasis being brought on to this? You know, there are so many sins from the people of this time, but he is making a particular emphasis on here, and we see part of God's motive. Here coming up in verse 15. He says here, but did he not make them one, having a remnant of the Spirit? And why one? He seeks godly offspring. Therefore take heed to your spirit, and let none deal treacherously with the wife of his youth. Now we're going to take a second look at that phrase, take therefore take heed to your spirit in a moment. But did you see there where it says he seeks godly offspring? He has he not made the people one? Has he not made them all one? The second phrase could could um Could could read, and he has he not made them his spiritual remnant? What is the purpose here? God is seeking godly offspring from the people. And he recognizes that if there is intermarrying going on, where you have unbelieving spouses, it would wreck and possibly ruined that potential to have a godly seed going forward. For the Israelites of that day, their lack of covenant commitment to God was revealed In their betrayal to many of their wives. The result? Their future offspring was in danger. And you know, the same could be said for us. If we act treacherously with one another, do our children not see that? Would they not see that? You know, children are smarter than we sometimes give them credit for. They see things, and maybe they can't put it all together, perhaps they can't articulate it very well, but they see. They know when something's wrong. And maybe they can't put their finger on it, but they they understand more than we think sometimes What does it teach our kids about Christianity when there is treacherous nature activities going on? What does it teach them about g our God? In our marriages, we certainly need to be faithful to our spouses in every way. And we can also add to this a principle that if we lack faithfulness to each other in the body of Christ, That could also demonstrate that our commitment to God is lacking. So how do we avoid this? You know, but by this point I hope you're saying, man, I don't want to be like this. I don't think I'm like this and I definitely want to keep not being like that if that's the case. Well God has a a a prescription here for us And it's very simple. It's not mind-blowing. But it's exactly what he says to the people. And he says it two times. We read it once already in verse 15 where he says, Therefore take heed to your spirit. How do we avoid forgetting God's faithfulness? Remember, we demonstrate our commitment to Him when we remember God's past faithfulness and His present faithfulness. How do we avoid acts of betrayal towards one another? God's solution for the Israelites and for us to this was in his two the two words that we see there, take heed. So we demonstrate our commitment to God by remembering his acts of faithfulness to us. We remember, or we demonstrate our commitment to God. Um by by avoiding acts of betrayal against one another. But then here in number three, we demonstrate our commitment to God by guarding ourselves against acts of betrayal. The first one was an act of the heart, the second was an act of the will, this one is an act of the mind. It's an act of the mind. Why do I say that? Well, when you talk about spiritual warfare, when you talk about guarding your spirit, The battle is in the mind. The battle takes place right in here with our thoughts. You know, it it didn't take very long for me in marriage. To realize, wow, what I think about my wife is extremely important. And to this day, what I what goes on in here about my kids Well, I've got to watch that. And wouldn't you say that the same is true in every area of life as you deal with people? I've got to guard my thinking about people I work with. And the truth is, do we not also have to guard our minds and our thoughts towards other people in the body of Christ? Absolutely. Boy, do we want to maintain faithfulness to each other? Do we want to be committed to each other? Well, we have to guard our spirit. And it's an act of the mind. Here you have in verse 16, it says, For the Lord God of Israel says that he hates the force For it covers one's garment with violence, says the Lord of hosts. Therefore, and here's the phrase once again, therefore take heed to your spirit that you do not deal treacherously. A couple other translations put the verse this way, For the Lord, the God of Israel, saith that he hateth putting away. For one covereth violence with his garment, saith the Lord of Hosts. Therefore take heed to your spirit that ye deal not treacherously. Another one says this, for the man who does not love his wife but divorces her, says the Lord The God of Israel covers his garment with violence, says the Lord of hosts. So guard yourselves in your spirit and do not be faithless. So here come here's that that verse that I'm sure many of you have heard where it says that God hates divorce and it does this is strong language to announce to everyone r listening to this from the Prophet Malachi and down the ages for us to read it now that his God's disposition towards divorce is he hates it. It does not go in line with his intention. He intended for man and wife to be married until death parts them And these people, uh the people of Israel, probably not all of them, but maybe the majority of them, were treating their marriage as just a contract. It's no big deal There isn't any there isn't any acts that that the wives have done to warrant uh any type of divorce and And while there are exceptions made, we even see that Jesus, when he talks about that in in Matthew, he says that yes, there are provisions made in in the case of a divorce, but he says that Moses wrote those because of the hardness of your hearts. It still wasn't God's intention. It's just what took place. So if you're going to do that, here's some ways to to help the wife that's being divorced. But the main point here is that his feelings about divorce is something that he hates. It's not exactly it's not what he intended to do. It's not what he intended for them to do because it violates the covenant that they made to each other and it violates their covenant to God. Now, there's this phrase here that is something that we don't say, where it says that the man who does this, he covers his garment with violence. This is imagery and it's it's idiomatic of the time. And most commentators agree that the garment uh that's being talked about here, the garment is symbolizing the marriage. And when a divorce takes place, when a separation like that takes place The idea then is that the separation does violence to the marriage. It's not There is a breaking that takes place. It is harsh. It is it is treacherous So therefore, that is why Malachi gives this command, or God through Malachi gives this command twice. Guard yourself in your spirit. Take heed. Means to have means that you should not be doing this. And it's not like any of these men up and just decided one day, you know what, I'm done. And I'm just gonna go pick a pick a uh a a woman out there who doesn't believe in God and and so forth. No. It happened in here first. The war was going on in here and they were losing battle after battle after battle until finally they went and they acted on their thoughts How important is it then for us to guard ourselves in our spirit, to guard our minds, to guard our thoughts, so that we do not also be faithless like them. What does it mean? Let's break this down to guard ourselves in our spirit. Well, it is to be vi in this context, it means to be vigilant against being faithless. It's to be vigilant against having treacherous thoughts toward others. And of course, it it means to be vigilant against any acts of betrayal that we are pondering. And in this, we cannot let our guard down. You know, Israel's history after the time of Malachi. You know, we we would love to see them all have repented and turned back to God so that by the time the Messiah comes They are they are ready and waiting to receive him with open arms. And we know that that's not the case. They remained under the rule of uh under under other other kingdoms, other nations for the rest of that time. And so that by the time Jesus does come onto the scene, they are still under another empire. And for the m for the majority when Messiah came, they didn't see him as that and they rejected him. Let us take this example that we see from the Israelites It's a bad example. But God placed it here for us to learn, for us to be reminded that acts of betrayal have consequences. And we should not take them lightly We cannot let our guard down. Letting our guard down in these areas leaves the door open for sinful thoughts to take root that could eventually sprout into acts of betrayal, acts of faithlessness. So as we conclude then, let's boil all this down. With our whole hearts, we must remember God's faithfulness to us We have to remember God's faithfulness to us. You know what? When we do that, when we do that and really do that, we we place in our hearts Uh we we are it puts our hearts on the right course because it fulfills our hearts with gratitude towards God. You know, nothing there are a few things as dangerous as as a discontent spirit. There are plenty of things like that. I mean we could all we could say pride and we could say uh vainglory and and so many things, but but a discontent spirit It puts us in a position where we're looking for answers and satisfaction somewhere else. And if it's not in God, then it's not where it's supposed to be. But when we are full of God and his faithfulness to us, and we look to that and we we we cling to that Our hearts then are filled with gratitude. And you know what? We aren't looking for other things in other places to satisfy us because we have our satisfaction in God. So, with our whole hearts, we must remember God's faithfulness to us. We cannot forget that. Secondly, in our decisions and in our actions, we must be committed to each other. In our decisions and in our actions, we must be committed to each other. It starts in our marriages. It does. There's no one in our in our lives that would be closer to us. And if we can't be faithful to each other in that arena We can't be truly faithful in any others. It starts in our marriages, it it continues in our families, and it certainly continues in our church families. We are not going to be united in any way when we have acts of betrayal among us. And so we need to guard ourselves against those. And then thirdly, in our minds we have to actively guard against treasonous thoughts. You know, our minds, a Christian's mind, should be like a well-fortified castle. It really should. Capable of thwarting any attacks. And in our case today it should be capable of thwarting any thoughts of betrayal, catching any acts of betrayal before they happen. We need to guard against thoughts of betrayal and treasonous thoughts. My friends, when we do these things on a regular basis, we demonstrate our commitment to Him. We demonstrate our commitment to God. We demonstrate our commitment to each other. I think we're about to sing worthy of worship And uh I didn't I didn't pick the song, but I was reading it earlier before before to uh we uh came up and I thought wow that is a significant song to sing at the end of this And as we go to that, let's look at those words. And let's magnify our God. And commit our way to Him. And I think God can do great and amazing things Among a people who are truly committed to each other and to their God. And I'm excited because overall, I see us as a group of people that are Can we improve? Certainly. Certainly. But let's take let's take this as a warning. Let's take this as a as a as a red flag, if you will, to say, wow, okay. You know what? Our actions and our thoughts to each other, they mean something. And we better guard against it so that nothing else can come in and snatch what we have away from us. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your continual goodness to us. And we love you for it. You truly are faithful in a way that we could never be. But we ask, Lord, that you would give us the strength and the grace to do what we really can't do in our own So I pray, Lord, that you would grow us together as people who really are committed to each other and committed to you fully. Help us, Lord, to beware of anything that would come in and enter in to derail us from our commitment to you and one another We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Number twenty three.