I have not heard a huge amount of messages on the subject of tithing, but I've heard some. But I would say that probably two-thirds of the amount of the messages that I've heard on tithing, very candidly, have been irresponsible. responsible in some of the content that I've heard. For example, you'll often hear some a preacher say, you know, you need to you need to t test God And if you give more of your money, if you give ten percent, then you can expect that God will give in return what you you know, you sort of some of the things that they say, you sort of go I'm not sure I really I don't know if we can back that up biblically. And there are other um people that are that consider it to be tithing in general to be a mandate and others that don't see it that way But there is a lot of confusion about it. And part of it is, I think, is the is preaching and teaching. is um sometimes motivated wrongly. I am thankful for a church that Um I it's clear just in looking at the budget of the last you know last few days, um it's clear that God's people are giving. There isn't any question about that. Um Ordinarily, when a person sets foot in a church, it takes six months for them to start giving regularly. That definitely is not the case here in the last six months. And um and and ha act frankly historically as far as I know as far as just talking to the people who've been here a long a long time, that's never been the case in the history. So I think that this lesson is something that may be to some degree review and good to think through, and there are some dangers that we can sort of avoid In dealing and discussing this topic, I am tempted to sort of delve into the details of this because that's just my nature. My nature is to get into the nitty-gritty of things, but I am actually going to try to stay kind of basic tonight, simply because that's we're doing discipleship material and we're not supposed to get into the details, but I will ask two questions here. Number one, would you say that God commands us to tithe? So it's a question. Does God command us to tithe? Now I would be curious. How many of you would say, yes, God commands us to tithe? Okay. How many of you say no? God doesn't command us to tithe. One, two, three, four. One, two, three, four, five. How many of you say I'm absolutely not going to answer that question? Okay. All right. Well, I appreciate the brave ones that said that. God doesn't command us to tithe. Okay, let me ask you another question. Should Christians tithe? Should Christians tithe? How many of you would say yes? Christians should tithe. Alright, we're we're gonna be like we would say give versus tithe. Like would you consider tithe as an Old Testament term whereas give is we should give Okay, just answer the question. Should Christian We're going to discuss this in a minute, okay. Should should Christians tithe? How many would say yes? All right, how many would say no? Okay, we've got one lone star over here. That's that's not wrong. Um I I would say the answer to that question, you would be right either way if you said yes or no. It really does depend on and this is before I was gonna come in and and uh say it really does depend on how you define. So let's talk about this, and we're going to work through this a little bit here to help us understand this. I I am thank by the way, that's pretty good. Most people realize That it is not commanded. Now, I was very careful in my selection of words when I said, does God command us to tithe? Okay. Um the answer is no. Why is that answer no? Who did he command to tithe? The nation of Israel, right? They were commanded to tithe. We are never in the New Testament do you find that we are commanded to tithe. Okay? We are commanded to give, which I think is care was Eric and Carey's point over here as they're discussing the m my my question. Um we are commanded to give, but we're not commanded to tithe But there seemed to be overall a general consensus that Christians should tithe, even though we're not commanded to tithe. Let's work through this a little bit. We're not going to even address what we're going to do here. Most of you are familiar with most of the passages, I think, and that they're in this room. We're not going to go through each passage. We'll pick up here in one one eight here, page one ten, number twenty-one, what is the definition of the word tithe, and that's very simple. It's 10%. Or a tenth is the answer to that question. And so Leviticus 27, 32 does define what a tithe is for us. I will just add this though to make things really confusing. If you add up all of the tithes, plural, that the nation of Israel were commanded to give to is uh give uh to the liv to the Levites, um you would probably be up near thirty-three percent rather than ten percent. Now, I also want to hasten to say that that would also be their taxes. Okay, all right, because it was all in one. You had a nation and a and a religious But their tithe would have been rough roughly around thirty-three percent. And you probably all you're saying would be I would love to give thirty-three percent of my money if I didn't have to give any to the federal government. Or most of you are saying that. Yeah. So um so that's just so uh it's just an interesting fun fact there. Genesis 14, 19 through 20 there. Um is often used as a as an example for tithing. In that passage, let's just actually read what he says here. This is Jeff Musgrave. The first mention of any truth in the Bible often lays the foundation for the expansion of the truth throughout the rest of script of the Bible. True or false? Is that true? First mention becomes a definition. Sometimes. I would say most. I shouldn't even say often. Sometimes. Okay. The problem with saying even often, I'm just sorry to be picky, but the problem with saying often here is that you have fifteen hundred years of time between Between uh when uh span of time that that the Bible is written, fourteen hundred years, fifteen hundred years, give or take. So a definition can literally change, can turn totally opposite by the time you get from the old test So you have to be really careful with that. But generally the tenth tithe in this case it probably would be a reasonable a reasonable The example that you have in Abraham and Melchizedek, he offered ties there. Certainly we would agree that God is per possessor of everything. Uh twenty-two, in your opinion, why did Abraham give Melchizedek's tithe? What did you most of you probably didn't put anything um uh some of you probably uh if I don't I don't know how many people got a chance to do this, but um what's the what would you say your answer is? Well, uh God owns everything or he's a possessor of everything. everything, according to Genesis 14, 19 through 20. And he blessed him and said, Blessed be Abraham of the Most High God, possessor of heaven and earth. And blessed be the most high God, which has delivered thine enemies into thine hand, and he gave him tithes of all Genesis then twenty-three, what reason did Abraham give for refusing money from the wicked king of Sodom? Genesis 14, 22, and Abraham said, to the king of Sodom, I have lifted up my mine hand unto the Lord, the most high God, the possessor of heaven and earth. So both answers are simply that God owns everything. That I sure that we can all agree with, right? I mean God is owner of all. He is possessor of all things. Now Now, that is actually a very important foundation for us. One of the dangers of codifying the tithe, of sort of making it almost a religious um a religious code almost or something is that you begin to think that ten percent is God's and ninety percent is mine Okay. And that's a danger, right? Have you ever thought maybe you've even had thoughts about yourself. Maybe you thought to yourself, you know, I need to give God ten percent so that I can keep the rest of myself. Or maybe you wouldn't say that, but you sort of think that way. Well we have to be careful there, because it's all God's, right? God has given us uh stewardship over every the things he's given us were stewards of his. And so we have to use it correctly in the way that he wants us to. So he is possessor of all things. Malachi 3, 8, he uses here. Will a man rob God? That's a question. Now, let me ask you a question. Based upon your earlier answer of your question, can a Christian, by not giving his tithe, rob God? What will be your answer? What do you think? Okay. Yeah, I don't think for the New Testament Christian withholding the tithe has to do with robbing God. That's my personal Opinion. You can disagree with me on that. It's okay. This is talking about the nation of Israel here. The greater problem, frankly, in Malak in Malachi is the issue of idolatry for the nation of Israel. This was a symptom of a problem. Um so I tend to not care for some of the preaching, very candidly, that I hear from the Because it's it's almost as it's a big it's a real guilt trip. Okay. Yeah. And I would be real careful there uh when it comes to what Malachi 310 says, Bring all the tithes in the storehouse that there may be meat in my house and proof me now herewith, says the Lord of hosts, if I will not open the windows of heaven and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it. Malachi three ten Is that a promise that applies to the New Testament Christian? The answer is no. No. Okay, it doesn't apply to the New Testament Christian. Who does that promise apply to? The Hebrews. Yeah, the nation of Israel. Is there a principle there? Sure there is. We're going to find that principle explicitly stated in the New Testament when we get there. Okay. But the but the principle that you can test God and see if you if you give what you're supposed to see if if uh he gives you back a blessing. Um I would really struggle. You can't claim that promise. The promise is for the nation of Israel. I would just really strongly suggest that. I think that some people will even go so far as to say that you need to put You need to spend money you don't even have. And then I'll use this text uh for this. Be careful about about those kinds of claims. I've heard a lot of those kinds of that kind of pre teaching on on the issue of tithing. I would be really careful there with that with that that thinking basically. I could get into the details of why. I'm just kind of trying not to get into the into the details of all this. We're going to get into the New Testament here in a few minutes and it'll become probably a little bit clearer. In fact, now we're sort of moving to the New Testament. It is interesting here. Look at this. God's plan for caring for the house of God is that all people give generously to his work. If each church member were to give a baseline 10% of his income to his local church, the church would be able to invest far more in God's eternal invisible kingdom. According to recent Barna Research report, only 9% of born-again Christians tithe their income in churches in 2004. This is an old that's an old statistic isn't it? But it hasn't changed. It is an it is almost an epidemic problem that churches are dying. because millennials don't tithe. Okay. It it is a it is a a real problem. Now we're now going to move to the New Test so so we do have a problem here. I mean w do we need to be Does it need to be, okay, do we need to follow the Mosaic Law? No. God's full Christ has fulfilled that. But on the other hand, what is our responsibility as Christians? Let me ask you a general question. What was Christ's interpretation of the law? What was his in other words, what was his general approach to the law? Any ideas? Yes. So it's good to look at. Okay. Is the law good or bad? Good. Yeah, no question it's good. Okay. So the law is not bad. What was Christ's What was his the thrust, like for instance, in the in the Sermon on the Mount in Matthew 5 and 6 and 7? He was really helped trying to inter he was really interpreting the law, but what was his focus? Yes. His focus was internal righteousness versus external righteousness. Jesus wasn't saying that the law is unimportant. He was saying that the that the what the law does for us is demonstrates by our external disobedience that we have an internal problem. Now, if you think through the Sermon on the Mount, we'll just use that as an example. Was Jesus' Interpretations of the law, were they stricter or were they less strict? I I actually like that word better. Were they m difficult? Were they more difficult or less difficult? Okay, everybody seems to say more difficult. Okay, let's just think through this. If you are angry at a brother or sister in Christ, what does it say about you? But you have committed what? Murder. Murder. If you have looked on a woman with lust in your heart, what does it say about you? You've committed adultery. Do you see? Do you see see just in those two statements that what Christ is dealing with is he is saying that is more i that that the issue is Is that the law is more difficult when you're going to follow the internal demands of the law? Christ is the one, he didn't just come to destroy the law, he came to fulfill the law. What would be my point? My general point would be this. The Christian doesn't shouldn't be thinking in terms of, and I still don't think anybody really is here, shouldn't be thinking of what is commanded as much as they should be thinking, well, what should I be doing as a Christian? And what will truly demonstrate my love for the Lord? The focus, Christ's focus. Is different than what we would often think when we're thinking of the law. The best passage to go to When you're dealing with this issue of let me ask you, I'll I'll ask you rather than telling you. If you have to choose one passage in the entire Bible to take somebody to to show them um how to un understand giving where where would you go I heard it whispered. I heard at least the book whispered. Yes, Tricia. Second Corinthians nine. Yes, that's exactly it. Take your Bible and turn to to to Second Corinthians nine. That really is. You know what you'll find in the New Testament? And we'll we'll be done here in just a minute. Um what you'll find here in the New Testament is that There are often passages that kind of are the main passage for something. For instance, let me let me test you. On this. If I said I need to understand the resurrection, what chapter would I go to for that in the Bible? What would be the best chapter to go to? Good. First Corinthians fifteen. If I said I need to understand faith, what chapter would I go to? Hebrews 11. Good. Hebrews 11. If I said I need to understand love, what chapter would I go to? Okay, generally First Corinthians thirteen, I would also suggest that first John four would probably be a good place to go. So there there j does tend to be well what about the gospel? If I want to go to the gospel, where do I go? 2 Corinthians 5. Okay, that is a good place. Romans 3 through 5 is a good place. 1 Corinthians 15, there's there's several really good solid places uh to go with the gospel. Um obviously the gospel is throughout the entirety. Testament. So when it comes to this, it is 2 Corinthians chapter 9, and we don't have time to go over it. So what we're going to do is we'll cover this uh next week. I didn't get as far as I wanted to go. But that's okay. We'll cover this next week and the whole concept of giving and all of that. But I will just say this if you want to boil it down. You can boil it down to a matter of a heart attitude. God is very concerned about our heart attitude when it comes to giving. The Bible tells us we need to give cheerfully, and he says we need to give regularly. And um and so there are things that we are supposed to do as Christians. But if you look at 1 Corinthians 9, or 2 Corinthians 9, you're going to find an overall understanding of giving that is uh really um really pretty exhaustive or or thorough when it comes to this. And we'll We'll look at that next week. So I would recommend when you're going through discipleship with somebody that you you can cover those passages in the beginning like we did, but really hone in for a new believer on on 2 Corinthians 9. It will help them to understand the whole idea of giving. The bottom here let's finally just sort of say that a couple of things. Number one, my experience has been that mature Christians usually that just this has been my only my ex my experience that mature Christians find ten percent That's just been my f my I don't and and and of course you can you um I mean immature Christians can have the same baseline. But I just have generally found that to be the case. It is a good it tends to be a good place to start, so I don't think there's anything wrong with that. I think it is a good place to start. Um and it's also been my experience that um personally and and everybody near Really I mean most people I've talked to is that when you are faithful in giving to the Lord regularly and of a cheerful sp spirit, you never regret you don't regret it I mean God takes care of you and He provides for you. And you you it is true that you can't outgive God. I mean God takes He does take care of His children. And so um anyway, we'll talk more about that next week. Let's go ahead and close with a word of prayer. Father, we thank you, Lord, for the time that we could spend just a few minutes in your word looking at this This basic principle of giving. We pray, Lord, that you would help us to be cheerful givers and be excited about what you are doing. In uh the furtherance of your kingdom through faithful giving of your people. It is a blessing to see. Um and um just to see how you provide through the faithfulness of your people. is is really a neat thing. So we pray that you would help us to um be mindful of that and and that we would really give because we love Not because we feel guilty or we feel that something bad is going to happen to us if we don't, but that we would do it out of a a genuine love for you. Certainly we recognize that it is all yours and that we are simply stewards of it. And we pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen.