We are looking today at another message that I usually try to preach annually, or some maybe every two years. On a subject that I think is absolutely important for us to really grasp for the sake of our spiritual growth and maturity, both as individuals and as a body of believers We are of course in between series. We've just finished up Ephesians and we will be starting John sooner or later here. But there are a few messages that I just really feel that we need to I just want to go over. These are things that seem to be things that just it's just good to go over sometimes. And so today I want to discuss From God's Word, the the subject of judgmentalism, it is a subject that That I think needs addressing from time to time in any local assembly. I think as a whole, our church is not a judgmental church. I think as a whole we we do love people. But I'd l I I want to keep it that way, if you know what I mean. I think it's always important to go through these things, sometimes just for preventative measures, just as to make sure that we have a right biblical balance and understanding of these kinds of things. But I will say as a whole, the church has been blighted with this issue of judgmentalism over the years. I would actually make the connect I would actually use this analogy. As racism has been a blight to our country. So judgmentalism has been a blight to the church. And the reason I make that analogy is simply this. If you think of the forced relocation of of the uh Native Americans, or you think of of the mistreatment of Africans in our nation's history. Certainly they are blights on our country. But if you really think with me, and I don't mean to be political at all here, that's not the purpose of this illustration. You also tend to have a little bit of reverse racism as well in our country, where whole people groups are sort of characterized as victimizers. There's victims of one one people group as victim the victims and another people group as the victimizers. And so you have sort of this reverse racism, and really that is sometimes happens in the church when it comes to judgmentalism. When you think of judgmentalism, it is very true that there have been many Christians along the line in churches that have been falsely accused. And families tend to do this as well. We falsely accuse each other. If I were to take a show of hands, I would imagine that nearly everyone in this room, at some time or another, over the age of you know twelve has at some time felt as though, and maybe even younger, felt as though they have been a victim of false accusation And I certainly can attest to that and can understand the hurt and the struggle of being falsely accused. And there is a sense in which as a result of those false accusations there is a there is a recoiling of judg uh uh toward judgmentalism. When then when Christ came to earth as a man, he dealt with a lot of sin But the thing that he seemed to be hardest on is this area of judgmentalism. In fact, in Matthew chapter seven, the context is the Sermon on the Mount And in the Sermon on the Mount, Christ's emphasis is internal righteousness. And as you know, the Pharisees were very much focused on external righteousness. on the externals of life and the externals of being a good follower of Jehovah God. But they were entirely and really exclusively focused on externals. And Christ comes and says, you have misinterpreted the law completely. The purpose of the law is to demonstrate that your heart is sinful and that God's standard of righteousness is not external but internal. The problem, folks, though, isn't it true that we can't see the heart? Only God can do that. And often the problem comes when we see the external and try to discern the heart. From the external. And so we have we have this in we are almost wired To have this sort of mentality of judging by appearances and judging by externals and making judgments on these kinds of things. And folks, the Bible is very going to be very clear about this, but it is that is in the wrong place, in the wrong way. It is sin. But there is another point to be made here, and that is that God's people have got to learn to be discerning. Mature Christians know how to discern correctly. And so, on the one hand, we don't want to become judgmental, but on the other hand, we don't want to become naive and undiscerning either. And so there's got to be a balance between these two things. And as we come to God's word, we're going to find God's perfect balance in this chapter. And we're going to see exactly God's mind on this matter as we get into the text on this issue of judgmentalism. Now, I have not given you any significant illustration to start this message because I would guarantee That if you're hearing this at all, you know, as well as I know that this is a very serious and important issue And there are many people that go the wrong way on this, one way or the other. Sometimes I feel as though you've got this reverse judgmentalism where it's like, you know, you you feel like you almost can't say anything. Because if you say something it's it's sort of like uh you know I uh sometimes I kinda want to say, you know, stop judging me for judging you because I'm not judging you, so don't assume I'm judging you because you know, don't judge me about that. So you sort of have this circle that kind of goes on in the body of Christ sometimes. I don't know if you ever felt that way, but I felt that way sometimes. And so uh we we need to we need to iron this out with God's word, don't we? We need to know what God's Word said about this and rightly divide it. Let's go to the Lord and ask His blessing our time together. Father, as we get into your word and we see what you have to say about this very important subject of judgmentalism. I pray that we would be a people who would be who would learn not to be judgmental. But I also pray, Lord, that we would learn biblical, right, mature discernment. And I pray, Lord, that as we go through this, that we would understand the difference. And we would understand just very practically how we can make sure that we do not jump to judgmental conclusions about people But that we operate in a Christ-like manner, both toward the unsaved, but certainly in this passage is toward our brethren, toward brothers and sisters in Christ, Lord. I pray that you would help us in this area. Our desire, Lord, is that we would have love for one another that is a that is a kind of love that we can only express to one another because we know you love us. And that that love would be an attraction to the world, that they would see the kind of love that we have for each other and they would know that we are your disciples. I pray, Lord, that you would help us to understand this today, and we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Christ begins this section of scripture in Matthew chapter 7, verse 1, with two words. He says, judge not. Now, whatever we're going to see after this in the context, he does start off with this prohibition. He does say that you must not judge. And whatever he means here, he does mean something. And so what we want to do is establish, first of all, biblically what where we ought not judge, and what there is a certain kind of judgment That we ought not be making as Christians. Because he says here, judge not, do not judge. And I would just express this by way of just a little bit of a a parentheses. I do feel as though there are many people that have Because of wrong judgments in the body of Christ, there have been many people that have been estranged, many young believers who have been who have been not who have been who have um faltered in their faith because they have experienced judgmentalism of of a kind that the Bible clearly prohibits the believer from expressing and from having even in his thinking. And I want to make sure biblically that we begin here by understanding how we are not supposed to judge. The New Testament uses a particular word sometimes, but it doesn't use it all the time to detect to demonstrate the kind of judgment that we ought not to have. Sometimes this word is translated condemn. And regardless of whether it's termed condemn, sometimes you'll see the word judge, and in this case it's the word judge. But the kind of judgment that we ought not have, that is not our place, is a condemning kind of judgment, a condemnation. And our example is Christ Himself. When you think about judgmentalism, when you think about condemnation, This word sometimes is translated as esteem. For instance, in Romans chapter 14, verse 5, when it says, one man esteemeth one day above another, it's the same word. So it has to do with your estimation of someone or something. It has to do with how you are esteeming either an action or a person. And folks, the kind of judgment that God does not want us to have is the kind of judgment that where we are characterizing someone as a particular way. It is though we are saying that is just who they are. And we want to be very careful about this, where we are condemning. When Christ came in John chapter 3, verse 17, it tells us: for God sent not a Son into the world to condemn the world. But that the world through him might be saved. And in verse 18 it says, He that believeth on him is not condemned, but he that believeth not is condemned already. Because he hath not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. And when we look at people that are unsaved, we ought never think in a in a m we ought never think that they are not able to be saved. When someone, anybody that is born and has not yet died has the ability to be able to be redeemed by Christ. Christ came not into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved. And so we follow Christ's example in saying that if the Lord has given them breath, They have the ability to come to Christ. And so we've got to understand this. We've got to remember this as we consider We we sometimes are fault we falter in our thinking when it comes to this kind of thing and we think, well that person really you know I don't know if they'll really ever come to Christ Well maybe they won't, but maybe they will, but we ought to be very careful that we do not exclude any kind of potential for them being saved. They they can come to Christ. Because the blood of Christ is offered to all who will accept it by faith. We also find in Scripture that Christ had that kind of example. If you look at some of the narratives of the New Testament, you're going to find That Christ, if you think of for instance, the woman that was stunned that was about to be stoned by the Pharisees and Sadducees, and he came And he he rescued her. He did not condemn her. He simply said, go and sin no more. And so, folks, we do have to be very careful that we follow Christ's example in this area. And that we make sure that we are not condemning. Because, folks, what we do when we're doing that is we are actually standing in the place of Christ. There will be one day where Christ will judge. For the unbeliever it will be at the great white throne judgment, and then for the believer it will be at the judgment seat of Christ. And so when we're thinking particularly about the Christian, we ought never think That this person is condemned, or he will never be able to overcome his sin, or he will never be able to get past his issues. Folks, it is very important that we always leave the kind of potential that God has because God has redeemed them. And so they are able to continue. They ought never think of themselves or of someone else if they have been redeemed by Christ. to think that they are set in their sin and cannot be redeemed or even delivered from it. Romans chapter 14 verse 10 says this But why dost thou judge thy brother? Or why dost thou set at naught thy brother? For we shall stand before the judgment seat of Christ. And folks, the reality is that when we come to the point at which we are really judging our brother or sister in Christ in that kind of way. When we are really standing in the in the only place where Christ is go can can rightly stand one day in the judgments, we are not standing in the place of Christ, but folks, we are standing in the place, we are have the potential anyway of standing in the place of Satan. Because we find in the book of Revelation that he is the accuser of the brethren. Satan himself has that title. And folks, it tells it it gives for us a kind of warning here, it doesn't it, to be very careful about having a condemning attitude and spirit. We ought not have this kind of spirit toward those that profess to know Christ as their Savior. And we n and the question then becomes how do we know when that when we have gone too far in this area? And we know it folks when we speak evil of someone. That's when you know. James chapter 4, verse 11 says, Speak not evil one of another, brethren. He that speaketh of the of his brother And judgeth his brother, speaketh evil of the law, and judgeth the law. But if thou judge the law, thou art not a doer of the law, but a judge. You know when you have gone too far, when with your speech you condemn someone with definitive terms You speak evil of them. You have gone, folks, you have gone too far. We have gone too far when we have done that. The condemning kind of spirit that the Pharisees had, that Christ condemned ought not be named among us as those who know Christ as our Savior, and desire to have the kind of Christ-like attitude that Christ has. What we see here in this passage is that God, Christ gives us a reason why we ought not be judgmental in this kind of fashion. It says here in chapter 7, verse 1, the second phrase, that ye be not judged. And we're going to find in verse 2 that what he's talking about is the wrong kind of measurement of judgment. But when he says that ye be not judged, What potential does a Christian have of being judged if he is judging incorrectly? Is this talking, for example, about others judging you in the wrong way? There would be some that would say that that's what it's talking about, that when you are judgmental of other people, you are essentially inviting the same kind of judgment on yourself by others. It's like the same You set the standard the way you want to, and other people are going to kind sort of keep you and hold you to that kind of standard. And there would be others that would say, no, this is talking about a judgment from the Lord. In the context, the better option of those two is probably the second one. Because we find in the Sermon on the Mount several other places where we see, for instance, in Matthew chapter 5, verse 7, blessed are the merciful for why? They shall obtain mercy. And Matthew chapter 6, verse 12, where it says, And forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. And Matthew chapter 6, verse 14, where it says, If you forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you. But if you forgive not men their trespasses, Neither will your father forgive your trespasses. It seems, folks, that the tenor of the text as we go through this is that when you have unrighteous, incorrect kinds of judgment toward other people, There seems to be a stricter judgment on you by God. It may come more than likely in the form on this earth. It may come in the form of chastening by God Himself. It may be that it's a combination of the two where people do tend to judge you harder. But regardless of what it i what the what it how it all plays out. And I'm not sure I can really verify how it will play out in the life of the believer. I do know that it gives this warning for us that you ought not judge in the wrong way, lest you be judged. Now the question then becomes, what kind of condemning spirit, what kind of judgments should I be very careful about If it is true that God says, don't do it, and if it is true that we find by the example of Christ that we ought not to do it, Then we needed to know exactly what we need to be careful of. And the rest of the New Testament gives us some very clear guidelines about this. In John chapter 7, verse 24, we have the right, we have the first one where it tells us that it says, judge not according to the appearance. But judge righteous judgment. God says in this text that we ought not have a condemning spirit because of appearances. We ought not have this kind of characterization of someone in their heart because of appearance. And we so quickly, we so naturally judge people by their appearance, and God says, don't do it. Now, folks, it doesn't mean that we may not have concern because of appearances. There may be concern. But to establish a judgment on someone solely on the basis of appearance. That is absolutely incorrect and is prohibited by God. Number two, when we judge according to religious practices, diets, and days. And that was the major issue in the New Testament as we go as we look at the first century church, where you have people that are judging based upon whether you eat meat one way or another, or whether you have diets a certain kind of diet and you follow the litical system of dieting or you don't or those kinds of things or even whether you put one day above another. There are all kinds of controversies over these things and you're a better Christian if you do this or you do that. What we're really talking here, folks, is about externals. Colossians chapter 2, verse 16 says, Let no man therefore judge you in meat or in drink or in respect of a holy day. or of a new moon or of the Sabbath days. Romans chapter 14, verse 17 says, For the kingdom of God is not of meat or drink, but righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Ghost. So God says to be very careful that you are not judging based upon religious practices. It doesn't mean that you would not have some concern over these things. For example, the Bible tells us That we ought to preach the word of God, and that is the priority. For a church to be to not do that is, of course, it would be aberrant. But it is to say, folks, that there are a lot of things that are not clear in Scripture when it comes to religious practices. Is a church wrong if they choose not to have a service on a Sunday night, for example? Or a Wednesday night, or a Sunday morning, if the church service is on a Sunday afternoon instead of a Sunday morning. Is that wrong? Is, I mean, really, folks, if we think about these kinds of things, we ought to be very careful that those kinds of things alone would not be the kinds of things that we would judge someone on. Now of course there are good reasons and bad reasons for doing doing these kinds of things. And the reasoning behind what you do, if it's pragmatism, that that would be of some concern. But when it comes to saying I am going to characterize a person or a situation based upon their practice, They're religious practices that are not clearly laid out in Scripture, folks, that is prohibited. Even we come to areas of musical style. I am not suggesting at all and we're there's an there's an uh an entire m principle of the importance of making sure that we love others and show deference to those who struggle in areas. In fact when we're talking about meet off of the idols in the New Testament, the basic principle is If you're going to offend your brother, if you're going to cause your stu cause your brother to stumble, even if you feel that you have the freedom to eat meat off your idols, you just don't do it. You d you show deference out of love for your brother or sister in Christ. However, folks, we've got to be very careful on the other hand that we are not judgmental about these things. If a person wears slacks or doesn't Or I mean a woman wears slacks or doesn't. I've got to sp specify with that obviously. Um or those kinds of things are we and I'm sorry, pants. Somebody said my wife said slacks. Nobody uses that term anymore. What are you old? Anyway, alright, pants. If a woman wears pants, every time I last time I wear slacks, she I I drove home and she said, Jim, slacks, really? I mean who uses that? Anyway. Um Pants, I'm sorry. Really, folks, when you think about these kinds of things, are these the kinds of things that we ought to be judging over? Now, if someone is a if there's immodesty, there might be concern there. And that's something you want to you know there is a concern with immodesty and and those kinds of things. But even then, you've got to be careful that you don't judge a person's heart. by those kinds of things. It might be simple, it might be just a matter of a person not knowing what is you know what might be modest or immodest, those kinds of things. And so it's important that we do not judge based upon those kinds of things. We do not condemn on those kinds of issues. We ought to be very careful about these kinds of things. And then finally, and this is one that you might not be aware of. Did you know? In fact, I'd like you to take your Bibles and turn there. Would you take your Bibles and turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 4? 1 Corinthians chapter 4 and verse 3. I want you to see this one. In 1 Corinthians chapter 4, verse 3, here, it says, picking up here in verse 3, the Apostle Paul is speaking, and he says this. But with me, it is a very small thing that I should be judged of you or of man's judgment. Yea, I judge not myself, I judge not mine own self. For I know nothing by myself, yet I am not hereby justified. But he that justifieth me is the Lord. The Lord has declared me righteous, Paul says. He then says this, he says, therefore judge nothing before the time. Let me just pause there for a moment. You and I are so prone to be quick to judgment. We do not wait. We do not pause. We do not, we are so, we often do not give people the benefit of the doubt. And in this passage, it says, do not judge before the time. But he's going to say specifically that there is a time for the thing that he is saying don't judge on. Would you see here until the what? The Lord come. There is a particular kind of judgment that we ought not exact on somebody. Because Christ is going to do it one day. What is that judgment? Well look at what it says. Who both will bring to light the hidden things of darkness. Now let's just pause here for a moment. What are the things that we can't see? You can see somebody's appearance, but what can't you see? You cannot see their heart. You cannot see those things that are hidden. Only God can make the kind of judgments upon those things that are hidden in the heart. And he says, don't judge prematurely in these areas. There will be a time When those kinds of things are judged. And he says, and make manifest the counsels of the hearts. And then shall every man have praise to God. Folks, what it's saying here is that you ought to be look, you we ought to be very careful about judging motives. In fact, we ought not just be careful about it. We ought not do it. Christ is the only one who knows enough to judge motives within the body of Christ. And he prohibits us from judging motives. For you to say that somebody else has a wrong motive about what they're doing is not appropriate. And we so often do it, don't we? We are guilty of this. We see somebody that seems to have a particular pattern of doing something, and we judge, we are quick to judgment, and we judge a motive. God says don't do it. Doesn't he? And and so we have to be very careful about this. Well, let me what we see here in the passage, and let's move back over to Matthew chapter 7. I want you to see what it says here in verse 2. For with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged. And with what measure ye make ye meet, it shall be measured to you again. He said that whatever measure measurement you are using is the kind of measurement that will be on you So folks, the question then becomes, what is the right measurement? And there is only one answer. And that is the that is scriptural statement. Clear, verifiable, biblical statement. That is the only measurement that you and I have the ability to be able to use to make judgment calls correctly. They need to be clear They need to be objective and they need to be verifiable, and you're going to see these things in basically two categories: doctrinal and moral. So we're talking here, folks, about doctrinal truth, and we're not here talking about things that are up for debate. We're talking about Orthodox doctrinal truth. We're talking about things, folks, that are very clear biblically with regard to the gospel. There are things. Can we all agree that there are things in Scripture that are debatable? There are things in Scripture that when we get to heaven, that's when we'll figure it all out. We know God's got it all figured out, but the truth is we don't have it all figured out. But there are things, folks, that are crystal clear. The resurrection, the bodily resurrection of Christ is crystal clear. The blood atonement is crystal clear. The virgin birth is crystal clear. The deity of Christ is crystal clear. The the inerrancy of scriptural is cr scripture is crystal clear Those kinds of things, when someone is aberrant in those kinds of things, you must make a righteous judgment. Why? Because those things are biblically clear and verifiable. And then there are morality, there are morality issues, folks, that are very clear. That Scripture gives no wriggle wiggle room on. They are, you have sinned in those kinds of areas. And let me just say that these are the things that are the measurements of proper judgment. Now, let me just, with all this in mind, you're probably asking yourself the question, maybe, at least I would be asking myself the question at this point if it were you, if I were you. How do we how where's the balance? I don't want to be over here where I am judging wrongly. Where I am incorrect in my judgment. I gave you three very clear warnings about that that will help you. You'll keep those in your mind. It will help you greatly. You don't judge appearances, you don't judge externals, and you don't judge motives. In other words, folks, the condemnation of those things are things you've got to be very careful about. But there is, isn't it true, folks, isn't it true that there are concerns sometimes? Isn't it true that even in your own discernment you have, you struggle with whether something is right or wrong? that may not, at least in its appearance, be right or be clearly biblical Well what I'm going to suggest to you is that you observe. You withhold judgment. That that that verdict, you withhold it. Until it is this, until it is biblical, objective, verifiable, doctrinal, or moral truth. You withhold judgment Until that it becomes a violation, Matthew 18 would call it a trespass. But folks, isn't it true that Christians need to be discerning? John Scott said this: The command to judge not is not a requirement to be blind, but rather a plea to be generous. Jesus does not tell us to cease to be men by suspending our critical powers, which help to distinguish us from animals, but to renounce the presumptuous ambition to be God by sending ourselves by setting ourselves up as judges. Now, with that in mind, what I want us to do is I want us to understand that for a s I what a mark of a spiritually mature Christian is that he is able to have true biblical discernment. 1 Corinthians 2 verse 15 says, but he that is spiritual judgeth all things. Yet he himself is judged of no man. So for a mature believer He is able to make right judgments. Now, we know our boundaries, right? We've established the boundaries. We cannot condemn based upon the things that we have mentioned. But there is a need for discernment in these kinds of areas. And I want to give you now something that I believe will be extremely helpful for you. It has been incredibly helpful for me over the years in making sure that I have the right kind of measurements. And folks, I'm going to have to be a little academic on this. So I just ask you to bear with me on this because I believe I'm not trying to be academic for academic sake. I know Sunday night I was. My wife told me. Last Sunday night I was academic for academic sake. I'm sorry. But right now I'm not. So so just please Well aren't you glad I'm married? Anyway. So it's a good thing. She she keeps me straight. Anyway. Is she in here? Oh that's good. Okay. She's not in here, that's anyway. Um you'll make sure you report reports in. All right. But folks, there are three oh she isn't here. I see her. Okay, she was hiding. All right. There are three Greek words that will help you greatly in this area. There is the word krino. That is a very general word for the word judgment. And generally you're going to find this to be the case. Now there are overlaps, so it's not exclusively this way, but this will help you to understand three Three separate categories when the New Testament uses the word judgment. And the first one is Krono. And that is the idea of pronouncing judgment. That you are condemning. Now it's not always used that way, but generally it's used, you're pronouncing judgment on something Particularly if you have a preposition on the on the word uh katakrino, if you're really pronouncing judgment on the thing And that is one really, folks, that is essentially in the category that I'm talking here about is really prohibited scripturally. The next one is one that we'll see that is it's the word diachrono. And it really does in most cases mean to discern. You're going to be able to separate things. correctly, to be able to separate right from wrong and good from bad is the word to discern. And that's diacrino. It's an addit is an addition of a preposition on that word But folks, there is one more word that really, and the Bible does give us the ability to do that Not based upon just well we'll get into what it's not based upon, but but in the right way based upon biblical truth we do need to do that. Based upon biblical truth that's objective and verifiable. There is another word, though, in the New Testament that's also going to help us, and that is the word anachrino. And this is the idea of to examine or to question. And in this case, God wants us to do this. He wants us to examine or to have sometimes, folks, a question mark about things. Now, I don't believe that what that's saying is that you go around scrutinizing everything all the time. I would use the illustration of a banker who who knows the money so well, the what good currency is so well. that when bad currency comes across he sees it. In the Orient that's how they train bankers and I think even in this country they used to I don't know what they do now. They probably don't even see C currency that often. But but but uh that's how they used to do it anyway. And so they were so familiar with the good currency that when something bad came across, they questioned it. They didn't necessarily immediately until they checked it out and confirmed right or wrong about this thing. They didn't necessarily pronounce judgment on it, but there was sort of a question about it. We would do this at Chick-fil-A. Sometimes we would get larger bills and you would see just sort of look there's something not right about it just felt different. And so we would have a question mark in our mind and then we would go through the process of making sure that it was a legitimate bill. And folks, that's kind of that's the that's the connotation of this word. It's the idea of being able to question something. And the Bible gives us the ability and really the we ought to do this. We ought to have a question mark sometimes when something does not seem quite right. There are there can be concern, but folks let me just hasten to say we've got to be careful we don't escalate it to judgment Leave it as a question until you have objective, verifiable evidence on this thing. Leave it as a question as long as you possibly can. You say, well, are you sure about that? Well, the Bible tells us in Proverbs 18, verse 13, He that answereth a matter before he hear it is what? Did you get that? He that does what? He what? He that answereth. Answereth. If you answer a matter before you hear it, it is foolishness to you. We are so quick to judgment. All of us have done it. Everyone in this room, I am I am to blame on this as well. There's nobody here that can, I don't think there's anybody here who can say I've never done this before I think everybody in here is guilty. And if you're thinking to yourself, well that person really needs this, you're not listening to the rest of the message very well. Because the reality is, all of us need to remember this. Don't answer a matter until you have heard it completely, because it will be foolishness to you. When should a question mark become a judgment call? When should that happen? Number one, we must not answer a matter quickly, and I've already quoted you the the verse. We must not base a matter on intuition, impression, or emotions You can have a question mark based upon those things, but you ought not base a matter on those things. We must not answer a matter until we have objective facts. We must not evaluate a person We must learn to evaluate a person on the whole of the person rather than on specific individual kinds of things. We've got to get all the facts. God says for us, we've got to be very careful about this matter because there is a difference between being wise and being a fool, and most of the time it's when we answer a matter too quickly that demonstrates our own foolishness. You remember where it says in the Bible, he that withholdeth his tongue is counted wise. Even a fool is counted wise when he holds his tongue. And sometimes, folks, we need to hold our tongues. Number two, oh let me just say this by the way. I don't think personally there's any spiritual gift of discernment. That's still being practiced today. You had the the the spiritual gift of interpretation in the New Testament when you had tongues. But I really I I have met certain people that feel as though that God has bestowed upon them the gift of discernment. And I really question that because the Bible tells us that that comes with spiritual maturity and it seems to be something that everybody ought to have So be careful. I've had certain people, not here, but certain people and other places that I have rubbed shoulders with that they seem that to be endowed with this per particular and really folks what it what boils down to is that they are they think they can judge motives Be real careful about somebody that comes to you. Now I know nobody will ever come to me and tell them tell me they have the gift of spiritual discernment, probably. But I would be careful about that Number two, we must practice genuine love. Before we allow a question mark to move to a judgment call, we need to practice genuine love. The Bible says in 1 Corinthians 13, verses 6 and 7, Rejoice not in iniquity, but rejoice in the truth. That charity or love bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, and endures all things. Love is always looking for the best. It's always hoping for the best. It's always wanting the best for someone and knowing that this time will be the right time. This time they'll be able to do it. That's what love does. You know why we're so hindered in this area? Because we've been burnt before. It causes us to want to jump to a conclusion because we don't like surprises. But love is willing to be surprised. Love is willing to say, you know what, I would rather have a question mark in my mind and withhold judgment than for me to jump to a conclusion about something. And risk being in the place of what only Christ can do, and frankly, being used of Satan himself I'm going to withhold judgment here. And I don't want to uh boy I don't want to I don't want to do this. I want to make sure about this and I want to I want to love. I want to hope all things for people. Especially especially Christians, especially those who name the name of Christ And number three, we must make sure that we are not blinded by our own faults. Now, that's found in our passage in Matthew chapter 7. It says here, and why be verse 3, and be and why beholdest thou the moat that is in thy brother's eye? But considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye. Christ is implying a couple of things when he says this. He's saying, first of all, that we tend to minimize our own faults. And make excuses for ourselves and we maximize the faults of others. That we just naturally do this. That we minimize the faults of our own faults and we maximize the faults of others. He is really also m implying here that a judgmental spirit will give you a distorted perception on things. And he is also thirdly implying here that you are sometimes have a tendency to see faults in others when you are guilty of the same fault yourself. I want you to notice in the context here in the next passage. He doesn't say that you ought never judge anyone or you ought never help a person to remove that thing out of their eye. All he says is, you better make sure that you look at yourself first before you try to exact help to somebody else. He says here, look at the passage. Thou hypocrite, for you to pronounce judgment on somebody else or to try to even help somebody else before you've looked at yourself. He says, You're a hypocrite if you do that. First cast the beam out of thine own eye, and then shalt thou see clearly to cast out the moat out of thy brother's eye Notice he says he doesn't say don't ever cast out the mother brother's eye. He doesn't say that. He says just make sure, make sure that you pull that beam out of your eye first. Do you know what we ought to do as Christians by way of application? Do you know what we ought to do with Christians when we see a fault in someone else? We ought to immediately look at ourselves and say, maybe I'm seeing the fault in somebody else because I got it in myself It ought to cause us to have self-examination when we begin to see a fault in another believer. And when we pull that thing out of our eye, it may be, it may be, folks. That we don't see anything in the other person's eye. But sometimes we might, and we'll we'll address that in a few few moments Well, if let me just put it this way as far as application here. If this is this is something that I learned a long time ago from a pastor from my a pastor my one of my pastors growing up. He said to me, he said, if love can cover it, let it cover it. I think it's a really good way to look at it. If you see a concern Sometimes you need to let love cover it for a while. Maybe they're going through something that is really hard. They've got circumstances that you're not aware of. And so sometimes the best thing you can do is just let love cover and pray for them. But if the question mark persists, then what is the right thing to do? Go and ask the question. I mean this just makes sense, doesn't it? We're not allowed without objective verifiable proof to make a judgment call. So what we ought to do is go to the person and say, hey, I've got a question. I really appreciate when people have done that with me. I have had times where people have called me on the phone or come to me and said, hey, you know, I'm just a little concerned here. I have a question. And I always, I am just immediately, wow, they you know it wasn't coming with a condemn condemnation, it wasn't coming like I know what you're all about, or I no, just hey, hey, I got a question here And there have been times where people have done that in the right way and I say, oh, what is your question? Sometimes I've gone, you know what, you have a good point there. I really need to make I gotta I gotta think it think through that a little bit, alright? That's a good point. And they're surprised by my response Well it's be I mean it's a you know hopefully I'll have the right response whether or not they come to me in the right way. But very candidly it's a whole lot easier if they're coming to me and just saying, hey, here's a question for you. I got a little concerned about this. I got a question. Folks, if we would begin to do that with uh with each other, so many things would be resolved. Do sometimes we have adulterated motives with things I'm not asking you to judge somebody else, just judge yourself. Well, of course we do. Sometimes we don't even know we have adulterated motives. And if somebody comes to me and says and says, hey, uh, I got a question. Have you ever thought about this? Is this a concern uh you know I just have a little concern here. I don't wanna I don't want I'm not maybe I'm totally wrong. I could be totally wrong about this. But hey, here's a qu here's a question for you. Do you know that sometimes that causes a right kind of hum humble examination that maybe, you know, maybe there's something wrong? Maybe I need to consider something here. I really would encourage you in this way. Sometimes God perhaps has even helped you to s have a concern for your brother or sister in Christ, and you can help them take that speck out of their eye. And so I want to I want to just say this. We must be willing to confront. Do you realize, brothers and sisters of Christ, do you realize I'm just going to say it the way I see it? Saying I'm non-confrontational is a cop-out. It is. If you have a real concern for a brother or sister in Christ and you really love them, For you to go to them in the right way with a question mark and to say, Hey, I have a concern here, is a loving thing to do. Proverbs 27 verse 6 says, Faithful are the wounds of a friend, but the kisses of an enemy are deceitful. The person that will only tell you good about yourself, and the person that will only tell you will only flatter you and will just keep quiet and let you go down the wrong path, that's not a friend that really loves you. But a friend who comes to you and says, hey, I am concerned with I can I help you with this? Or is there something maybe I'm wrong about this, maybe you can explain this, and maybe I'm totally wrong, and that's fine if I am. But I am I have some concern here. I would just by way of application remind us of three things. Number one, I just ask you to ask yourself this: are you quick to judgment? Are you quick to judgment? And if you tend to be the kind of person that is quick to judgment, I really would encourage you to just think about what we have gone over today. God does not give you the ability to condemn someone. He doesn't give you the responsibility to condemn someone. It may be that someone has violated biblical truth that's objective and verifiable, and then you can name that as wrongdoing and sin when it's objective and verifiable, and we have a responsibility to do so. But to condemn a believer who Christ has redeemed is wrong judgment. Number two. Are you biblically discerning? There are some people that they say, well I'm not judgmental. You know, I I'm not judgmental at all. In fact I don't want to know I you know I just really want to stick to myself and not worry about anybody else. Do you know that that's not an option in the body of Christ? You never see that in the body. You never see that in the New Testament. You have tons of passages that deal with one another's statements that the Christian life is clearly, clearly to be to be in To be lived out in community with other brothers and sisters in Christ. We need each other. God has set it up that way. And for me to say, well, I'm just going to isolate myself so I'm never judging anybody, that's not biblical either. God wants us to be biblically discerning. And really the key here, if you just get this, you're allowed to have question marks. Just don't let them be periods or exclamation marks before you get the facts. And number three, are you willing to confront when necessary? Are you, as a Christian Willing to confront when necessary. The Bible says here that when you see a speck in your brother's eye, that What it says is you've got to take the stuff out of your own eye first, but then it says, help your brother. You'll see be able to see clearly to help your brother with the thing that's in their eye. What would our churches be like If we had that kind of camaraderie with each other, and that kind of loving spirit with each other, that we could clearly help each other with blind spots Well, I'll tell you one thing, we'd be more Christ-like, wouldn't we? And we would probably demonstrate to the world a whole kind of church and Christianity that they've never seen before. And we would probably have a kind of community here that people would say, wow, there is something here that is uh that is not natural to this world. And people would be able to see and know that they're Christians by their love one for another. That is God's desire for us to be not judgmental, not quick to judgment, but to be discerning. and to be helpful and loving to others. Let me just ask you this. Maybe you're here today. You say, I've never really heard it, I've never seen this kind of put this way before I want to reiterate this, that Christ, when he came the first time, came not to condemn, but that the world through him might be saved. He came To demonstrate God's love to you and to me by shedding his own blood on the cross for you. But folks, there will be a day in the second coming where he will come as judge. And he will give, he will exact righteous, correct judgment. And it will be firm, and it will be swift, and it will be right, and there will be consequences, and there will be punishment. And let me just ask you, are you ready for that? I am not saying this, folks, don't get me wrong, I am not saying this in any way to scare you. I am saying That God has provided a loving way for you to be delivered from that kind of judgment Because, see what happens here is when you will depend upon the work of Christ, Jesus, who is God and who died for you Will you when you depend upon the blood of Christ to pay the punishment for your sin? When you say, it's not about my works, it's not about what I did, it's not about my religiosity, it's all about Christ. When you do that and you depend upon Christ and his resurrection Then when God sees you, he sees Christ. And you are declared righteous by God, because Christ satisfied the justice of God for you. Maybe you've prayed a prayer in the past, or you've had some sort of experience in the past, or you think perhaps that you know Christ. But you've never really s heard it put that way, that there is, that God will judge sin, but that he's made a loving provision for you to be not judged by your sin, but to be judged by the by the merits of the righteousness of Christ alone And if you're today and you have never accepted and embraced completely and depended upon Christ to pay the punishment for your sin. Then you need to do that today. You know how you know you've done it? Well, in Matthew chapter 7, later on in this passage, it actually tells you that, it actually says, basically. That when you have a spirit of repentance, when there is remorse for your sin, when there is a genuine desire to please God, that's how you know It's not based upon some experience. It's not based upon perfection. It's not based upon your practices. It's based upon that you know in your own heart before the Lord that you have a genuine desire to please God That's how you know. And if you say, you know, I don't have it, I don't have a genuine desire to please the Lord, then I would encourage you to see whether ye really be in the faith. The wonderful thing about it is that God is not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. He's got the gift ready for you to accept it by faith and depend upon it. So that you can experience the love of God rather than the exacting justice of God. Let's pray. Father, we admit before you that we are naturally quick to judgment. It often is because of our own, or at least part in part because of our own experiences. But mostly it's because we're frail, faulty human beings. And we've been hurt. And we've been Help us to not have the kind of judgment that you condemn that you you prohibit from us. But help us, Lord, to be discerning people. Help us to grow up in you. Help us to have the spiritual maturity that you want us to have. And help us to measure all things by the objective, clear truth of your word. I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.