Let me ask you a question. Might be sound a little weird, but think about it for a moment. You were responsible for naming a church, and you could only pick from the New Testament churches. or church names, what name would you select? Pat? Okay. Uh I must uh inadvertently turned it off. You know I turned it on and it was green and now it's uh I think it could be dead. Oh no, okay. I must uh turned it off again. I apologize. Anyway, so that gave you guys time to think. So and gals. So um what do you think? Any suggestions How about um Antioch Baptist Church, right? That was where the first missionaries were sent out from, I believe. Or Berean Baptist Church, remember in Acts, they were said to be more noble than those in Thessalonica, I believe, right? That Paul had just come from. Paul said that I put Ephesians in here. I'm not sure because in Revelation, I think they were the church that lost their first love. So maybe that's not such a good thing. Um, I was looking up uh church signs online and uh I was surprised at how many churches name themselves after the Corinthian church. Now, obviously 1 Corinthians, they're thinking of 1 Corinthians chapter 13, right? The love chapter. But think about that for a minute. Do you really want to name yourself after the Corinthian church? Let's think about some of the issues that Paul had to address there They uh there were divisions. Some were saying, I'm of Apollos, I'm of Paul, I'm of Christ. Um what else was going on there? They were using spiritual gifts improperly, right? Paul had to address that. Paul had to address the issue of taking the Lord's Supper improperly. In fact, when they were coming together, there were these divisions according to socioeconomic lines where the rich were bringing food and they were having these feasts and they weren't sharing with the poor. You know, and we know that a lot of there were a lot of poor in the early church. A lot were former slaves. And um they really had a dependence on one another when they were coming out of their culture. And so Paul had to deal with these issues. In fact, he even said that Because they were taking the Lord's Supper in vain, some of them had fallen asleep. It was a euphemism for God had judged them and they had died, right? In 2 Corinthians chapter 4, there's the issue of incest, just a lot of things going on. They didn't have proper respect for the authority of Paul. So I was surprised at how many churches name themselves after the Corinthian church. Maybe not the the best name to go with In fact, in 1 Corinthians 3, 1-3 it says, And I, brethren, could not speak unto you as unto spiritual, but as unto carnal. even as unto babes in Christ, I have fed ye with milk, and not with meat. For hitherto ye were not able to bear it, neither yet now are ye able. For ye are yet carnal. For whereas there is among you envying and strife and divisions, are ye not carnal and walk as men? So they were supposed to be maturing in the faith and able to now take the meat of the word of God, take the harder things You know, as we as they progressed in discipleship, but they were still Paul was only able to feed them on the milk like babes, right? But if we were naming a church You know, I couldn't find any on on the internet by the way, but um Philippians, you know, the uh first Philippians Baptist Church of Glen Burney or something like that. That, you know, doesn't s doesn't have a very good ring, does it? But But yet it would be a really good church to to model after if we look at their behavior. And we're going to look at that today. To live is Christ, to die is gain. I want to focus on in chapter one, verses nineteen through twenty-six. So let's read that again together. Before we go to God's word again, let's pray. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for your holy word We thank you for your church. We thank you for our Lord Jesus Christ, who is the foundation of the church, who gave himself up. um for our sins so that we could have forgiveness of sins in eternal life and have a um relationship with you, Father, eternally. We thank you for men like Paul who were faithful in preaching the gospel and recording your word, Lord God, as he was inspired by the Holy Spirit. And we thank you that for your Holy Spirit who illuminates our minds and helps us to understand your holy word, Lord, and convicts us and encourages us. or to apply it to our lives and live for you. We just pray now that as we come before you, we would set aside all the cares and worries and um distractions, Lord. And we would we would have a time to be able to just get in your word, continue to to praise and worship you this morning together as a church, as the body of Christ. We thank you so much for our church. We thank you for our pastor. We again pray for him as he right now is ministering at Faith Bible Church, and we just pray for healing there and direction, Father, with them. And we thank you for his servant's heart, Lord. We thank you for the model that he presents to us. And we again thank you for the model of Paul as we look at his life this morning. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Philippians chapter one, verses nineteen through twenty-six. For I know that this shall turn to my salvation through your prayer, and the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ According to my earnest expectation and my hope that in nothing I shall be ashamed, but that with all boldness, as always So now also Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether it be by life or by death. For to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain. But if I live in the flesh, this is the fruit of my labor, yet what I shall choose I wot not. For I am in a straight betwixt two, having a desire to depart and be with Christ, which is far better. Nevertheless, to abide in the flesh is more needful for you, and having this confidence, I know that I shall abide and continue with you all for your furtherance and joy of faith that your rejoicing may be more abundant in Jesus Christ for me by my coming to you again. So Paul presents, first we want to see Paul presenting his circumstances. Philippians is one of the prison epistles, along with Ephesians, Colossians, and Philemon. And it was written during Paul's first imprisonment in Rome in about 61 A. D. Just for a little bit of background here, in Acts 21 through 28, starting in 21. Uh Paul goes up to Jerusalem and he goes into the temple. He's falsely accused by the Jewish leaders. And he's taken out of the temple. He's falsely accused of of bringing the Gentile past the court of the Gentiles, basically, because he was seen with the Gentile in Jerusalem earlier. So they, you know, drum up this false accusation against him. They drag him out of the temple because of course they didn't want to beat him in the temple, and they started to beat him He was saved only by the Roman commander Claudius Lysius, who came to investigate the disturbance. And after learning of the Jewish conspiracy to kill Paul And the fact that Paul was a Roman citizen, he decided to get Paul out of town. He sent him to Caesarea before to face trial before Felix, the Roman governor. Now Paul was accused of sedition, which was a violation of Roman laws, sectarianism, a violation of Jewish law, and sacrilege, a violation of God's law. So he goes to Caesarea and it's almost like uh these legal proceedings, these different trials like Jesus, you know, like how Jesus was on trial. He goes through several different trials. Felix could not find fault in Paul. However, he was looking for a bribe, so he did not release Paul. And after two years He was replaced by Portius Festus, who succeeded Felix, and again heard Paul's case with King Herod Agrippa II. They could not find fault with him. However, it was unclear whether they would have let him go or not, but Paul spares them that decision By declaring his right as a Roman citizen to have a trial in Rome, he appeals to Caesar. So then Paul is sent on this sea voyage to Rome. And um the rest of the book of Acts is uh records that. When Paul gets to Rome, he was allowed to live in his own quarters under house arrest. And Paul believed that his case would soon be decided, as it says in Philippians chapter 2, verses 23 through 24, that indicates that. Which points to Philippians being written toward the close of the Apostles' two-year Roman imprisonment in A. D. 61. Verse 19, Paul was not sure if he would be sentenced to death or released, but he said, This shall turn to my salvation through your prayer and the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ. The word translated salvation in the New Testament usually means spiritual deliverance or being born again. However, here Paul was indicating that he would be delivered from his immediate circumstances. I think that's pretty clear, being in chains. Paul's assurance of his deliverance rested on the prayers of the Philippians and the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ. You see this partnership, you know, how Paul viewed the Philippians. In verse 20 it says that in nothing I shall be ashamed, but that with all boldness as always, so now also Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether it be by life or by death. So the deliverance he awaits was by life or by death. Paul wasn't afraid of a guilty verdict or dying, was he? I mean Paul Paul faced a lot of perils. He was beaten, he was shipwrecked, he was imprisoned, you know. Um Numerous times and and numerous uh trials and tribulations that he faced, he had people desert him throughout his ministry. He's a remarkable figure, that's for sure. But Paul just wanted in all things to please the Lord. Release would allow him to continue preaching Christ, right? But his martyrdom would also advance the cause of Christ. Paul would put it in simple terms in verse 21: for to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain. This idea to live is Christ. What does this mean? I think we have an understanding of what he means when he says to die is gain. So let's look at that first. He explains this in verse 23. He says, having a desire to depart and be with Christ, which is far better. He sees it as gained, being with Christ. Second Corinthians 5. 8 says, To be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord. The Bible promises us that when believers die physically, we'll be delivered from the difficulties and pain of this fallen world. In Revelation 21, 1 through 5, at the end of time, this is what it says. Now I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away Also there was no more sea. Then I, John, saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. And I heard a loud voice from heaven, saying, Behold, The tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people. God himself will be with them and be their God. In other words, God will be in our presence. We will be in God's presence. And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. There shall be no more death, nor sorrow, nor crying. There shall be no more pain, for the former things have passed away. Then he who sat on the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. So we see why Paul said to die is gain. And these are the promises that we have as a believer, you know, for our eternal future. You know. Um the best is yet to come. You know, another gain, if you will, is that we'll we will be perfectly sanctified Do we realize this the significance of this? Being made perfect in Christ? Um, do you wrestle with sin in your life? That continual struggle between the old man and the new man, I know you do, as I do. Does it do you feel defeated sometimes? A lot of times We've been redeemed, but we're being presently sanctified. We'll be perfectly sanctified. There will be no more struggle with sin in our lives. You know, um, I don't know if you know Johnny Ericsson Tata. She's um involved in a lot of Christian ministry. She has uh She's had Christian uh radio ministries and stuff. I heard her talking one time. It it really struck me. She was just talking about how she could not wait Until she was not burdened with sin anymore and struggling with sin. Now, this is a lady who is a paraphylegic. She's paralyzed from the neck down. You know? And her greatest desire was that she would be released from that struggle of sin. I'm sure she desires to walk again. She had a diving accident when she was younger. She was you know, uh a swimmer or diver. But she's lived most of her life, all of her adult life, I believe, as a paraphlegic, and yet you know, um not seeing it as so much a challenge but as an opportunity to serve the Lord. But it was striking to me You know that she really wanted to be released from that struggle with sin. Jeremiah 17, 9 says, The heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. Who can know it? We don't even know our own hearts, do we? Isn't it amazing that sin will be eradicated in our hearts and lives? And that's an amazing truth And we'll be in the presence of the Lord. Revelation 3:21 says, To him who overcomes, I will grant to sit with me on my throne. as I also overcame and sat down with my Father on his throne. MacArthur says about this, this is a figurative expression, meaning that we will share the privilege and authority that Christ enjoys as we reign with him. So to die is gain. Paul said this was far better. Paul saw two options in this passage. Verse twenty-two, it says, But if I live in the flesh, this is the fruit of my labor, yet what shall I choose? I wot not, for I am in a strait betwixt two, having a desire to depart and to be with Christ. Which is far better. Nevertheless, to abide in the flesh is more needful for you The two options, depart and be with Christ, or remain and minister to the Philippians and others. But really, when we think about it, this was just a hypothetical argument For the choice wasn't really up to Paul anyway, was it? Verses 25 and 26 say, And having this confidence, I know that I shall abide and continue with you all. for your furtherance and joy of faith, that your rejoicing may be more abundant in Christ in Jesus Christ for me by my coming to you again. Paul had confidence of his release. And now whether this was from the legal proceedings or whether God had revealed this to him, for some reason he had confidence of his relief release. And What we do know, however, is that Paul's selfless attitude is revealed here by him placing his friend's needs above his own desires. He said to live is Christ. For Paul, life is summed up in Jesus Christ. Christ was the reason for his being. You know, it started with his thinking or understanding of God and himself. Paul had a Christ-like attitude. Let's look at um verse 1. Paul started this epistle. What did he say? He referred to himself as a servant of Jesus Christ along with Timothy. The New King James uses the word bondservant or slave. The word bondservant refers to a willing slave who was happily and loyally linked to his master. And this refers back to Exodus 21, verse 5. A willing slave who was happily and loyally linked to his master. The Word of God, when we think about it, all of the promises and our position in Christ. It says that we're friends of God, we're brethren of Christ, adopted children, co-heirs with Christ, we're seated with Christ in the heavenlies. You know, positionally we have all of these amazing promises and um this amazing position given by God But Paul knew all those things were true, but he also recognized that his life was not his own. Under the inspiration of the Spirit, he wrote in 1 Corinthians 6. 20, For ye are bought with the price. Therefore, glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are gods. And Romans 6 teaches that we were slaves to sin But we have traded our master and are now slaves of righteousness to God. It takes true humility to see yourself as a bondservant of God, doesn't it? So Paul had the mind of Christ. He was looking to Christ for his identity. Philippians two, five through eight says, Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus, who being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God. but made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of man. And being found in fashion as a man he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Paul wrote frequently in this epistle about the mind of a child of God and one's manner of life or conduct is truly a reflection of what occupies his mind. Paul's thinking was Christ-like. He had the mind of Christ. How about you? How about me? How do we view ourselves? If Christ being God took the form of a servant, then is it too much to ask for us to have that mindset and to seek servanthood? Seek to be a servant of God. But you know, Paul's Christ-likeness, it wasn't limited to his attitude or his thinking. It really translated into actions. It impacted his life. It impacted his walk, his behavior. Paul wrote the letter to the Philippians, think about this, while chained to a guard on house arrest, awaiting trial. He doesn't have a depressed tone or attitude. Do you see that in this in this chapter, in this letter? Instead, he was thankful and joyful in his thoughts and prayers for the Philippians. Philippians 1, 3 through 5 says, I thank my God upon every remembrance of you, always in every prayer of mine, for you all making requests with joy. For your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now. You know, Acts chapter 16 records Paul's first missionary journey to Philippi and establishing the church there. Now let's think about some of the things that happened to Paul while he was in Philippi. Warren Weirsby says it like this. Many things happened, the memory of which could have produced sorrow. He was illegally arrested, then he was beaten, then he was placed in stocks, put in prison, and humiliated. Right? Would you have fond memories of a place like that? I don't think I would. But even those memories brought joy to Paul because it was through his suffering That the jailer found Christ, right? Paul recalled Lydia and her household, the first converts. How about the poor slave girl who had been demon-possessed? You know, not only was she healed, the demon came out of her, but also she came to faith in Christ And other dear Christians at Philippi were on Paul's mind. Each recollection was a source of joy for Paul. Philippians 1, 7 through 8, New King James Version says, just as it is right for me to think this of you all, because I have you in my heart. Inasmuch as both in my chains and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel, you all are partakers with me of grace. For God is my witness how greatly I long for you all with the affection of Jesus Christ. The Philippians were partners in the gospel ministry with Paul. When they heard of his imprisonment, they sent Epaphroditus to Rome to deliver a gift and to minister to him. No, Paul didn't see his circumstances as a hindrance. His source of joy wasn't just the Philippians. As we go on in chapter 1, verses 12 through 13, it says, But I want you to know, brethren, that the things which happened to me have actually turned out for the furtherance of the gospel. So that it it has become evident to the whole palace guard and to all the rest that my chains are in Christ. The Palace Guard, the Praeturian Guard, they were members of the Imperial Guard in Rome, an elite force. Acts chapter twenty-eight, sixteen says, Now when we came to Rhode Rome, the centurion delivered the prisoners To the captain of the guard, but Paul was permitted to dwell by himself with the soldier who guarded him. So we see that he had a rented house But he was chained, he was he was guarded by a soldier, he was chained actually to him. Though he was in a rented facility, he was guarded by these soldiers all the time The custom was for a prisoner to be chained to the wrists of a soldier. So let me ask you, who was who was held captive here? Was it Paul or was it these soldiers? We have an amazing God. You know, this turned out for the the the furtherance of the gospel, Paul says in verse twelve. No doubt many came to faith in Christ, including even members of the Palace God, Palace Guard, excuse me. How else would someone gain access to preach to this group of elite soldiers? Think about it. How would you how would you get access to them to do this? But God had this amazing plan to send Paul to Rome, and they would be captive as they were chained next to him, and as people were coming in and out It says in Acts 28, 30 through 31, at the end of Acts. Then Paul dwelt two whole years in his whole in his own rented house and received all who came to him. preaching the kingdom of God, and teaching the things which concern the Lord Jesus Christ with all confidence, no one forbidding him. So he had this freedom. He was preaching Christ. I mean one of the first things that he did when he when he came to um Rome as was normal fashion for him, is he called the Jewish people, called the Jewish leaders. And he brought them in and he preached to them, and some of them actually were persuaded and others were not. And then, you know, he went to the Gentiles. But the opportunity, so God, so God gave Paul this opportunity, and he gave him access. to the Praetorian Guard, which was just um just an amazing opportunity. But Paul still had to have the proper response. He had to see that even his imprisonment was from God for this very purpose. Paul reveals another source of joy in verse 14. He says, Paul says that the believers in Rome, seeing and hearing him preach the gospel while in change. in chains had become inspired and emboldened to speak the word without fear. Do others inspire you like this? Paul did not just face opposition outside of the church, but he also faced opposition inside of the church. In verses 15 through 16, we'll look at that. There were some who preached the gospel but were envious of Paul. Let me let me just read that those verses actually. Some indeed preach Christ even of envy and strife, and some also of good will. The one preach Christ of contention, not sincerely, supposing to add affliction to my bonds, but the other of love, knowing that I am set for the defence of the gospel. What then, notwithstanding every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is preach and preached, and I therefore Do rejoice, yea, and will rejoice. So whatever the motivation was, there were some who preached the gospel But they were envious of Paul. Remember, Paul didn't establish the church in Rome. Okay? So he comes to Rome. There are maybe some leaders who are are see themselves as diminished in the believers' eyes there Um maybe they're not receiving the same attention that they were. All of a sudden Paul comes into town here and there's, you know, all this commotion and excitement and you know, it's centered around Paul's ministry and and they're no longer really, you know, receiving that that favor that they had. Maybe that's what's going on. But they were still preaching the gospel, which is interesting. Paul is only concerned that the gospel is being preached, regardless of the motives of these individuals. You know, these are difficult instructions. When we look at being a bondservant and we look at the walk that Paul had and how he was ministering even amongst his these trying circumstances and not only doing so just out of duty, but uh he was doing so with joy. You know? It it it it sets a a standard that is really high to measure up to. It's really hard to measure up to that, isn't it? Philippians three, twelve through fourteen says, Not that I have already attained or am already perfected, but I press on that I may lay hold of that for which Christ Jesus has also laid hold of me. So Paul's saying, hey, you know, I haven't gotten this all, I'm not, I don't have this all figured out. You know, I'm not perfect. I'm not perfectly mature, but I'm pressing on. Brethren, I do not count myself to apprehended, to have apprehended, but one thing I do Forgetting those things which are behind, and reaching forward to those things which are ahead, I press toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. You know, we can focus on the past, whether it's our failures in the past or our successes, right? But Paul said no, you know, I mean because he had I'm sure he had both, you know. We we see a lot of Paul's successes, but you know, was he very successful when he went to Athens? You know? Not really. You know, I don't I don't even know if there were any converts, you know, when he went to Athens. Um But he forgot the things behind. And reaching forward, he looked ahead, you know, to those things ahead. He pressed toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. So this was a progressive work that God was doing in Paul's life. Let me put the PowerPoint back up. So just as way of application. The first one is God gave his one and only Son to die for us. Are we willing to offer our lives wholly to him for service? I mean, when it talks about being a bondservant, you know, does that make you uneasy? You know? It's okay to be a friend of God, to be called a brethren of Christ, to be adopted as, you know, into the family of God, but what about the idea of a bondservant? That's a difficult thing, isn't it? Number two, we may be the only Christian in the lives of those around us. Do we consider this on a regular basis? Just like Paul had access to the Praeturian Guard, you know, to the Palace Guard probably, you know, no other not many other Christians in their lives, certainly not having the access to preach to them while they were at working. You know? We recognize the unique opportunities that God is giving us to minister to others. And three, Philippians 3:17 says, Brethren, join in following my example, and note those who so walk, as you have us for a pattern. So we should always look to God first, right? We want to primarily look to God in his word. However, Paul indicates: hey, you have us as an example. Others can also be an example of Christ's likeness for us. And I praise God for our church. You know, because I see men and women of God, I see young people who are sincerely walking before the Lord. You know, and that is that is just a great blessing. So just praise God um for this opportunity. I hope that uh it's a challenge to your heart as it has been mine. We shouldn't compare ourselves to others. We can look to others But we want to compare ourselves to to God in His Word. We'll always find people, we'll always find others that we can you know, feel good about ourselves and comparing ourselves to. Um or we can always, you know, feel like we're not we don't measure up to other people's standards, but we need to find our identity in Christ, our value in Christ. and seek God's guidance and leading in our lives. So let's pray. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for your word. We thank you for the life of Paul and just how he poured himself out for us. Others, Lord God, how he took the model of his Lord and humbled himself Lord God, and um to say even to live is Christ and to die is gain. Father, help help us to focus our minds on that that idea today and be fully and wholly devoted to you. We just pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.