But it is interesting that as we discussed last week the old or two weeks ago the Old Testament manuscripts, it is very interesting that the way he chose to preserve the Old Testament manuscripts is quite different than the way he chose to preserve the New Testament manuscripts. And the Old Testament manuscripts were primarily preserved through what kind of people? Does anybody remember? That's right, the scribes. And uh there were a per particular family of scribes, the Venasher scribes, that um God used to to really make sure that we had there was an Old Testament text that was codified and that was correct and they had very clear, very specific rules for copying the Old Testament text and it was really had a lot of controls in place to make sure that there was that the details were were there. But when you get to the New Testament text, you have a different set of circumstances. So let me ask you: what are the set the circumstances for the New Testament text? What are the circumstances? Well, let's just think about it. We're talking about the first century here. In the Old Testament text, you have the nation of Israel. Of course, our most recent, prior to the old finding the Dead Sea Scrolls in the Old Testament. Our most recent um manuscripts were like, you know, the earliest were like nine hundred BC, uh nine hundred AD or even even later. But um but the Old Testament, the nation of Israel was in place. um priests and they're they're preserving the law. When you get to the New Testament, who's writing the New Testament? I mean the the the physical author. Who who's writing who's writing the New Testament Right, you have the apostles, you have New Testament prophets and apostles, and if you remember from from Joel's discussion, what you have is um if you remember from Joel's discussion I can't talk and do this at the same time. Um Okay, it says it's connecting. I think several times it's connect okay. That's Alright, very good. Okay, we're good. Uh it's alright, I'll just use that. Um so so with the new t the the Old Testament um the New Testament you have church Uh the apostles are writing uh different different um and people that are very close to the apostles are writing various various New Testament books and epistles and gospels and things like that throughout the century. And where are they going? Where are all these going? Right, they're going to various churches all over, all over that region. They're just going on everywhere. And what you have is there is no there are no in the first century you don't have specific authorized people to copy texts. You basically have Christians That are copying texts, one from another, one to another, and you have tons of it going on. Everybody wants a copy of Paul's epistle to the Ephesians or wherever or the general epistles, for example. And so they're going out everywhere, they're being distributed, they're being, you know, you you would have one Christian on the on the road with another Christian perhaps, and they're I've got they got a copy of some epistle and Maybe they've copied it down as it has been read out loud from the from the pulpit of a of a s of a early stage of synagogue or at a house church and they've they've read That's been read to them and they've copied it down as they've heard it. I mean, you have all kinds of very prolific amount of manuscripts in the first century. So you have a very different context. From the Old Testament manuscripts and the New Testament manuscripts. So we want to make sure we go over those and see the distinctions, see the differences. Just like the Old Testament, there are no New Testament original autographs. You you can't find any original autographs of the New Testament. We discussed the Old Testament, but the probably the l reason that the Lord did not allow us to have that is because we would venerate them. I mean we we tend to venerate uh if we find a piece of cloth that we think Christ touched. So if we had an actual autograph of one of the apostles, one of the original manuscripts of one of the apostles Uh we would we w none of us would ever get to read it. We would just it would just be in some place that would be venerated in some shrine somewhere. Uh and um and God God puts his word above his very name, but It's not our our our faith is not in forms. Our faith is in God and His preservation of His Word. And so it's probably why um he didn't allow us to have the original uh that's just my opinion, but it it's a good possibility that that's the reason. In second John 12, we have that they used paper and ink in the first century. Paul, when he was writing down epistles He or somebody else, uh we'll talk about that in a minute, somebody else wrote used a pen or and and they use uh paper and ink. Papyrus is actually what they use. in the first century. And smaller books could be kept on a single page, like 2 John or Jude or one of those other small you know smaller epistles or but if you get to like the Gospel of Luke, it would have been kept on a scroll Okay, so you're thinking about large scrolls carrying them around. Can you imagine transporting the Gospel of Luke? I mean we're talking about massive scrolls that you're carrying to transport the Gospel of Luke somewhere. And so it it it's not surprising to us then that our the epistles are pretty small. Um most of them are just a few pages. Uh in actually in a p few pages even in English. And what the Apostles did was they learned to be extremely concise. That's why you can take an epistle of Ephesians and preach on it for entire year. Honestly. And in fact I I uh I was looking at some other uh historical preachers and how long they took to they they um um they took to get through the book of Ephesians for example And Lar Lloyd Jones had like three times the amount of sermons that I have that I that I preached from when he went through Ephesians. And um and there are others that did the same kind of thing. of thing. It's just that dense, it's just that concise. Only only God and his inspiration could do that. through these through the apostles and uh the New Testament prophets. Um so you have that's some of what you have going on there. I'm trying to advance it guys Maybe I need that clicker or something. I it got stuck. Okay. Well now it's not stuck. Okay, we're good. Oh leave alone. Goodbye. Okay, this is that's good. Right there. That's fine. Okay, um what's that? Okay. He's gonna give me the clicker. So the next um thing you have uh uh just just generally introductory kind of information. Generally there are wide there was a wide distribution and much copying of the New Testament. I kind of already said that as the first century church grew. So you have lots of copying going on. Thank you, Pat. This is uh in constant uh this is in contrast to the careful and controlled copying of the Old Testament, largely accomplished by the scribes with pre precise procedures. I'm not sure this is working any better. Okay. I think we're good. Maybe. What are we doing wrong? What am I doing wrong? It's up there and not here. Okay. That's gonna have to squint to read that. Hold on, let me just see what's going on here. I'm sorry about this guys. I'm not having now I've lost total connectivity Sounds like there's a Eric went out that way, probably he's there's a router problem. Okay. Uh so let me see if I can read this. In the early let me make sure Right, I'm just Okay. Alright, I'm gonna go back. Okay now, Okay. So let's look at the New Testament prior to uh 100. The synoptic gospels were often circulated oral uh orally originally Okay. So if you think of this what are the synoptic gospels, by the way? Uh Fun tonight. Okay. The synoptic gospels are come on guys. What's the synoptic gospels? You guys know this. Dick? The three synoptic means look alike. The three that look alike are Matthew, Mark, and Luke. Right, good. So John is not a synoptic gospel. Matthew, Mark, and Luke are synoptic gospels. John was not written until much later, 90 AD possibly, 85 AD. So the synoptic gospels were often circulated orally originally. The epistles were recorded and distributed in written form virtually immediately. So you have Paul writing down an epistle and it's distributed just immediately after he writes it down. Does anybody remember from the Ephesians who distributed Paul's Ephesian letter? If you get this, you get like the sticker or something Somebody who somebody said it? Tychicus, yes, Tychicus did that. In fact he he distributed like five different uh somebody give him give give Rachel you got uh a sticker. something. Um five five different um uh epistles were tr were were were delivered all over the place by Tychicus um from Paul. At least five, maybe more. They were either written by the authors or dictated through uh amanuensis. Emanuensis is simply somebody somebody who's going to Uh ta dictate when somebody's dict you know if Paul dictated something, then they are just gonna write down exactly what Paul dictated, what Paul said. So you have something called an emancy. And you have examples of that in Romans 16 and 2 Thessalonians chapter 1. Bruce Metzger said about this, and Bruce Metzger is really a top scholar in the in the world of translation and transmission of texts and things like that. In the early years of the Christian Church, marked by rapid expansion of the con and consequent increased demand by individuals and by congregations for copies of the Scripture. The speedy multiplication of copies, even by non-professional scribes, sometimes took precedence over strict accuracy of detail. Alright, so you you can imagine if you have just Joe Blow writing down something. It's going to be a little bit less accurate than if a scribe, a professional scribe, is writing it down. And so you have a lot of that going on in the first century. During the fourth century, shortly after the date of the Codex Vaticanus, Emperor Diocletian wait a minute, that's not right. That's not supposed to come yet. Well maybe it is. Um Emperor Diocletian issued an edict to set scribal fee up to twenty-five denarii for a hundred lines of writing. the first for first quality. So even though they didn't have this scribal quality in the first century, it did happen later on. Diocletian was like um 300, 303 uh A. D. And so during that time, he then sort of set in place a scribal fee that they had to have for very high quality writing. And so then from then on, you do have a little bit higher quality in some of the manuscripts. The New Testament, so that's the New Testament before 100 A. D. Now, the New Testament after 100 A. D. , the invention of the Codex. What is the codex? You guys remember this from a couple weeks ago pro hopefully. What is a codex? Yeah, very good. It's just a book. Okay. Uh it's a it's a handwritten book. I went this past week, uh, on Thursday, um, I took Elizabeth I took Elizabeth I took for Elizabeth's birthday we went to a place and looked at manuscripts. Um that's that's not exactly what we went to an art museum and There was a manuscript room, it's uh Walters Art Museum in Baltimore and there's a manuscript room in there. And if you go into that room, I walked in that room and they had a bunch of gold pieces And I said, this is not manuscripts at all. Why? But apparently they're using the room for something else. But then if you went to the room past the manuscript room, into another room, and you looked on the wall, you could see the whole process of manuscripts, uh and scrolls and then they sh they talked about the codexes, uh all there. So if you ever wanna actually I took a picture of the whole thing, um, but um uh if you ever wanna um take your wife to a great place for her birthday, that's that's it. That's an excellent uh excellent place to take her. Uh we did a lot more than that. That was just uh she I just requested uh of her that we would could go to that room uh as well as other more interesting art. Parchment was preferred from about third century on, although Paul appears to have been familiar with parchment. What's parchment? Good, animal skin. So we have papyrus, which is paper, and parchment, which is animal skin. Early Bibles were arranged in columns so that their appearance would be similar to to scrolls. Did you ever notice you still have that in most of your Bibles? At least in some have you ever noticed the Bible it doesn't have it? It doesn't isn't that weird? I think it's strange When I see a Bible that doesn't have that it goes all the way across the page instead of columns, that goes all the way back to this time period because it distinguished the difference between a Bible and uh and one that wasn't. Doesn't mean that it doesn't mean that, you know, um you ha have to have it in columns. But uh I just think it's in Interesting that um that that's the case. We are we are definitely as people creatures of habit and uh that habit la was you know Tho you know, almost two thousand years old actually. Um these are s Okay, these are some of the first um the first manuscripts. Uh the this is the very first, as far as we know, it's called Papyrus fifty-two. It's the first manuscript or first manuscript fragment that we have. It's seven lines long from John eighteen, thirty-one through thirty-three. And um I'll just give you a couple of things about this, about just the whole idea of papyrus and and manuscripts as we're going through this. If you're ever doing any reading on this, this will help you or studying on this. Sometimes you'll see, there are so many manuscripts in the New Testament. Old Testament's not quite that way, but in the New Testament, you've got tons of manuscripts and manuscripts fragments Um many, many, many. And so what they do is they just put a little number. It'll be P, and if you see a P in italics with a number as a superscript in any of these books, that just means it's papyrus. And it's it's designated as as a specific papyrus. So this is papyrus fifty-two or p fifty-two. And it is the oldest fragment that we know of. It dates back to the second century. Then let's just look at extant manuscripts. In 303, Diocletian ordered the sacred scriptures of the Christians to be burned. But shortly after, Constantine halted the persecution. This is a very pivotal time in church history. So we have Diocletian that comes in and tries to snuff out the Bible. By the way, is that the only time in history we know about that? I tell you what, it's amazing if you look at history how many times Satan tries to snuff the Bible out. It it it happens over and over again. And Diocletian is an example of this when he does this. But it of course is not is not it doesn't work. The Christians will hide their Bibles and they'll keep them from being burned And then the c then Constantine only ten years later is then going to halt persecution with what is called the Edict of Milan. And uh and so the during the Edict of Milan, during the discussions the of the Edict of Milan you have basically um Constantine along with other uh leaders um uh of the Roman Empire that are saying that they're they're that are discussing how they can gr bring themselves greater prosperity. And they said to themselves, well, we need to have all of the gods on our side. And so if we're going to have all the gods, lowercase g on our side, we need to include this Christian guy. We need to stop making him so upset And so we need to let the Christians do what they want to do as well. And do you know, this is sort of a side note, but do you know it wasn't fifty years, it was less, it was like thirty-seven years. before Emperor Tertullian came into power, and he makes Christianity the legal religion in Rome. And then you have the Roman Catholic Church starts. That's the really the beginning of the Roman Catholic Church. It's just interesting that you have in fifteen years' time you go from Diocletian who's outlawing Bibles and burning them. to let's make it the official legal religion of the state. Is making Christianity the official legal religion of the state a good thing? No, it's not a good thing. Because Christianity needs to be, it is, it is, as we learn Ephesians, Christianity ought to be Transcend any nation, any nationality or any culture. Christianity is inclusive of all cultures and all nations, so that is not a good thing to have to happen. And in fact we find that Satan really through that uh begins to really um adulterate the gospel and it isn't long before you have the gospel that is really uh really uh um almost snuffed out by the time you get to the Middle Ages that's what's happening. Because they've taken all the paganism of the Roman culture and infused it into Christianity and that's how you get the Roman Catholic Church. All right. So the Edict of Milan resulted in the Christian church growing. That did happen in the beginning. But the Christian church growing numerically didn't necessarily mean better spiritually, frankly, in that case. And you have but during that time you do have fifty copies of the scripture that are copied for the church of Constantinople. That's one example. And so you have the proliferation of texts again during that time. Probably at this point they're pretty accurate because you have more controls on them, but by then at this point you don't have, you know, in the early early you know, fourth fur fourth century and fifth century, you don't really have the influence of paganism quite as much as you do later on. And so probably these are very accurate arguably the most accurate and will will of of the manuscripts that we have. And we'll look at that in a few moments. Fourth century, it was uh the work of monks, so we're now just a couple other things to look at fourth century, so fourth century, three To 400 AD. It's now the work of monks to study the copy of the scriptures. And then in 800 A. D. , Theodore the Studite I can't read that word. Abbott of the Stadium of Constantinople, which was well known for copying scriptures. A diet of bread and so this is what he said. Here's what he did. He put some strong controls on copyists for manus uh those who are going to copy manuscripts. A diet of bread and water was the penalty for set uh set for the scribe who became so much interested in the subject matter of what he was copying that he neglected the the his task of copying. Is that possible by the way? Have you ever done that before? I can't stand copying things for a long time. I can't So uh yeah I could definitely see that happening to me. I would be uh eating bread and oil all the time. Monks had to keep their parchment leaves neat and clean on the penalty of 130 pen uh penances. If anyone should take any uh take without permission another's a quatorian, that's um basically leaflets that they were using for prescribing things. Fit not fitty. Fifty pences were prescribed I think I'm from Baltimore. Fit fitty fitty pences for If uh if anyone should make more glue than he could use at one time and it should hard harden, he must do fifty pences And if uh a scribe broke a pen and a fit of temper, he had to do fifty do do penances. Why would a scribe be have a fit of temper? Can you imagine describing the entire book of Luke and getting to the end and messing up and having to start all over? Yeah, I could see it for the temple. And so he put these kind of controls controls going on. I want to talk now about paleography And the reason I want to talk about this is that the question becomes with all of these manuscripts and manuscript fragments, over 5,000 plus manuscripts and fragments you're gonna have to figure out how to date them. Well thankfully um we're pretty much creatures of habit and so we tend to write the same way for at least some period of time. Um have you noticed today, for example, that you rarely see somebody writing in cursive? Okay. Alright? They don't I don't think they teach it in school anymore. I still write in cursive. When I write, I I still write in cursive But a lot of people I think it's way easier than trying to write and write uh just and it's way faster. But I don't I I'm a lot of people don't write in cursive at all anymore. Well it's because we've got you know, we've got most people are typing everything. That's I'm doing well I do more typing than anything else too, but but most people are typing. I mean people now can type with their thumbs faster than they can write with a pen. So um So you have, you know, sort of a change but but you could think of if you if you have you ever noticed how neat it the average the average woman in their in their fifties in their fifties now and up. You can almost mark it down they have knee handwriting. Okay? Now I there's probably there's probably uh um ladies you don't have to say anything if you're an exception to that but usually uh that's what you have Uh not not the men. The men are all s chicken scratch. But the w but uh but the women you tend to have that. And you can tell that's a woman's handwriting. Have you ever done that before? Have you ever noticed that before? Now I don't know about now, but but uh a middle aged woman you can Am I getting myself in trouble by saying age and ladies and all that? Maybe I am. Too late, okay. I it's I'm complimenting you ladies. Alright, so what we're talking about here with paleography is that is that you can really date these manuscripts based on based on their how they're written, based on the writings, the kind of writings. And there are four main types of Greek letters that were used. You have capital letters And what we mean by capital, everybody knows what a capital letter is, but what you mean is what we mean by capital is very straight block letters. And I'll show you a couple examples of these. straight block letters with very little curving going on at all. That's a capital letter. Then you have unseals. An unseal is a capital letter but it has curves. Okay? And those are the the the earliest the s earliest manuscripts like that fragment that I showed you, that was really more of a capital letter, but the next one, these are unsiols, they have curved capitals And that's, you could tell those all, you know, really they use those a lot all the way from the first century all the way through the sixth century. That's a very long time period that they use those. You've got um you've got uh uh What does that say? Yeah, you have I have breaks between words even though that there were no breaks between words and on seals. That's interesting. Anyway So during the time period you had no pr you had no breaks in between words. The irony of that is just amazing. Um I I wish I did that on purpose. Anyway, you had uh no breaks at all in in in uh words, and so you had the same kind of thing in the early manuscripts for Hebrew as well. So sometimes, occasionally Not very often, but occasionally you would have it a little confused as to what were what words were together. And so it may factor in with the meaning a little bit But not nearly as much as in Hebrew because in Greek you have such specificity when it comes to the language and you have endings that are so clear and stems that are so so clear that um it it happens far less often. But occasionally you might have that in this time. Period, but not usually. You have then cursive letters from the third century to the ninth century. So you have an overlap, of course, you see there with unseals and cursive letters between the 6th century and 9th century. between third century and ninth century there. But you have cursive letters during that time period. And then you have what are called minuscule letters. They're basically cursive letters but much smaller, much more efficient. You can put a lot more on one page when you're using these minuscule letters. And the reason again for all of the knowing all these is not that you need to know all these, but basically these is the this is how scholars date the different things. What is 9th century BC versus or AD versus you know third third or fourth century or second century or something. Two hundred and seventy-four minuscule manuscripts outnumber unsealed manuscripts by about eight to one. So you have a lot of minus minus manuscripts. They're very, very common. You've got, then you also have, just just as we're thinking about these manuscripts and you'll see these words read and and stuff, you'll have something, and I don't even know how to pronounce this, but it's palimpsis. Something like that. So you have that. And what it is, it's rescraped manuscripts. So basically you would scrape it down, because I mean uh parchment and Um papyrus, those kinds of well especially parchment was was um you know expensive and hard to make and so they would scrape it down and reuse it. Um and so about twenty percent of the unsealed manuscripts are rescraped. Um later on, I think I have in here somewhere, but later on that was actually outlawed, but it didn't work very well. But anyway, we'll see that in a In a few minutes. Codex Ephraim was one of the manuscripts, the fifth century manuscript that was erased and replaced in the twelfth century man uh by uh uh thirty-eight sermons on the treaties of Ephraim uh fourth century Syrian fathers. So that would be an example that actually you had it was originally a fourth century man a fifth century manuscript. It was a fifth century manuscript, but it was originally a fourth century treatise of sermons. They scratched out the sermons and they and they used it for that. Any problem with that? I would have a problem scratching out the Bible, but if you want to scratch out sermons to put the Bible down, it doesn't really really bother me. Um 692, you had the same thing. These were outlawed for scriptural copying But it was actually still practiced occasionally, even though it was outlawed. Because um Yeah. Could it be they scrambled down just because they messed up and they don't want to move that Um I don't think so. Usually what we're talking about is not scraping it down right away. This is like they've been used for something for a while and you know fifty years later they want to scrape it down and use it for something else. I don't think that would apply in in in that particular case. I think that's a good question. I don't know if they ever actually like had a mistake. I I would have I would bet that if it were in the same I don't know if this would sure. But I think that in if it were in the same time, they would reuse their paper or their or their or their parchment. They would reuse it. They would they would clear it all off and reuse it right in that time period. But that wouldn't be the same thing as this What happens sometimes, I think, is because you have this practice going on, you sometimes have these underlying things that with certain chemicals will come out and you have all these hidden things. Um and then you have all this superstition going on. You you have these hidden books that are inside other things when you put you know you know, like National Treasure, you know, I'm talking about when they took all the how many of you watched National Treasure? Okay. That's a really very crude example of what I'm talking about. But uh, you know, something like that. It doesn't necessarily mean that it was accurate, so you have to be careful careful there a little bit The earliest known manuscripts of Paul of the Pauline epistles was papyrus 46. This is just, I'll give you a picture. I know you all can read that from there. Um of course you wouldn't be able to read it even if you're up here probably. I can't even read it and I know Greek. But um anyway, so that's an example. Um this is Codex Saniaticus, this is fourth century. I put it nice and big so you guys could see that. See, these are these are unsiols Well you you think they're block letters, but they're the the block capitals, but these are unseals and you see that there's no there's and within these there are there are no breaks or anything They're just word words on top of each other. That word pater, for instance, that's the word father. I just picked that one out But anyway, it's really hard when there's not when there's not space. Um so that's an example of Codexanianicus. Codex Venicanus is fourth century as well, and um you really can't see that. Um but that would be an example. Unseals. Here's an example of an unsealed fragment. This is another one. And sometimes that's what they look like. That that other one that's satok that's real nice and clean This one is not not nearly as clean. You've got it it looks like erasure marks. You've got um you've got underlining in some areas And it's because you're talking about these being just copied everywhere, because everybody wants a copy of these. Every Christian wants a copy of their Bible. And so you have that have that going on. The farther along s the centuries went, you have You have that happening until until uh certain time periods when the scribes really really started taking over. Or until you, you know, everything was standardized once you had the the printing Press and uh now we can just take a picture of things. Anyway, um helps for readers. You also found that there would be helps for readers in these manuscripts. Like division in the text, that's always helpful. Codex Venicanus, for example, fourth century, it has 170 sections in Matthew alone, um, 62 sections in Mark, 150 seconds So we're not talking about chapters yet. Chapters don't come till way later, chapters and verses, but you have that that going on even uh even in the fourth century You have this archbishop dude in the 6th century who has divided uh Revelation into 24 parts. And um you have Eusebius who makes notations and gives you parallel passages of things. And that goes all the way back to the fourth century. Uh Eusebius, I believe, is fourth century. And so uh you you have you have, you know, you think of strong concordance or some of these tools that we have. Those kinds of tools They even did all the way back in the fourth century to show you parallel passages and cross-references and things like that. That's significant, I think, just to demonstrate the importance of these kinds of tools. You know, if they i if they being so close to the original manuscripts thought it necessary to to have these kinds of tools to really understand God's word, it's very likely that we need them too Uh Stephen Langdon, um this is the first um real attempt or real um I mean he he introduced the idea of chapter divisions in the Latin Vulgate. This is eleven eleven fifty, just to give you give you a perspective. This is when it started. This is way, way into the future with the Latin Vulgate, and uh these were later added to to translation. Punctuation marks, very few punctuation marks appear in the earliest manuscripts as well. Actually in the Greek you don't really have a lot of punctu you don't they don't use even in the more even in the later manuscripts you don't have a lot of punctuation. It's not a ton of it. Mm-hmm. There's different ones that they use, but um it's not a lot of punctuation like we use today. Certainly you would never have four exclamation points together like you have on Facebook. Um you wouldn't have anything like that back then. Um few punctu punctuation marks appear in the earliest manuscripts. I said that already. Um And you do find a few in forty-six and sixty-six papyrus, which is around two hundred AD. By the way, that brings up something. Have you ever heard that we don't have any manuscripts before fourth century? Have you ever heard that before? We have no manuscripts before fourth century. say no I'm not I'm not a geek like you. Okay, well I I've heard that before. Um you do have manuscripts before the fourth century, but you don't have you don't have um Frag you you they're all in fragments. You don't have complete New Testaments before the fourth century. Everything is is in fragments Verses and divisions, uh verse divisions and glosses, uh current verse divisions, the ones we use now are by Robert Stephanus, who published a Greek and Latin Bible, a very good Greek Bible, by the way. I have I have it, I have one of them one. And uh Latin edition of the New Testament in uh in Geneva in fifteen fifty one. And the first English Bible to include verse divisions was the G was the Geneva Bible in fifty si fifteen sixty, which was a very good Bible. Geneva Bible was a was a good Bible. Um I believe you can see a Geneva a cop um I don't know if it's the original. I think it might be The original Geneva Bible in the Library of Congress. I think you can see it there. And I think there's the Great Bible there as well. It's been a while since I've been down there, but Um they're in they're in cases, in um uh gas-filled cases to preserve them. It's pretty neat. And uh it's the front it's it's like the central thing in the Library of Congress You walk right in and you got you know you go through a thing, you've got two Bibles. By the way, if you ever want to go down the Library of Congress, that's my favorite tour of every of any of the um any of the the museums. It's out, it's just a great tour. Um it's really neat. Uh the first uh uh most people don't realize they they're used to the Museum of Natural History but and things like that, but don't miss the Library of Congress. really good one. Um the first English Bible to do it was the Junior Bible. Okay. You also had something called lectionaries. Lectionaries uh the church had developed a system of uh uh Bible readings for the Old and New Testament so that they would go through the entire Bible in a year's time. And so that was a clear system of Bible readings. Every Sunday morning they would read scripture so that they would get through or actually Um I don't know if they did it only Sunday mornings or they would do it throughout the week. I'm not sure. I mean we know first century they were meeting daily, but I don't know that they were doing that later on. But anyway they had this system And so you have some manuscripts that are not not in organize they're not organized according to the way we are used to organizing them, but they're still valuable because all they were really the reason that they were copied the way they were copied was simply to to be able to put them in a form for their worship so that they could do it so that they could uh read through the Bible um over the course of actually probably over the course of several years. But they knew that they were systematically reading through the Bible It's not a bad idea, I'll tell you what. I was thinking I was reading this and I'm thinking maybe we ought to do something like that. Um letter abbreviations. Um uh for example uh ark and uh and tell uh what these are basically you'll see these abbreviations for beginning and end these two words this is i my way of transliterating Greek which I'm not very good at. But anyway, you've got RK which means beginning and tell which means end. And so basically you'll see these that's the start and stop of these lectionaries. Alright, let me go through this a little bit because I think You guys are getting bored. Um they were later written separate to become others or separate. Okay, artistic editions by the Byzantine period you have manuscripts that bore ornamental headings and pictures. Pictures were often used to teach the reader the significance of a specific passage or to highlight the important concepts. Scripture manuscripts during the Middle Ages often included elaborate art. So you have art that's being attached to things. And by the Middle Ages, you're talking about really elaborate art. And if you go to the Walters Art Museum, you can see that in uh in the mm the m the uh middle middle they have a middle aged time period and you go in there and it's it's extremely ornate and extremely elaborate. It's interesting but it's most of it's a a a bunch of But anyway, um that's my academic word for the reason. Uh then you have Koloffs um from about th these are from the from about 8th century onward, much of the copying process was performed in monasteries by monks who spent many hours each day standing at the desk often damp and cool, cooly poorly lit conditions. These were notes at the end of manuscripts often expressing relief and joy for the scri uh of the scribe upon completing a copy. I think there were relief and joy over over having the sense of accomplishment, not just having it done. But others may mention difficulties in they encountered in the copying process. For instance, an Armenian manuscript. Alright, this is a lot of lot of detail. Okay, let's talk here then about textual variance. Alright, so what you have here is you have all these different manuscripts being printed and copied everywhere, all over the place. And And they're not really done by professional scribes. I mean, really a manuscript. Just think about this for a minute. A manuscript, you all, if you have a copy of God's word, you have a manuscript. 200 years from now, this is a manuscript. It's not technical. A manuscript is actually handwritten, but it's like a manuscript. Um so so everything anything is anything that anybody has that is scripture is included in this in this in this um overarching uh uh th thing called manuscripts. Um and so you have uh so you have textual variance. You have of course with all these manuscripts you have different differences between these manuscripts. manuscripts. Textual so and we call these differences textual variances. Now, I want to address this because if you haven't heard of this before, this is one of the main things that people try to talk about to and sometimes to disprove the Bible or to argue for its for its um you know the fact that it's not not um not something that's really really uh accurate, those kinds of things And so I want to address this. And I'm going to address this more next Sunday night. It's really going to come down to really clear, really important things next Sunday night here. I had to do all this from as far as back background is concerned so we could understand There are many more New Testament textual variances than there are the Old Testament due to the amount due to so many manuscripts being copied. There are relatively few textual variants in the New Testament. There's approximately 10% of the New Testament has variances. among manuscripts. Now you think that's a lot, but that is not a lot when you're considering 5,000 plus manuscripts. It's really not a lot. And we're talking about anything is a variance. For example, the greatest number of variances are differences or errors in spelling The Codex Vaticanus spells John with one N or the Greek letter nu, and usually it's spelled with two news. It makes no difference in the meaning, right? I mean whether it's spelled with one in or two, it makes no difference. That's the m the majority of of the variances The second largest group of variances arise because of the omission of small Greek words or variations in word order. You do have variations in word order. I mentioned this a couple of weeks ago, I think like four weeks, three or four weeks ago, we were in Ephesians, and there was definitely a different word order based upon what manuscript I was or what what text I was looking at And ultimately, it didn't really the meaning didn't matter. It was just a different word order. The only thing that you you had to do is you had to make sure that the word that you were was associated with the right other word But in the Greek that's not a big deal because you have things called endings in the Greek that help you make the connections and you have genders that will help you make the connection so you know what's relating to what. So you don't have, that's, again, we're really talking about something that makes no difference in the meaning. And then in rare cases a scribe will accidentally change a letter or alter the meaning, like in Luke 6. 41. A pi is used instead of a phi. Now that's going to matter. One letter will matter, because it can change the entire word. So it says, why do you look at a fruit at the fruit in your brother's eye? When it should say, why do you look at the what? At the speck in your brother's eye. Or or the uh the beam, but I think it's the speck in in this case. So you have a difference here. Well, how do we solve this problem? We have lots of manuscripts, don't we? You're going to look at the majority of the manuscript evidence of what you have and you're going to say, oh, that was just a simple mistake. You've got the preponderance of manuscripts that are telling you that doesn't mean fruit there Okay? And that's it's uh it's just really that simple. This is not ha this is not a difficult thing. Uh so that's that's something to consider. And of the remaining van variances, folks, there is no major doctrinal differences at all. I mean, you have an entire New Testament and no major doctrinal differences With any of the 5,000 manuscripts, with any of the textual variances. And the majority of the remaining variances occur between the oldest manuscripts. This is This is the remaining variances. You do have lots of variances between the oldest manuscripts, which is the Alexandrian text type, and the younger manuscripts, which are the Byzantine text type. So you have like the end of Mark, which is In not in the Alexandrian text type, which is older, and but you do have it um in the Byzantine manuscripts that are much later. Alexandrian Mex mm tep text types. How many of you all know you have two major ones, two major almost complete or complete new testaments depending on how you're looking at at it that go back to the fourth century. What are they? Does anybody know? We've got two. The Vaticanus and the Syniaticus. Those are the two. Okay? That's fourth century. When does the first Byzantine manuscript, Byzantine text type appear? Does anybody know that? Alright, the first one is 5th century, but it's only the Gospels, and the rest of it is Alexandrian text type. So you have a mixture in the 5th century between the two, Byzantine and Alexandrian. But the next one's not until the ninth century. Byzantine text types don't come into play uh prolifically until you get to the ninth century. That's your that's your your oldest of the of the latest uh manuscripts in that time period. And that, very f frankly, is where most of the the controversy lies when in within you're dealing with the text. It's right there in that in in this area. And you're basically between two families of text, essentially between two. the Alexandrian text type and the Byzantine text type. Now I'm going to go into detail next Sunday night. I I try not so much detail, I'll bore you, but I really want to cover this. This is really where you're boiling down the text. Let's pray. Lord, thank you all. Thank you, Lord, for your word. And uh Lord, I pray that you would help us to know the kind of foundation that we have. It is a firm foundation. We know that you have preserved your word so that we can have a true revelation of yourself. I pray, Lord, that you would uh just bless this study and that would it would equip us as we answer. people and and uh have a grasp of what we're dealing with Lord and that we would make sure that that we would take a humble approach to this that we would not think in any way that we have an angle on this or that other people are out to wash, that we would really just work through this and and um have a genuine um Desire to know the truth and then to live by it. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.