Uh why they would and the criteria for that. Now what we're going to do is sort of narrow the subject and talk about the individual We're still talking about the books, we're talking about the manuscripts as a whole, uh, but we're sort of narrowing it down to talking about individual words and chapters and books and how all of that came came about in what is the transmission of the Old Testament text. Just so you're aware, what we're going to be doing tonight is that, and then we'll look at Old Testament textual criticism next week. Then after that, we will look at New Testament, the transmission of the New Testament text, and then New Testament transmission uh textual criticism. Then we'll look at the history of the English Bible and just which is an amazing story, just the history of of the Bible, of the English Bible and how it was brought uh to us. It's just incredible the lives that were sacrificed for that. And then we'll look at the this the whole Bible translation issue. So that's sort of our our our process. Joel Porchet is at some point going to be coming back. And uh he'll he'll stick his head in at some point and I'll and I'll s and we we're talking about when he'll do that. And when he's around, I'm I'm having him help me out here with different different parts of this. But I do hope that tonight will be a night that will be very encouraged encouraging for all of us as we see God's providential hand in his work to preserve his word. There is no question about this. And secular, truthful, honest, secular scholars have to agree with this, that there is no ancient book. None that comes even close to having the manuscript support of the Bible that the Bible does. Not even close. And uh you're going to see some of the some of this tonight. Um you hopefully received on your way in a I think a really rather extensive bibliography on the whole issue of transmission of texts and And translations and all of that. Um and you know, basically I'm challenging you to read every one of those books and memorize them. No I'm not I'm not challenging you to do that. But what I would encourage you to do, if you want to choose one book that really will help you, I would encourage you to get to get this one. It's called The Journey of the It's In Your Bibliography. The Journey From text to translation, the origin and development of the Bible by Paul D. Wegener. It goes over canonicity like Joel went over, and it also goes over the transmission of the text and does deal a little bit with translations. It's not it doesn't go into detail into any one subject, but it gives you a good well it goes into some detail. You can see how thick it is. It's not real thin. So it goes to some detail. It has pictures, which I always like. That's always helpful. I can I feel more accomplished when I can read a page faster because half of it's a picture and I can get through More pages. So that's that's this kind of a book that we're talking about here. Uh it it will be it's a it's a it's a good book if you say, well I'm not gonna buy the whole all those books on that bibliography Of course I don't know why you wouldn't do that. But if you decide that you can't spend the money on the bibliography, one book that I would encourage you to consider buying I bought this one used on Amazon And you might be able to get this one used and go through it. This is sort of a one-stop shop for every for a lot of what we're discussing. I would encourage you to get that one. Several other books are down here that you can take a look at. This is my collection of books that I've been using. I have a few others, library books, uh, that I've gotten from a local seminary, um, but I didn't put those out because I'm in big trouble if I get ri if if if I lose those. So anyway, um but these are ones that you can take a look at. You might want you might find that you like one or two of them that you want to want to uh don't steal mine, go ahead and just write down the information. Actually all of those are on that bibliography as well. You can circle them. Take a look and and peruse afterwards and take a look at the different books that are are there to give you more of a um more of a uh understanding of the subject. The other thing I want to do is this is a neat little Comparis, it's a comparison chart. You can get this off of Amazon. At least I got mine off of Amazon. Bible Translations comparison. I'll let you know I'll put that down there too. You can take a look at it. It compares twenty different translations. It's got a lot of information. It's all pretty basic on one hand one end. But if you want to just kind of compare right next to each other where the different manuscripts you know, which which versions use which manuscripts. You might find some things surprising. For example, did you know that the New King James Old Testament manuscript is sa a little different than the than the than than um uh the Actually, the the Old Testament manuscript for the King James is different than is somewhat different than the Old Testament manuscript for the New American Standard, for example. Or did you know this? Did you know that the New American Standard New Testament manuscript that's primarily used is completely different text, or not completely, none of them are completely different, but is a different text than the NIV. You have two different texts for the New Testament. And both of those are different than the King James and the New King James use. The King James and the New King James use the exact same text for the New Testament. Exactly the same. So anyway, this explains all of that. It also will tell you different gradient uh reading levels of the different translations, they've been graded. How many of you all think w what is the hardest grading level of all the translations, would you think Good. You're right, the King James. What is what that's twelfth grade. What is the next one? New Air B. Okay, good, right, the New American Standard, that's the next one. Okay, that's 11th grade. The American standard is hard. It's very wooden. I it it's it's it's very technical. How about um what's the next what do you think that what are some easy ones? Okay, the message is a I don't think that's in here. Is is interesting. Um ESV has a pretty low yeah, uh the ESV is around an eighth grade level. New em how about the New King James? Where do you think New King James falls? Ninth grade, ninth grade level. Good. Good. Okay. So that ch just sort of gives you an idea of the of of just if you want to look at the different different um Basic overview of everything. It'll tell you about the basic manuscript families in the in the Greek New Testament. Did you know there's three, not two? Or at least three basic ones Okay, not only two. Anyway, there's lots of good information in that, and then that's the reader's digest version of all of that. And you say, well, why don't you just buy us this instead of giving us that bibliography? Well um If you want to know why this is the case and verify that, then that will help you. Alright, so that's all the what I want to go over, just as far as different books that we can look into. Uh and I encourage you to to uh pick up if if if no other book, pick up I encourage you to pick up this one. That this one would be a big help to you. I'll put down there so So you can take a look at that. Let's go ahead and go to the Lord in prayer and then we'll get into our study tonight. Father, I just thank you, Lord, for the privilege of being able to go through this tonight. Thank you that you have so far maintained our freedom in this country, that we can freely teach your word and preach it. And we have you have given us all kinds of resources so that we can really understand where our Bible comes from. I pray, Lord, that as a result of tonight, there would be a greater confidence and and an encouragement in knowing that in the in the reality of how How your word is such, has such solid footing. And I pray that this would be clearly evident tonight. We pray these things in Christ's name Amen. Alright. So we're going to look at the transmission of the Old Testament text. So we're going to look at various manuscripts and that kind of a thing. This isn't working. That's all right. We uh it's not working any it's okay, I could do this. A couple of considerations to start off with. The term manuscript will start real simple. Manuscript just means it's written in by hand. Okay, so anything prior to the Gutenberg printing press is a manuscript. Because you had to write by hand. You think of uh manual labor, that's hand labor. So manuscript is written by hand. Uh the old uh the the new the uh there's no original manuscripts at all in either testament. Okay, what we're talking about is the original autographs that the actual authors pinned. You don't have any for the Old Testament, and you don't have any for the New Testament. They're all gone. Okay? So the original The original manuscript that Isaiah penned is not available for us. Um maybe this is working now. Good. All right. I thought you guys were doing something back there. Alright, thank you. And then do that. Ah, nice. Okay. Alright, by the time this whole series is over, I'll figure out this thing. All right. Um So why are there no the question we'll just ask real quickly, why are there no manuscripts uh why is there no original autographs Probably in some cases we're talking about age and decay because many of them are written on animal skin. Jewish calamities such as the Babylonian captivity, there would have a lot of the older manuscripts would have been destroyed. This is probably the most the most likely and seems to be unquestioned by most of the different scholars. They all seem to agree on this. And the reason for that is we actually have we have documentation on their on the scribes' methodology in doing this. But basically the scribes disposed of the ones that showed signs of wear So if once a manuscript got old, they would actually have a a whole ceremony of just letting the manuscript of of disposing of the manuscript. They did it all very, very reverently and very respectively, but they felt it was more respectful to dispose the manuscript in that way than to keep using the manuscript when it was inferior because of where And so we don't have and so we don't have original manuscripts. But let me just ask this question, and this is a just a question to think about. One more is that people would seek to destroy the work of the Bible from time to time as well throughout history, and so you might have a reduction in manuscripts from that. Of course, we're going to find that God really preserves his word very well, and we'll see that in just a few moments. But why do you suppose, I I've just thought about this, why do you suppose that God would see fit in his sovereignty to not allow us to have the original autographs, the original manuscripts. And um I'm gonna answer the question. That was sort of a rhetorical question. Um I think so, I think it's because this is my personal opinion, but I think it's probably because we would worship those manuscripts. Um we are so inclined to base our faith on a form or to base our faith on a on a An object that we're just so inclined to do that God puts his word above his very name But he does not want us to worship a form. He doesn't want us to worship an object. That's a graven image. It would be a conflict for us to have God's word be a graven image. I mean that would be so I think in I personally is a personal opinion, but I think in God's sovereignty. I could be wrong about this. But uh I think in God's sovereignty he allowed uh the autographs to to just move off of the scene. He could have in his sovereignty chosen to p preserve them by his you know by his own omnipotence, but he chose not to do that A couple of things when we're looking at manuscript formats, just so you know the vernacular, as you're reading some of these books, I know you all are going to go home and read these, you'll need to know the terminology Scrolls, of course, you know what they are. They're you know things that are rolled up. And then you have the term codex, which is basically a book at su at at a certain point in history. They moved from well they in sort of the book was sort of or the codex was invented. It was interesting though that when the codex was invented, they didn't stop using scrolls. Even though it's Books are far more efficient. I mean, really far more efficient. But people are just not inclined to change. Even if even why even if there's no practical reason to keep using scrolls for a long time They continued to use them for no other reason that I could find than just they're not people are not inclined to change. But eventually, you know, people did kind of realize that scrolls were a little bit um you know, kind of not as efficient as as books. And so they have that uh we we have codexes Papyri uh as well is uh in parchment. What's the difference between papyri and paparchment and parchment? Papyri is an alumni Alright, good. Okay. Um and uh so you have the differences there. Let's go on. Can you all see this? Probably not. All right. Um you all need better glasses for next time, so no. Um no actually what I'm going to do is I'm going to I'm going to email you all of this after we're we're finished. So you will be able to see it when it's up close. But basically what you have is a timeline here of when the different uh the different texts, when they were discovered. and what they date back to, the different Old Testament manuscripts. So you'll have all of that that I will email to you on this slide and you'll be able to get that. But you'll you'll know where to identify it just by looking at that picture. And so we'll uh we'll get into that as we move forward here. All right, maybe if I push the button this time. Okay, the Old Testament text. So what we're going to do now is we're going to start moving our way through history and looking at the different texts. in order that they were that they were written in. In other words, where how they dated. Some books and lectures would would take it based upon would would go in order of when they were discovered. You could do that. We we could do that tonight. But I just think in the way my brain works, I would rather start from the earl earliest and go forward as far as when the manuscripts were were were written rather than having to think through um uh when they were discovered and then trying to compare the two. So that's just the way my brain works. I think it'll be easier for for me anyway and hopefully it'll be easier for you as well. But I will point out when the they were discovered as we go along. The Old Testament text prior to eighty one hundred, okay? Uh there are Of course, questions concer- let's just ask some questions concerning the early text. Until 1952, or right around there, little was known about the Hebrew text of this time period So we had prior to 1952 we had really no, very few, we have a few and I'll mention those, but very few manuscripts that were prior to 8100 Some examples that we did have was the we had the septigent, that's the Old Testament Greek translation of the Old Testament. So when you hear the Septuagint, that's the Greek translation of the Old Testament. What language is the Old Testament written in? Good, Hebrew. Okay. The Greek translation of Hebrew we did have, and that was uh written prior to AD 100. So keep that in mind. The Septuagint does does factor into things from time to time as we as we'll uh we'll learn as we move along here. Then you also have the Nash papyrus and as far as we can tell that was before 8100 And I'll show you a couple of pictures of these in just a minute. But those are prior to 8100 that we didn't have up to 1952. However, with the discovery of the Dead Sea Scrolls, we have a lot prior to that time. It provided a great number of manuscripts from 250 BC all the way to 8050. You know, before the Dead Sea scrolls, just to kind of keep you aware, we'll compare this to the New Testament, we actually had New Testament manuscripts. that were written, our earliest New Testament manuscripts were written. We had them, and they were older than our earliest Old Testament manuscripts Okay? And we'll talk a little bit more about that in the future. But but with the introduction of the Dead Sea Scrolls and you had a lot of Dead Sea, a lot of them. So a good deal. And every book of the Bible, with the exception of Esther, um and I think Song of Solomon were the two that that weren't weren't found. Uh everything else, the Dead Sea Scrolls, uh there they had at least segments from and most of the time whole books. Um But that from this time period you had the Hebrew script was different than what you would read in a in a more modern Hebrew manuscript. They called it Paleo-Hebrew, in fact. So it was sort of a very um very primitive Hebrew. The earliest writings had no spaces at all. Could you imagine reading text with no spaces? You would run into problems uh and there was like this one for example. Okay, if we did this with we're doing this with English because you can't read Hebrew, right? Okay, so let me ask you a question. No spaces here. What is this saying? Alright, now let's just practice this for a minute. It says God is nowhere, or it may say God is now here. If you're finding this in the Bible, which one do you suppose it's saying? God is now here, right? Do you suppose, now here's my point in saying this, do you suppose that even in the earliest stages of translation, using your mind to determine what would be in the Bible would help you translate? Right? It would. It was necessary. Translators did not, it's not just a matter of blind translation. Anyone who has any experience with translation knows that that it it isn't a word for word I'm just gonna translate like this. Nothing is like that with translation. Okay? There is always some level of interpretation when you're translating. How many of you all know a different language outside of English? Okay. Know it well enough to know what I'm saying here basically. G definitely does. You know how many languages is G? A bunch, right? Five, five different languages. Am I right on this? Thank you. Don't tell me I'm wrong. That would be good. Anyway, no. Anyway. No, I it it definitely is true. There's no question about that. You do the the idea of a word for word translation is impossible Okay. That's just not not really realistic. You can have more what I would call wooden translations, more that are are are built on a particular philosophy of of translation. We're getting into translations. I'm I'm I'm I'm uh digressing here a little bit. But just to understand that in the earliest manuscripts you would have these kinds of things that would that had interpretive problems. And keep that in mind because this was fixed later on by a very a really good system and you'll see what that is in a few minutes. Uh Amos 612 would be an example of if how the wording we won't take the time to look at that, but how the wording order and and how it was all you could train you could mean two different things based upon that. That was one of the ones they sort of struggled with, knowing which way to go. And the context actually tells you which one. But anyway Just give you some pictures of the septuagent. Those two are are just basic pictures. Of course, you'll see these better when I send them to you, but you'll see that you'll see it's just rows and rows, uh in this case of Greek letters. Most of them are unseals, which means they're cap capitals. And then you have the the written text out here, which is is for somebody who actually knows Greek is like so much better. It's this I'm I'm squinting to pick out words and then when it's actually on paper I'm I'm looking at it and going, uh you know, I can actually read it so it's always a a blessing. Um I I I like it when I I I I it's a little humorous when um we'll watch my dad and I will watch a bug show and some he something Hebrew or Greek will come on and say, Can you read that? Can you read that? Squinting trying to read it. It's really, really hard if it's not on paper and there's no spaces. All right. Um Pictures of a Nash papyrus. Okay, this is that one really, really old one that we had prior to the discovery of the Dead Sea Scrolls. And then finally pictures of the Dead Sea Scrolls. I mean you could see the difference, the difference in the in the completion of them and everything. And so anyway, we'll talk about we'll talk about what all this means in a few moments. During this time period you had very significant environment Really, actually, all the way through you have extremely significant involvement of the scribes. You don't have scribes in the New Testament New Testament writings, but you do have scribes in the Old Testament. Well, what did these scribes do? Well, uh their involvement was from 500 BC all the way through 80100. The early scholars, according to the Babylonian Talmud, were called Sophorim because they used to count all of the letters in the Torah. count every letter to make sure that they were getting things right as far as when they transmitted from one manuscript to another. I'm not talking about translation here, I'm talking about transmission. So when you when they're transmitting, they're just copying over Okay, what do we do now when we want to copy something? Throw it on a copy machine. Okay, they of course didn't have that. So they're you they had you had to have somebody to do all of that. And the scribes were very, very meticulous in their and and what they were doing. We actually find sort of this writing, this general writing process in 1 Chronicles chapter 2. And I'm sorry, that's not right. It should be 2 Chronicles 36. Not sure why that says that. And Jeremiah 36 as well. And we won't take the time to look at that for now. Um but what you have basically when you're talking about the Methodist scribes is everything was God would would it would it'll say thus the prophet would say thus saith the Lord, Isaiah or whoever would say, thus saith the Lord. And the scribes would be sitting down and listening to to every word and they would copy down every word. Sometimes God would say, Speak it and write it. And the scribes, when they knew, okay, that means I need to write it, and they would listen to it and they would write it down for generations That was the original work of the scribes. The Old Testament was inscribed in on many letter scrolls. For the sake of continuity, this is just interesting, for the sake of continuity, the scribes would write the final words of one scroll in the beginning of another. So they wanted to make sure that they were not missing anything. So the Old Testament scribes, they would they would to make sure that nobody thought that there was that there were no gaps, they would always start one one when they move from one scroll to the other, you don't have to do this with a book, right? But imagine mass massive scrolls and you have massive scrolls that You can't even fit an entire necessarily an entire Old Testament book in one scroll, so you've got to move to the next one. Well, they're going they're going to write the beginning, the end of the um the end of the one scroll on the beginning of the next so that you could see you could see the continuity. They're very careful about that kind of thing. And scrolls were used in synagogues even after codex uh became popular. I mentioned that earlier, the private use in the second century uh in the synagogues. I guess they just liked opening the things or something. It is kind of cool, you know, open them all up and everything. Um so they they kept them. The origin of the scribes texts. There is some disagreement in this area. It's hard to tell, you know, when you're looking at ancient things and you weren't there how what the different you know, different texts are and and things like that. But our best our best understanding is that you have three three basic families of texts. You have the Palestinian text, that is the Samaritan Pentateuch, the Masoretic text only of Chronicles, and that's actually important, and the several Qumran texts. Then you have, and the Qumran text came from where? Okay, good. Can't the Qumran came from Qumoran actually, but just north of the Dead Sea. Okay. They were they're part of the two the Dead Sea scrolls. You have number two, Babylon, the Babylon Nazaretic text, okay, just generally the Babylonian family. of texts. Usually they were they were kept, they were preserved. The reason they come up by name is they were preserved during the Babylonian captivity. And you have in Egypt the Septuagint. So those are just sort of major families. Folk, let me just ask you this question. Who knows this? Which is the most reliable of these three families? By far I heard se if you said Septuagint you're not right. Um by far the Masoretic text. And we'll you'll see that in a few moments. Okay? Uh Septuagint's a good guess since we were talking about that earlier, but it wouldn't be The Masoretic text is the most reliable, and we'll see why in a few moments. The development of the Hebrew vowels, just so you understand exactly kind of a little bit about this The original manuscripts, the original autographs, did not likely contain vowels at all. Okay, what's a vowel? Okay, does any English word not have a vowel? I don't know of any, but but but there's not very many if there are, okay? Um I'm sure there is some, you know Somebody played Scrabble a lot and figured that out. But anyway, for the most most of the time there's not a lot of vowels and I mean there's a lot of vowels and and you can't make words very well without vowels. And you certainly can't pronounce words without vowels. Right? So so they didn't have any vows because prior to you know our modern day I mean when I say modern I don't mean I mean Ancient modern. Um prior to more modern days, you didn't mo most everything was spoken. You had some things written down, but most things were spoken, and people didn't need need to have the bow vows written because they knew how to pronounce the word without the vows. Have you ever tried that before though? You can write, you can take English words and you can write just the consonants and you have space as long as you have space in between. A lot of times your b your your brain will automatically fill in the vowels for them. How many of you have ever tried that before? Okay, yeah On Facebook sometimes you'll see somebody try to do that. Anyway. Well, it's the same kind kind of concept. You don't have to have vows if you really know the language well. They gotta be there, but you don't have to have them written down there And so the original text didn't have vowels, the old manuscripts didn't have any vowels, except occasionally it looks like perhaps they used consonants to sometimes work as vowels. The Masoretic text, the Samarit uh Samaritan Text Pentateuch and the Kumra materials used matres leccionas, I'm sure I'm saying that wrong, on imp an imprecise uh system of vowel endings This eventually moved to the Tiberian pointing system that was widely accepted and used today. This was perfected by a scribe named Aaron Ben Moses Ben Asher. Now you don't have to remember all those names, but that Ben-Asher name is a would be an important name. You'll see that in in all kinds of books on this. on this, that Ben Asher family of scribes. Okay. So they developed vowel pointings. They didn't come until later. We'll talk about that, I think we're we'll talk about that a little bit more later, what vowel pointings are. Um and and there there's a reason I want to talk about that. This is God's provision for it. These vowel pointings are God's provision. They were not inspired because they They didn't have them in the beginning. But I'm telling you, w if you've ever tried to read Hebrew without vowel pointings, it's in it's impossible. You can't tell the tell the present what tense it is or what or what uh what what mood it is. You can't tell these kinds of things. And so you have to have vowel pointings. Gee, can you read Hebrew? Okay. Oh man. Okay. Anyway, nah. But you you gotta have the vowel pointings. Uh uh because we don't know how things were pronounced. We'll we'll see a little bit more why that's important in a few moments. Alright, now we're gonna move we're gonna move now from AD 100 to 500 and look at the Old Testament text in that time period. We have the standardizing of the text in AD 100. Before that time, you had the Masoretes that were really preserving the texts. But they decided to really try to standardize everything during this time period. The text appears to have been standardized between these time periods. The Hebrew text from this time period was discovered In the Masada, the not the Nahal Heber and the Wadi Murabah You can tell um I just read these other books. Um the Masada is the what is cool. Um these are all around the these are all of course in Palestine, they're around the the Dead Sea, uh the location of the Dead Sea. And this, for example, is the masada. This is like a like a plateau, like a real High Plateau, an ancient fortification in southern district of Israel situated on the top of an isolated rock plateau akin to a Mesa Uh Rachel, you've probably seen Mesa's, right? Okay? So this is sort of like that. And Dad's seen Mesa. He goes out west and is a Western expert, even though he grew up in the East. And uh on the eastern edge of the Judean desert, overlooking the Dead Sea, Herod the Great built palaces for himself on the mountain fortified Mesada between 37 and 31 BCE. So We've got yeah, BC. Um we've got um that was a mistake. Uh we've so we've got this um plateau called the Masada, and they found scrolls up there. How many of you ever been to the Masada? Anybody anybody here? What one day I'd love to go to the sun. Okay, that's just that'd be so cool. Okay. Um then we have the Nahil Heaver. Um it's actually Nahal Uh Heb Heb heb Heber. The V is a B. And the a the Arabic would be Wadi al Uh Al-Kabab. It is an intermediate stream in the Judean Desert that flows from the Yada area to the Dead Sea. Okay, so you have another place. And then fine and then you have uh this other place as well that I'm not even going to try to pronounce. Um all these different different places where they discovered all of these different scrolls I want to point out that during this time you had also another family of scribes. You had the Ben Ashtra family of the Masoretic scribes that were continuing, but you had this group of scribes called the Tenaeam scribes. And they made some significant contributions for us. They're from A. D. 20 through 200. And they compiled the traditions expounding the Old Testament laws called the Mishnah. Alright, and many of them would not have been correct interpretations of of the Old Testament law, actually. And we have Christ coming on the scene and uh and pointing out the right interpretation of the Old Testament law. But one of the things that's in that's very helpful for us that's included in the Mishnah is their meticulous rules. that were developed for preserving Old Testament texts in the in the in the synagogues. They had very I mean I I read the rules Um and I didn't put all of them down here. You have to buy the books to get the rules. But they the met the book the m the rules are just meticulous on making sure that everything is correct. And God really used He used legalistic scribes who Christ condemned to be very meticulous when it came to the preservation of the Old Testament text. And it helps us, and we're going to make the assumption, I think this is a safe assumption, that they weren't the only scribes that that were meticulous, that really all the scribes, the Masoretes, we know that to be the case, were all extremely meticulous in preserving the Old Testament law and preserv and all of the Old Testament for us. The Amaram scribes for between 200 and 500 A. D. They had the they were the forming of the Talmud. It included further expositions and stipulations including included in the Mishnah and the Gemara, which is a commentary on the Mishnah. You know, you're getting pretty far removed from the actual Old Testament here, but um they would they added uh to this as well. They didn't they they did not I think now they really do sort of see it as as almost um can canonical or biblical, but at the time of their writings probably they didn't. Um Centered in two different areas, Babylon, Babylonia and Palestine. The minor they made minor corrections to the text Um note in the Biblia Hebraica uh and uh we'll see we'll see what I'm talking about in a few minutes here. So during this time period you have a standardized text, but they are going to make some minor corrections as they go through them. And you find that they're going to do this all the way through. Next next time period. The Old Testament is from 500 to 1000 A. D. You have this is the time, sort of the time as of the Masoretes, where they really are going to do a lot of very significant work. Wegner says these scribes were extremely careful and treated the text with great reverence They made meticulous notes regarding the text from regarding the number of letters used in the book to indicating the middle letter of the book so that they can make sure they have it all right. Oops, I didn't mean to go about from about eighty four hundred to eight hundred, you have vowel points, accents, maseras, as well as many other scribal corrections were added. Okay So at this point I just want to explain that basically it's not until this point. You have this the text that's standardized, but at this point the Masoretes went in and they included these vowel pointings. And they are extremely helpful for us. If they had not, they're not inspired, but had they not put these in here. Someone today would never have been able to read the Hebrew text because they wouldn't have known what the tenses are or things. They could have they could have known the b the basic vocabulary. You can know vocabulary without the vowel pointings, but you don't know any gr any grammar syntax w without the vowel pointings. And so, or not much anyway. And so they had they added these vowel pointings where basically it's like adding A-E-I-O-U to our words. Which allowed us to be able to interpret these tech these things. And they were so meticulous at doing so, and they understood what they were doing, that it was of great help help for us during this time period You have Masoretic notations that go on during this time period. The Masoretes added small diamonds over letters or words to indicate reservations, either textual or otherwise, or in content. The reading is about the reading, about the reading in about 15 places. One example is in Numbers 3. 39. They question the inclusion of Aaron there. All of these different points that the Masoretic, the questions that they had, none of them had any serious doctrinal significance. They're just things that they're just they're a little unsure about. They're extremely honest. And they looked at the they looked at what the manuscript evidence they had and they said, yeah, I'm not sure that really is supposed to be there. So they just made indications on things. in order for them to in order for us to be able to uh in order for them to be honest about things. Um There were uh there were some letters that were suspended during that time and then they have a the they had these things called perpetual jur They note notations made from the scribes that felt that the text was unsatisfactory for some reason. Or in some cases they didn't want to add vowel pointings in some cases. Like the the note the most notable one would be the ineffable tetragrammaton. So what is that? When you see in your King James Bible, you see the term Lord and it's capitalized L-O-R-D, usually there's a word behind that, it's Yahweh. And with that particular word, you don't find any vowel pointings. And the reason for that is that they did not feel you should be speaking that word. There were that, it's such a reverred, a revered word The word of God God his name, that that it's not something to be spoken, so they didn't include bow pointings on that. It just kind of gives us an indication to the kind of reverence that these These scribes had for God's word and for God, and it sort of speaks to their motive, if you would, in preserving the text for us. Alright, so then we get to the Hebrew text after a thousand, just so you're aware of of of this. The final menorah indicates the number of verses and middle verse, so that was added after after a thousand You have chapter divisions. Do you realize you don't have chapter divisions until 1150 A. D. You realize that? No chapter divisions prior to that point. Psalms are not chapters. Psalms are psalms. You had divisions in Psalms. Okay. But the other books of the Bible you didn't have divisions. So the chapters, folks, are not inspired. That's why sometimes it seems as though they got it wrong. Okay. Particularly in the New Testament, there'll be times I don't I'm not as good with Hebrew, but there are times in the Greek and I think I think I don't know why they put a chapter division there. There's that is a con a flow of thought. Now most of the time they did they got it right But sometimes it's like th that's a the flow of thought should have continued there. They're they're they're continuing the thought. They should not have they should not have separated that. And um and but the chapter divisions are not inspired. They're not They're just there to, but they're really helpful, right? Okay. I don't know what I would do if we didn't have chapter or verse divisions because I'd be saying open your Bible up to You know, open your Bible up to Isaiah and the 4,685th word, and we don't have to count it out. So we're very thankful for chapter, chapter and verse divisions Verse divisions were added earlier, actually we have verse divisions added earlier in 900 with these two different codexes. Here are some examples of the codexes during this time period. as well. The Aleppo Codex, so these are now these are in book form. The Cairo Codex. And the Leningrad Codex. Alright, recent Hebrew Bible. Most editions of the Mas uh the most recent edition of the Masoretic text is the Biblia Hebraica Stuttgarttensia, 1977. Okay, that's really late, right? That's just like a few years ago. Some of you all can remember that. Okay. So um so you have this final this final standardization of the Hebrew text at that point. So you would have the the King James of course would not be in uh in fact many of the modern translations are actually still prior to this point. They wouldn't have factored this one in in much at all. This was compiled by these two men And the text is called the diplomatic edition because it follows the text of one Hebrew manuscript. It is in the Ben-Asher family tradition. but was thought to be and it was thought to be the most accurate of all the manuscripts. Um the problem with this folks is if this is only the be the only text being referred to um you you're not factoring in a a lot of other text basically. And uh so you have to be a little careful with that one. Um Wegner says this, he says, We are extremely indebted to the generations of scribes whose meticulous work and constant care maintains their sacred traditions. and preserved an accurate text, but without any original autograph for comparison, how can the accuracy of these texts be determined? This is where the study of Old Testament textual criticism ends. Enters. Okay, now we're going to cover Old Testament textual Christmas next week, but I want to introduce a couple of things this week Sometimes there are certain people certain groups of people that have given this concept of textual criticism sort of a bad name. A lot of rhetoric surrounds this concept of textual criticism. There is some kinds of textual criticism that is entirely wrong, where they are doubting the text. But there is actually doubt involved in what in their in the text that they're there. So they're actually liberal theologians will have what is called higher textual criticism. And that's the kind of textual criticism where they're actually trying to find error in the text so they can discount it. That's entirely wrong, in my opinion. It's not my it's it's wrong. Okay. All right. We don't doubt scripture. We never doubt the inspiration of the word of God. That is that is a foundation of our faith. We make the faith assumption But God has inspired the original manuscripts, right? So what has he inspired? He's inspired the original writings. Those are God-breathed. What our job, what the or not our job, but what what the job of those who have that God has used providentially throughout the ages to preserve his word, what his job, and really the church's job is is to do the very best they can to determine what is the most accurate of all the tech that what that is going to be closest to the autographs. We're assuming the autographs are inspired. We're making that assumption. Our job is to say, okay, what is the closest we can get to them? And that's that's that's that's what we call lower textual criticism. What we need to realize when we're talking about lower textual criticism is that there is such an immense amount of agreement. That you're not going to find any doctrinal differences in the Old Testament or the New Testament for that matter. And you have really less, in the Old Testament, in my opinion, you have less You have some debate, and Joel's going to talk about that a little bit more. He he's he is really better with the Old Testament than I am as far as this kind of stuff. He's done more research on it. But um but he uh what he can explain is that um there is some differences And what what the old, like the King James, for instance, the King James used several different the Masoretic texts they used primarily, but they used several other texts as well. But um even but the New King James uses only the Masoretic text. A lot of people do not know that. They're they're sort of they know they can't place their faith in the old King James by itself They know they gotta go back at least to the original language. They go back to the original language, the the the Old Testament, and they r they they say, okay, well I believe in that the preserve the preserved text is the Masoretic text of the Old Testament and the TR of the New Testament. These are the preserved texts. And the problem with that is that the Old Testament, the New Cat the Old Testament King James Version doesn't always use the Masoretic text. Sometimes it translates from the from the Septuagint. Sometimes it translates from another text entirely. And what you find, you'll see this most, I saw this even growing up, but I know you'll see significant differences in Proverbs Between an old testament, an old King James and a New King James. Because the New King James said, we're going to stick with the Masoretic text all the way through. And the old King James sometimes diverted to another family of manuscripts. And so you're actually, there's sometimes in the pro in Proverbs, for example, where you're going to see meanings that are very different. And it's not always because there's a translational difference. It's actually a manuscript difference. Now, that shouldn't shake us, folks, for this reason. You don't have any doctrinal contradictions. There are no doctrinal contradictions. And our faith rests in the truth Of the Word of God that has clearly been preserved for us over time. And so what we need to do is just understand that you're going to have occasional scribal errors. Or you're going to have discrepancies here and there. But the overall manuscript support and the meticulousness with which God has chosen to preserve his word in the Old Testament and He's done it in an entirely different way in the New Testament It is interesting that God's providence is very different in how he preserved the Old Testament from the New Testament. The Old Testament, if you want to sum it all up, God really used the Jewish scribes to make sure that everything was correct and that there was there was just a great um uh it was just really transmitted well and and and eventually translated for us The New Testament didn't have scribes. What you have in the New Testament is a multiplicity of manuscripts, and you have very earlier manuscripts actually than we originally had for the Old Testament till the Disease scrolls. Let me just recap this as well, though. So prior to the 1950s, the primary texts that we had were from the Masoretes, you know, roughly around 900 A. D. , some before, some after. Okay, really kind of late compared to when they were originally written. But the but we can really just See God's working in this because what He is main what He maintained throughout the throughout all this is the process, the process of transmission through these scribes. was very, very meticulous. And so that that we look at and say, God, God is providentially provided and preserved his word through the process of transmission. We're going to get to the old test to the New Testament and he's going to preserve his word in an entirely in a very different way. He's not going to use the scribal process anymore because you've got churches and letters going all over the place, all over the different churches And very frankly, church members are not as nearly as meticulous as scribes are. Right? Okay. And so you have a different way, and we'll look at those in the in the future, you have a different way that God has providentially preserved his word. Let's go ahead and go to the Lord in prayer. Lord, thank you just for your word. Thank you for your people that have gathered here tonight. We thank you that as we look At what you have done in preserving your word, first through the inspiration of your word, as human authors pend it down over with the superintendence of your spirit. And then in the transmission of your word and ultimately to the translation of your word, Lord, you have clearly superintended through all of that. And the meticulousness with which the process of the different scribes in transmitting your word, Lord, is just incredible to realize. And if we compare this to other documents that we have of those time periods, there isn't anything that comes close to it. And Lord, we're just grateful for that. We thank you for that, and we thank you That when we open our word your word, we can know that it is truth, and that we can live by it, and that we can have a clear foundation. And we're just grateful for that, Lord, in a time where there is no good foundation there there's in a just in a time where um the culture is not providing any kind of foundation at all, we can just just really rely and depend on the Depend upon your word, and we thank you in Christ's name, Amen