Tried to be somebody you're not. Nobody's shaking their head. Well um you'll hear a little later uh this guy up here and uh how he uh tried to be somebody he wasn't. And uh I think it's a a dangerous thing to try to be somebody you're not. And we find that happening more and more Can you think of any areas right now or anything that you can recall of areas where you see things that people are trying to be something that they're not. Yes, Kim. What do you mean? Uh yes. Uh I think uh politicians uh probably are in that group. Um I think uh any Anybody else you can think of? As you think about this? People who try to be something they're not. Okay. Okay, that's good. You're not thinking yet, but I'll get you a weight. But anyway, I think there are a lot of uh different uh groups of people that uh uh try to be something that they're not. And I have been there in my life and uh learned to value Lesson from that. So, anyway, if you would, we're going to be in uh chapter 9 of Joshua tonight. And I'm going to read the chapter. And as I read the chapter, I would like you To be thinking of three or four things that you hear as I read chapter nine that you consider to be something that God has put there for us to learn from. Now I know there's more than three or four, but there are three or four that are very evident when we read this chapter. So be thinking about it as I read through it and just listen and see where you see something that God might have wanted us to learn. from what is going on in the chapter. So if you would read along with me, I'm going to be in Joshua chapter nine. I'll read the whole chapter, hopefully quickly. But uh I'm going to read the whole chapter first because the whole narrative is there So we're in chapter 9, verse 1. And it came to pass when all the kings which were on this side Jordan, and in the hills and in the valleys, and in the all the coasts of the Great Sea, over against Lebanon, the Hittite and the Amorite, and the Canaite, and the Perizzites, and the Hevites, and the Jebusites heard thereof that they gathered themselves together to fight with Joshua and with Israel with one accord. And when the inhabitants of Gibeon heard what Joshua had done unto Jericho and Ai, they did work willingly. And that's a college word, ain't it? Willingly I had a hard time saying that so I gotta wobble through that word. And went and made as if they had been ambassadors And he took old sacks upon their asses, and wine bottles, old and rent and bound up, and old shoes and clattered upon their feet, and old garments upon them And all the bread of their provisions was dry and moldy, and they went to Joshua unto the camp at Gilgal, and said unto him and to the men of Israel, We become from a far country. Now therefore make ye a league with us. And the men of Israel said unto the Hevites, Peradventure Ye dwell among us, and how shall we make a league with you? And they said unto Joshua, We are thy servants And Joshua said unto them, Who are ye? From whence come ye? And they said unto him, From a very far country. Thy servants are come because of the name of the God of the Lord of thy God. For we have heard of the fame of him, and all that he did in Egypt, and all that he did to the two kings of the Amorites that were beyond Jordan. to Sihon King of Heshbon, and Og king of Bashan, which was at Astaroth. Wherefore our elders and all the inhabitants of our country spake unto us, saying Take victuals with you for the journey, and go to meet them, and say unto them, We are your servants. Therefore, now make ye a league with us. This our bread we took hot for our provision out of our houses on the day we came forth to go unto you, but now, behold, it is dry, and it is moldy, and these bottles of wine which we filled were new, and behold, they be rent, and these garments, and our shoes are become old by reason of a very long journey. Very long Journey. And the men took of their victuals, and asked not counsel at the mouth of the Lord. And Joshua made peace with And it came to pass at the end of three days. After they had made a league with them, that they heard that they were their neighbors, and that they dwelt among them. And the children of Israel journeyed and came into this their cities on the third day. And the children of Israel smote them not, because the princes of the congregation had sworn unto them by the Lord God of Israel, and all the congregation murmured against the princes. For all the princes said unto the congregation, But we have sworn unto them by the Lord God of Israel. Now therefore we may not touch them. This we will do to them. We will even let them live, lest wrath be upon us, because of the oath which we have swear unto God unto them And the princes said unto them, Let them live, but let them be hewers of wood and drawers of water unto all the congregation, as the princes had promised them. And Joshua called for them, and he spake unto them, saying, Wherefore have ye begowed us, saying we are very far from you when ye dwell among us? And therefore Ye are cursed, and there shall none of you be freed from being bondmen, and hewers of wood, and drawers of water, for the house of my God And they answered Joshua and said, Because it was certainly told thy servants how that the Lord thy God commanded his servant Moses to give you all the land And to destroy all the inhabitants of the land from before you. Therefore, we were sore afraid of our lives because of you and have done this thing. And now, behold, we are in thine hand, as it seemeth good and right unto thee to do unto us do. And so did he unto them, and delivered them out of the hand of the children of Israel, that they slew them not. And Joshua made them that day hewers of wood, drawers of water, for the congregation. and for the altar of the Lord, even unto this day, in the place which he should choose. What do you think? What are some things in this narrative here, in this chapter That come to your mind that God might have had a lesson for us in it? They asked not the counsel of the Lord. That's probably the number one thing in there. Israel did not ask the counsel of the Lord. How many times have we made decisions in our lives and quick decisions without counseling God, asking for His help and His wisdom. And uh how many times do we think we can handle things because God has given us victory over other things and we think we can just go and not have to approach him or con uh find confirmation from him what he would have us to do. Here's a great lesson uh what would happen uh in Israel because Israel has this thing which is also responsible to us by God. God, that our word is our bond. And if you make a promise or uh an agreement with someone, you cannot go back on it. It dishonors God. And what's another thing you saw in there? Tony Even though they did it in a very wrong way, the way the Gideonites approached Israel is very similar to how Rahab approached Israel. And God would Want to save people. He doesn't want them to be destroyed. And when you do come to him probably he's quick to take you in It's gotta be on his terms. Yeah. Um but I I remember one of my professors telling me the Gibeonites later on were never one of the the nations that led Israel astray. Even though they lived and even though they were intermingling with Israel, they never led Israel to serve foreign God. Yeah. So that would be God's mercy there. Basically you see. Yeah. Yeah, I found that in one of my commentaries too. Anything else that you all see? Somebody see anything else that you learn from that that God might have given Well, they didn't not only did they not take it to the Lord, but we have a responsibility to investigate things fully before we go into an agreement. They just took in that case to you. They took in that there were then check it out. Yeah. That's true. That's very true. Well um if you have no other suggestions, I'm gonna say a few things that I learned from this and uh I'm gonna dwell on something that Tony touched on, but not in the manner that he took it, not the route that he took it, but I agree with him on the route that he took. But there is something here that I think is very uh important for us. And I think the fact that God did not punish Israel kind of shows the love and the mercy that he had towards the Gibeonites. But I think the Gibeonites' intent was to say Because they knew it's amazing that the Gibeonites knew what God said to Moses, and Israel did didn't. Israel should have known. Joshua should have known of all people. Because we're going to look and see what God told Joshua. in uh a little later. But you know, um I think sometimes um we don't consult God. Uh and I think of different uh um examples that I have heard from different people that I knew. And successful people, you know, they may feel that uh that they got it uh all together on their own They know what to do. They know they're thinking that they have all the facts and they understand everything. And so they make these decisions without going to God. And they make agreements with and and I'm I'm gonna look at something here that um that I know about in a in a a company that I knew. That they uh made an agreement with a partner who said that he was a believer and turned out he was a deceiver. He was not a believer and it came out in the company later on and it caused a lot of problems and a lot of issues in that company until they finally got it resolved and the company did split and uh because of the um disagreement. But we've got to be careful when we're making kind of uh agreements with people and I think it's the same way with we're buying a house or buying a car. I mean we need to be praying to God on what he would have us to do and how he would have us to do it, where he would have us to go. And once we sign that agreement, we're held to it. And uh that's one of the responsibilities of a Christian. But um Israel's problem here was not only that they did not consult God. There was another problem was that once they made the agreement they couldn't come back out of it And um so um the Gibeonites um used trickery and deceit to save their souls. And we don't know for certain where they ended up as far as their relationship to God. But uh I'm I haven't done enough study to find out uh exactly everything about them. But uh just the fact that they were one of the people in the country was probably less than fifteen, twenty And when they said that they were from a far country, it could be that Israel was thinking they were outside of the promised land and they had come all this way, and they came peacefully. peacefully seeking peace and uh that they didn't consult God and went ahead and signed a sister thought in my mind that that might be why they didn't consult God because they probably thought uh that they were from outside of their promised land. But when they found out, it was a little different story. But as we go through this narrative, there's a couple things that I did want to share with you. And uh so we find in uh the first two verses that the kings were coming together, and this is where I see a prideful and arrogant people. Now they knew about Jericho, they knew about AI. Jericho was probably one of the greatest greatest cities to ever be never thought it would be defeated and God brought the walls down by them shouting. And so I don't know why you would think with five more kings that you're gonna take God's people and destroy them. But that was their prideful and their arrogance. They were going to come together and attack. And then you had this one little group that uh took a different route and they used deception And uh I wanted to talk just a little bit about uh the danger of deception. And uh have you ever tried again uh to be somebody or not? Did you ever learn a lesson from that? Did you ever do something like that just to be thinking about it. Uh the other thing is uh I think about uh somebody mentioned politics where people say this just to win your vote and to keep you under their uh thumb so to speak. They really don't help you. And they come and they keep you under their uh control. So they can have your vote, they can have the power, they can be in, and so on and so forth. Both parties do it. But um one worse than the other. The other thing I thought about where deception comes in uh are dating sites or marriages. Dating sites a lot of times I'm sure and I'm certain, not that I've ever been there. I've never been on a dating site. I'm married and I'm happy. I'm happily married. Uh but dating sites, people can be deceiving. They can say there's something that they're not. And that they make so much money and they got this and they got that and you know, all these things. And uh so the pe you're laughing over there. Were you on a dating site? Uh but I do have I do actually have uh a couple friends who met their wives on a dating site. And uh but uh it can be deceiving. And not only that, but I think about young marriages. Have you ever heard of someone who falls in love? There's a couple that fall in love, and the one guy or the one woman says they're a believer. When they're really not. And after they get into the marriage they find out that that one was not a believer. And you see what happened happens when that happens. The art of deception is very um dangerous. And not only the one that is doing the deceiving is dangerous, but the one who's being deceived, it's dangerous. And so when I thought about this, you know, learning from this lesson uh how dangerous um deception is to the point that you don't consult God. Uh that can be a a real bad problem. And uh that's what happened with Israel. They didn't consult God, so then they were into this relationship and had to go with it. And I think about in Christianity, how many of us I'm sure know that there are people who profess Christ, but they don't possess Christ. And they try to live that life and try to get into that. And you find them getting into the ministry, and when they get into the ministry, then they're not going to be um they're not truthful they're not honest they can lead people completely astray and so the danger is for us is to be constantly in God's word constantly pro reign for his guidance, his wisdom, and his direction for our life. So we don't get deceived, because we are warned in the scriptures many times, uh about deception. I think about Jacob and how he deceived his dad. uh just to get the birthright. Not easy object. But uh I think about that. So we saw it in the Bible and what's the greatest deception we saw in the Bible Right at the beginning, Adam and Eve. Satan deceives Eve. And uh we have the result even today. So it's important for us to Be careful about deception. For one, not trying to be somebody we're not. And being careful that we don't deceive people, even with the gospel. gospel and how we present the gospel to people. Maybe not intentionally, but sometimes if we don't know the gospel correctly, we can deceive people into thinking they can just pray And uh that happens a lot when you have revivals and stuff like that. Uh people come forward all excited and they pray a prayer and they're off. And um You never see 'em again. But uh the other uh thing here is I just wanted to share something with you in my personal life. It's kinda funny and yet uh I had egg on my face when I was done. But when I was fifteen years old, we moved here from Pennsylvania, uh, to Wheaton, Maryland. And I come right out of the cornfields of Pennsylvania into the city. And my sister and I came. My sister was a senior, I was a junior. And I remember our first day in school, they always put somebody with you. It was in Wheaton High School. They put a person with you to take you around and share you your rooms. show you how to do your locker and all that good stuff and then they leave you at lunch and then they come back and get you the rest of the day. And uh my sister and I went the same day the first day. She's a senior, I'm a junior. And so I'm going around and and I don't know soul. And I don't even know what I'm doing because this was completely new to me. And so we get in the cafeteria at lunch And lo and behold, my sister's in the same time I am. So we go together because we didn't know anybody else. So we go in line, we get in line, and we come in there and we say, Oh my My goodness, salad. They got bread, they got spaghetti. I mean goodness gracious, they got cake over here. They got ice cream and milk. So we're putting it all on our place. So we go up to the cashier and we had our thirty and got a cash residue. Two dollars and thirty-five cents apiece. We almost croaked. We had to put food back because and there's people behind us. We were s So embarrassed and so ashamed. And um right after that, I think we ended up with maybe a salad or something each, but my sister broke down right there and cafeteria. And you can imagine just everybody and the lady that waited on us, she acted like you know, we had ten heads or something. But um so after that my s we went home that afternoon and my sister So we called my aunt and uncle up in Pennsylvania. They had a farm right down over the hill from us. They were Mennonites and uh so they took her back home and let her finish But little old me, since I was a junior, I had to stay. So I stayed. And I didn't know anybody, but a young man uh befriended me, his name was Rick. And uh a young lady also uh I became good friends with and we dated a little bit. But this this was over months. But anyway, when we first got together, uh this young man, Rick, uh befriended me. And I sat with him at lunch every day. Well lo and behold I sat with him. He he was a great guy, a really nice guy and he played uh guitar, he played in a band and all that this and that. And so I sit with him and they're talking about the music and all that. And lo and behold the whole table was all people who played in bands. They played guitars, drums and bass and all that. that and piano. I'm sitting there you know I'm getting nervous because I don't know anything what they're talking about. I didn't even know the music they were talking about. But I wanted to fit in. So I told them, I said, Yeah, uh I play in a band back in uh Ch Pennsylvania. That's I got a drum set up there. I play in drums and I go off on the weekends and I play at the YMCA. That's where I leave everything and all that. And oh yeah, we do that song. I'm just going along with everything they're saying. But anyway It was funny, about a month later, the young lady that I was dating threw a s a surprise party. And uh I didn't know anything about it, but she invited me to come. So I I over to her house. So I I went over and I knock on the door and the door opens up and there's all these people inside and they all yell surprised. And so I come walking in and lo and behold in the corner is a band seven up and they had drums, they had guitar and everything. So they played a set and they were really good and uh I come to know them at the thing. But what happened when the break came was the egg in the face. They asked me if I would sit in and play a set with them. I've never even seen a drum, I've never held a drumstick. I'm sitting there, I'm like, what am I gonna say to these people? I was getting red and I was scared. And I said, nah, it's your night I I don't wanna I said, You're sounding good, I don't want to get up there right now. I lied my way out of it. But uh a couple weeks later they found out that I didn't know what I was talking about. about and uh so just a little short funny thing about trying to be somebody or not and you get that peer pressure in school all the time and uh kids do. And so it's a dangerous thing to try to be somebody or not. can be really embarrassing. Although I will tell you I did learn how to play drums and I learned how to play guitar. I learned how to sing badly But I did. But I did learn how to play drums and uh my the girl I was dating, her mom bought me a set of drums. And uh that's where that went. But at first it was not a good thing And uh just thought I'd share that with you about deception. Trying to be somebody we're not is not a good thing. And uh that one being deceived also is a very dangerous thing. Um Whether you're the deceiver, one trying to be somebody or not, or the one that you are being deceived, it's very dangerous because it enslaves you and uh can even destroy you. As you know, they came there to be free people with the Israelites so that they would not be killed and they could live freely and they became slaves and had to uh live that life that way they could no longer have their own gods that could not no longer do what they were doing. They were now enslaved. And I think that happens in um a lot of times when people are uh deceived and they get in a marriage it really can be a bad thing. Or if uh you know they get in a relationship uh uh business deal or whatever. It can always uh it's very um Dangerous. You become discontent and when you are deceiving someone, you have to tell ten more lies to make up for the first lie you tell. And I was doing that right and left. Making excuses why I didn't want to play drums that night and then making excuses for the next two weeks and you know I I'd tell them I was going home to play and then I wasn't and and so on and so forth. But it always leads to that. And um it can even deceive yourself. And the Bible tells us to watch out for our hearts because it's desperately wicked. And he tells us in different places, be not deceived. And we We can even deceive ourselves. So it's important that we uh get an understanding about this. The Bible teaches that the wrath of God is upon the children of disobedience. And uh so this thing of deception or being deceived. And uh I thought about um the one about being deceived too, and especially in a marriage I've seen this happen. Uh it caused A lot of heartache and a lot of pain to that person that was deceived. And it also did a lot to the one who was doing the deceiving. It it ruined them too. And I wanna say that it doesn't just hurt the one being deceived, but a lot of times it's the whole family and the children and everything. So these are things that we need to be very vigilant about, prayer, uh, which would have solved Israel's problem, although in that case probably uh uh they would have been put to death, the uh Gibeonites, because uh we'll find out in a minute. But um heartache and pain, uh anybody, um possibly even uh Those of God can be deceived by Satan. And we're warned in that. If you would turn just for a moment to 2 Timothy real quick. Here Paul is writing to Timothy, warning him. And uh Second Timothy chapter three. own selves, covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemous, disobedient to their parents, unthankful, unholy, without natural affection, truth breakers, false accusers. Incontinent, fierce, despises of those that are good, traitors, heady, high minded, lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God, having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof from Such God tells us to turn away. These I think about the deceiving people who are saying they're a Christian and not. And he says uh in verse six. So they never learn, they never learn the truth from it. They never come to know God in the way that they should. And uh in um this form of godliness bediness power and And I think about that. Um there are people who know about God, they know God's word and this and that, and uh but yet they don't have a relationship with God. God. But uh to bring uh that brings strife and dish And in Matthew 7, 14, Jesus warns us to beware of the wolves in sheep's clothing. And he makes the statement that Uh this lead if it's anything else, then it leads to evilness. And uh 2 Timothy 3 uh going on to verse 13 to finish up that uh passage there. It says in verse thirteen, but evil men and seducers shall wax worse and worse, deceiving and being deceived. Don't we see that so much today as we are living in those times? And uh just for a um another thing here. Turn to Deuteronomy chapter 7. Deuteronomy chapter 7. And we're going to look at verse 1 and 2. Deuteronomy chapter seven verse one and two. Here God is giving the instruction for them to go in and take this promised land. When the Lord thy God shall bring thee into the land whither thou goest to possess it, and hath cast out many nations before thee, the Hittites, the Gergesites, the Amorites, and the Canaites, and the Perizites And the Hebites and the Yebisites, seven nations greater and mightier than thou. And when the Lord thy God shall deliver them before thee, thou shalt smite them and utterly destroy them, thou shalt not make what? No covenant with them, nor show mercy unto them them. It had to be God intervening there to allow that to take place the way it was. But Israel should have known better. These people were close to them. They were not way out And they were part of this uh group here that they were talking about, the Hebites. And um so the warning is there And uh but there's a solution for you and I. And Paul gives us a great solution about this being deceived. And it's found in the same chapter in Tempo Timothy, chapter 3, and 2 Timothy. And he says here in verse 14, but continue thou in the things which thou hast learned and hast been assured of, knowing of whom thou hast learned them, and that from a child thou hast known the Holy Scriptures which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus. For all Scripture is given by inspiration of God And is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness, that the man of God may be perfectly perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works. So here we see, and I think about uh the importance of us raising our children in church and teaching them scripture and even memorizing it. Uh I think that when they get older, even if they don't quite understand it now, when they get older it comes to them. And I think that uh it's no guarantee, but I think it's a better foundation than not having uh shared with them uh the truth of God. So we find here that Timothy was raised by his mother and grandmother and they taught him the scriptures. And uh so Paul reminded him there. And I like the fact that he talks about the scriptures being inspired by God, and it's useful for all these things The other solution that I found, not only in the scripture, but in Ephesians chapter 5. Ephesians chapter 5, verse 6 through 21. It says, Let no man deceive you with vain words. Because of these cometh the wrath of God upon the children of disobedience. For ye were sometimes darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. Walk as children of light, for the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness and righteousness and truth, proving what is acceptable unto the Lord And have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather reprove them. But all things that are reproved are made manifest by the light. For whosoever doth make manifest is light. Wherefore he saith, Awaketh thou sleep. That sleepeth, and rise from the dead, and Christ shall give thee light. I like that. And he tells us to walk circumspectfully. So here the second part, we're warned about the deception, and we're warned about deceiving people. And so we have some solutions there and and it's all found in God's Word. And most of us are familiar with these scriptures. They were the first ones that just came But the second thing here that I wanted to talk about just a second is the importance of prayer. We know that if Israel would have done what they normally do and went to God Uh they probably wouldn't have had all the stuff happen that did, uh being deceived for one. And uh but again, as Tony mentioned earlier, you can see God's hand in it. And especially For uh Gibeonites. But even though they were enslaved. But uh and we don't know how many of them may have come to Christ through it, but uh the fact that God protected them and And uh I didn't realize about them not uh leading Israel stray. Thank you for sharing that. Uh but it it's important for us to pray and a lot of times we're we're not certain. If Israel wasn't certain they could have went to God and asked him for wisdom. That was the normal process for them. They would go to the high priest and he would go through the thing and tell them this is what's going on and they would do it. But here in James 1 5, we are given instruction that if we lack wisdom All we needed to go and do is go and ask God, who giveth to all men liberally, and unbraideth not, and it shall be given him. But the thing is here, is that we ask in faith. Ask in faith, not wavering. So when you pray to God and ask him for wisdom, do you believe that he's going to give you the wisdom to do it? I pray that every day for my job, not that I'm anybody. But I I do that every day for my job and God has not let me down. There are times I make mistakes, but uh He has given me wisdom far beyond what I ever can imagine in different situations in my workplace and in uh particularly right now. But uh the other thing is James five sixteen, the effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much And I like that he says it's the effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man. And I think about Carol talking about them few people that were praying. For Elizabeth and how we see that uh take place. And that's not the only occasion I've heard of in this church where some fervent prayer really brought some I think of Mary in particular. Uh who would ever thunk this lady, ninety years old, would still be walking around having uh she has a very sharp mind. Um very strong lady. And it's been a real joy and a pleasure for Joey and I just to get to know her more as we have. And she is such a blessing. So the three things here that we talked about tonight, number one is deception, being deceived or the dis being the one deceiving. The importance of constant prayer. And here I find that the end is The value and the importance of keeping our word. Israel didn't go back on the promise, but they knew that would have been worse. God would have come down on them for that. You and I need to understand the importance of our word. When we say we will do something, we do it. If we say we won't do it it then we don't do it. But I know many times in my life when I said I would do something, I'm wondering why did I say that Why did I say I would do that? So pray about it first before you say uh I'm gonna do this. But uh I think about it work too. Uh I made a commitment to them that I'm gonna work for another year instead of retire. So I'm bound to that. I'm not gonna let them down in the middle when the things get tough or whatever and just say, okay, I give up. I'm going I'm gonna retire. I need to stay there. I gave him my word. And I think the same thing happens with children. You ever had your child when you they done something wrong and then they come to you and you're getting it straightened out and then I promise mom or dad I won't do that again. I promise I'll never do that again. Do they keep the promise? Most times Let me wanna do it again. And it's good to teach them that when they say that, that there is a consequence that's gonna happen If they do it again and do the consequence. We did that with my son and it was a tough love situation, but we gave him the ultimatum And uh it was hard, very hard. But we see where that led. God honored it and uh he came to the Lord, him and his wife both. So we're very grateful for that. But we must be careful. uh with our word. If we say yes, God Jesus said, let your yes be yes, your no be no. Anything else is evil. And I think James says the same thing, only he says everything else will lead to destruction. So if we say yes, we mean yes. We say no, we mean no. So I hope you've gotten something out of this tonight. I uh it would be God's word and him alone. But uh I thank you all for For your patience. I thank you that you came out. Let's go and close up with a word of prayer. Father, we are grateful for all that you teach us, Father. Thank you for the lessons that you give us, even in the Old Testament. And I think it's Paul that said that we should learn from their mistakes, their experience. Experiences. So, Father, help us to take heed to what we learn tonight about being deceived or deceiving others. That we would go to you and seek your wisdom and Lord seek your direction when we have to make decisions uh concerning uh whether or not we're being deceived or or not. And also, Lord, that we go to your word to know uh when to Say yes and when to say no. Should we do this that somebody asks us to do or not? So, Father, we are grateful that you have shown us this and Lord, thank you. For pointing out the importance of prayer. And Father, how many times we probably fail you in that. I pray you'll help us to remember these scriptures. And uh help us and remind us as we go through our daily lives, Lord, of the importance and in particular of our word, Lord, that it would be our bond so that we don't have to swear by anything. We don't have to say we promise. But when we say yes, people will know, because of our reputation of keeping our word, that we will do what we say. So help us to do that to honor you, to be pleasing in your sight. Thank you for your grace, Lord, for your mercy, for without that we have no hope. So I'm thankful and I'm thankful, Lord, that you allowed us this time to come together. I pray you'd get us home safely. And I pray your Blessing upon each one and their families. Keep them safe, Father, and and uh may you continue to work in our hearts and help us to be that light that you called us to be, especially, Lord. Especially During this time of year. Help us to seek out the opportunities, to be that light to those who may not know you. And help us not to fear, Lord, but to be strong and courageous. We just give you You all the praise and all the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you all. Have a good night, good week. Maybe I'll see you Saturday. That'd be great.