Alright, take the Bibles if you would and turn to James chapter one. James one. It's been a little while, it feels like, since we've been in the book of James, um just for various various reasons. Of course we had um didn't have service last Wednesday and uh I think I was um teaching the teens this the Wednesday before that. And so it's been a little while here. What I want to do is begin by making sure that we have we understand the context of the of all of this. James is a book that is just uh extremely practical. And I personally have been really appreciating the way that James The way that he words things, the way that he puts things. Many of the concepts in the book of James you find in other passages, uh in Paul in Paul's writings, for example. But um But the way that James words things, um I've just felt that you can grasp it. It's so practical. It's like, yeah, I get that. in a in a little bit clearer way than some of some of Paul's I mean at least for me, some of Paul's writings when it comes to these kinds of things. Not that uh not that Paul doesn't Well, you know, it's all scripture, but I just appreciated the way James has has put things here in such a practical manner. Let me just ask you if you recall, what is the purpose of James? What why did he write this book? Anybody know? Anyone want to take a stab at it? If you're anywhere close, I'll just adjust your answer to being right. So you can just take a stab at it and I and I'll morph it into the right thing. I do that. You ever notice I do that? Anyway. Unless it's totally wrong and I just say you're dead wrong. Anyway. Yeah, clip. Christian wife. Okay, definitely you see that you see lots of dealing with problems, dealing with trials and temptations. What is the goal of these trials and temptations? Yes, Karen? Can I read it from my hand? Yeah, sure. It's fine. Amen. Good. Maturity. That's that's the key. If you look at the passage, you're gonna find what it says here. Um Verse 4 is really your purpose statement for what he's we're trying what what James is wanting to get across. It says, but let patience or endurance have her perfect work, that ye may be perfect. It's the word mature and entire, lacking nothing. What God says He wants for us through this writing in James is that we we learn how to come to spiritual maturity. And he defines spiritual maturity as as knowing, as lacking nothing, that there is nothing that we that we Need in order to be able to grow in our our walk with the Lord. In other words, as we navig navigate through life, as we go through trials and temptations and difficulties and struggles, we're able to respond in a way that that helps us to continue to move forward in in our lives. A an a an im a mature a spiritually mature Christi Christian is not one that necessarily um It has uh doesn't I mean of course we all sin, but a spiritually mature Christian has to be able to take the events of life and even sin. and temptations and know how to move forward in those things and to be able to move forward in in the Christian life and mature uh in the Christian life. And it and that's the point of James. That's the that's what he's trying to get across here. And uh so we really need to keep that in mind. We need we also see from this text that that trials and and temptations. God uses them. And if you recall from a few weeks back, God has one intention for the events of life, and Satan has another intention for the events of life. God's intention for the invention life will call them trials. He doesn't tempt us. They're trials. And what he wants to do in our lives is make us more conform to the image of Christ or Christ's likeness or spiritual maturity. Satan wants to take the same events oftentimes, turn them into a temptation, and cause us to go toward his toward destruction, and actually what we're going to find in the passage is death, ultimately. And so we have two entirely different goals for the same events in our lives. God using them for wanting to use them one direction. and and Satan wanting them to use the other. And the question I have is, what is our role in the whole thing? What is our role? What do we do? Okay, it's how we respond. Very good. And how do we know how to respond? How do we know how to respond? Verse five. What does verse five say? Okay. Verse five says, if any man lack wisdom, how do you know how to respond to these events so that they turn into trials rather than into temptations. Well, not that you'll be tempted, but not in you know where you where you fulfill the temptation. What how do you how do you respond? You respond, you learn to respond by wisdom. It is it is that is our role that we have to we have to have wisdom in these things. And what he says here, the way that verse 5 is written, It's like it implies what? That we've got it or that we don't? That we don't. That we do we are not born with the wisdom necessary to be able to take the events of life and and and for them to go in the way that God wants them for us to go in the way that God wants us to go with them. We have got to have wisdom. And he says, if any man lack wisdom, let him ask of God Which giveth to all men liberally, and it brayeth not, and it shall be given to him. We have this promise to you that God will benevolently give us wisdom. So why don't why doesn't everybody have it then? Well, you might like every Christian have it. Well, one reason is because we don't ask. You know, we're not looking to God. Lord, give me wisdom in this. That's one reason. But it's not the only reason. Would you notice in verse 6 it says, but let him ask what? In faith, reason number two we don't have wisdom is because we don't ask with full dependence on God. So we're asking, Lord, give me wisdom, but we're not really depending upon him. We're not saying, I don't have it, Lord, I need it, and we're not fully dependent upon him. So that's reason number two, we don't have wisdom. What is another reason that we don't have wisdom? Why don't we have the faith that we ought to have in trusting Him sometimes? Well, look at the look at the verse there, verse 6, the second part there. For he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea, driven of the wind, and tossed. So what is he talking about here? He's talking about somebody who's wavering back and forth. What exactly does that mean? So a person is not trusting, not depending when they pray for wisdom, and they're wavering back and forth, but there may be more there than you and I think that there is. What we think is that we're just struggling with whether God can do this or not, whether God can give us wisdom or not. But I don't think that's the primary issue. I don't think, very candidly, I don't think that the Christian is often thinking to myself, God is just not omnipotent. He just isn't. I I'm praying, and my problem is I don't think he's really omnipotent to give me the wisdom that I need. I don't think that's the main problem. Lisa? It's more I don't think God knows it's best for me. Yes, right. Or and we wouldn't n usually even articulate it that way. The way we would articulate it is I want I well let's just articulate the way James does. He says, For let let not that man think that he will receive anything into the Lord. You're not going to receive wisdom if you're asking that way. Verse 8, a double-minded man. is unstable in all his ways. That's really the key to the whole thing. Why don't we have a dependency that we need to have on the Lord? Because we are double-minded. And double-minded in the Greek, it's the idea of being dual-souled, like you've got two souls. It's not just that you have two opinions. And you can't decide which way to go. It's actually that you have two sets of desires. That you are you desire one direction to go one direction, you desire to go the other direction, and you can't decide which way to go And if you can't decide which way to go, don't ask God for wisdom. Because in order to be able to be depend upon him to give you the wisdom, you have to, it presupposes that you want to go his way, that you are singularly minded in the direction that he wants you to go. And the reason that we don't have the wisdom we need is because we don't we're not praying, we're not praying because we don't have faith, and we're not we don't have faith because we are double-minded. The issue when when it all boils down to is our desires. Do we desire God's way or do we desire our own way? And usually it's both, and that's a problem. In other words, double-minded doesn't necessarily mean, and I appreciated the men's conference, we actually went through the whole book of James. Well, some of the book parts of the book of James, not actually the whole book, but not like verse by verse, but went through a lot of it. And uh I appreciate what the speaker said about this, and he said, you know, a double-minded person, it's not as though he doesn't love the Lord at all. It's that he loves the Lord, but he is wavering back and forth as to what he loves himself too. He wants to do what God wants him to do, but then he wants to do what he wants him to do. And he wants to do what God and God wants to do. So so that's the problem. So alternatively, if we decide that whatever God wants us to do with our lives And whatever we are in a situation, whatever God wants us to do with a situation, whatever that is, if we will decide, I've got to do what God wants me to do, and I'm just dead set on that Then we can ask in faith. And then we can know that He will supply. And then we can have wisdom. The problem when we go into situations is sometimes, yes, we don't have wisdom, we never asked, we never trusted God. But The problem is why we have wisdom, it's because we didn't really want to do exactly what God wanted us to do, and we weren't firmly decisive on that in the initial stages of the thing. And so we have here this, in the book of James, we have here this important section here that explains that. So we have, and and and I think it's really important for us to sort of get this flow of thought. We have verse 5, the need of wisdom. We have verse 6 the need of asking faith, that unwavering faith requires single-mindedness, verse 8 And then now we come to verse 9 through 11. We're not going to spend a long time on this, but it basically says, let the brother of low degree rejoice in that he is exalted. Low degree, what is that? Well, somebody that is poor, some rather low degree, rejoices in that he is exalted, but the rich and that he is made low. Because as the gra flower of the grass, he shall pass away. For the sun is no sooner risen with a burning heat But it withereth the grass, the flower thereof falleth, and the grace and fashion of it perisheth. So also the rich man fades uh away uh rich man fade away in his ways. Okay. So and then uh notice verse, just look at this, look at verse 12. Blessed is the man that dureth temptation. Question for you. In James' whole flow of thought, verses 9 through 11, why is that included? Why would he then, you know, in the middle of talking about trials and temptations and struggles and asking God for wisdom and trusting God and double-mindedness, he puts this That's it. That's exactly it The root problem of nearly every temptation is that there is a root, there is a seed of discontentment. And he's illustrating that by this concept of poor versus rich. He's not saying that you can't be poor, or I mean you can't be rich. It's just simply saying that that the brother of low degree has opportunities. That perhaps the rich doesn't, and the riches of a person will, those things will fade away. So don't be discontent where you are. That discontentment is a serious problem in this whole in this whole understanding of trials and temptations. It's exactly what he's saying. Now and and by the way, just by way of application, it's very important for us to do enough introspection in our lives to ask the question, where are we discontent? That is the point at which Satan is going to attack. That's where he's going to deal with a thing. It is the is the point is at this discontentment in our lives. And we have to we have to ask ourselves the question. I'll be honest with you, sometimes we we are in denial about that And we don't we're not honest with ourselves about things. And we run into problems with when that happens. Verse 12 then says this Blessed is the man that endureth temptation. For when he is tried, he shall receive the crown of life. which the Lord has promised to them that love him. Now we noted a few weeks back that trials and temptations are essentially interchangeable in this text. And that when you go through a trial or when you go through a tr an event, it it is there is a sense in which there is a trial often attached to that, or a temptation often attached to that. And it talks about this man who says um uh uh he is what? Verse twelve, he is blessed. When you see this word, it essentially means happy. For instance, over in Matthew chapter 5, when you see the Beatitudes, and you have blesses the man that endureth him, or blesses the man that Um blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth, for example, or blessed are the poor in spirit. That word blessed means happy. And it's by no accident that James puts this after talking about this issue of contentment and disc versus discontentment and what we need. He says, you want to be happy? It's not a matter of your monetary pursuit of riches. If you want to be happy, it's not a matter of the pursuit of pleasure. If you want to truly be happy, it's not a matter of those things. There is something else in God's mind that is necessary to be happy. What Old Testament book should we go to to remind ourselves of the futility of pursuing of pursuing these kinds of things. Yeah, Ecclesiastes is a great book Here in Ecclesiastes, Solomon, Solomon is is here's my take on what God did with Solomon. Which is a little hard hard to understand in some ways. God allowed Solomon to take all of these pursuits As far as they possibly could go. And if you think of Solomon with riches, nobody was richer than Solomon. He had un nearly unlimited wealth. He took it as far as he could go. Or vocation. He took it as far as he's the king of like everywhere. So he took it as far as he could go. Or or um pleasure, he says. I mean the guy had seven hundred wives and three hundred concubines. I I have other thought uh I have other things thoughts in mind besides pleasure in a situation like that. Um sounds like total disaster, but anyway, but But anyway, uh so he he he takes all these things as far as they could go, and in each one of these situations, he says what? It's vanity. The whole thing is vanity. Vocation is vanity. Pursuit of pleasure is vanity. Pursuit of finances is vanity. It's all vanity. And you know why this is such a helpful book for us, Ecclesiastes, is? Because we don't have to pursue it and find the find what he already found out. All we've got to do is read it and say, okay, I'm not going to go that direction I'm not going to pursue all these things there instagram. I mean, if you look at life, we don't even have to look at Ecclesiastes. Look at like the really super successful people in life. Look at the movie stars that crash and burn. And these teenage one-hit wonder kids that end up just crashing and burning. Why do they do that? Because they have pursued everything to the nth degree and there's like nothing else. Why is it that Olympic Olympic athletes sometimes commit suicide after pursuing everything and winning and getting and getting their dream and then they suddenly afterwards they they don't know what to live for anymore. Yeah. I mean it's vanity. All the the pursuit of these things are vanity. And God and so Solomon comes to the end of his book in Ecclesiastes. He says, the whole mind of the matter is pursue or uh obey God and keep his commandments. This is the whole duty of man. And if we would learn that lesson, it would help us, of course. And in verse we have the same kind of thinking in verse thir verse twelve And he says here that the condition of one who endures temptation is a happy person. And that's exactly the opposite. Of what we would think, or what the world would tell us, or what Satan would tell us, or what our flesh would tell us, would bring happiness. Our flesh would tell us that what would bring happiness is if we if we fulfill ourselves in the temptation. The world would tell us that. Satan would tell us that. God says the happy person is actually the person who endures the temptation, who essentially resists the temptation. We have then the the reward of one who does that, and that is a crown of life. And we've gone through it an extended uh discussion on that several about couple couple months back on what that is, the identity of the crown. I think personally it's one crown. Paul talked about the fact that he had come to the end of his life and he was going to going to uh receive that crown. In Revelation chapters 2 and 3 it talks about the potential of losing the crown. I suspect that that crown can be um reduced and size or or or um increase in size based upon how we live. And uh so he says not only, I mean the condition is blessed, so that's a present idea. Not only is there a present idea here that the man who endures temptation is going to be happy presently, but he's also going to have future happiness. He's going to have a crown of life. And then the promises which the Lord has promised to them that love him. And so of course that goes with the reward. So we see here that God's desire for us is to learn how to endure and to resist temptation. But it is going to be very helpful for us if we can learn what how a temptation occurs. And so what we see here in verse thirteen, it says, Let no man say, When he is tempted, I am tempted of God. For God cannot be tempted, neither tempteth he any man. And we have noted in the past that when the event comes, God's intention What is it saying here? Well it isn't as though God doesn't orchestrate events in our lives. He does do that, doesn't he? It isn't as though he's not sovereign. He does he is, and he's providential in the way that he provides for us and those kinds of things. But God's intention is entirely different. His mind and his desire and his will is entirely different than Satan's will, the world's will, and even our own flesh's will. And so um Um let no man say when he is tempted, I'm this is God's fault. I'm tempted of God. He brought he allowed this event to happen. Yes, he allowed the event to happen, but he had a different he he wanted a different outcome. Um his desire was a different a different result. And so it's not as though in any way that we that we can we can We can blame God for when we fall into sin. Let no man say that when he is tempted, I am tempted of God For God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man. So God can't be tempted, of course, and he doesn't tempt anyone. But every man is tempted. Alright, so how does this happen? But every man is tempted When he is drawn away of his own lust and enticed. Alright, so you have this event. It could go either way. It could go toward a trial or it could go toward a temptation. Now, I have a question for you. Is it sin? Is it wrong to be tempted? Okay, how do we know that? Yeah, right, right, exactly. Christ was tempted. So it isn't wrong to be tempted. It is wrong to give in to the temptation. How do you know when you have given in to the temptation? I mean really how do you know that? You say, well when you've done the act. Well, that's probably true. But but there is a point at which Temptation will hook you. The word drawn away there is actually a fishing term. It was used in the first century. century to talk about being hooked. Anybody who's gone fishing any for at all and caught anythings the importance of a hook. And what happens? I mean when you're fishing you cast the line out and the fish might go by it and and the key to the whole thing, I mean, how many of you all have first of all, how many of you all fished before? Alright, the vast majority of people here. Um when you cast when you cast uh a line out and you and you hook uh and and and the key have anybody ever had Ha you know, I'm sure everybody this has happened where they'll hit your line or they'll hit your bait and they'll nibble at your bait and they and they just go off. You y what's the key? Well the key for a fisherman is he's gotta set the hook Once he sets the hook, he's got him. And so there's this principle in Scripture here, it says that a temptation is like a hook. And what we've got to do is we've got to have the wisdom to see the hook. It's like if if the if the fish could see the hook, he wouldn't go after that bait. But we have to have the wisdom to see the hook. Sort of a reminder, why don't we have the wisdom? We don't have the wisdom because we don't pray. We don't have to pray because we don't have faith. We don't have faith because we don' Want to see the hook sometimes And what we've got to do is we've got to be single-minded in the whole thing. Verse 14, when he's drawn away of his own lusts and enticed, verse 15. The downward spiral we see here. What is the end of all this? Well, it says, when lust hath conceived, it brings forth sin, it gives birth to sin. So there is this conception stage in temptation and where when lust has conceived. Um and then its result is sin. And sin, when it is accomplished, brings forth death. And James's point is this. He says, You've got to know the end of this temptation. And I think the real lesson for us to remember in all this, and it's one that I I really um it's really the key. Well, let me ask you. In all of this material, particularly in verses 13 through 15, which is the main focus of our text, although we did a lot of background today, where is the key to the whole thing when it comes to temptation? Let me put it this way. If you wait till you're dead, are you wait are you waiting too long? Yes. If you wait till you've committed the sin, are you waiting too long? Alright. Is it wrong to be tempted? So somewhere between the temptation and the sin is where the problem is, right? So where's the problem? Okay, good. Right, sure. The problem is getting hooked, right? I mean that's when you get hooked, that's the problem. And of course, don't nibble, right? That's the problem. So so we need don't folks don't isn't this is this not true? Don't we desperately need God's wisdom to know where the hook is to know, to just to be able to see the hook. And the key to that is prayer. The key to that is to say, Lord, if I see the hook, I will not go there. Lord, show me the hook, because if I see it, you've got it. And what God says is before you you've got to have have a firm um decision in your mind That you're not going to swallow that you're you if you see the hook, in other words, you know, we want to see the hook, it's like it's like the double mind man goes, you know, I'd like to see the hook so I can make a good decision. No, no, no. God says, no, no. If you're going to see the hook, you make a decision ahead of time. That's faith. That's trusting God. That's desiring what God wants. So in order to see the hook, we make a decision ahead of time. I'm going to do what God wants me to do. That's single-mindedness rather than double-mindedness. Boy, I tell you, if we could get a hold of this and apply it, the problem is, is, and James is going to address this, you know the problem with all this is? The problem with all of this is that we have good forgetters And we go out into the world and we forget all this. And James is going to address that too. He's going to say, you look into a mirror and you see what manner or man you are, and you walk and you turn the other way and you forget where you are. And he realizes, I mean James knows people. He knows the way we are, and he is dealing with this on a very, very practical level. And uh it's just extremely important for us to be able to think through this. I mean you I mean there there is something healthy about thinking through when you have been tempted, thinking through through when you've gone through trials and difficulties and thinking through those things to know where the hook was and and looking ahead and saying, okay, where are the hooks? And asking God, desperately asking God for wisdom to know where those things are in the future. And uh it's something that is just extremely helpful and practical. Any questions about this passage? Yes, you should have. The Lord said in Matthew, I believe in Matthew. that is but to try not to get into patients. And um I uh heard that before and I think I personally can um say this is my experience. I don't know how much you're doing it. That you don't wait until you get tempted. You uh just pray daily and every time. The more you pray, you're still of uh prayer is full. Um because when temptation comes I don't know how I'm gonna feel like I might be able to do that. Yeah I think it's good up yeah it's good. So my prayer has to Yeah, so Christ's daily that prayer was a uh a prayer that you know lead us not in temptation, give us this day our daily bread. I mean it was a daily prayer that he was he was asking saying to his disciples as an example to pray. So no, I think that's good. Um it's good for for sure, good insight there. We pray daily for the for lead us not. Now, it isn't as though God leads us into temptation. In other words, He doesn't tempt us. But I think that the point of that prayer is we don't want to give into the temptation. We were saying ahead of time, we don't want this. And that is really where the key is. Good, good thoughts there. Any other thoughts or questions or comments? All right. Hopefully this has been a good study. And they just so you know, your teens are going through uh going through this in the uh as well on the other side down there And so they're going through very important lessons. If they can learn these as teenagers, I think it'll really be a blessing to them and help them. All right, let's go to the Lord in prayer Father, we come to you and thank you for who you are tonight, and we thank you for your word, and we thank you for the truth of it, for the just incredible wisdom that it has. It it helps us so it helps us to make sense of life, make sense of things, Lord, and um I pray, and it also, if we'll heed these words and if we will follow after them, it will help us to be able to be that blessed man. That endures temptation. And when he is tried, he will receive a crown of life, Lord. And all of us here in one degree to one degree Or another can look back with regret on times where we have not um we we have given in a temptation and we can look back and know that there is probably diminished reward for various things that we've done. But Lord, may we take these things and move forward. May we take the truths of your word and And know that you have there is forgiveness and that there is uh cleansing and there is restoration, and that we can we can be strong in these things. not by our own might at all, but by understanding how how the world works through your word and understanding how you desire for us to live. And believing that your best is the best. And the best life we can live is one that is lived entirely for you. And so I pray, Lord, that you'd help us and remind us of that. And may we not forget it. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. All right. Thank you. All have a great week