And the most familiar verse in the Scriptures, verse sixteen, we will be looking at this morning through twenty-one. John chapter three. Let's go to the Lord in prayer and just ask his time his blessing. We we need to do this. Um John 316 is the most common verse in the Bible, and yet we miss the significance of it But I'm really convinced of that as I studied this week. And let's just pray and ask the Lord's time, ask the Lord's help and our time together. Father, we come to you this morning and we admit before you that we are so easily distracted. And we are so easily drawn away from seeing the significance of your truth And there are so many ways that this occurs. One of the ways that this occurs is for certain sayings and verses in the Bible to become so so common that they become almost trite And yet the original reason that they became so common was because they are so profound. And so, Lord, I pray today that as we look at your word That we would see the significance of the truth that we are learning for our lives, that we would respond to you in worship. Because of the truth that we see this morning. Help us to see it afresh and anew. May we not just look at this passage And just say, okay, we understand that and move on. May we be exhorted, may we be encouraged by the truths that we hear, that we learn about and we are reminded of this morning. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. In the 18th century, a pastor of only 22 years old, Robert Robinson, wrote, Come thou fount of every blessing. And in that great hymn, he wrote these words. Prone to wander, Lord, I feel it. Prone to leave the God I love. I remember the first time that I recognized those words as I was standing in church singing them and And as a just as a child, and thinking about what in the world did that mean? And thinking that the phrase was rather strange, it was sort of odd. I thought to myself as a young child, I don't want to leave God. I don't want to, I'm not prone to wander. But the longer I I grow, the longer I've lived the Christian life and Had a relationship with the Lord, the more that you grow in Christ, the more you see your own sin. The more you see your own sin, the more you recognize that every sin Causes you to leave the God you love. Why is it that Christians leave the God they love or they are prone to wander? The writer of the book of Hebrews is dealing with this problem. And so he says in Hebrews 2 verse 1. Therefore we ought to give more earnest heed to the things which we have heard, lest at any time we should let them slip The same writer says a chapter later in verse 12, Take heed, brethren, lest there be any of you an evil heart of unbelief. And departing from the living God. The writer of the book of Hebrews was writing to Christians, to believers, and he is saying that you can let things slip, that you can depart from the living God. The very same answer to the question of why why unbelievers don't believe The same answer is an answer to the question of why Christians drift and slip and leave the God they love. Why is that? We've been looking at the last couple of weeks the the the The important truth that has come become very common to us, but should not lose its profound effect on our lives, that we must we need recreation. We need to be born again. That the world, that is what they need in order to enter the kingdom of heaven. And we learned last week that in order to really understand We must believe. And Christ says this. And in order to really believe The Bible tells us that Christ must be, Christ said himself that he must be lifted up, he must be exalted on the cross, and then in his resurrection, and then ultimately in his ascension, and when he does so, he will draw all men to himself. But on the heels of saying that, that he will draw all men to himself, that he will be as Moses has lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so the Son of Man must be lifted up on the heels of that. The question might easily be asked, why don't all men believe? And if you look at this passage with me in the first couple of verses, what you find is this universal offer. Did you know would you notice this? Verse 16: For God so loved who? The world. And in verse 17, it says: God sent not his son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved. You have in this text this universal offer to the entire world. Unless you think that world means less than the world. You can recall in 1 John, John, the same writer in John, he says that Christ is the propitiation for our sins and not for ours only, but also the sins of the whole world. It contrasts those who know Christ from those who don't, and the fact that Christ offers this sacrifice to the whole world There is a universal offer, and the question that we need to ask ourselves is why don't people believe? And we identified the reality that people want to understand before they believe. But that they need to believe in order to understand. But the same kinds of truths that cause The same reality in life that caused people not to believe is the very same reality in life that caused God's people to drift in unbelief. Let me give you an illustration of this. One reason that people don't believe Is because in this country they are comfortable. Is that not true? I mean, you we are living in a in a country, even now, even with all of the unrest, even with all of the difficulties and struggles and economic situation that we find ourselves in. And all over we we still live in relative peace. We still live in relative, I mean, there's n you have lots of people that are just really comfortable and they don't see their need You cannot come to Christ if you don't need see your need for Christ. And these this kind of wealth that we have in this nation Really provides this comfort zone for people to stay in so that they never see their need. But is that not the same for the Christian? Why is it that a Christian tends to be to drift in their walk with the Lord? Take strides in Christ's likeness. Why is this the case? It is because oftentimes, if we'll admit it, is it not true that we are comfortable? And we don't see our need. So, my point in saying that is, folks, that whatever is causing us to be prone to wander is the same problem that causes the unbeliever to not believe. And this passage is going to teach us this. But before we get to that part of the portion of the text, we need to understand the significance of what Christ says in this universal offer, or what John is now saying. By the way. John has now picked up the narrative. In verses 16 through 21, this is now John speaking. Now you might say to yourself, well, you might see in some of your Bibles, you might have red letters there You see that? Some people might have their verses 16 through 21 is in red letters. And that indicates that that Christ said them. However, those the color of your letters are not inspired. And so I'm going to suggest to you this morning that that is these are not the words of Christ. They're God's words, so there's no there's no difference in the truth. But these are an explanation of John. John is explaining what Christ has already said when he said that he must be lifted up, the Son of Man. must be lifted up. And so now John picks up here and he says, here's what this means. And he's going to say, he's going to answer this question of why everyone doesn't believe. I mean if Christ is exalted Shouldn't everybody just come to him? And that's not happening. And by the time John is talking here in the later part of the first century, people realize that. And so he comes with this kind of message, but he explains in verse 16, for God so loved the world. That he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but should have everlasting life. It is, without question, the most common verse in the entire Bible. And what we need to do, folks, we've got to do this. We've got to recover the significance of this truth this morning. And I'll do it this way. I can sincerely say that I love everyone in this room. I can sincerely say that, that I I love all of you. I can even imagine myself risking my life for you I can imagine myself even potentially giving my life for one of you. But I can't imagine myself sacrificing my firstborn daughter for you. I cannot imagine that. And I think everybody would understand that, right? I can't imagine sacrificing my child for you. When we think of the love of God, when it's described with regard to in the context of this entire issue of Christ coming down to earth and giving of himself, I sort of ran my mind through the passages in Scripture. And what you see when this love of God is mentioned in conjunction with the sacrifice that Christ made, often It says, it's talking about the Father or God's love in giving of his son. For example, Romans 5. 8. But God commended his love toward us. And that while we were yet sinners, what? Christ died for us. Herein is love Not that we love God, but that He loved us and gave Himself Folks, do you see here that what we find in Scripture is that when Christ wants, when God wants to get across the intensity of the kind of love that he has for us, he puts it in terms like this: God so loved the world that he gave, he sacrificed his only son. And that puts an entire different kind of description on this. And if we're not careful, we can think to ourselves, well that's different than my sacrificing my child. But that's not the intent of this verse. The intent of this verse is to demonstrate the weight, the extent to which God loved the world. It was, he so loved it that he gave his only begotten son. And that word begotten actually means only. It could be translated like this: He gave his only, only son Or his one and only son. And frankly, we are we are so that that verse is so trite to us, it's so common to us. that we lose the weight of it, we lose the significant uh significance of it until we put it in practical terms of the thought of even trying even sacrificing our own children for someone else. In fact, I was looking at a particular illustr at uh various examples or practical illustrations to really drive home the significance of this truth, and then my mind came to a man by the name of Adonaram Judson. In July of 1813, he traveled from India over to Burma. Just a few months later, William Carey said, don't go to Burma. It is a place where there is complete intolerance toward Christianity. Following the the leading of the Lord in Adonairam Judson's life, he went anyway. And he stepped on the shores of Burma and he immediately began to see opposition and problems. In every case prior to Adam Iron Judson's work there, every missionary that was known had either died or left that land. And the sacrifice that Adam Iram Judson made while was there was something that was it is even hard for us to even grasp or understand. and one of his his his first uh wife who would who died um on the field prior to her her her her passing away, her dying and going to be with the Lord, uh gave birth to three children. The first one we don't even know the name of And that child died very soon after they were born. The second child, Roger Williams Judson, lived only 17 months and died on the field. And the third child, Maria Elizabeth Butterworth Judson, lived to be two and outlived her mother by six months and then died. When the second child died, Ann Judson wrote these words. Our hearts were bound up with this child. We felt he was our earthly all, our only source of innocent recreation in this heathen land. But God saw it was necessary to remind us of our error and to strip us of our only little all. Oh, may it not be in vain that He has done it. The reason that I bring this up, folks, is to drive home this point. That when Christ, when God gave his only Son. That was the most intense, extensive kind of love imaginable. It is the expression of love that we cannot hardly comprehend, and very few people Have given to God Himself. And what it ought to do is it ought to re Invigorate our thinking when it comes to the most common verse in all the Bible: that God so loved the world that He gave His only Son. There ought to be some conviction. There ought to be sort of this understanding that the love that we have for God pales in comparison to the love that He has for us. And the reason that we can love him is because he first loved us supremely. And what we find in this passage is this extended offer because of the great love that God had. And when Christ came to earth, When he was born. We are coming up upon on Christmas here, and there really is no better truth that we can hang on to here when we look at this passage. We see very distinctly in verse 17 why he came. For God sent not his son into the world to what? To condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved. It's interesting that this word is used here. It says that God sent not Christ into the world to condemn the world. The reason that that is interesting is because the word condemned, which is sometimes translated judge, John uses several times throughout his book. For example, if you'll turn with me just a few pages over, you'll see this in John 5, verse 22, where it says, For the Father judgeth no man. But hath committed all judgment, same word, unto who? The Son. It almost appears, folks, that we have a contradiction. Christ says, I've come not, or God says, John is saying here, Christ has come not to judge. And yet God says, John 5. 22, or Christ is talking here, he says the Father has given all judgment to the Son. But then in John 8:15 it says, You judge after the flesh, I judge no man. So which is it? Has Christ come to judge the world? Or has he not come to judge the world? I mean, which is it? And the answer to this, the resolution to this pot this potential problem, it's not really a problem, is found in John chapter 12, verse 47. Would you look at that with me? And if any man hear my words and believe not, I judge him not. For I came not to the world, I came not to judge the world. But to save the world, he that rejoiceth me and receiveth not my words hath one that judgeth him The word that I have spoken, the same shall judge him when? In the last day. It sets for us up this time period, folks, between the first coming, the first avenue of Christ, when he came to earth the first time And the time will he will come back again, the second coming of Christ. But when Christ comes again, he will come as judge. In other words The first time that Christ came, he came not to judge, he came to save. But the second time he comes, he will come in judgment. Let's not forget this. Let's not forget that the same God who loves you will, and Christ who loves you, will one day judge you. Except for those who place their trust in Him. Do you see that in the passage? Verse 17. For God sent out his son to the world to condemn the world, but that the world might through him might be saved. Verse 18 He that believeth on him is not condemned. That is, if you know Christ is your Savior, if you genuinely have placed your dependence upon Christ to save you from your sin, you are not condemned. It's incredible. We deserve it. We need it. Well we we we we think we need it. We deserve it. This condemnation on us, we sometimes even feel it. And yet God says, if you depend, if you're depending on Christ, you are not condemned. There is, though, another potential problem here. I mean, if Christ, if Christ came into the world this the first time, to not condemn But that men would come to salvation and is not judging until the second coming of Christ. How is it that men that men are ever going to know their need for Christ? And the answer to that is found in this verse as well, verse 18. And I think this is the most important part of this verse. But he that believeth not is what? Is condemned what? All ready. The emphasis here, folks, is this. That you do not need, you and I do not need a decree. The world does not need a decree from Christ that you are judged or that I am judged or that the world is judged. We don't need a decree. We stand immediately already in condemnation. A person is born into condemnation. And that therein lies a significant problem. Because when you talk to somebody about Christ, they are thinking that they are perhaps alright or they're okay or perhaps they think they are on trial, but they do not see themselves as condemned already. Several years ago, in fact many, many years ago, there was a man by the name of Peter Lamone. On October 27, 1967, in Arlington, Massachusetts, this man was indicted for a crime that he pled innocent for. For the murder murder of gangster Edwin Deegan. Mafia hitman turned FBI informant turned him in along with three other men for this man's murder. Lamone knew that he was innocent, and so he thought that the case would be thrown out. He thought that this man's testimony would not be credible to the jurors, but in fact, twelve jurors Sided with this man's testimony, and this man was sent into prison. And he spent 33 years on death row. This is a true story. 33 years he stood convicted. But after 33 years the case was reviewed and evidence had surfaced and it was and a mistrial was declared. And his wife waited for him. His wife said, I knew that this man was innocent. The reason I tell you that story is for this reason. The way that the Bible, the best illustration that we can understand of the condemnation that all of us are born into is to think of ourselves on death row, except that there is no mistrial. That the condemnation that we have, the condemnation that we are born with, is one that all of us, all of us have just by virtue of the fact of being human and being part of Adam's race. And it is as though we are on death row. The problem of why people don't believe Part of the problem is because they don't see themselves as condemned already. They see themselves rather on trial. When you talk to somebody, perhaps they'll say to you, for example, I'm sure you've heard this before, I don't think anybody can ever know whether or not they'll be able to go, they're guaranteed of heaven. Why do they say that? Because they see everyone as on trial. The problem is that no one is on trial. We stand condemned already. And one of the first things we've got to do in order for somebody to really understand the gospel is they've got to go from being on trial or thinking they're okay to being in an understanding that they are condemned. Romans chapter 1 bears this out very clearly in vivid example when it says this, Romans 1 verse 18, for the wrath of God is revealed. from heaven against ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who hold the truth in unrighteousness. Because that which may be known of God is manifest in them, for God has showed it unto them For the invisible things of him from the creation of the world are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, even the eternal power and Godhead so that they are without excuse Because that when they knew God, they glorified him not as God, neither were thankful, but became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish heart was darkened. Person stands condemned before God, and their foolish heart is darkened, which leads us to the next verse. Verse 19 says this. This is the condemnation In other words, Christ did not come into the world to condemn the world. He wants the world to be saved, but there is a condemnation that is already in the world, and this is the condemnation, verse 19. that light is coming to the world, and men loved darkness rather than light because their deeds were evil. For every one that doeth evil hateth the light, neither cometh to it to the light, lest his deeds should be reproved. But he that doeth truth cometh to the light, that his deeds may be made manifest that they are wrought in God. Why is it that people do not believe because they stand in condemnation and their hearts are darkened And when the light comes, look at what it says here, folks, verse 19, that the light has come into the world, and men, what what do they do? They love what? They love darkness rather than light. They love it. The issue here, very frankly, is this. They don't want the light. They don't want the light. They want their darkness. Why is it that people don't believe? Well, they don't understand. Why don't they understand? Because they don't believe. Why don't they believe? Because they don't want Toubilise They would rather live in darkness. Why? Because they, their deeds, are evil. And they don't want the light to show up their deeds. They don't want this contrast in their lives between what is light and what is darkness. They don't want this. And so when the light comes, they run the other direction. They're not drawn to the light. They're drawn away from the light. They don't want the light. They want the darkness. So you can kind of imagine it this way: Christ comes into the world. The Bible says that Christ is light. He comes into the world. And Christ says many times throughout John, he says things like, as long as I am in the world, the light of the I am the light of the world. And he says, while you have the light, believe the light, receive the light. But as Christ comes into the world and pierces the darkness with his light, people flee in all directions. Like seeing turning on a light and seeing cockroaches scatter It's kind of a nasty picture, isn't it? It's just what came to my mind. Folks, is this not true? We as Christians are guilty of this too. Why are we prone to wander? Lord, I feel it. Why are we prone to leave the God we love? Because we don't like the light. We like the darkness. This concept caused Calvary Road, uh uh uh Roy Heston to write a book entitled Calvary Road, where he says this. What is meant by light and darkness is that light reveals, darkness hides. When anything reproves us, shows us up as we really are, that is light. Whatsoever doth make manifest is light. But whenever we do anything, or say anything, or don't say anything, to hide what we are or what we've done, that is darkness. He goes on to say, sin always involves us in the unreal, pretending duplicity, window dressing, excusing ourselves and blaming others. And we can do all that as much all that as much by our silences, by saying or doing something, as by saying or doing something. It's interesting that Christ says in several places in the book of John that he is the light while he is in the world. But when he leaves the world, there's at least an implication that he is no longer the light to the world. Why? Because he has left us for that. Matthew chapter 5, Christ says ye are the light to the world. The problem though, we find the same problem in our lives as they as Christ did, that men love darkness rather than light, because their deeds are evil. If you think of Matthew chapter 7, what you find is that there is this broad way that leads to destruction, and many find that, and very few find the narrow way And I just want to ask you the question here. Do you think of the world as primarily being saved, or do you pr think of the world as primarily being lost? When you rub shoulders with people, do you assume that they know Christ or do you assume that they don't? And what we find in this passage is we ought to assume that they do not know Christ. But they are not a Christian. In our day and age, we sort of run walk walk around in our And we just sort of assume if somebody says they know Christ, they know Christ. Or if somebody says something about Jesus, they know Christ. Well, folks, we aren't born knowing Christ. We're born condemned. And we need to begin to view people that way. Notwithstanding that we remember that God sent his own son into the world because of his great love for them. So there's two applications here, aren't there? Why are we prone to wander? Why do we steal it? Why do we leave the God we love? Because we want to. And the only way that we we move toward the light is to recognize we need it. It's the same message It tells us then, folks, that when we, one of the gauges for us, practically in our lives of whether or not we are pleasing God is whether or not what we are doing is in the light. Are we doing things That we want to be exposed. Do you see that in the passage in verse 21? But he that doeth truth cometh to the light. If you're doing the truth, if you're doing right, he comes to the light. Why? That his deeds may be made manifest, but not that they may be made manifest that you might be able to lift yourself up and see how good you're doing. No, no, that's the wrong motive. Why would we come to light that our m these may be manifest? Why? Look at what it says. That are wrought in who? In God, that if you are doing right, that if you are living correctly, if you are, if you are, and I love the way this puts this: truth, if you're doing the truth, Then when you come to the light, you want it to be manifest. You want others to see that your life is what you're doing is wrought in God, because you know full well that if you were doing it in your of yourself, it's not wrought in God. A litmus test for us, a protection for us in our lives is are we able to do what we are doing in the light? That's exactly why it says in Romans chapter 13. It says, verse 12: The night is far spent, the day is at hand. Let us therefore cast off the works of darkness, and let us put on the armor of light. Let us walk honestly as in the day, not in rioting rioting or drunkenness, not in chambering and wantonness Not in strife and envying, but put ye on the LAR-Lord Jesus Christ, and make not provision for the flesh to fulfill the lusts thereof. How do we know whether or not we are living for Christ or not? How do we know whether our deeds are evil or not? Well, the question is: are we walking in the light? And the Bible says in 1 John, if we walk in the light as he is in the light, we have fellowship. One with another. And the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanseth us from all sin. Let me ask you this question, first of all. You see it up there. Have you taken God's love for you for granted? Is it just a trite thing? God sacrificed his only son for you. Do you see everyone as already condemned? Are you looking at the world and saying they are in darkness? They're already condemned. Are we seeing things the way God is seeing them? And the question finally is, are you and I living in the light? You see, there is this connection. Between what God wants us to do and who God wants us to be and who we are We are not to, it is not so much that we just need, we certainly we do need to preach the gospel to every creature. But we do it with a lifestyle of living in the light that is the only way it is effective. And while we do it, we ask the Lord to draw people to himself. Look every head bowed and every eye closed today, just for a few moments I do want to give you an opportunity just to respond in prayer today. If you look at the time, I'm ending pretty early. And I want you really just uh all of us to really think about this. I'll just tell you, as I as I studied this message this week, I did a lot of soul searching. There was a lot of conviction, there was a lot of Realization of things. And I would just ask you To maybe respond that way before the Lord. In whatever way you know, I don't even want to be so specific this time. Just just before the Lord respond to the truth that you have heard in the way that God wants you to. I want to give you just a couple of minutes just to do that in silence, and then we will we will close with our song. Our Father, we just thank you for the clarity of your word. It does pierce even the dividing asunder of soul and spirit, and of the joints and marrow, and is the discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart. I pray, Lord, that you would um Work in our lives in such a way that we are drawing closer and closer to the light That we're allowing the light of Christ to penetrate every part of our heart. That we are holding nothing back from you. And that you are allowing we're allowing you to reveal all of it so that we can fulfill the responsibility that you have given to us to To let our light shine before men, that we may see, that others may see our good works and glorify you. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.