We are living in a very uncertain time in our country, in our world, actually. Of course we have just gone through uh worldwide pand pandemic and all that's gone through it, all that's that goes with that. And also we now have been seeing all kinds of disunity and riots and divisions and strife in the streets. Also we've seen peaceful protesting, which is understandable and of course a horrific Uh just terrible uh act that that occurred over in Minneapolis is just uh is just something that nobody can can condone. But we're living in a very divided, difficult time in our world. You know, Satan likes the idea of division. Satan wins when people are divided He wins when families are divided. He wins when countries are divided. He wins when churches are divided. Satan wins. Have you even noticed As you look at uh as I look at social media, which someday soon I need to take a break from. In fact, I probably would recommend that we all take a break from it as soon as it makes sense to do so But I look at social social media and various people say, well, this is the answer, and that's the answer. This is the answer to unity. But the truth of the matter is Christ is the answer to unity There will be one day where Christ will come again. And that is when we will have true unity. Until that time we really ought to expect wars and rumors of wars and uh dissension and strife and divisions and those kinds of things. And of course It's highly important that we have a good testimony and that we do the right thing when it comes to all these different things. We take the right positions and all of that. So important for us to do that. The world right now is talking about racism. I would just suggest to you that there is a biblical term that is used that would be an appropriate term for us to consider, and that is the idea, it's really in the Bible it's called partiality. And there's no question that there is partiality in our world. And if you think of James chapter two, you actually find that partiality was was at the root of a very early church in the earliest ages, James if you'll recall, is the very first book written And uh uh is written very early on in the first century, and it says in that passage, it says, My brethren, do not hold the faith of the Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory, with partiality For if there shall come into you into your assembly a man with gold rings and fine apparel, and there shall also come to you a poor man in filthy clothes You and you pay attention to the one wearing the fine clothes and say to the other, you sit here in a good place, or sit uh to the poor uh or say to the poor man, you sit there Or sit here at my footstool, have you not shown partiality among yourselves and become judges of evil thoughts? Listen, my brethren, my beloved brethren, has God not chosen the poor of this world to be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom which he promised to those who love him. Disunity, partiality, corruption is really something that only ultimately is going to be able to be dealt with and answered by Jesus Christ. In this time period, we're going to have to expect that there is going to be disunity in our world But sometimes I think and I'm concerned that the disunity in our world, the various opinions, sometimes it's like Satan's pretty happy with how our country is divided, he's pretty happy with how everything's going as far as all that's concerned. And I could almost imagine Satan saying, yeah, let's get into the church as well. Let's let's make them disunified. Let's let's do that as well. He would be happy about that. The truth of the matter is that until Christ comes, there is an organism that should be unified. And in fact, that organism should be so unified that it actually is an example to the world, it's an example to our nation of what unity looks like. So if the New Testament doesn't really address too often what the unity of a nation looks like, the New Testament doesn't address too often what the unity of of a of a of the world looks like, but it does dress address often what the unity of a church looks like And we see from this passage in Philippians chapter 2, we're going to see very clearly what a what church unity looks like. It's going to be very practical And it's something that's very important for us, you know, as we assemble back together. This is where we're assembling for the first time in a couple of months. It's wonderful to have everybody together now again in unity. And it's important for us to continue to foster unity as brothers and sisters in Christ. And to show the kind of love and deference and unselfishness that is necessary. This passage teaches us that there are four facets to to a loving culture which is a unity. So unity is not just it's not just the absence of fighting Oh, our church is unified because we don't fight. It's not just the absence of fighting. There's more to unity, to biblical unity. And what we find in this passage is A culture, a culture of love, a loving culture. So what does a loving culture look like? If you can think of a diamond and you have different facets of a diamond, I think there are four facets To the diamond of a loving culture in this passage. The first one is encouragement. Encouragement. A culture of unity is one that is encouraging. And I want you to notice this as we look at these that this is actually what the world is looking for in our country. This is what the world is looking for in their nation and in communities And yet they're not likely going to find it anytime soon. But they ought to be able to find it in the church. So a culture of encouragement. When you think of encouragement, this is to build someone up, to come alongside. It's paraclai, to come alongside and also to build others up. So important for us to have a culture of encouragement. Barnabas was one of the prime examples in the New Testament of someone who was a he was called the son of encouragement. He gave sacrificially when he saw a need in Acts chapter 4, verse 36, and it says that uh that having lay and sold it, Barnabas did, and brought the money and laid it at the apostles' feet. And then he really believed in people. You remember the story of he and Saul, they went together along with along with uh John Mark and uh they had some problems with John Mark. John Mark was uh was was weak uh in what he was and and wasn't able to continue and be faithful in that particular time And Barnabas was the man who wanted to encourage him. He was the man who wanted to stick with him and give him a second chance, and hey, we can do this. And when they were ready to go on another missionary journey The Apostle Paul said no, but he's going to weigh us down. But Barnabas was going to come alongside and he was going to encourage. That's Barnabas. Barnabas coached people. According to Acts chapter eleven, twenty two through twenty-five. And Marbus was trustworthy and he was faithful. In Acts chapter eleven, verse thirty we stuff we see this. And then in Acts chapter twelve, verse twenty-seven, Barnabas was working toward the restoration of people. He was always seeing how he could bring people together. How he could restore people to the faith. This was a man named Barnabas. He was the man who was encouraged a man who was encouraging And we need as a church a a culture of encouragement. And I'm thankful for the people in our church that have that, that that come alongside and just are ready there, ready to encourage, ready to pray for. I've seen some of that during the time where we couldn't assemble and in the beginning stages of this COVID-19 uh problems and pandemic, how people reached out to each other, and that's a wonderful thing that Various people did in the body of Christ. The next facet is mercies or compassion. Jesus is our prime example of one who is a person of compassion. It says in Matthew 9, verse 36 that he sought the multitudes and was moved with compassion. Again, in Matthew 14, 14, it says, And Jesus went forth and saw a great multitude and was moved with compassion. In 1827 of the same book it says he was moved with compassion and forgave him the debt. Again, in one forty-one of Mark it says Jesus was moved with compassion, put forth his hand, and touched him, and said unto him, I will be thou clean And in Mark chapter 6, verse 34, it says that Jesus, when he came out, saw much people and was moved with compassion toward them, because they were as sheep not having a shepherd, and he began to teach them many things. Jesus was moved with compassion, and you and I need to have that kind of heart toward each other. The Bible says in Galatians chapter 6, verse 7, bear one another's burdens and so fulfill the law of Christ. The kind of camaraderie, the kind of compassion that we see in Christ is the kind that we ought to be exemplifying to each other. That is biblical unity. That's a culture that is loving. And then we find uh we find uh uh that was that that's uh what we the mercy or comfort Um is what we were talking about there. Um that that's the that's actually the fourth one. I got I I skipped the page here. That's the fourth one. The fourth one is e em empathy, that's the compassion. The second one Or I'm throwing you guys all back there, sorry. The second one is comfort. The facet is comfort, and that's that's to that's to comfort one another. To console one another. The third facet is fellowship. So you guys, the first one, the second one is comfort. The third one is fellowship or sharing. And then that fourth one is deep empathy. The third one here that is sharing is a partnership. It's a participation. It's the same, it's uh participating in the same mission. The Spirit of God, it says, it's it's f it's fellowship in the Spirit. That is, it is the Spirit of God working in our lives as individuals That motivates us to want to work together for a common cause. And that cause is Jesus Christ. His work. What he is doing, the kingdom of God. It's very important for us to understand as we unify, we're unifying around the common cause of the person and work of Jesus Christ. And that's something that we all ought to be able to agree with. And of course, that deep empathy, that compassion, that mercy that we talked about before. Those are the four facets of unity. Well, what do we need to have this? I mean, doesn't that sound good? I mean what would it be like if a country had that? Encouragement and compassion toward each other and unity like that and love for each other. What what would it be like? Well that's not going to happen likely as a as an entire country But it can happen in a in a community of believers that are focused on the person and work of Christ. Well what is What is needed to have this is the second question. And it says in verse 2 this, it says this, Fulfill my joy, being like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind. We need to be like-minded. That means that we want the same things, having the same love, that we say the same things, being of one accord, that we think the same things. And folks, it's so important for us when it comes to our church that the primary things that we all believe in remain primary And the secondary things we don't allow us allow to divide us from the primary things that we all hold dear When a church has a problem with unity, it's often because their priority becomes focused on the secondary things. I want to just thank you all for coming in and wearing masks. Most of you all did it very compliantly and and uh with a cooperative spirit, and I know that's hard. I know that's a difficult thing to do. Who in the world ever come to church and think that you're going to come like a bank robber? I mean, it doesn't even make sense. And yet you did it cooperatively, and I really very much appreciate that And and there's gonna some of you are thinking this is stupid. And there's some of you thinking that this is really necessary. And it's okay that we have disagreements on whether it's stupid or whether it's necessary But in the body of Christ, we all need to agree that we're going to show deference to the ones that really are concerned about this And in the body of Christ, we all ought to be able to have unity because of our testimony and unity because of deference, because we love each other, and we want to show deference to each other Well, you say, well, in order to focus on what's primary and not on what's secondary, in order to have this kind of culture, I mean what do we really need? What's What is the he at the heart of all this? And the answer to that is found in verses 3 through 4 of this passage. It says this. Let nothing be done through selfish ambition or conceit, but in lowliness of mind, let each esteem others better than himself. Well each of you look out not only for his own interests, but also for the interests of others. What this is talking about, this mind that it's talking about, it later on says Let this mind be in you, which is also in Christ Jesus, is talking about humility. Unity requires humility. It is absolutely necessary. Can you imagine what our country would be like if there was more humility? If our leaders had more humility If the people, if our media had more humility, if our pundits had more humility, if there was more humility from everyone, what would our country be like? Humility means that I listen to people, not just have to say what I have to say all the time. Humility is the idea, well, we see what it says here. First of all, it doesn't include strife Let nothing be done, nothing be done through strife, Scripture says. Paul is clear about this. It has a total prohibition when it comes to strife. We have lots of strife in our nation. But in our church, we ought to set an example and so that we don't have that kind of strife. The Bible says in Proverbs chapter 13, verse 10, only by pride cometh contention. But with the well-advised is wisdom. The second issue that we see in this passage when it comes to humility is it says, never let anything be done through vainglory. Vainglory has to do with self-serving motives. It's I want to serve self rather than serve others. Our politicians, it seems, are constantly wanting to serve self rather than serve others. The idea of a public servant isn't even hardly used anymore. That used to be the phrase that most people news when they went into into po politics. There is so much vain glory going on. I think of the I think of Absalom in the Old Testament when I think of vainglory, and we won't take the time to read that passage. But do you remember in 2 Samuel chapter 15? He would stand by the way and as that as as David didn't deal with the problems that he should have dealt with, Abra uh Absalom stood sort of by the way and said Hey, it's too bad you're not getting your depth, your problems dealt with. I'll deal with your you know, somebody ought to deal with those problems, and if I were in charge, I'd deal with those problems. But Absalom's goal was vainglory. Absalom's goal was improper motives. Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory. May we as a church be a church that is an example of unity. We desperately need this in our world. They have examples of what unity looks like of encouragement and and compassion and all of those kinds of things Well, what do you need in order to have all this? Well the answer the answer is humility. Well, how do you know whether or not you have humility? You say, well, I'm humble. Well, there you go That doesn't work too well. I I got some humility, I got lots of humility. Well that doesn't even make any sense. So how do you know if you're humble? Humility, you can't evaluate humility by asking the question, do I look humble to myself or not? It won't work. But there are three marks of humility in this passage that I think will help us greatly. Number one, lowliness of mind. That we have in our minds a lowly disposition, that we're just postured as not I'm better than everybody else, but I'm not better than everybody else. Lowliness of mind. Says in Acts 20 verse 19, that they serve the Lord with humility. And secondly, we'll move on here. Secondly, respect for the opinions of others. In fact, this passage says that we ought to respect others' opinions more than our own. That we ought to be concerned more for the opinions of others and not say, well, I know better than everybody else. That's not humble. But to say to respect the opinions of others better than our own opinions. Bible tells us to do this. The word there means to regard. It means to think about, to suppose, to assume. In other words, when when we think about our opinions versus other people's opinions, we ought to be thinking, we're assuming that their opinion is higher than our opinion. That's humility. Thirdly, humility has a regard for the concerns of others above our own Humility has a regard for the concerns of others above our own. Do you care about more about the interests of others rather than the interests of yourself? If you are more concerned about your own interests and the interests of others, then you are by definition not humble. Christ says Be, the Bible says here, be like-minded as Christ is. Do we are we interested in the in the concerns of others? When when what all of what is going on here, even now, when we're when we're distant socially, and thank you all for doing that, I could see that we're all six feet apart at least And putting on masks before and afterwards. You know what that shows? It shows that we are interested, especially outdoors, it shows that we are interested in the concerns of others. If there's even one person in our midst, in our our church That's concerned that we are going to, and certainly if there is a group that is concerned, that we are going to show deference there, and we're more going to be more concerned about others' interests Then our own interests. That's humility. So the three marks of humility are absolutely necessary And all of these, if we do these, if we practice these, if we have self-examination, you might not be able to examine, am I humble or am I not, but you can ask yourself the question, am I more concerned of the interests of others than I am my own interests? You may not be able to say, well, I'm humble or not, but you you can ask yourself, do I regard and respect the opinions of others? So in concluding applications, let's just point out three things. Number one, we'll have three questions Are you like-minded with your uh with other believers? Are are you letting secondary matters keep you from agreement on what is really important Are you like-minded with other believers, or are you letting secondary matters keep you from agreement on what is really important? Number two. Whose opinion do you value? Yours or others? And which one do you value more? And number three Whose interests are you more concerned about? Yours or others? I gotta tell you as we go through this, this is convicting is it not? This is something that probably every day, if we would read this passage every day, it would probably be convicting every day because of our flesh and because of the pride in our own hearts. If we will learn to have this kind of a spirit, it doesn't matter what's going on in our country. If we had that we ought to have this kind of a spirit as we go through everything. If we will learn to have this kind of a heart and this kind of a spirit and have this kind of a unity in the body of Christ, then surely as m the country is more divided, surely as the nation is gr has greater division, surely we will be a light that is brighter. In a dark world. And that's exactly what we want to do. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we thank you for this time that we could spend together. We thank you that uh We thank you for your word. And we pray, Lord, as we are able now to assemble together, albeit with Uh not as not all the comforts that we once enjoyed and with things that are inconvenient, we're now able to assemble together. And we thank you for that, Father. And we pray today, Lord, that you would uh uh you would help us to have a humble spirit. We look at uh this world, we look at leaders in our world, we look at all the things going on, and there seems to just be a dearth of humility. And yet if we look at our own hearts, we see that there's often a lack of humility as well. Lord, would you teach us Your ways help us to be like Christ and to have the mind of Christ so that we can have a culture of encouragement and compassion and love for one another And so that we can be the kind of light to the world that you want us to be. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen.