Please take your Bibles and turn to First John again. First John chapter one. The focus of our message today is going to be on verses 5 through 10 of 1 John, but I'd like to go ahead and read the entire chapter because this chapter really it all goes together. 1 John chapter 1, beginning in verse 1. That which we have that which was from the beginning. which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon, and our hands have handled concerning the words of life. The life was manifested, and we have seen it, and bear witness and declare to you that eternal life which was with the Father and was manifested to us. That which we have seen and heard, we declare to you, that you also may have fellowship with us, and truly our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. And these things we write to you that your joy may be full. This is the message which we have heard from him and declare to you that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. If we say that we have fellowship with him and walk in darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth. But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another. And the blood of Jesus Christ, his Son, cleanses us from all sin. If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness If we say that we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we thank you just for the privilege of gathering this morning and opening up your word and seeing the truth of your word. And then, Lord, I pray as we look at your word this morning and we interpret it, Lord, would we apply it? Would you help us to apply it to our lives? Help us to really understand the truth of what we are seeing. And Father, I pray, Lord, that you would just help us and help us to Really grow as a result of this. Lord, as we look at this concept of fellowship, may we understand it. May we see it. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. You and I are people, all of us, we love to justify ourselves. We want to defend ourselves. We want to defend our honor. We want to make sure we like being right and we don't like being wrong. And this is true even when it comes to our sin. When we sin, which is frequently because we are human and we are born with a sin nature, we tend to want to justify ourselves. We want to defend ourselves. And we do it before others. We do it in our own minds. And we do it even before God. You think about your life and you think about times perhaps where your conscience has bothered you about something. We so easily want to shove it aside, act like it's not there. Put it into the darkness. Hide it. Instead of dealing with it the way that God wants us to deal with it. And we get this honestly. We get this from Adam and Eve, actually. It says in Genesis chapter 3, verse 8. And they heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day. Adam and Eve had just sinned before God, and it says this: and Adam and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God among the trees of the garden. Then the Lord God called Adam and said to him, Where are you? So he said, I heard your voice in the garden, and I was afraid, because I was naked and I hid myself. And he said, Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten from the tree of which I commanded you that you should not eat? Then the man said, The woman whom you gave to be with me, she gave me the tree of the tree, and I ate. Then God said to the woman, What is it that you have done? And of course she blames the serpent. When we sin, we do the exact same thing that Adam and Eve does. We want to hide it, or we want to blame others. This causes problems in our relationship with God. It causes problems in our fellowship with God. Which causes problems with our eternal life. Not that we no longer have eternal life, but when we aren't in fellowship with God, then we aren't able to experience eternal life the way that God intended. That abundant life, the joy that comes from experiencing eternal life the way God intended, is gone Because our conscience has not been cleared, and we are no longer in fellowship with the Lord. That's why this passage is so vitally important. It is important because we must learn how to deal with sin. You and I that know Christ as our Savior, we must understand that there is when we sin, God has forgiven us sin, but we must deal with it in the right way. And so this passage teaches us to do this. And we begin to understand what all this means when we begin to understand that our fellowship begins as we walk in the light. As he is in the light. This passage in verse 5 begins that way. It says: we've got to understand that God is light. So, if we're supposed to walk in the light, and if God is light, what does it mean that God is light? And we obviously have this contrasted with darkness. God is light. Well, God is like number one refers to transcendence. That is, God is so high above his creation That he can't be touched by his creation. 1 Timothy 6 says it this way: fight the good fight of faith, lay hold on eternal life to which you were called. and have confess and have confessed the good confession in the presence of many witnesses. And then later on in verse 16 it says, And alone has who alone, talking about the Lord, has immortality dwelling in unapproachable light. Whom no man has seen or can see, to whom be honor and everlasting power Now, if you recall from the Old Testament, God is light thereto. And when God desires to covenant with his people back at Mount Sinai, He puts into place the ceremonial system, the sacrificial system whereby the presence of God could remain with the people. Despite the fact that God is entirely light, and in him is no darkness at all. That brings us to the second point. Light refers to righteousness. I think we misunderstand what righteousness means. What is righteousness? When you think of the term righteous, what comes to mind? I don't know why I think of this, but when I think of righteousness, I think of someone who is really stiff and strict. And sort of, you know, like just always, always just self-righteousness is actually what I'm thinking of. Often I think of righteousness that way. It's not a stiffness or a strictness. If you were to ask somebody what is righteousness, the average Christian would probably say something like moral purity. But actually, that's really not what we're talking about either when we talk about righteousness. Righteousness is actually in Scripture a relational term. And it's talking about being in right standing with somebody. Now, this happens when somebody comes to Christ. They are in their trespasses and sin. They are lost. The Bible says they are separated from God. And then when they accept Christ as their Lord and Savior, where they understand their sin and their need of a Savior, Christ died for their sin on him, placed it on himself. to give us his righteousness so that we can be in right standing with God. And when somebody accepts that they come into right standing. But this passage is going to use this word righteous, in fact later on it's in the passage, to mean something that is relational. And it's relational with that word with that way too. We don't have a relationship with God and then we do have a relationship with God. with God. But this word righteous, righteousness, has to do with a right standing, to be in right alignment. with someone. Let me illustrate it this way. This is becoming uh less and less of an issue, but um there are different places that you can go and be dressed appropriately appropriately and not dressed appropriately. For example, if I stood before you in a tank top and you know swim swim trunks, you you might be a little distracted by that In more than one way, probably. Maybe grossed out a little bit, I don't know. Anyway. But on the other hand If I went to a pool in a three-piece suit, that would also be an inappropriate way to dress for the occasion. You ever been in a situation where you thought you were supposed to dress one way and you get to the situation and you know you are like totally out of place Uh maybe you're you're you you thought the the the where you're going was very ca very casual and you dressed formally or the everywhere is uh it's formal and you're dressed really really casually and you feel awkward about it You feel uncomfortable. You don't feel like you're quite it's quite right. Something's not right. That's really this word. Something isn't right. Righteous. Right alignment. Now you can do what do you want to what do you want to do when you're in that situation? What do you want to do? You want to what? Hide. You want to hide. And that is a understandable reaction. You can either hide or you can address the problem and correct the problem You first have to identify that you have a problem. Have you ever noticed there noticed that there seems to be some weird people in the world that they can't they they don't even know how to address? It's like you like they just don't understand. They're like totally they come you know, it's just And they they don't know that they have a problem in the first place. So like everybody else is just, you know, going on, why are you dressed that way? See, this is what this word means, and as we go through this, it's going to help us to understand this word. It means this Word God is light is righteous. And if I could put it this way, God is light, and we have to adjust to his light. He's not going to adjust to our light. He can't do that. In fact, we're darkness, right? So he's not going to adjust to us. We must adjust to him. And we must adjust to him not just in our standing with him as a child of God. We must also adjust to him in our fellowship with him. God is light. Finally, what is light? Light is a revealer. It reveals things. In Ephesians chapter 5, verse 13, it says this. But all things that are exposed are made manifest by the light. For whatever makes manifest is light. Therefore, he says, awake you sleep, arise from the dead, and Christ will give you light. Light exposes. Now, Jesus is good, God's going to say in this passage, John's going to say in this passage, walk in the light. But what's the problem with walking in the light? We are going to be exposed. So walk in the light is he is in the light, but we are going to be exposed. Roy Hessen says this: what is meant by light and darkness is that light reveals. Darkness hides. But whenever we do anything or say anything or don't say anything to hide what we are or what we've done, that's darkness. And the passage is going to talk about walking in darkness rather than in the light. In John chapter 8, verse 12, it says, and I am the light of the world. He who follows me shall not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. That is, we can't follow Jesus and walk in darkness at the same time. We can't be in fellowship with Jesus and also walk in darkness at the same time. And that really brings us to the next point. We've got, if we're going to walk with Christ, If we're going to walk in fellowship with God, we're going to have to learn to deal with sin biblically. We've got to deal with sin biblically. Notice the passage. It says that. It says this, verse 6: if we say that we have fellowship with Him and walk in darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth. But If we walk in the light as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another. And the this notice what he says next. This is so important. It's vital. And the what? The blood of Jesus Christ, his son, does what? Cleanses us from all sin. So what God is saying then is that if we're going to have fellowship with Him, we're going to have to walk in the light. But God In his benevolent mercy, as he tells us, he commands us, walk in the light, as God is in the light, walk in the light. He says, remember as you walk in the light, the light is going to expose you. But the blood of Christ cleanses you from all sin. He's talking here to Christians. It's not enough. For you to understand that you sin and trust Christ as your Savior, and then you have eternal life, and then to go on and to forget that Christ cleanses you from every sin. See, as you walk in the light, you are going to have your sin exposed But God says he reminds you, and this is so important, that he cleanses you from every sin Now this is so vital that we need to camp out on this for a minute. And I'd like you to take your Bibles and turn to a passage of scripture. I believe it's Psalm Actually, I don't have the the reference here. I have the verses but not the reference. I'm gonna have to read them to you. Somebody will probably be able to find them. Psalm 103, I think, is what it is, but I'm not positive And this is what it says in Psalm 13. It's a ba it's the passage of the w uh East is uh as far as the East is from the West, uh so far he puts his transgression from us. Anybody know what that is? Thank you, one or three, I r okay I remember right. One of three. Look t take your bu Bibles turn there. Psalm one and three and verse eight. This is absolutely vital that we understand, this is living out the gospel, that every day we get this and we understand it. Verse 8: The Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in mercy. He will not always strive with us, nor will he keep his anger forever. He has not dealt with us according to our sins. Did you catch that? He's not dealt with us according to our sins, nor punished us according to our iniquities. For as the heavens are high above the earth, so great is his mercy toward those who fear him. As far as the east is from the west, so far has he removed our transgressions from us. As a father pities his children, so the Lord pities those who fear him. For he knows our frame. He remembers that we are dust. As for man, his days are like grass, as a flower of the field, so he flourishes. For the wind passes over it and it is gone, and its place remembers it no more But the mercy of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting on those who fear him and his righteousness to children's children. Folks, brothers and sisters in Christ, it is so vitally important to remember this, that as you walk in the light, Your sin will be exposed. But the blood of Christ cleanses you from sin so that you don't have to hide it from God. He already knows it anyway. The problem comes when we start hiding our sin from the God who knows it anyway. That we are no longer in fellowship with him. It's like we're not aligned correctly anymore. We so easily want to hide from it. We want to turn away from it. We don't want to face the fact that we are sinful. You and I are inherently in our flesh sinful against God. But God knows this And he provided a way for you to be not only having eternal life, but in right standing with God in your fellowship with him, so that when you walk in the light. As he is in the light, and that sin is exposed, you name it for what it is, and you keep walking in the light, and you realize that the blood of Christ cleanses you from that sin. When you don't do that, the blood of Christ still cleanses you, but you're now walking in darkness and you don't realize that the blood of Christ cleanses you from that sin. And you're not in fellowship with God anymore. And you don't experience the eternal life that God has given to you and to me. Absolutely, vitally, critically important. So we have two choices. When we walk in the light and we're in fellowship with the Lord and we are in the Word and we are In the spirit, and we are walking with God, and the light is going to expose, you're going to see motives you never saw before. You're going to see that you're selfish and prideful. When you begin, when that begins to happen, you have two choices. You either recognize it and see it the way God does. Or you hide it. And if you choose to hide it, you are walking in darkness. And don't deceive yourself and say that you're walking in the light when you're actually walking in the likeness. You're lying to yourself. And you do not practice the truth. But if we walk in the light as he is in light, we have fellowship, we have sharing, we have what we talked about last week, and the blood of Christ cleanses us from all sin. Roy Hessen in his little book, Calvary Road, says this. The first effect of sin in our lives is always to make us to try to hide what we are. Sin always involves us in being unreal, pretending, duplicity, window dressing, excusing ourselves, and blaming others And we can do all that as much as as much as by our silence as by saying or doing something. With some of us, the sin in question may be nothing more than self-consciousness Anything with I in it is sin. And the high hiding nothing more than an assumed heartiness to cover that self-consciousness. But is walking in darkness nonetheless. Why are we so tempted to hide our sin? Well, there's really two reasons. Reason number one, we're prideful. I mean, just plain and simple, we like to think well of ourselves. That's why God says he resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble. Folks, we've got to understand we don't need to think well of ourselves. You know why we don't need to think well of ourselves? Because God accepts us because of who Christ is, not because of who we are. Our acceptance of ourselves is not because we're so good, but because we're so bad, but Christ is so good. And God, when he sees us, he sees his son. So we are prideful and we don't want to see our own sin. But number two, we like our sin. John 3. 18 says, He who believes in him is not condemned, but he who does not believe is condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. And this is the condemnation that the light has come into the world, and men love darkness rather than light because their deeds were evil. For everyone practicing evil hates the light, and does not come to the light, lest his deeds should be exposed. But he who does the truth comes to the light, that his deeds may be clearly seen. They have been done in God. The concept of darkness then is the next thing we need to need to see. What does it mean to walk in darkness? Well, it's not talking about a failure to be sinless here. Understand that. You and I will not be sinless this side of heaven. This is not, if you walk in darkness, if you walk in light, you're sinless, and you walk in darkness, you're not sinless. Not what he's talking about at all. There is something else in view here. What he's talking about here is spiritual blindness. You are walking in darkness, that is, you are walking in spiritual blindness. In 2 Peter chapter 1 it says this, but also for this very reason Giving all diligence, add to your faith virtue, to your virtue knowledge, to knowledge self-control, to self-control, perseverance, to perseverance godliness, to godliness, brotherly kindness. to brotherly kindness, love. For if these things are yours and abound, you will be neither barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. For he who lacks these things is short sighted even to blindness. and has forgotten that he was cleansed from his old sins. Did you catch that? There is a way as a Christian to be out of fellowship with God, to be spiritually blind To genuinely be saved, but to be spiritually blind, and it's like you've forgotten that you have been cleansed from your sin. That's walking in darkness. Those who walk in darkness share in the activities of darkness. What begins to happen is our our conscience conscience becomes cold, could become seared, and we begun to share in some of those activities of darkness. Ephesians chapter 5, verse 3, but fornication, uncleanness, and covetousness let it not be named among you. Neither filthiness or foolish talking or coarse jesting or fitting or is not fitting, but rather giving of thanks. For this you know that no fornicator or unclean person nor covetous man who is an idolater has any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God. Let no one deceive you with empty words For because of these things, the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience. So therefore do not be partakers with them, and have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness. But rather expose them. For it is shameful even to speak of those things which are done of them in secret. He says, don't be a partaker of Of the works of darkness, of the fruits of darkness, of those things that come from the darkness. But as soon as that as soon as you are in darkness and you begin to partake in the works of darkness, expose them. Well, how do you expose them? You walk in the light. And you are open with God. You are transparent with God. And you're open with him, and you see that you're walking in darkness, and you identify the sin as God sees it, and you don't make excuses for it. And you don't blame anybody else, and you just simply say, God, I've sinned. But then right on the heels of that, you say, thank you for your cleansing work in my life. He has conf he has cleansed us from all unrighteousness. That then brings us to exactly what 1 John tells us. Look at verse 8. If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves. Don't say that you have no sin. You deceive ourselves that the truth is not in us. But if we confess our sin, that is, we agree with God about it, we say the same thing God says about it. He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. That we say that we have not sinned. We make him a liar, and his word is not in us. In verse 8, then we begin to see that we must agree with God readily about our lives, if we're going to be in fellowship with God, if we're going to enjoy the eternal life that God has given us, if we're going to be joyful before the Lord. And he talks here then about, he says in verse 8, he talks about saying that we have no sin, that we are outside of the possibility of sin. Now, folks, this is very dangerous. What he is talking about here is he is talking about suppressing the problem of sin. As though sin is no longer a problem for us. And sometimes you and I do this almost passively. And when we do this, we are in grave danger. The fact is, this side of heaven, we will always be dealing with the problem of sin. We've got to learn how to deal with it in the right way. And when we don't, when we suppress the problem of sin, then we are lying to ourselves. The truth is not in us. We're not walking in the light. We're not walking in the word. We're not dwelling in fellowship with God. So I want to really flesh this out because it's vitally important. I would suggest to you that there are five ways we suppress the problem of sin. Number one, when we completely separate the secular from the sacred. We suppress the problem of sin when we do like the old Gnostics do, where they say the things that are physical are are are separated from the things that are spiritual. So that if I do something that's physical, it's as long as it doesn't it i it's separate from what's spiritual And you could take different ways, go different directions with this, but the Gnostics came to the place where they said all things physical are evil and all things spiritual are good. And so because I am just left with something physical that's evil, I can do whatever I want with my physical body. Now we don't go quite that far, but sometimes we separate the sacred from the secular. And we don't really think about what God says in his word, where he says, whatever ye eat or drink, or whatever ye do, do all for the glory of God. Number two, when we are some when we somehow believe that we're beyond the power of sin. When you might say to yourself, Well, I would never do that about something. Folks, there is no sin. That a Christian is beyond the power of. Now, I'm not saying that they must follow that we are we are freed from the power of it. But we are not beyond the power of it. In other words, we're not beyond the possibility of it. And when we say, I would never do that, we are saying that we are beyond the power of sin. Number three, when we are surprised by our own sin or the sin of others When we are surprised by our own sin or the sin of others, we are as though it's telling we are suppressing the problem of sin. You ever been surprised by your own sin and then you just stuff it? Don't deal with it? We are suppressing the problem of sin. And we do this with others quicker than we do with ourselves. Oh, I can't believe that person did that. I can't believe that person did that No, we are none of us are, we cannot say that we are beyond the power of sin. And we are we no longer have to sin. Romans 6. But sin lies at the door. It is a possibility. And it will always be a possibility this side of heaven. Number four. When we blame evil on something outside of ourselves. When we when we begin to say, well, that's not really my problem. That's somebody else's problem. We begin to blame. We do the blame game and we blame evil on something outside of ourselves. Well yes I did it and I I was I was sh I was partaking in it, but it was outside of me somehow. And number five, and this is a real key one, whenever moral categories are replaced by psychological categories. Whenever moral categories are placed by psychological categories. This view, Edmund Hebert points out, relegates sin to the limbo of mistakes frailties, pardonable errors of human limitation, anything but sin. I'm not saying today that there aren't there isn't a place for psychological categories What I am saying to you folks is that often if we are Christians, we excuse ourselves by the psychological categories. We're no longer good, it's no longer good and evil, it's now normal and sick. It's not drunkenness, it's chemical dependence. It's not rebellion, it's ADD. It's not gluttony, it's eating disorder. It's not self-centeredness, it's poor self-esteem or insecurity. And by the way, I'm not saying that no one has ADD. I'm just simply saying that if we're not careful, we can take these psychological categories and say, well, this is just my problem. Uh it's just my problem. Instead of identifying it as sin. Glenn Barker said this said it this way, whatever the shape of the argument, and regardless of whether it is an affirmation from the ancient world or modern restatement It remains true that whenever the principle of sin is denied as an ongoing reality, there follows a denial of responsibility for individual action. We must be careful about this. Well then how do we deal with it? What is it says, it's very clear here, verse 9, if we confess our sins. But even that is often misunderstood. What does it mean to confess sin? Well, it's not a magic formula to make you feel better. That's how some denominations take it. They just sort of you can confess it and confess it to a certain person or confess it. That's not what's not what it is. It's not some magic formula. Sometimes we do this even as Christians. We do this sometimes at the Lord's table. Okay, let me think of every sin I've confessed the last I've sinned in the last month, and I confess them all right here, and I feel better now. We misunderstand what confession is. And it's not a confession, it's not a command to tell everybody else your sin. It's not at all what it is here What it is here, folks, is to agree with God about your sin. If we confess our sin, or in other words, if we agree, if we say the same, it's homologo. Say the same thing God says about it. Now that makes sense when we think about all that we've looked at already. If we're walking in the light as He is in the light, Then when he reveals our sin to us, then we've got to make sure that we're saying the same thing he's saying about it. If we suppress it or blame others or hide from it, if we do those things, then we are not saying the same thing God says about it. And then no wonder we are not realizing the cleansing work of Christ in our lives. We must name it. The biblical name for it, in fact. If it's a lie, it's a lie. It's not a white lie. It's not a fib. It's a lie. Or if you really want to get biblical, bearing false witness. We must name it the way God names it. We must name our sin. But notice what he says here, folks. This is Incredibly written. Of course, it's God's word. That's why it's incredibly written. If we confess our sin, if we say what God says about it, what does he say? He's faithful. And just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all what? Unrighteousness. Remember, we talked about what righteousness is? He is now going to align us back into right relationship with him. Now it's interesting that he uses this term faithful and just. I'm going to talk about justice first. He uses this word just. What God is doing here by saying that he is just to forgive us our sin. Is he is pointing out the fact that Christ died for our sin. And it would actually be unjust For God to refuse to forgive us of our sin when Christ died for our sin. Did you catch that? God would be unjust To not cleanse us from our sin because of what his own son did for us on the cross. He is binding himself To forgiving us of our sin and cleansing us from all unrighteousness By these two words, his justness and what else? His faithfulness. God is dependable. He is always going to do it. He is dependable. He is reliable. You can depend upon him 100% of the time, every time, all of the time. You can't do that with anybody else. You depend on anybody else all the time, you're gonna get dis d disappointed. You rely on anybody else all the time, and you're gonna get dismayed. But with God, when God says he is faithful and just to do something, he's going to do it. He is faithful and just to forgive us our sin and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Forgive means to remove, to send away To let it go. It's like releasing it. You've got your grip on something and you let it go. That's what God does with your sin. And cleansing is the purification of a stain. It's the clearing of a conscious. You ever had a really hard thing, stain in your clothes? I I you know it's funny, I c I'm glad I have my wife. She gets everything out. I'm kinda I spill stuff. And um and I'm always saying, hey I spilled this or I left so chocolate in my pocket or something like that. Those kind of things. And and and I she somehow gets it all out. I don't even know what she does her magic. But God cleanses us completely. He removes even the stain of our sin. Even the residual, he removes it from us. He cleanses us from all unrighteousness. And there's this like final warning in this passage If we say we have not sinned, we make him a liar. Don't make the revealing light of God a liar in your life If you do that, his word is not in you. So just summarizing all of this, number one Fellowship with God requires us to walk in the light. You've got to walk in the light. You've got to allow God to reveal your sin, you've got to get connected to Him. The more you read this word, you ever felt this way, by the way? As a Christian, you ever felt like you're growing, like as you grow, you actually feel like you're sinning more? You ever felt that way before? Do you know what's happening? You're walking in the light and you're more aware of your sin. You're not sinning more, you're just more aware of your sin. It's possible, and then sometimes we can actually be discouraged by that. We're more aware of our sin. We're walking in the light. We're more aware of it. And that actually then we get to a point where we're like, I just can't stand this anymore. Just keep agreeing with God about it and keep realizing the cleansing work of the gospel in our lives. Number two, we must deal with our sin the right way. That means we're going to do this. We're going to name it. As God names it, we're going to forsake it. And folks, this is so important. We're going to accept God's faithful justice to forgive it. You must do all of those things. That, folks, is repentance, and it's why we ought to be living a life of repentance. We name it. We forsake it. And we accept God's faithfulness to forgive it. And to cleanse even the stain of sin from us And number three, we must be aware of the constant tendency to hide our sin. And understand that doing so keeps us from fellowship with God. And there is a constant tendency, and you could tell this by the way with somebody. With yourself is what I prefer, what I suggest, not just looking at everybody else. But part of it is just ask the question, how defensive are you when you get accused of something? Because you may be falsely accused about that thing, but if you get really, really mad, you get really, really upset even when you're falsely accused. You know that something's not right there because we're sinful. In other words You begin to realize when you're falsely accused, and all of us have at one time or another, that maybe they falsely accused me on that, but they missed something else that really, really did happen. And you begin to say, okay, just calmly, let me correct this. You're not right. You you follow that's not correct. Let me explain how this is right. But we don't get upset. We're not defensive Why? Because we're coming at it from an angle where we're s we know we're sinful. And maybe you got that one wrong, but you probably missed something else. We must understand our constant tendency to hide our sin, and that doing so keeps us from fellowship with God. Now folks, that is not saying that we air our dirty laundry before everybody, but if you sinned against someone, you need to confess it to them. Or if you've sinned against God primarily, and that's what David said, in thee only have I sinned. The focus was on my, I've sinned against you, O God. We must understand that God will forgive us of our sin, and then we can walk in fellowship with Him. That is what John is dealing with in this passage, and may we be able to really think through this and learn on a practical level, maybe relearn, to deal with our sins so that we can be in fellowship. With God. There should be, let me, I'll just say this: there should be no one here that knows Christ as their Savior that isn't in fellowship with the Lord. Because God's provided everything for that to happen. It's really our mishandling of our sin that keeps us out of fellowship with the Lord. Let's pray together. Father, I pray, Lord, that you would help us as we meditate on these things from your word, as we think through them and I pray, Lord, that we would not, in anything that we look at from 1 John 1, that we would not isolate one thing to the exclusion of the other. We're so quick to do that. Help us to really understand this. To identify how this works in our lives as believers. So that we can truly be in fellowship with you and have this abundant relationship, abundant life in Christ. that you want us to have. And I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.