This is a subject that has often been misunderstood and even abused in many circles around our nation. If we're not careful, we can re we can sort of revert into an area of legalism, which we want to be very, very careful of We also have the possibility of of moving over into an area where we are tolerant of sin and we have to be very careful of that. There's got to be a balance with these things and I really appreciate the balance that I I saw um from the faculty of that seminary and um learned quite a bit and one of the things that um they pointed out Was that when we think about this concept of culture, culture being how we collectively think as a society? Um we often are not we we have to make some discernments about these kinds of things. things when it comes to our what we do and how we think and the influence that culture has on us. We make a mistake if we think that all culture in society is wrong. And but on the other hand, we've got to be very discerning about what things we allow ourselves to be influenced by in the culture. And one of the things that they pointed out Was that there is a natural pull to conform to a culture, any culture And that, by the way, is probably God-given, that all of us have this sort of desire to, or sort of a natural pull to to conform to the culture in which we are living. We naturally think the way the people around us think. If you go into another culture, whether it's a uh Eastern culture, they think very differently from us. For example In the Western culture, we often think we we value future and we value young. In the Easter culture they value the past and they value old. And so the that's that's just an example of the difference between our Western culture and if you went over the Orient, what the kind of culture that you would see over there. And there is this natural pool which is kind of important actually in society because we all got to work together somehow. And when what it's difficult actually in our Western society, because sometimes part of our culture is that we are very independently minded And sometimes you get a bunch of independently minded people that bump up against each other a lot rather than working together. But because there is a natural pull within culture, part of the natural pull that we have can actually be something that can be we can be pulled the wrong direction. For example, there are activities, for example, that are things that we would say are cultural norm. Sports, for example, would be in that category. How many of you all like March Madness and you're watching all the basketball games on March Madness and you're you've got a bracket and you're doing all Okay. Or baseball, we're not too far away from baseball coming up. And the reason I'm mentioning those rather than football is because we're future value. We value future things. So um I figure we just talk about the future. We've got baseball coming up. Well if you think about these things, you have to decide what what about basketball and baseball is redeeming. And what of and those things might not be, might be corrupt. Um basketball and baseball have a lot of redeeming things. There's teamwork, you learn how to how to work as a team, you learn communication one with another, you learn how to uh enjoy uh uh common an common interest. You enjoy you learn patience. Uh if you're playing a sports there's got to be patience. There's got to be a map uh sort of a balance between tenacity and patience and working together and and knowing knowing that different people are different skilled different ways. There's a lot of good in basketball and baseball. Um but there will be things like in on the at least in a uh that you'd have to be careful of. You have to be careful that it's not all consuming. Sports can be that way. You gotta be careful like if you're gonna go to a a professional baseball game, there is sometimes you know, things that uh influences uh alcoholism or gambling or maybe immodesty, those kinds of things that you have to factor in. Most of us would probably say that there is enough redeeming things in those activities that we can pursue them, but we have to be cautious. But folks, wouldn't we all agree that there would be other activities that would be so corrupt, there would be so much, so many problems with them that we would just generally say, you know, this probably isn't wise for us to participate in. And frankly, there are the ones that I would uh think of would be ones I really wouldn't want to name from the from behind the pulpit because your mind would go a direction that I don't really want it to go But there are activities that would be so corrupt, that would be so full of the wrong, the evil within the culture that we would not want to be be participating in, and yet we have to be discerning about these things. And you know the reality is there is no line. You cannot ever settle that. You can't say, well, I've got a list on this side, and I've got a list on this side, and I and I'm just going to settle this right here and now so I never have to struggle with this again. And the conclusion that the conference, when they when we were talking, the conclusion of the conference was this. You've got to keep working at it. You've got to keep thinking through the areas, uh, the various aspects of culture and the various um influences that culture presents. You've got to keep working at it and thinking through it. Why? One of the reasons is because culture is always changing. And we are our culture because of technology is changing at a very, very rapid pace. And so we have to be very, as the Bible says, sober. and vigilant, because our adversary the devil, as a roaring lion, seeketh whom he may devour. Now, with all of that in mind, we come to Ephesians and we look at this passage, and we see at the very outset of this passage, picking up in verse 7, he says Be ye therefore partake partakers with them. For ye were sometimes darkness. But now are ye light in the Lord. Walk as children of light. What God wants us to do is to walk as As children of light, we need to learn how to do this. And so let's go ahead and go to the Lord in prayer and ask his blessing on our time together. Father, as we come to you tonight or this morning, I pray that you would help us. to understand how you desire for us to emulate you, to be an imitator of you by walking in the light. Help us to be very deliberate about this. Help us to understand what your word says about it. Help us to be biblically balanced when it comes to these issues. Give us the discernment that we need. And I pray, Lord, today, that there would be a greater understanding of how to do this. I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Before we get into the actual passage, I do want to recall for you last Sunday's message, which had to do with the kinds of sins that are very, very there are they are ones that the Bible says are not to be named among you. And I just want to recall for you that that was a message and I'm not going to go over it again for sure, but um but that was a message that was one where you may have been in fact somebody m mentioned this to me and I understand you may have been left wondering, okay, well how what do I do about this, or how do I deal with this? How do I handle these kinds of things, particularly if they show up in my life? This is the passage for it. And isn't it wonderful that God will give us a mandate or give us a prohibition where we cannot do something? But isn't it wonderful that God then tells us how we are to follow that mandate or that prohibition? He does not leave us with just the statement. He then tells us how to do it. And that's really what's happening here in this passage. He is now going to help us with how we can follow the previous things. In fact, the previous statements. In fact He has already talked to us about in this passage about in chapter 4, verses 1 through 16, about walking in unity. And then he moved to walking in holiness in chapter 4, verses 17 through 32. And then walking in love, chapter 4, verses 31 through 5, 6. And now we are going to come to walking in light, which is chapter 5, verses 7. Now I just want to mention here two things about these different walking in these different things, whether it's unity, holiness, love, or light. All of them are true of God. Why does God want us to walk in these things? Number one, because they are true of God, and God has made a way for them to be true of us. There are some things that are true of God, God transcendence, for example, that are true of Him, but that will not be true of us. But there are other things that are true of God that God desires for them to be true of us. And unity, holiness, love, and light are examples of all those. The other thing I want to mention about all four of these is that God is not wanting us to isolate any one of them. They all work together. You cannot be walk in unity without walking in holiness, love, and light. You can't walk in holiness without walking in unity, love, and light. You can't walk in love without walking in unity, holiness and light. And you can't They are all, they all have to work together in order for us to ultimately, as the Bible says in this passage, he wants us to be imitators of who Imitators of God and of Christ. We pick up here in chapter five, verse seven, where it says, Be not ye therefore partakers of with them. And of course that is referring to those who the Bible calls children of disobedience. And then he explained who the explains who these people are. In verse 8 he says, you were them. He says, for ye were sometimes darkness. Now the word sometimes, folks, is um would be much better translated, not sometimes, but um But used to be, or in the past, or previously. It's not as though before somebody comes into Christ as a savior, they are sometimes darkness and sometimes light. That's not the case at all. They were previously darkness is what he's saying saying. But he says, and now ye are light in the Lord. Walk as children of light. Now it's very interesting that he does not say that you were in darkness. He doesn't say that you were part of darkness or that you were in the realm of darkness, although those things would be true. He says here that you are darkness. You were darkness If you know Christ, before you know Christ as your Savior, you were darkness. And he says, you were, you are now, if you know Christ as your Savior, you are now light. He makes a very clear contrast between the two. When I began to study this passage, I began to look at the different I wanted to I started with darkness and I looked through every began to look at the usages of the New Testament. In the New Testament, on this word darkness. And I thought, well, in my preparation for my message, I'm going to look at this word darkness, and we are going to we'll look at the what that means, and then we'll look at light and what that means. But what I found is that That very, very frequently this concept of darkness and light are together throughout the New Testament. And they are always contrasting each other. And so you really cannot understand one without understanding the other. When God says that you were darkness, And God says, you are light. What is he saying? To begin our understanding, I'd like us to take our Bibles and turn to 1 John, which Kim read this morning, 1 John chapter 1. And we'll begin by looking at the source of all of this. 1 John chapter 1, picking up here in verse 5. It says This then is the message which we have heard and declare unto you that God is what? That God is light, and in him is what? No darkness at all. Paul says, or John, I'm sorry, says in this passage, and by the way, all four of the major New Testament writers mention light and darkness in their literature. If you look at Peter and Luke, And Paul and John, all of them mention this contrast in their writings between light and darkness. It's a major, a major concept in the New Testament. It says here in this passage, God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. And by the way, he says he is light before he ever says later on he is love. He's going to say he is love. And that's an important attribute of who God is. But he says first that he is light, and there's no darkness in him. Now, at this point you're still wondering what in the world does it mean when it says light, and what is it when he says it says he is light, and what does it mean when he say when it says he is darkness? Well look at verse six, he's not darkness. Verse six If we say that we have fellowship with him, we walk in what? And walk in what? And walk in darkness, we lie and do not the truth. But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ, his Son, cleanseth us from all sin. If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. So what two things are being contrasted here? Well, we see here darkness is really talking here about sin. Sin really in all of its forms, not just sins, plural, or individual sins, but the entire concept of sin. Now, if you're not sure from the grammar of that passage, let's just ask ourselves the question. If God is light, and of course he is then before the world there was no darkness in this sense, correct? Now we had we're not talking here now, we're we're talking in a in a figurative sense at this point. We're not talking about literal light and darkness. We find actually in Genesis that there was darkness and the world was without form and void. And darkness was on the face of the world until God said, let there be light. But that's a different kind of light and darkness here. There. It's a literal light and darkness. In this case, we are talking about something that is true of God And something that is not true of God, but before there was creation, it he was there was all light, correct? I mean before angels even So then if you think of the creation of the world, God said it was good and very good. And you think of the creation of mankind and God made man in his image. Folks, when do you suppose darkness entered into the picture? Well, at the very same time that the forbidden fruit was eaten, correct? It was that time where man fell. And so we understand all of what happened during the fall. And a lot happened, didn't it? We've got two uh we have a man and a woman who are no longer innocent. They know they now have the knowledge of good and evil. They now, the world has is now corrupt because of the fall we find in Romans chapter 8. Everything has been now tainted by sin. The only redeeming thing is the fact that in that passage it's going to say that God is going to send someone to bruise the head of the serpent, which we know to be Jesus Christ. My point simply is saying that when we're talking here about darkness, we are talking about everything that results from sin. We're talking about sin itself. We're talking about the confusion that comes as a result of sin, the complication that comes as a result of sin. We're talking about the lack of simplicity as a result of sin. We are talking about all of what sin brings to the table. God says it's darkness. When we're thinking about the culture, we need to think about what is what is darkness in the culture. But folks, when we're thinking about our own hearts and our own lives. Those who God says if you know Christ as your Savior, you are light. We need to ask ourselves the question, well, what is in our hearts that is darkness? We pick up here then and we also notice that it says one of the first times this concept is used in the New Testament Both in Matthew and Luke, we won't take the time to turn to those passages, but it says that the people were in at that point darkness. But have seen a great light. Who was that light? Jesus Christ. There's no question about that. In fact, the Apostle Paul, who's writing Ephesian, the Ephesian epistle here. What did he see on the road to Damascus? He saw a great light, who is Christ. This concept of light of darkness would have been very clear to Paul. because of his own experience. And we know in the Old Testament that who was supposed to be a light to the nations? Yeah, the nation of Israel was to be a light to the nations. But before Christ comes on the scene, we find this nation that is supposed to be a light to the nations. They are in darkness. Well, if you look at the failures of the Old Testament nation, you find the nation of Israel, you find failures in idolatry. And immorality, the kind of immorality we talked about last week. We find all kinds of darkness by the time Christ comes in the scene, and they say, it says then that Christ Like like comes in and intervenes and he's like this bright light in the midst of darkness But we have a problem. Would you take your Bibles and turn to John chapter 3? John chapter 3. And we're going to find in this passage. The problem. So we have the nation of Israel who now see the darkness, they're in darkness. They see the light. But the question that you might have to yourself is: are they drawn to the light or not? And we find in this passage a problem in John 3, 18-21. He that believeth on him is not condemned, but he that believeth on the son not is condemned already, because he hath not believed in the name of the only begotten of the Son of God. And this is the condemnation that light is come into the world, and men, what do they love They love the darkness rather than the light. Because why? Why is this a problem? Why do they love the darkness? Because their deeds are evil. They they love folks they what are the is Is the evil dark? The evil is part of the darkness. So they love the darkness because the evil is part of the darkness. For everyone that doeth evil hateth the light. Neither cometh to the light. Now, folks, let me just pause and ask you the question: who does evil? Everyone. Right? All have sinned and come short of the glory of God. All does evil, so all do what? They are all attracted to the darkness, and hate the light. Neither cometh to the light, lest his deeds should be What's the next word there? Do you see that word? Reproved. Would you remember that word? That word is going to be very, very important to us. It's going to show up twice in this passage in Ephesians. So remember that word. Why do men love darkness and why do they not want the light? Because they do not want their deeds to be reproved. Now, with that in mind, we have a solution to the problem of the human condition. Would you take your Bibles now and I'm I'm not going to apologize for having you turn a lot. 2 Corinthians chapter 4. 2 Corinthians chapter 4. And while you're turning there, I'll remind us of another passage that has this as well in it. In Colossians it says, giving thanks unto the Father which hath made us meet to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light. Who hath delivered us from the power, so there's this power in the darkness, and hath translated us into the kingdom of his dear son. In whom we have redemption through his blood, even the forgiveness of sins. So you've got this darkness, and not only are men attracted to the darkness and hate the light, but the darkness in that passage tells us that it has power. It is powerful. It has its own level of ability. Now, with that in mind, what did God do for us? 2 Corinthians chapter 4, it says But if our gospel be hid, it is hid to them that are lost, in whom the God of this world hath blinded the minds of them which believe not. Who is the God of the world? Satan. Lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, who is in the image of God, should shine unto them. Satan does not want anybody to to believe in this glorious gospel, which is the light. For we preach not ourselves, but Christ Jesus the Lord, and ourselves your servants of Jesus' sake for Jesus' sake For God who commended the light to shine out of darkness. Now, how did he do this, folks? What's the next words here? How did he commend the light to shine out of darkness? He did it what? Has shined in our what? Our hearts. He has shined it in our hearts to give light. Now folks, just pause for a minute there. We didn't desire the light. In fact, we hated the light. We walked in darkness. Our lives were full of confusion and complication, and we liked it because men love darkness rather than light. Because we don't want our deeds reproved by the light. But what did God do? He shines what? He shines the light in Our hearts. What is the light so far in the passage? What is the light? The gospel. The gospel is the light. that has the ability to penetrate our hearts so that we see something we didn't see before. What is that? Look at what it says The light of the knowledge of the what? Of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. But we have this treasure in earth and earth and vessel. Now let me just pause there for a minute. Okay, so so we've got this light of the gospel that is shining our hearts so that we can see something. We can see God's glory. What is God's glory? It is God's identity. You cannot see God. You cannot know Him apart from the gospel penetrating your heart and mind so that we can see who God is. That is the reason for the gospel That is exactly why John says over in John, or Christ said over in John 17 in his prayer, that they may have eternal life, that they may glorify you and you who sent me and you who sent me Now, that should just thrill our souls, even at that point. That you and I, apart from the intervention of the gospel. Shining our hearts would be totally lost and in darkness. We ought to be thrilled about this, folks. It ought to give us a desire and a gratefulness that is going to propel us. Now, with all of that in mind, I'd like you to take your Bibles and turn back to Ephesians And I'd like to ask us another question. So far, we see clearly what darkness is. And we know that there's a connection over in Psalm 97 that connects God's transcendence, that he's above his creation. And cannot be touched with his creation except that he's also imminent. And we know that to be true, and it says there that he is light. But what is it, what is he what does light look like for us? And he gives us it right in Ephesians If you're asking yourself the question, well, what does that look like? Tangibly, what does it mean when it says that we're supposed to walk in a light? God gives it to us right here in verse 9. For the fruit of the Spirit is in all what? Three things. Goodness and righteousness and truth. How do you know the light? You know the light by its fruits. What are the fruits of light? Goodness and righteousness? This list reminds us of another place just a few pages ago where it says that God is in all holiness and righteousness and truth. Now, what we need to do is just very very briefly, I'm gonna we're gonna go through what these words mean. We're not gonna take a long time on these words, but we do need to see the distinctions between the words. Do you see the word goodness and the word righteousness? And we often confuse the two, and we often do not understand the distinction between the two. It is sometimes, sometimes in the New Testament, they're used interchangeably, but in this passage they're not used that way. There is a distinction between goodness and righteousness. The word goodness is sometimes translated generous. It has the idea of benevolence. Do you remember over in the Gospels when the rich young ruler came to Christ and said, Good master? Do you remember what Christ said to him? Why do you call me good? There is none good but God So all goodness comes from God. All generosity and benevolence comes from God. But this particular aspect of the light is something that you will see in the world. Now you won't see it in its purest form, but you will see it. Let me just ask you this way. Does somebody who does not know God, can they be generous? Or somebody who does not know God, can they be charitable? Well, of course they can. They can be benevolent. In fact, sometimes they seem to be more benevolent and charitable and generous than we are, as Christians. That shouldn't be the case, but sometimes Sometimes it is the case. And of course, it is not pure because selfishness does tend to creep in there, even if you are benevolent, sometimes you are benevolent because you actually feel good about being benevolent So you have that motivation that is a an adulterated motivation in all this. But let's just think about this for a minute. We know that is the case, and you know that the world will not hate you for being generous. It won't hate you for being a good person or being kind to someone. If you give massive amounts of charity to a cancer research, will the world love you or hate you? Well, it will love you. Nobody is against massive amounts of charity to cancer Cancer research. But folks, that is not true of the next word. The righteousness you cannot find in the unbeliever. It is something that is completely absent in the believer. In fact, the Bible, in the unbeliever, the Bible actually says that all our righteousnesses are what? Filthy rags. And there is a great distinction between goodness and righteousness, because goodness is benevolent, charitable generosity. But but but righteousness is complete, absolute moral purity And that is something that comes from God and must be must be given to us from Him When we trust Christ as our Savior and Lord, when we are converted by Christ, God declares us righteous. That's his justification of us. And God wants us to live righteously and godly in this present world, the Bible says. And there is a difference between goodness and righteousness. And folks, the reason that that is important for you and I is as Christians, sometimes we get it confused. We think we're being righteous when really we're just being good. And you and I might say to ourselves, well, I'm a good person, but can you really say you're a righteous person? Every single one of us, when we are brought up against that standard, are going to fall short. And what God is saying to us is, He is saying, if you're going to walk in the light as I am in the light, you are going to have to not only be good, but you're going to have to be righteous. You see the final world word then is truth. And of course, someone who walks in darkness and is darkness. doesn't is not able to see the truth. The truth is almost essentially exactly the opposite of chart darkness. Darkness is lies and deception. I mean, by the way, just practically speaking, have you ever noticed this? When you I The more sin you have infused into a situation, the more complicated it is. The more confusing it is, the more, let's let's use a word that's very common, the more drama you've got Right? I mean, you know, I mean we're we we love our Americans love drama. Did you know that? The statistics show that. You've got all these drama shows now. Sitcoms there by the wayside. We need the drama. Well, it sort of s sort of seems like the world's getting darker. But when it comes to our sin, folks And when it comes to God's desire for us, He wants us to be both good and righteous, and we need to cling to the truth. And when you see those things in your life, when you see goodness, by the way, you've got to see goodness and righteousness. Do you know what some cr Christians do? Some Christians emphasize righteousness to the exclusion of goodness. What happens when you have that? You become pharisaical and you become um you're not benevolent anymore and generous. You just have your list of rights and what you want to do and you want to be righteous and you become self-righteous. But if you have a balance between goodness and righteousness and truth, you will not be pharisaical. Because there will be a godlike balance in those kinds of things. But what we need to do is move on to this. He narrows this so that we understand what this really looks like in verse 10. What does it mean to walk in the light? Well, it is proving what is acceptable unto the Lord. It is proving what is pleasing to God. And that ought to be the driving force of every decision and every thought that we have and every decision that we make. Every word that we say. Let me just ask you a question. On a day-to-day basis, this is just a very simple question. On a day-to-day basis, do you ask yourself often, is what I'm about to do pleasing to God? I mean, it's very simple. Is what I'm about to do pleasing to the Lord? Is what I'm about to say pleasing to God? Is what I am about to think pleasing to God? You say, well, how do I know what's pleasing to God? Well, just read the previous verse. What is good and righteous and truthful? That's what's pleasing to God. But boy, what would our lives be like if every decision that we made, if we just began to live our lives consistently by asking, Lord, what do you want? What's pleasing to you? Now, that is going to require a very high level of commitment for us, isn't it? And that's why it says in Romans chapter 12, verse 1, that we need to present our bodies as a living sacrifice holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. And be not conformed to the world. By that it's taught not talking about the culture, it's talking about the world system, that darkness that's in the world. But be transformed by the renewing of your mind that ye may what? That ye may prove or know what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. Everything we do, every decision we make, ought to come through the lens of whether or not it pleases God. That's what it means to walk in the light. Now, at this point, perhaps you are asking, how can I do this on a consistent basis? basis. How can I consistently walk in the light in the way that God wants me to? And and the and the how to the what is in our next verse. Verse eleven: And have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather reprove them. You remember that word reprove? It's the exact same word over in John 3 that I asked you to sort of put in your memory bank a little bit. It's that exact same word. You see, for those who who are walking in the light, they are constantly going to make sure that they have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness. Fellowship means cooperation or sharing in or agreement in. In fact, it says over in 1 Corinthians Or 2 Corinthians chapter 6, be not unequally yoked together with unbelievers, for what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness? Or what communion hath light with darkness? It's right there in the passage. Or what concord, the word concord means agreement. What concord hath Christ with Belial? Or what part hath he that believeth with an infidel? Or what agreement w hath the temple of God with idols? For ye are the temple of the living God, as God has said, I will dwell in them and will walk in them, and I will be their God And they will be my people. Wherefore come out from among them and be ye separate, saith the Lord, and touch not the unclean thing, and I will receive you. And I will be a father unto you, and ye shall be my sons and daughters, and said saith the Lord of Almighty. Now let me just say this. I I just have to say this. It's not saying to be isolated from people or isolated from the world to the as far as the people of the world. That's not what it's saying at all. God wants us to be in the world. And to rub shoulders with people in the world. He is saying here that there ought to be no cooperation or partnership with the darkness that's in the world. with the unrighteousness that is in the world. Folks, it is going to cause us, and I just want to I have to say this with such carefulness because we have so much baggage when it comes to this, it is going to cause us. to have to be separate. It doesn't mean physically necessarily separate, but in our thinking And sometimes in our behavior. And often in our communication, there is going to be a separateness about About us, so that we are having no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness. But it says here in Ephesians, but rather reprove them. And the word reprove has essentially in the New Testament two ideas, and they both apply in this passage. The one is the idea of expose. The word means to expose. And the second thing it says there, the second idea is the idea of rebuking. Exposing and rebuking. Now, let me just note want you to note what is being exposed and rebuked. Do you see in the passage? What is being exposed and rebuked in the passage? Don't go to the next slide yet, by the way, guys. What's being exposed in review to the passage? Verse twelve. For it is a shame to speak, even to speak of those things which are done of them in secret. Folks, it's the sin that's being exposed and rebuked. That's important to realize that what it's really talking here about is exposing and rebuking the sin. Now, in the context, it says, particularly those those sins that are shameful. And we know what those sins are. We talked about them last week. Those sins that include sexual immorality. Those are the kinds of sins we're talking about here specifically because they really seem to grow in the darkness. They are ones that have to be exposed, and they've got to be rebuked. Now, what does that mean? Is it saying here that there is a that everybody we ought to be going and exposing everything to everyone? Is that what it's saying here? Or that we ought to go around rebuking everything for everything to everyone everywhere? No, folks, we've got to be able to take this and use this with great wisdom. We find this word used in the New Testament in two senses. The word is sometimes used in the the in the context of the individual. For instance, when Christ came, you remember the the woman that was um caught in s and in sin and the Pharisees and others were coming to stone him, stone them her? And he says to them, he writes something in the sand, and it says that they were, and it's the word here, they were reproved or rebuked or convicted in their hearts. We don't know what all that happened, but we know the result from these people, that they were conf they were rebuked in their hearts about these things So there is an internal individual re application here. That's really the question we've got to ask at this point is what is the application? You guys can move it to the next slide at this point. What are the applications here? Number one, the applications are internal. That means Christian. If you have a sin in your life that is darkness, that the way that you must deal with it is you must expose it And you must rebuke it. Now what does that mean? Practically speaking, we do not like to see our own sin, do we? We are the last persons oftentimes when we ought to be the first persons to identify when we are wrong in our in our own hearts. And what we've got to do, particularly when it comes to this sexual immorality, but certainly there's applications for every kind of sin, we have got to identify it and call it what it is We have every way around it. We have every we manage to to rationalize it. And to work around it and to manipulate it. We have every way around just exposing it for what it is. And God says, if you're going to be the light that you are You've got to expose your own sin. If you don't expose your own sin, you're not being the light that you are. You're not walking in the light. And then, secondly, not only do you expose it, you've got to rebuke it. You've got to name it as being wrong. It's got to be something where you say it is it is a dis is displeasure to God. It is grieving the Spirit of God as we learned a couple weeks ago. It is something where it is distasteful and repulsive to God. I've got to rebuke this in my own life. And folks, if we'll do that in our own lives, we'll never have to consider the corporate application of this. But unfortunately, the first time we see this word Other than in John, there, or one of the one of the first times we see this word is in the corporate consideration, and we find this in Matthew Matthew 18. Many of you will be familiar with that, verse 15. Would you take your Bibles and go ahead and turn there? Matthew chapter 18, verse 15. We're going to see this word, this word rebuke in that context. And it says in this passage, moreover, if thy brother shall trespass against thee Go and tell him his fault between thee and him alone. When it says go and tell him, it's a combination of this word and another word in the Greek. But it's this it's got this Greek word right in there. Now the reason I bring this up is for this reason. We see here then a process. of dragging sin out into the light, exposing it and rebuking it. It ought to, folks, by God's grace, may it primarily be in here. That I'm exposing it in my own heart, and I'm rebuking it in my own heart before it ever has to get to the place where it is spilling out. But when it comes to this kind of sin, particularly the kind we talked about last week, there are times where it has such a grip. that it would be wise for a person to go the ex to to expose it on his own, not to the whole congregation or to indiscriminately or to a w or but to expose it to someone who can help them. To maybe go one-on-one. What I'm doing here, folks, is applying this in a different way. The primary application of this passage is that if somebody trespasses against you that you would go to him and deal with him between him and him alone and not discuss it with anybody else and hopefully resolve it. And if that doesn't work, then you go to the next step and you get two or three witnesses. involved and you resolve it there. And if that doesn't work, you tell it to the church. But I think, folks, that there is another application here when it comes to Following this light principle, and that is that if you you cannot seem to expose it and rebuke it to the point where you are having victory, it is wise to go that next step on your own where you are getting help with it. Going to a mature Christian and saying, hey, can I I'm going to expose something to you. And I'm going to ask you to rebuke me in my sins so that I can resolve this if it happens. Hopefully that's all you ever have to do. But if it doesn't if that doesn't happen, going to the next step and taking the initiative to do that, my what I'm simply saying here folks is that when it comes to these kinds of things we've got to act as though we're light because the Bible says we are. Now, why is this so important? Maybe you're saying to yourself at this point. You know you're saying you're going You know, maybe there's another way, maybe there's another method. I don't like this idea of exposing my own sin or rebuking my own sin. Would you turn back to Ephesians? And now we're going to see why this is so important. Because what Paul is going to do is remind us of what the nature of light does. It says in verse 14, wherefore he saith, or I'm sorry, pick up in verse 13. But all things that are reproved, we've got our word again, are what? They are revealed by, they're made manifest by what? By the light. And whatsoever doth make manifest is light. Do you know the only way to get rid of darkness in your heart is to expose it? By the light. Well, what is the light? Well, we know a couple of things are the light. Number one, we know that Christ is the light, right? We know that the gospel is the light. The Bible says that we are light. And what God is saying here, we know that the truth of God's word is the light. And we know that goodness and righteousness and truth are also all manifestations of the light. What God is saying here is that if we what light does is it exposes darkness. That's just what light does. If you are a Christian who is walking in the light and you go into a workplace, the average workplace, it won't be long before you begin just by your example to expose some things. Right? Just by what you do and don't do, what you say and don't say, it's going to shed light in the darkness. I remember, even at a at a very young age, as a teenager. I was t I was uh in a little league baseball team over in Catonsville. And um and I remember all of the all of the boys and all the things had had dirty mouths as you might expect And um and cursed and things like that and those kinds of things. And um I remember my coach saying to me one time, he said, he began to tell me he began to tell me a dirty joke. And then stopped himself and said, You know what? You don't seem like you're that kind of person. You don't seem you don't seem like you would be interested in this. Why? Because I never I never did curse. I'm not saying I'm so great I was really to the to the to the credit of the gospel and my parents. My point in saying this is that it isn't going to be long if you are living this way, that you you are in the workplace and because everything or else around you is darkness, you're going to begin exposing it. And the Bible says when that happens, that's sometimes why you have recoiling by unsafe people, and you have even in some cases persecution. By unsaved people, but there will be others. There will be others because of God's working in their heart, he is taking the gospel and using you to penetrate their heart, there will be others that will be drawn to the light. Not by anything of their own, but because God's working in their lives. And when we have that, we are able to shed, God is able to use us to shed light. For very profitable means. And what that's actually what we find here in the passage, then, is that Paul turns to a consideration that he really hasn't mentioned too often before in verse. fifteen he says I'm sorry verse verse fourteen um wherefore he saith awake thou that sleepest And arise from the dead, and Christ shall give thee light. Now, there is a lot of commentary on that one verse. And everybody seems to be drawn to this idea in the commentaries that this is a poetic verse that may have been may have been may have come from an early hymn that the nation that the church uh in the first century sung because of the cantor and the way that it's arranged there. And that that that's quite possible. Others will cite Isaiah sixty one as a place where this is coming from But I will tell you it's kind of amazing to me as I read the commentaries, very little they don't it's sort of strange to me that They very infrequently identified that this concept of sleeping and light and darkness are found in two other places in the New Testament. I read entire commentaries that didn't realize that. Sort of going, why didn't you realize this? That light, and Paul's writing, that light and darkness and sleeping are all in the same place in the same passage and there were entire commentaries that didn't identify that. It was very odd to me. I still don't know why. But folks, if you look at that, what you're going to find is there are the two places, you can write down the one. We don't have the time to turn into both of them, but in Romans chapter 13, verses eleven through fourteen, you'll see that concept of sleeping and awakening and light and darkness. And you'll also find it in 1 Thessalonians chapter 4 verse 9. Would you take your Bibles and turn there? 1 Thessalonians chapter 4 verse 9. It says here, but ye brethren are not in darkness. Christian, can I just remind you of this? Paul says in 1 Thessalonians that you, if you genuinely ignore Christ as your Savior, you're not in darkness. That day should overtake you as a thief. Ye all are the children of light, and the children of a day Ye are not of the night nor the darkness. Therefore, let us not sleep as do others, but let us watch and be sober. For they that sleep sleep in the night, and they that be drunken are drunken in the night. But let us who are all the day be sober, partaking on the breastplate of faith and love and of the Helmet and the hope of salvation. Thing. Christian, the Bible says that if you're going to live and walk in the light, you're going to have to be sober. And the word sober here does not mean not drunk. It means to be alert. It means to be seriously alert about what is around you. It needs to be aware of your environment and what is around you. He says, wake up. So often Christians we're acting as though we're asleep. We're not aware of the culture. We're not aware of the darkness that In the culture, we're not aware of the darkness of it in our own heart. We're going from one day to another, and we are not acting as though we are in the light. And in fact, our light, according to what Scripture says. But there is another clear application here in Ephesians and also in this passage. Maybe you're listening today and you're not light. In fact, you are still in darkness. But maybe, even through the preaching of God's word this morning, maybe God is beginning to shed His light in you. And this is what that would look like. It would look like you realize your sin. It would look like you realize that your sin is an offense against God and that it displeases him. It would look like you realize your own lostness and your own confusion and your own Um your own state being not one that is in the light and uh of the truth and good and righteous. That's what it would look like. And then it would also look like this: that you realize that you're in darkness, just as the nation of Israel was when Christ first came, but Christ is the light. And the Bible says that Jesus came to seek and to save that which was lost. And the Bible says that when we place our dependence on the light, on Christ. When we place our dependence upon the fact that He lived a perfect life and died to take the punishment for our sins so that we could have the darkness removed and the light replacing the darkness. When we realize that, and that Jesus rose from the gate, grave victorious over darkness and sin, then we are beginning to realize the light. And maybe there's somebody today who you say, you know what, I have been walking in darkness. I have not seen the light. I have not placed my trust and dependence upon Christ in that way where now I am light and not darkness anymore. Let me just encourage you, don't leave here. Without talking with somebody that you're comfortable with, maybe myself, I would be glad, I would be thrilled to take a Bible and show you how you can begin to be light instead of darkness, and you can walk in the light instead of darkness. Make sure that you resolve that. The Bible says these things are written that ye may know that ye have eternal life. Let's pray. Father, we come to you, and certainly this was a lot to take in But I pray, Lord, that you would help us to understand the necessity Of exposing our own sin and rebuking it. I pray, Lord, that you would help us to be people who walk in the light. And as we do that, we will be Christ-like. We know, we would admit before you are our own utter dependence on you to be able to do this. And I pray that you would help us in this area. Help us to see sin at its first movements. Help us to identify it as you would, to name it the way you would, to see it the way you see it. To rebuke it the way that you would want us to, so that we can continue to walk in the light. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.