Galatians chapter five this morning. Galatians five. One April afternoon, eighteen sixty-one, an accomplished and intimidating figure of a man around the age of fifty, strode nervously across his portico of his house, back and forth, pacing because there was a very serious, stressful decision that he had to make Couldn't even couldn't even enjoy the beauty of the Potomac River that esta that was establ that was uh up ahead of him His wife, in accounting of this decision that he had to make, said it was the severest struggle of his life. The next two days he continued to lament and to contemplate and to just struggle over this decision. We're talking here about Colonel Robert E. Lee of the U. S. Army. He agonized both over his future and over that of the nation. He had to make a choice between preserving the Union and loyalty to his own state of Virginia. This was an extremely difficult decision for him. This was not easy for him. In 1957, Lee told his brother-in-law that the whole country his patriotism encompassed the whole country. That its limits contain no north, no south, no east, no west, but embrace the broad union in all its might and strength, present and future. But on the other hand, when asked by a uh Texan then when he was down there uh doing uh uh he was fighting a battle down there actually afterward on his way back He was asked whether he would remain south or north. He said, I shall never bear arms against the United States, but it may be necessary for me to carry a musket in defense of my native state, Virginia. in which case I shall not prove recreant in my duty. Then on another time, conflicted in the decision that he had to make, he said, Well I wish to do what is right. I am not unwilling to do what is not. Follow that. That's a little hard to follow. Either at the bidding of the South or the North. Have you ever felt conflicted in your heart? As we've gone through the book of Galatians, have you noticed that there are tensions in this book? There is this tension between legalism and licentiousness. Legalism being a danger and licentiousness being something that is that is of great danger as well. Between good and evil, between right and wrong, between bondage and freedom, between serving others and serving self. There are all these tensions in this book of Galatians And it is our responsibility not to go one way or the other into sin. Legalism is essentially sin. As is licentiousness. License to do wrong things is sin as well. There is this need, there is this struggle with even in our hearts If you're a Christian, if you know Christ as your Lord and Savior, you know that struggle. I think even those who don't know the Lord as their Savior have some struggle in their hearts. Between this internal struggle between what is right and what is wrong. But if you are a Christian, that is actually magnified, that is pronounced in a greater way. If you're a Christian this morning, you understand the struggle within your heart between doing what is right and doing what is wrong. And the Bible is going to help us here in understanding this struggle this morning. And knowing how we can choose the right thing, how we can find the right path between legalism and license, the right path being walking after the Spirit of God And we see in this book, in chapter 5, verse, picking up in verse 16, it says, I say then, walk in the spirit, and you shall not fulfill the lusts of the spirit. of the flesh. We have already learned in the book of Galatians in chapter 1 that these people were following a different gospel because the gospel that they had known had been perverted by the Judaizers. In Galatians chapter 3, verses 1 through 3, we find that they have actually left the Spirit of God that had drawn them to Himself, not that they had lost Him in his indwelling, but they were no longer being led by him. They were no longer walking by the Spirit that saved them. And now as we come to Toward the end of the book of Galatians, we are going to learn really the key to freedom. We learned last week, if you'll recall, that the key to freedom is to learn to serve God by serving others. That we really have one of two choices. We can either choose to serve self Or we can choose to serve God. And the way that we choose to serve God is not by choosing not by choosing to serve God in some convent somewhere. It's by serving God's people, by serving one another. And throughout the New Testament, we have all kinds of one-another passages. Passages that tell us that we need to learn to minister to one another and serve one another. In fact, the way that it's written in Galatians is it's be enslaved to one another. Care about one another. Love one another. And it said last we said last week in the book in Galatians here in chapter five that as we do that, as we serve one another, as we love one another, we we are fulfilling all of the law. And loving the Lord our God with all thy heart. But particularly in this passage, which it doesn't talk about loving God, how do we love God? We love our neighbor. In other words, you can't love, say you love God, and not love others around you. And not demonstrate love by giving of yourself to each other, giving of ourselves to each other. But have you ever discovered that's pretty difficult to do? That's not easy to consistently give of yourself to God. It's not easy to consistently give of yourself to others. It's not easy to consistently give of yourself to your family, or to your church family, or to others in the community. It's not easy to do that. That's why we have often in talking about this kind of thing, very frequently in Scripture, we also have linked up with that the importance of following after the Spirit of God. We're going to refer to this later, but in Ephesians chapter 2, you find that it says to be filled with the Spirit, and that is just before an extended description of the of the responsibility of a wife toward her husband. And a husband toward his wife. Why is that linked up together? Because very candidly, you and I need the the work we need the working and the strength of the Spirit of God in our lives. To love our wives the way we're supposed to. And why is for you to love your husbands the way you're supposed to? You need the Spirit of God to do that. You cannot do it on your own. And the truth of the matter is, really, to do any of these things spiritually that God wants us to do, we have to be dependent upon His Spirit. And so today as we look at God's word, we are going to learn how to be dependent on the Spirit of God, how to walk in the Spirit. Let's go to the Lord in prayer, and then we'll get into His Word. Father, as we come to you, we understand the tensions in our souls. And we're going to see that in a in a very real well way in this passage. At the very heart of our uh the very depths of our heart, there is this tension between doing what you want to do, want us to do, and doing what we want to do. Glorifying you or glorifying ourselves. And I pray, Lord, today, that you would teach us how to follow after you and your spirit and to walk in your spirit. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. So the text tells us that if we will walk in the Spirit, we will not fulfill the lusts of the flesh. What does it mean to walk in the Spirit? Well, I think really to understand this, we need to begin by understanding what it is not. The doctrine of the Holy Spirit is perhaps one of the most confusing doctrines, it doesn't need to be, but it often is one of the most confusing doctrines in Scripture. There have been much there's been much written on the Holy Spirit, and that hasn't actually helped matters a lot of times. And frankly, there have been very godly people that have written on the Holy Spirit, but they confused terms. If you read some of the older writings, of A. W. Tozer, for example, and others. They're good writings, but sometimes they they sort of mix up theological terms that are actually quite important. When we begin to understand what the Holy Spirit is doing. For example, in talking about the walking in the Spirit, we are not talking about the baptism of the Holy Spirit. They are two entirely different things. First Corinthians chapter twelve verse thirteen says, For by one spirit we are we were all baptized into one body, whether Jews or Greeks, whether slaves or free, and have all been made to drink into one spirit. That is, when somebody comes to know Christ as their Lord and Savior, automatically the Bible says that they are placed into the universal body of Christ. That happens to every believer. It is a one-time event that occurs and it is established and it is permanent. It is not the same thing as walking in the Spirit. Neither is the sealing of the Spirit that we find in sec in Ephesians chapter 4, verse 30, where it says, Do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God by whom ye were sealed for the day of redemption. When we come to Christ, there is a sealing work of the Holy Spirit that prepares us for the day where we will see Christ. It is to establish the fact that we are secure in Christ. It is the seal of the Spirit that does that, the earnest, sometimes you'll see in Scripture of the Spirit. That's not what we're talking about here either. But it is something that is a reality for every believer. is also not talking about the indwelling of the Spirit of God. And these are probably the things that are too most often confused, although baptism of the Spirit is often confused as well. Romans 8, verse 9 says, But you are not in the flesh, but in the spirit. If indeed the spirit of God dwells in you. Now if anyone does not have the spirit of Christ, he is not his. So Romans chapter 8, verse 9 explains to us that we that that we are all indwelt, that if we know Christ is our Lord and Savior, that's a prerequisite. Then we are indwelt by the Spirit of God in our lives, and that is a permanent indwelling for the New Testament believer. The Old Testament believer maybe not uh it likely was not the case. But for the New Testament believer, after the ascension of Christ, it's clear from Scripture that we have a permanent indwelling of the Spirit of God in our lives. And I just want to say this: maybe you don't have that today. You're not really indwelt by the Spirit of God because you really don't know the Lord as your as your Savior. I don't ever want to just make the assumption that everybody that comes and darkens the doors of this church knows Christ. That is highly unlikely. It is very likely that there are some or more than one person in this room that don't know, doesn't know Christ. And I would never I don't want to be the judge of that. That's not something for me to be the judge of. But if there's never been a time in your life where you have realized your sin, and you have realized that Jesus Christ died to pay the punishment for your sin, You've never realized that your sin, you're born separated from God, and that Jesus Christ died to to make you rightly related to God, to connect you to God. And you've never placed your your full trust in what Christ has done for you, let me encourage you that this would be a great day to do that. And I encourage you this way, if you have any questions about that, I'm doing this early in the service. I just want you to just come and talk with me after the service. And I could take a Bible and help you to understand more about how you can know for sure that you will spend eternity with God. This is not something that God wants us to guess about. The Bible says in his word in 1 John chapter 5, these things are written that ye may know that ye have eternal life. And if you don't know, I would encourage you to come and talk with me after the service. I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure. And when you do, then you do have, according to Scripture, the indwelling of the Spirit of God. He is then living inside of you. That allows us then the opportunity to be under his influence. And what is the same is the is walking in the Spirit is the same thing as in Ephesians it talks about being filled with the Spirit. Those two are the same things. If you're in Galatians, you'll notice in verse 18, it says that we are led by the Spirit. And in Luke chapter 4, verse 1, it says, Then Jesus, being filled with the Spirit, returned from Jordan and was led by the Spirit into the wilderness. And so that passage actually connects these two concepts for us. The leading of the Spirit, the walking in the Spirit, and the filling of the Spirit are all the same thing. in the New Testament. They're all the same thing. So baptism is different, sealing is different, and dwelling is different, but filling uh filling and um and leading and walking are all the same thing. Now that in mind, I'd like you to take your Bibles and turn to Ephesians chapter five. I want to recover, we when we went through the book of Ephesians We covered this in detail, but I want to recover a couple of things about this whole concept of walking in the Spirit or being filled with the Spirit. And in Ephesians chapter 5, verse 18, we see this is kind of the key passage to understanding what the filling of the Holy Spirit is. It says, verse 18, and do not be drunk with wine in which is dissipation or excess, but be filled with the Spirit. Speaking to one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord, giving thanks always to all things to God the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Submitting to one another in the fear of God. This passage says, Don't be drunk or under the influence of wine. Doesn't mean you can't drink it all. The Bible is not actually teaching abstinence here completely. That's another subject altogether. This is talking about being under the influence of it. And it says, don't be under the influence of wine. But be under the influence of the Spirit of God. That's what it means to be filled by the Spirit of God or to walk in the Spirit of God. It means to be under the Spirit of God's influence in your life. Now, what does that mean? How are you under the influence of the Spirit of God? You'll notice in this passage, those of you who are grammarians, you'll notice that it's actually in passive voice in the English. It says, be filled with the Spirit. Well, actually that reflects the Greek. It's also the passive voice in the Greek. To be filled with the Spirit. Well, for those of you who know what passive voice is, it basically is saying that the subject is not the doer of the action. Who in this passage is the doer of the filling? Well, it's the Holy Spirit that is the doer of the filling. And yet, this is a command. We are, as Christians, commanded to do this. Well, how can you be commanded to do something that you don't do? Well, we have an active command in another book of the Bible that we're going to look at in just a moment, but I want you to notice just something about this passage. You have three results of being filled with the Spirit, and there are, and the three are this. One is worship. Worship is a result of being filled with the Spirit of God. Number two is thanksgiving. If you're filled with the Spirit of God, you have a thankful heart. And number three is submission. Submission to God and submitting to one another. We're not going to take the time to flesh all those out. But if you have the fill this filling of the Spirit of God in your life, if you are under his influence, then those three things are true of you, and those three things, very candidly, you can measure whether or not you are If you don't have those three things, if you're not worshiping, if you're not thankful, and if you're not submissive, then you are not under the influence of the Spirit of God They are intended there to be helps for us to know whether or not we are filled with the Spirit, whether or not we are under His influence. But this is a passive command. It's a little hard for us to do something that's a passive command. Thankfully, we have another passage in Scripture that helps us with this. It's in Colossians chapter 3. You may even want to write Colossians chapter 3, verses 6 to 7. in the Ephesians passage off of the side of your Bible because they really, these two passages go together. And in Colossians chapter 3, verse 16, it says, let the word of Christ dwell in you richly and all wisdom. That is the active command of the passive command of Ephesians How is it that we are under the influence of the Spirit of God? We've got to know the Word of God. And it's not enough just to have a cursory reading of the Word of God. We've got to let the Word of Christ dwell in us. Richly. We cannot pretend or hope that we are under the influence of the Spirit of God if we are not daily in the Word of God. If we are not constantly drinking from the Word of God and eating it as our necessary food, if we are not meditating on it day and night. If we are not thinking through it and living it out and contemplating it and and and ingesting it, God desires for us to just for it to dwell in us richly. And we cannot pretend that we are led by the Spirit of God unless the Word of God is dwelling in us richly. Now that's important for us to understand. You'll notice in this passage in Colossians that you have the same three results. Let the Word of Christ will in you richly, teaching and demolishing one another in Psalms and Himself and Spiritual Songs, so worship as a result. Seeing grace your hearts to the Lord, seeing with grace your hearts to the Lord. And whatever you do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, giving thanks. To the Father through him. And it says, wives submitting yourselves to your husband. So you have the the all three of those results are also in that passage. In other words, folks, this is extremely important. The culmination of the teaching of the book of Galatians, the pinnacle, the high point, the climax. Of the book of Galatians is really this passage: walk in the Spirit. And if you do, there's a promise for you. You will not fulfill the lust of the flesh, the desires of the flesh. of the flesh. Well, then the question becomes, what is this desire of the flesh? What is this lust of the flesh? Well, understand that when we are walking in the Spirit, there is an implication here. Walking in the Spirit is a step-by-step process. The Holy Spirit does not usually influence us to do things a year from now or two years from now. Or five years from now. God, the Spirit of God gives us one step at a time. And he wants us to walk in the spirit. There is this continual continual implication here. And there's also a tension here. Walking in the Spirit implies that we have a job to do, that there is active involvement for us. And also, there is active involvement on the part of God as well, the Spirit of God. There are two active involvement going on together, and we're going to see that fleshed out in a few moments. Really, to understand what he's talking about here when it comes to the walking of the Spirit, I think we need to understand this idea of lust, or in a more modern translation, you'll have the word desire. What does it mean here when it says will not fulfill the desires of the flesh or the lust of the flesh? Well, it's talking here Let me read a few verses for you where this is found. For instance, in James chapter one, verse fourteen through fifteen. But every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lust and enticed, and when lust is conceived, it brings forth sin, and sin when it is finished, bring forth death. Among uh Ephesians 2, 3, among whom also we all once conducted ourselves in the lusts of our flesh fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature the children of wrath just as the others 1 Peter 2. 11. Beloved, I beg you, as sojourners and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lusts which war against your soul. We're going to learn more about that in a minute. Lusts that war against your soul. The lust that we're talking about, the desire that we're talking about, it's the Greek word epifumeo. Now, you say, why are you telling me Greek? I don't know Greek. It's all Greek to me. Why are you saying this? Well, understand that there is a word thumeo. And there is a preposition epi that's attached onto that fumato word. And the point of that preposition is to intensify it. You could translate it over desire. And there's a good point, there's an important point here. Many of our desires, many of our lusts are actually desires that are naturally God-given things that we desire, but we are over-desiring them. They are becoming idols to us. In fact, the Old Testament concept of idolatry and the New Testament concept of this desire, lust, epithumeo really have a connection with one another. It isn't so much the struggles that we face in our lives, frankly, aren't a struggle of necessarily initially desiring a bad thing. It's wanting a good thing too much. It's wanting more of what we ought to have or a distortion of a good thing. And that's going to help us as we begin to understand how we are to walk in the Spirit. In Ephesians chapter 5, verse 5 it says, For this you know that no fornicator, unclean person, nor covetous man Or who is an ad idolater has any inheritance of the kingdom of God and Christ in God? Therefore, put to death your members which are uh are uh on the earth. Fornication, uncleanness, passion, evil desires, and covetousness, which is idolatry. And so so this covetousness, this wanting of more than you ought to have Wanting of something that God has not given you is really the same concept of this desiring of the flesh. And then you have this word flesh. The word flesh here does is not talking about physical skin. Sometimes when the word flesh is used in scripture, it is talking about that. There are different uses of the of the word flesh. In this case, it's talking about a source of desire within you There is this source of desires that send us bad desires. For the Christian, there are two sources of desires. You have the spirit-filled or the spirit-influenced spirit of ours, our soul. And you have the flesh that does not leave us when we come to Christ. And so there is this, there is this war, there is this battle, there is this tension in our lives. And by the way, that's actually important. Did you know that there ought to be that in your life as a Christian? There ought to be that tension, that battle. If you're not battling, there's actually a problem. And I'll explain this a little bit more. I don't mean that you're battling so that you're just depressed, or that's not what I'm talking about here, but there is always the flesh there. And there is always this constant need to ask ourselves the question, are we making something good, something more than it ought to be in our lives? Are we making it are we distorting it or is it making it are we making it more than it should be? Are we wanting a good thing too much? That ought to be a constant question for us So we see that the flesh and the spirit war against each other. And you see this in verse 17 that is that is really fleshed out here. For the flesh lusts or desires against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh. So these things are contrary to one another. It's like the old cartoon. I don't see haven't seen this in a while. All the cartoons now I don't even understand them anymore. But the cartoons back, you know, w back in the old days where you'd have like um, you know, Daffy Duck or Elmer Fudd or something and they'd be thinking about what something they're gonna do and on the one hand you'd have the angel who on the one side is trying to tell 'em what to do and on the other hand you've got the devil on the other side saying what they and and there conflict going on in them. Well where do you think they got that from? Frankly they got it from their own lives. They got it everybody struggles with that and if you don't you have a problem. But as a Christian, that, as I said before, is intensified. It's more of a struggle because you want more to please God. You have the conscience before you're saved, but after you're saved, you've got the Spirit of God living in you, and you have a greater desire to please God and to glorify Him. And so with that in mind, we need to understand what this desire is. Now it says something very interesting about this. Notice what it says next in verse 17. For the flesh lusts against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh, and these are contrary one to another. We established that already. But notice what could happen. So that you do not do the things that you wish. You do not do the things that you would That word would, that word wish or will is the word uh salo. You There is this conflict inside of you, and that is actually a very uh there are actually like I read five, I think five or six different interpretations of what that last phrase means Some people said that it that some commentators said, well, what it actually means is that because of the spirit of, because of the this conflict, you really can't ever follow after the spirit of God completely. Well that sounds kind of fatalistic, doesn't it? That's not what it's talking about. Others say, no, because it's actually talking about the fact that you won't you don't have to fulfill the the the flesh there. You don't have to fulfill the desires of the flesh there And uh that's a little better than the other. That's in context would be better. But but there's another interpretation that I think really has great merit here. Let's look at it carefully and see what it says again. Notice what it says. It says, so that you do not do the things that you wish, or you do not do the things that you want to do. Folks, is it possible that you that there's this battle inside of you where you your spirit wants to do certain things and your flesh wants to do certain things? But instead of doing either one of those things, you check out. So you're not fulfill fulfilling either one Where you're not doing what you want to do at all. There is this complacency that is a possibility as a Christian. There is this neutrality that can happen where maybe you aren't actively, proactively fulfilling lustful plans But on the other hand, you're not you're not following hard after the Spirit of God either. Walking in the Spirit is something that is actively done. It's something that you should need to be doing. It's not something where you wake up and and suddenly there's this this unconscious sort of whatever and I'm just gonna float along and some sort of lack of consciousness or stream of conscious. No, this is something that we are actively obedient to the work uh to the to the will of the Holy Spirit in our lives. that comes directly from the word of God in our lives. And I it's so important for us to understand that. You know We we can become there's a sense in we be uh in which we can become internal pacifists We're we're willing to fight battles on the outside. We're willing to stand our ground on things on the outside, but when it comes to our own spirit, we just want to be passive. I don't want the struggle inside. I don't want the the the ho the battle. I don't want the fight. I I wait a minute. Realize this that there is always going to be, there are going to be internal struggles. The key is to learn to follow after the Spirit of God, to walk after the Spirit of God. And the way that we do that, folks, is to learn to identify where the desires are coming from. Where are the you've got two sources of desires? So where are the desires coming from and then following after the desires of the Spirit of God? Uh Bruce Ware said this, we human beings perform our choices and actions out of what we desire in our hearts. That is what we want most, what our natures incline us most strongly to. This is the pool out of which the stream of our choices and actions flows. There is a necessit a necessary connection between character and contact conduct, heart and hands, desires and decisions. Our wills give expression to the nature and character of our hearts. Are we careful about the desires of our hearts? Are we looking at the desires of our hearts and saying that desire comes from the flesh? Or that desire comes from the Spirit of God. And this is why 1 Thessalonians 5, verse 19 puts it this way: quench not the Spirit. There is this possibility as a Christian that we can quench the Spirit of God in our lives. We can quench the desires that come from His Spirit that He wants us to have. Verse 18 then helps need is going to help us to understand how to choose spiritual desires. In verse 18, it says, if you are led by the Spirit, You are not under the law. The word led by the Spirit, the word but by the way is important. It says but if you are led, that is a contrast to the previous verse. The contrast being you're not doing anything you're not doing what the spirit wants, you're not doing what the flesh wants. And by the way, I'm not suggesting that you're not in sin in that case. But there's a sense in which you're not there there is this pacificity is that a word passivity, thank you. Um that that we that that can have. But there's the this contrast where you are led by the spirit. Now it's interesting that this idea of being led by the Spirit is something that happens all the time. In fact, it could be translated as a first class conditional clause for you, Greek people. It could be translated since. Since you are led by the Spirit. Since you are led by the Spirit. And we find the same thing in 24 and 25, where it says the same same kind of thing. Romans 8:14 says this, for as many as are led by the Spirit, these are the sons of God. First Corinthians 12:2 says, You know that your Gentiles carried away to these dumb idols. However, you were led. There is this leading of the Spirit of God in our lives. And you know, it is interesting that God's desire has always been to lead his people. This is nothing new, even for the New Testament Christian. Even in the Old Testament, it was God's desire that they lead that he leads his people. In Isaiah 63, verse 11, it says, Who led them by the right hand of Moses with his glorious arm, dividing the water before them to make it for himself an everlasting name who led them through the deep as a horse in the wilderness, that they might not stumble, as a beast goes down into the valley, and the Spirit of the Lord causes him to rest. So you lead your people to make yourself a glorious name. Look down from heaven and see from your habitation, holy and glorious. Where are your zeal and your strength, the yearning of your heart and your mercies toward me? Are they not restrained? There is this desire to impart strength to his people by leading them. God desires to lead us. And he sends this constant transmission of a signal by the Spirit of God because of the indwelling of the Spirit of God in our lives. It's like it's like a a radio signal, which we're not using radios as much anymore. It's like a it's like a satellite signal. We use a lot of those. And it's constantly it's constantly transmitting. The question is, are is our frequency turned to the right place in order to receive the transmission? And we've got to turn our receipt our frequency the right place. We've got to receive the transmission by walking in the Spirit, by asking ourselves the question, which desires am I choosing to follow? And it says if we do that, if we when we are led by the Spirit of God, since we are led by the Spirit of God, we're not under the law anymore. Here's the point. Romans 6. 14 says it this way. For sin shall not have dominion over you, for you are no longer under the law, but under grace. See, when we learn to walk according to the Spirit of God in our lives, when we learn To do that, we are under grace, we are no longer under the law, we are and sin does not have dominion over us anymore. Friend, if you're struggling with a particular sin in your life, if we're struggling with a particular besetting sin, the answer to that is to identify the desire behind the sin. And to choose the Spirit of God, the desire in those uh from the Spirit of God to choose the right desires And frankly, to cultivate the right desires, to not make provision for the flesh, did you know, and this is a misnomer among people, you know, people get tend to think that they just like what they like. I I just like what I like. I like this and I don't like that. Do you know that's really kind of a false idea? Now and I think I think the older we get the more we just think we like certain things and don't like other things. Do you know that you have the ability to be able to adjust your desire? That you can learn to like things you didn't like before. And that you don't have to just say, well, this is just me, I like what I like. That the sum total of your identity is what you like. That's not true. We have to learn to like the right things. And we have to learn to like them in the right measured way to cultivate the desires of our hearts that are given by the Spirit of God. And frankly, the choice is much easier when we're cultivating the right desires and when we are when we are uh starving the wrong desires in our lives Now with all of that in mind, it can be a bit confusing, can it not? Do you ever find it confusing in your life to determine whether the desire that you have is is a desire that comes from your flesh? Or desire from the Spirit of God. Do you ever struggle with that? I'm getting a few blank stares. Raise your hand if you struggle with that, because I don't want to be the only one. Okay, all right. We've got a few people that that struggle with that a little bit. It is sometimes hard. The Bible says that the heart is deceitful and desperately wicked. On top of that, you have the deceitfulness of the world and the deceitfulness of sin. Sometimes it's really hard. to know what desires are coming from the Spirit of God and what desires are just coming from my flesh. And what we're going to look at both this Sunday and next Sunday is some results to see the difference. We're going to look to today at the fleshly desires that that manifest themselves as as behavior and and as attitudes. So you'll see this in verses 19 through 21. It says, Now the works of the flesh are evident, which are, and it's going to go through this very long list. The intention, and then it's going to go through fruit of the Spirit. The intention is not that we specifically choose not to emulate the one things and emulate the fruit. The intention is actually a little different. It's to be able to identify, to help us to identify the desires behind these things. Let me illustrate it this way. Many of you know that I used to do uh tree removal and pruning and things like that to get my way through college and seminary. One of the things I never really learned to do well because I really wasn't absorbent enough is to ID trees really well. Most of you I ha most of you I can I we we can all ID an oak tree or maple tree, those kinds of things. Um But when you get into more obscure trees, it's a little bit difficult. When is the easiest time to ID a tree, to know what to know what a true to to identify a tree? Yes, spring summertime, right? Why? Because you have leaves on the tree to to help you. The shape of an oak leaf is very different than the shape of a maple leaf. Right? I mean we all know that. The shape of a pine leaf. Anyway. The shape of a oak leaf. Okay, so so so it it it is much easier to identify a tree in the springtime, but you know, if you have a a really good arborist, it doesn't matter to him. The leaves could be there, the leaves might don't have to be there. He is able to identify trees by the actual tree. He's gonna be able to look at the structure He's going to look at the he's going to be able to look at the the root system and he's he's going to be able to look at the bark and all those kinds of things and he'll be able to identify the tree the way none of us do. He's going to be able uh by be able to identify the tree by the actual tree. And I uh it's sort of an illustration this way. We we we need to learn the tree by looking at the fruit, and it will help us to be able to identify the tree. The goal is to is to see the desire. The goal is to identify the desire and to be able to not follow after that desire. But in order for us to understand what that is, what Paul does here is he lists A bunch of results of having these desires. Now, I want to circle back to one thing that's really important before we look at these. What did we say epifumeo meant? Good. Some of you are listening great. Over desires. They are over-desires. There are many of these things that are natural desires. that are right in the right context but are wrong in the wrong context, or are right in the right way but wrong when they are when they are overly done. They were done the wrong when they are done with without any kind of controls. And so really that's important to understand as well. I mean I think probably one of the keys to understanding fleshly desires is that there is no control over them. That's why the fruit of the Spirit is, one of them is self-control. So let's look at these together, and just today we are going to look particularly at these fruits of the flesh, we'll call them Evidences of the flesh. And we actually have multiple categories of this. We've got four different categories. And it's going to be interesting how many things he mentions about one particular category. And what we've done is, what I've done, they're all kind of intermixed in here. There's a reason that Paul intermixes them. He mixes them because he wants us to understand that no one is worse than the other and no one's better than the other. They're all sin. There is and we tend to try to categorize sin into certain ways and that's worse sin than that. And God doesn't do that. And we need to understand that it's all sin. And we need to understand that we need to flee all of it. But in order to really understand it, I we have I what I've done is I've taken it into four different categories. And I think going through these are going to help us to really do that, to really identify them. Category number one is sexual sin. Now I won't spend a long time on this. The Bible has given us sexual desires sexual desires. That is something that we are that's God given and and to be met uh and to be fulfilled in only one way, it's through marriage. And we find here in the passage it says there are three different sexual sins. One is just sexual immorality, which is natural sexuality outside of marriage. Number two is imp it is impurity. It's the Greek word akarthia uh acar acatharsia. Hmm, that's hard to say. And it's unnatural sexual things. There's natural sexual things, there's unnatural sexual things, and there's something called debauchery, which is uncontrolled, unbridled sexual things, sexual desires. He says, all of it is sin. Stay away from all of it. There's only one way that we're supposed to fulfill our sexual desires, and that's in the confines of marriage. Now I'm not going to take a long time with this, but we do need to understand that we need to be able to identify when something at its early stages when this begins to be something that is wrong. It is even sometimes hard, even in this area, to know the difference between sinful desires and right desires because even sexual desires are God-given desires. And they but they must be fulfilled in God's specific way. Do you get the idea here? Over desires. The word the word lust there is an over-desire. Might be a good thing. Over-desired, it's a wrong thing. Let's go to the next category. I don't like that category. Makes me uncomfortable. Okay, category number two. Religious sin. Religious then there are two things here. Number one, we see the word idolatry. And we're not going to take a long time with this, but I'll just Say it this way, idolatry is the inclusive practice of making good things God. It is making a good thing God in your life. Rarely do you find idols that are bad. Most of them I mean I say rarely, sometimes you do. But but But many of the things in our lives that the pro the reason they're a problem is because we make a good thing an idol. It's a good thing that we make God. That comes from our flesh, it doesn't come from the Spirit of God in our lives. The other category, that's sort of a religious category, the other one is witchcraft. Witchcraft is a specific word that is now it is talking about the occult. To help you understand, it is simply the faking of the work of the Holy Spirit. It is a false spiritual work. And I'll just tell you, there is a lot of that going around. Be careful of spiritual work that is not biblical. If it's spiritual work that is not biblical, it is witchcraft. There is no way around it. And so we have to be very, very careful about that. I I don't think I I think we gotta be we gotta be a cautious of that that possibility. And when we desire, when we want those things that are that would be in that category It's clearly from the flesh. Category number three. Now I want you to notice something about this category. Category number three is relational relationally destructive sin. Do you know how many of these are relationally destructive sins? There's eight of them. Well, they actually all are, that's true. But specifically, there are eight that are in that category. You've got three sexual sins, two religious sins, and eight rel uh re relational sins. Relational things that will that will be destructive for relationships. Do you know why that is? Because Paul's wanting to emphasize this. Do you remember what he said just a few verses back? Serve one another. Folks, these things will get really in the way of serving one another. This kind of desires of the flesh will destroy a church. You want to look at problems in a church. Or problems in a family, and you want to know where the real problem is, it is usually not a policy problem. It is usually not a problem with methods. It is usually the root of the problem has to do with desires of the heart. And these we need to pay very well, we need to pay close attention to all of these, but we need to pay very close attention to these. Remember that these are going to impede serving one another. And then there are two categories within this category. One two subcategories, and one has four and the other has four. The first subcategory under this is relationally destructive attitudes. Man, I tell you what, there ain't nothing worse than a bad attitude. And we find four different attitudes that are very destructive They're destructive in home life. They're destructive in marriages. They're destructive in churches. They're really, frankly, just destructive destructive in this Selfish, number one, selfish ambition. It is the idea of competitiveness, a self-seeking motive. It's mentioned several times in Scripture, Romans 2, verse 8, 2 Corinthians 12, 20. There's a bunch of them. Self-competitiveness, self-seeking. Folks, how can you relationally serve others if you are seeking if you have this competitive self-seeking approach This is something that is not of the flesh. This is I mean not of the spirit. This is something that is of the flesh. This can happen to good desires. You can have a good desire that becomes competitive and self-seeking, and it becomes a fleshly thing. It can happen in ministry. It can happen in ministries. It can happen among church people with different positions. Self-seeking competitiveness is something that we we there's a desire behind that that we need to identify. Number two is envy. It's the idea of coveting or design desiring what others have. It will impede relational relationships. If we have envy. Number three, jealousy. Jealousy is the zeal and energy that comes from a hungry ego. Someone that's constantly trying to feed self-importance. They constantly want to feed their ego. And jealousy feeds that ego. It's different than envy. Envy covets what else others have. Jealousy in this context, the Greek word, is the idea of feeding your ego. Number four, just hatred. Or enmities. This is hostility. It's an adversarial attitude. It is the attitude that I am going to Pick a fight. I am going to I'm going to have hostility towards somebody. I'm going to question people's motives. I'm going to make it happen the way I want. There's this hostility toward others. And the reason that Paul brings all of these up, folks, in this passage is he is talking to a the Galatian church. And he is saying to these Galatian church, you've got to watch out for this stuff. And the problem, as we mentioned last Sunday, the problem always, when you have these kinds of problems in a local church You have them in your it comes from your own heart. Whence come wars and fightings among you, James says. They come from your own that you want to consume your own lusts. Well, those are the four that we've got to be really careful of. But here are the results. The results of those attitudes are mentioned here as well. Number one, discord. Discord is being argumentative or seeking to pick fights. It comes from the one of those first four. And the and the result is discord. Now, I want to pause here and just say this. I am really grateful for our church. I don't see a lot of this and I'm really grateful. But you know what? We always should be careful. You know, I didn't pick this passage out to deal with this in our church. I really didn't. I mean I'm going through Galatians and I'm thankful that I don't I mean I I I would if we had to deal with this. I would pick this passage out and do but I'm not picking this passage out to deal with our church, thankfully But you know what? We always ought to be on guard. There are churches all over this country, but there is discord, there's infighting, there are problems. And it's not because it's not because they they they want uh good thing it's it's because of the flesh and it's not because um oh it just sort of happened there's a reason this stuff happens it's because individuals within the church have these desires, these unchecked fleshly desires that are allowed to manifest themselves and continue to go to take take root. Number two toy, not number toy, number two, fits of rage. It's the Greek word thumoy and I combined everything together. Alright. Fits of rage. Outbursts of anger. There's nothing more destructive relationally than fits of rage, outbursts of anger. Number three, dissensions. These are divisions between people. That's gonna happen. If you have if you have envy, you have jealousy, if you think you're always right, if you have hatred, if you if that's that's then you're gonna have dissensions. And finally the word factions. Factions are permanent parties and warring groups. Dissensions are sort of temporary. Factions go a little further and they become permanent things. They're warring against each other. Folks, this is absolutely against what God desires for his people. And God is telling us that that if we're going to it we we have to we we must follow after the Spirit of God. We've got to walk in the Spirit. So that we don't fulfill the lusts of the flesh. And when a body of believers becomes carnal in their thinking, It becomes destructive to the body and can become destructive to the community and really dishonoring to the Lord. Category number four is substance abuse. It's amazing to me how many things God covers in this short list. He really covers a lot, doesn't he? It's like he leaves no stone stone unturned when it comes to these things. And the one is drunkenness. God forbids drunkenness. This is uncontrolled drinking. It's something where it's going to be it's going to cause you to lose control. God says don't do that. That is a desi a desire to go out and get snockered is a is a is that that's right, isn't it Isn't that right? Snockered up? Okay. I don't know. I don't know a lot about this stuff. Okay. I've never I've never been snockered myself, so I don't I don't really know. Anyway, to go out and do that Is sin. It's just plain sin. There are people that they actually live for we're weekend warriors and they live just for the weekend. I next time I can go out and get drunk, let me just get through this weekend so I can go out and get drunk. That is sin. And that will destroy relationships. Try to try to live in a marriage with that kind of thing. Or a family. Try to grow up in a home that way. Try to be, I mean, uh i it it it'll destroy relationships. And revelings. Revelings is a free-for-all drunken scene It's like a it's a big free-for-all party. It's not just getting drunk by yourself at a bar stool. It's it's going out and everybody's getting drunk everywhere in the party. God said these things, he says these things are these are evidences, they're fruit of desires of flesh. Isn't it interesting that he puts drunkenness, sexual desires, and getting mad in the same list? Because they are all things that we s that that we've got to be very cautious about. And we've got to ask ourselves the question, from where are these desires coming? Where's the source of these desires? See, the key and I'm not done here, obviously. Next week we're going to look at the the positive side and be like, okay, we'll finally get to the positive side. This is quite a list, isn't it? What's the value of this? The value of this is to do some just soul searching and to say, you know what, uh are these things true of my life? Do I have desires that fit these things? Do I have have impulses from my heart that are true of these things? And if you find these things to be true in your life, confess them before the Lord. Allow those things, those kinds of desires to die in your soul. Starve them. The Bible tells us in Romans chapter 8 that we should not feed the flesh, starve it. What God wants us to do, rather, is to feed the Spirit of God, or the desires, rather, of the Spirit of God. Things like love, joy, peace, long suffering, gentleness, goodness, patience, hope. Which we'll talk about more next week. The question then becomes, are we doing this or not? Are we, is there this conflict inside, and are we choosing to walk in the spirit rather than our flesh? It is something that every day of our lives we ought to be really, really concerned about. Three things, number one, just to remember as we close here. Number one, we must study, stay in the battle, and choose spirit sourced desires. I would imagine that there is somebody here that has checked out You're not trying to follow after the spirit of the spiritual darkness. Maybe you're not following after the flesh either, but you just don't want this struggle anymore. You just want to be out. You want to be free. Folks, that's not freedom. That's a wasted life is what that is. Number two, we must understand our f freedom from sin depends on our walking in the Spirit. The key to all this is learning to walk in the Spirit, learning to follow after desires that are from the Spirit of God. Being in the Word of God all the time Number three, we must allow our attitudes and our end behavior to teach us where our desires are coming from. See, when we begin to exit what what ought to be happening is, and we're going to look at the positive side next week, but what ought to be happening is when we notice these bad idea uh attitudes Welling up in us. They may be for right things. You might say, well, I'm right on this But when you have a fleshly, I'm right, prideful attitude about a right thing, you're wrong. And so am I And we have to we have to be careful about our attitudes, even when we are valiant for the right thing, that our attitudes are not are are actually fleshly and cause divisions and strife and problems relationally. And we need to learn this by looking at what's going on in our lives and identifying it and choosing Choosing a different path and not and starving those kinds of desires. And by the way, cultivating good desires And we're going to look at that next week. But you can't just do one without the other. I feel weird stopping here, but there's no way to do this unless you want to be here for another hour. Which which would be a spiritual desire, actually. But as my grandfather always said, the mind can only absorb what the seat will endure. So we will pray. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for your word. And we pray, dear Father, that you would teach us to walk in your spirit. To live by your word, to know it, to ingest it, to meditate on it. And Lord, may we identify quickly when those desires from the flesh well up inside of us And we follow after them, they are destructive. Lord, would you protect us as individuals, which will in turn protect our church? From these kinds of things, help us as individuals to catch these things early so that we can continue to have unity in the body of as a body of believers and we can reach this this this community for Christ. And we can have a positive impact for the cause of Christ. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.