Love makes you do weird things. Strange things. Um perhaps uh you can think back in your own history, adults. That when you were young and in love, uh that you did some you know, goofed off in strange ways that that you look back on now and think, boy, that was kind of silly. Um and and perhaps some of your wives still play like he's still he's he like he's never quit, actually. Uh it wasn't just then. Uh but Trace and I, when we were dating She and I would play this game of sorts. Well I suppose it was more one-sided, it was me. I thought it was funny and it was my game. But um where we would be walking somewhere together and suddenly I would I would try to drop out And the the goal the of the point of the game for me was to see how far she would go before she realized I was no longer with her. So you were at the mall, you know, and uh I I I was so mature, right? So we're walking, you know, into a mall, I'd hold the door open being a gentleman and everything, let her walk through and then just let the door shut and you know walk the other way and and see how long it took to notice. Um we do this I'd do this walking around displays or around the the structural columns, pillars, things like that. The the rotating doors were more tricky of course. But the goal was to see again just how far she would go before she realized I'd dropped out. I thought it was great fun. But the the point of of sharing that with you is I think sometimes spiritually We feel that when we've been walking with God, it seems that that we suddenly get this feeling that we are alone, that God has somehow dropped out of the picture and he's nowhere to be found. However, when we examine our lives a little more closely, perhaps we find that we are the ones who have sauntered away, that we are the ones who have found some shiny thing that's distracted us, and we are the ones who have quit walking with him or quit walking in him. So today we're going to be looking at Colossians chapter 2, verses 6 and 7. And I'll just recap them here. It says, As you have therefore received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk ye in him Rooted and built up in him, and established in the faith as you have been taught, abounding therein with thanksgiving. These two verses are at the heart of Colossians And this is why Paul wrote the book, these two verses. And this is the response that he's looking for out of the reader. And the Colossian Church, just to give some background for you, the Colossian Church was toying with some sort of false teaching. It looked good, it sounded interesting, and they were beginning to lend an ear to it. They were in jeopardy of walking away from the faith and from all that they had been taught and all the things that they had believed in when the gospel was first preached to them And while nowhere near as alarmed as Paul was when he was writing Galatians, which pastor's been preaching through, and I think this has worked well. He two weeks ago he was preaching on the works of the flesh, and last week on the fruit of the Spirit, and we can talk in about walking in him today. And where Paul was pretty alarmed as he's writing The book of Galatians, he's not quite as strongly there, but Paul encourages the Colossians to stand fast in the faith and not to walk away, but to walk in him. And so for us, that we would walk in him and live our lives in him. Let's pray. Father, we're thankful for this morning that you've given to us that we can head through today with you. Knowing full well that you're already at the end of it, you know what's going to occur in it, and we can rest in that. We thank you for being a personal God who loves us as individuals. and uh has made a lifelong promise that what you have started in us, you are going to finish one day. And we take great encouragement and hope in your word and the promises that you have made. We ask your blessing in this next several moments as we look into your word. that uh we would, as as was prayed earlier, that we would understand it. And that the seeds of your word would be planted deep in our hearts, and our hearts would be good soil and bring forth fruit. to give you praise and to give you honor, because only you can change lives. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. So as we're reading through the book of Colossians, we can ask ourselves, well how and we're reading through you know these these verses, how do I walk with God throughout my life? And how do I relate to Him constantly and in a consistent way, continually? And I had wondered about how it was going to lead into this and I thought, well maybe we could center more on the gospel and I wanted to build that up. But as providence would have it, um God is seeing fit that this this morning for Sunday school, uh pastor was able to to really highlight and and we discussed the the gospel in Sunday school. That was it was wonderful, it was great. So now I don't have to Do that as much. That's good. So we'll we'll we'll adjust it. But again, looking back on it, as you have received Christ Jesus the Lord, that's that's his person. That's the teaching about him. Those who have received Jesus as Lord recognize that he is the Lord. He's not a divine hero. He's not a good luck charm. It's not a fallback or a plan B. He is the Lord. He is the Lord of my life. You make it personal. And what is more, being in Christ transforms the way that a Christian lives. And again, we discussed that in the previous hour So in verse 7, you have received Christ by faith. We're given four different aspects of what how you walk in him. And not away from him. And Paul gives us directions to avoid spiritual sand traps that would weaken our allegiance to Christ. We're going to look at that a little bit more in depth Uh and to understand these verses, you can you can read just a few verses and they can make sense, but it's almost like reading it in black and white and as opposed to you know full technicolor. uh definition and things like high definition that's probably better. Technicolor was what, fifty years ago. Pardon me on that one. Um But in in high definition, there we go. Uh is when you when you begin to understand how it sits uh in in the in the broader picture. If you think about it this way, what happens when you pull out your phone and you you're not sure exactly where you are? With the prospect of moving down here, everything around me is is pretty familiar or strangely familiar. And so I remember the road names, but I don't remember ever why I was on those roads, you know, twenty five years ago. Um And so I have to pull out my phone and I hit that little I have an iPhone, so I hit the little arrow thing, and it takes you immediately to where you are and it's got the little dot that's blinking at you. And everything in the background is is is tan. When you pull out your phone and you hit that little button and you're looking at it, it doesn't mean a whole lot to me because it's so close And what do I do? I take my fingers and I pinch so I can zoom out and get an idea of what is going on around me until I can see, oh, there's 97, there's root 100, okay, I'm good, I know where I'm at. And so it helps to do that as well when we're reading verses that are familiar with you know to many of us, like Colossians 2, 6, and 7. So we're going to bounce around a little bit in chapter 1 and chapter 2. So if you have your Bible with you, you're going to need it. We're going to look at several different passages to understand precisely what Paul is getting at and why he includes these four phrases in these two verses. So the the first one we see here is in in verse 7, if we're going to walk in him, to remember our roots, that you are rooted and built up in him. Now if for those of you who are grammarians, this is admittedly the mixing of metaphors, which is not supposed to happen when you're doing you know, grammar, literature, and whatnot. Being rooted, of course, has that idea of plants. Being built up has the idea of buildings. This is inspired so Paul can get away with it. But what do you what you have received in Jesus has effectively rooted you in the faith. What you have received in Jesus has effectively rooted you in the faith. You can't walk with God without having a relationship. with Jesus Christ. The word rooted is is in a tense that means that something is completed in the past and has lasting results in the present. You were rooted in Christ in the past. It has impact on you today. I was married June 4th of 2005. And that was an event that happened once, but it still has lasting impact on me today And and that's where this root word is coming from. And salvation is certainly a a point-in-time event. But it isn't done and over with, it has lasting results in the present and clear into the future. Again, we talked about that a little bit last hour. But there was a problem in the Colossian Church, some unnamed outside influence was teaching and knew false things about the gospel. And we can infer what those false teachings were based on what Paul's defenses are throughout the book. So sort of like reverse engineering what what it was that the Colossian church was facing. And somehow someone decided that salvation in Jesus alone, by faith alone, was not enough. That true spiritual fulfillment requires more than Christ. And the truth preached by Paul was apparently seen as simplistic and naive. That that uh spiritism and speculation about angels and the notion that that self-denial somehow achieves greater spiritual uh spirituality were some of the main issues that Paul addresses. And Paul goes on clarifying who Jesus is. in chapter one and chapter two. And so so to these guys, whoever it was who was introducing these ideas, they were saying that Jesus somehow needed to be reinvented. And not much has really changed in several millennia, has it? There we watch several documentaries about Jesus and you'll get different versions based on whoever it is that who has the doctorate or PhD or something and is telling you this is who the Jesus was. And it's based on their own worldview. And it's like okay, you see Jesus as the rebel because that's how you want to see him, and you see Jesus as the nice guy. But we need to look at scripture and to see who Jesus is. And the Colossians were being uh pulled away or toying with the idea of entertaining other than what p Paul had taught them. So those who simply take God at His Word today are still viewed as being simplistic and naive. And the great spiritual truths just have to be more complicated than that, right? There must be more. Now you have to ask yourself, well what about what about me? What about you? If you have accepted Christ as your rescuer, where in your life are you tempted to believe that Jesus' sacrificial death and his powerful resurrection aren't enough to bring you into favor with God In what ways do you feel that you need to work harder to please God? But Paul contends that since you have been rooted in Christ, you don't need more than you got at salvation. The Colossians didn't need asceticism or whatever else that they were entertaining. And Paul reminds them of some key truths about their faith that affects how they walk in him. So we look after these verses at verse nine Let me read them real quick for you. Over actually 8 and 9. Beware lest any man spoil you through philosophy and vain deceit after tradition the tradition of men, after the rudiments of the world, and not after Christ. For in him dwells all the fullness of the Godhead bodily. For you are complete in him, which is the head of principality and power. In whom all the circumcised and circumcision was made without hands, and putting off the body of sins of the flesh by the circumcision of Christ, buried with him in baptism, wherein you are risen with him through faith of the operation of God who has raised him from the dead. And you being dead in your sins and uncircumcision of your flesh, has he quickened together with him, having forgiven you all trespasses? So we look at verse 9 and verse 8, where Paul is saying that religion is hollow, but Christ is full. We can, if you flip back to chapter 1, verse 19. He describes, for it pleased the Father that in him, in Christ, should all the fullness dwell. But here he is saying that that religion, just empty religion, is hollow. Where we are mere we as humans are mere image bearers of God, Christ is all of God. He is Emmanuel, God with us. Religion doesn't continue what our faith started. It's hollow and it's empty. And you have been rooted in Christ, so walk in him. Verse 10, he continues on, you are actually you're complete in him. If you're taking notes, 2 Peter 1. 3 says, according as his divine power has given unto us all things that pertain to life and to godliness through the knowledge of Him who has called us to glory and virtue. This idea that God has given us everything that we need for life And for godliness. For just just making it through to the end, but also doing it in a godly way. In a in the way that replicates his son We are complete in him. If you want to think of it this way, the illustration of like a of a boat And take your mind back to their day and age. As they're taking a long journey across the Mediterranean Sea, what are some of the things that you're going to need for a long journey Well you're going to make sure that you're good and prepared, because you don't have an outboard motor that you can just drop in the water and take you where you need to go if something goes wrong. So they would have Plenty of food. They would have extra ropes, perhaps some extra pitch if they spring a leak, um and timbers maybe They'd certainly have extra sail and and the the ability to mend sails if something got torn in a terrible storm. And so you go prepared And this idea that God has prepared us or given us everything that we need for life and godliness is found in Christ. And He has outfitted us for the entire journey at the moment that we came to Christ So we don't need any extras to satisfy beyond what Christ has given to us. Verse 12. I keep moving here. Buried with him in baptism. It's the picture of be uh of baptism, verse 12 and 13 that we are risen with him and quickened, or that word quickened, made alive together with him. That you don't need Christ and anything. Christ is enough to make us spiritually alive and feel heaven as our future home. So while the Colossian Church was flirting with the idea that certain practices must be added on in order to reach true spiritual fulfillment, Paul's math seems to say that addition is in fact subtraction. That you can't add anything to Christ without subtracting from his exclusive place in creation and in salvation. And it's emblazoned all over chapter 1 and 2. You can read it for yourself this afternoon if you'd like. This as you have received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in him. You have the complete spiritual package at your disposal. You've been rooted in Christ, and everything you need for life of walking with God is provided in Jesus. So to ask ourselves, what might I be adding to my life, hoping that it's going to make me content when I'm not looking to Christ? That's going to make me happy when I'm not looking to Christ. That's going to make me feel fulfilled. When I already have everything I need in Christ. And while you were rooted in Christ sometime in the past and don't require anything or anyone outside of Christ for true spiritual fulfillment, I think we'd all agree that we're still projects um in process or uh as some of our mothers might said have said a piece of work. But you've been rooted in him and you're being built up in him. And being built up, of course, gives the idea, it's implying that we're we're not there already. or or that we start out that way or even stay that way without some sort of attention. You think of houses, most houses aren't prefabricated. Yeah, the prefab homes. It takes time, it takes resources, it takes patience to construct a home or to refurbish a church building. Patience. Resources and time. But once built, a building requires maintenance and attention, of course. Dishwashers rust out, freezers ice over, roofs leak, foundations erode. And we need to be built up and yet require constant attention too. So this idea of being built up is seen other places in Scripture, of where you build something on something else. If you were to look at 1 Corinthians 3, verses 10, 12, 14, it says, According to the grace of God which is given to me, this is Paul writing, As a wise master builder, I have laid the foundation, and another build thereon. But let every man take heed how he builds thereon. Or Ephesians two, verse twenty And believers are built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ Himself being the chief cornerstones. This idea of something being built on something else. And we're still under construction. We are being built on that that being rooted in Christ. And we are an unfinished product. But to walk in him, we must realize that we're we're still going to have to face that process. And while we realize that How often are we impatient with that process? I know I certainly am some days. Like, okay, can can we done be done with this whole struggling with the flesh thing? It would be nice to be past all that. Jesus come back. We'll go to heaven and and he'll finish perfecting us and that'll be good. And the flesh will be dead. But God has placed us in a process of trust and faith in Him. And the process is absolutely necessary. And that you must allow spiritual growth if you're going to continue walking in Him. So don't get complacent and don't get satisfied with walls that don't have windows or a roof be built up in him, block by block and board by board. And when you accept the gospel to be true In the past, and you personally accepted Christ to be your personal Savior, you were firmly rooted in Christ, and that was faith. And now you're being built up in Him even today, and that is also requiring faith. And we can understand this phrase to read, having having been firmly rooted and now being built up in him. As I cooperate with Christ's lifelong construction project, That I will be walking in him. That faith got me started on this journey, and faith is going to keep me going every step of the way, especially when I don't feel like it. We don't walk with Christ when we feel up to it. It's one of those things that you continue to walk with him regardless of of whether your emotions are in it. Uh we have a dog, a puppy, um, who I had had warned our children that if we get a dog, it's gonna be work. And uh 'cause I knew experientially from my own history. And um I knew that my dad ended up letting our dog out a whole lot more than we ever did. So I figured that's probably what's gonna happen to me too. So, you know, it's it's eleven o'clock at night, it's cold outside, sleeting, snowing, whatever. I'm not in the mood to take the dog out. We don't have a fence around our yard up in PA. But it's one of those things that I do, because it it's it's my duty to do But I follow through with it day after day after day to be faithful and consistent in what is my duty to do. We walk with Christ not by our emotions. Um and we also don't do it by our own power either. We'll talk about that in a minute. But if you've been rooted and you are being built up, your faith will Then translate to being established and solid. And that's the next phrase in verse 7, being rooted and built up in him and established in the faith In the book of Colossians, Paul's concerned that the Christians might be deceived, or they might be spoiled. I want to look at those verses If you look at verse 4, just a few before here in chapter 2, Colossians 2, verse 4, and this I say, lest any man would beguile you with enticing words. He's worried that they'll concern that they will be deceived. He's concerned that they will be spoiled. Look at verse 8. Beware lest any man spoil you through philosophy and vain deceit, and he goes on from there. And he's concerned that they're going to lose out on experiencing the rewards of their salvation. If you look at verse 18, let no man beguile you of the reward of your salvation. And instead he's imploring them, Paul is, to be firmly grounded in truth. If you were to look at chapter 1, verse 23, where he says, continue in the faith, firm and settled. Or chapter 2, verse 5, that the steadfastness of your faith in Christ. And then here as we read in verse 7, that you'd be established. in the phase. And established is a slightly better word than perhaps some translation some translations might have the word strengthened, which to me gives the idea of just like, I have the muscle power, I'm going to pick this up. And that's the idea of strengthened, but I think established has a better idea because of the firmness or the idea of being solidly grounded. Something's not it's not going anywhere. Your faith is not going anywhere. We have we know what we believe and we know why we believe it Counterfeits are easy to discover because we're so familiar with the real thing. This is what Paul is can wanting them to be solidly, firmly grounded in their faith so they can easily see counterfeits. I guess it was 2018, so it was 11 years ago. I was in banking. I was a uh supervisor on a teller line. And for us to be able to find uh counterfeits while counting lots and lots of money Um they familiarized us with the real thing because there are an infinite number of ways that somebody could try to to make a counterfeit bill. Um the really bad ones are the ones that are like, well I printed this at home. It's like you you can't just print money off your compute. Anyway, that gives people in big time trouble. But as you're counting money, if you notice when you go to the bank, people they're they count pretty fast. You know, they're flying along and all of a sudden stop Because something didn't feel right. Didn't feel like everything else. And you pick that little bill and help you know go back a few bills, pick it out. And now it doesn't look right. And you look for all the hallmarks and like, wait a minute. Something's wrong with this. And Paul is wanting the Colossians to be firmly grounded in the truth so that counterfeits are easier to discover. Because again, we're so familiar with the real thing. We're familiar with the truth. then the counterfeits are easy to spot. So similar to being built up in him, being established in the faith is an ongoing process as well. So whether we understand this to be uh either by their personal faith they're being established or or we're being established with respect to the faith. I can't think either way works two kind of reinforce each other really that as we're strengthened in the faith, our faith strengthens us personally. But believers are established not because they remain in the faith, but because God remains in them. And being established means that you're not easily influenced. My wife and I enjoy gardening a lot. Um vegetable gardens. Um because a flower garden is great and everything, but but you can't eat that at the end of the season But you can with vegetable guard. We enjoy doing that. The problem was where where where we're living up in Pennsylvania, the the ground is extremely hard Extremely hard. So so trying to plant anything, I well just wanted to plant a blueberry bush and I needed my neighbor's pickaxe and I felt like John Henry out there whacking away the ground trying to get it broken up. Um But those who are solid in their faith are like ground that's not going to be easily broken up by what is not true. It is easy to have your faith it sometimes can seem like it's easy to have your faith spoiled or seduced. Like Paul is saying here in verse 8. That's not where we're supposed to be. be getting grounded and and more firm in in our beliefs and in our walk with God. The idea in is of of being spoiled is the idea of being plundered or being taken away captive. And Paul gives us several different ways that we can be taken captive. By deceptive philosophy, by the philosophy and vain deceit. They keep in mind for what this means their mindset, their historical context, that the idea of Greek and Roman philosophy, that philosophy could refer to all sorts of groups all sorts of point of view, including mystical practices and a wide range of things. When they say philosophy, it covered a really big uh Range. There we go. There's the word. Compared with the rest of the book and the way that Paul treats this word, he seems to be referring, though, to religion and religious practices that are hollow and vain. And he's referring to religiosity that's empty with no moral or spiritual value. But Christ is always after our heart and after real faith, and religiosity has no place Human philosophy is deceptive and it's untrue. And you know, from working in your workplaces and rubbing shoulders with people around you in your neighborhoods and whatever, it it's easy to take on the philosophy of those that you live around. That's not even counting what we're inundated with in commercials. But contrast this with Colossians chapter 1, verse 5 and 6. For the hope which is laid up for you in heaven, whereof you heard before the word of truth of the gospel, which is come unto you as it is in all the world, and brings forth fruit as it doth also in you, since the day you heard of it, and knew the grace of God in truth. The grace of God, the truth of the gospel, the gospel is truth. It is not deceptive. If you want to lose your way spiritually and end up mired and spiritually confused, keep thinking that merely by doing what God requires, you are being who God expects. Religiosity soothes us to think that we're okay by our externals. It's subtle, it's deceitful, and it will spoil you. Your faith can't be strengthened. Made more firm by hollow human philosophy, understanding life from our own perspective. And Paul continues on to say it's also the traditions of men, and he's not talking, you know. harmless traditions, that all traditions are bad. You know, we have our Christmas traditions and and traditions are our methods of doing things that have stood the test of time. This statement is more about the degree of difference, the mere traditions of men. The Colossians didn't receive from Paul A message that was created by people, by mere humans, but it was the teaching of the Son of God. People speculate about life sitting back and choking you know stroking their chins and thinking of what is the meaning of life and what is going to be most valuable to me as a person and we guess But according to Psalm 119, verse 130, the unfolding of God's word gives light and is very certain. Walking after the traditions of mere people will take you captive, and your faith cannot be strengthened or made firm by stopping short of Christ. Paul continues on in the In verse 8, the principles or the elemental powers of this world. What does he mean by that? Well in the ancient ancient world it was common for every culture to assign deity to the basic elements as they saw them, you know, earth, water, fire. And the Colossians were flirting with speculative doctrines about the spirit world. Speculation borrowed from pagan tradition and not after Christ. And Paul is addressing the speculation about the spirit world throughout the book. If we look at chapter 1, verse 13. It's like, okay, you want to compare this with Jesus, who has delivered us from the power of darkness and has translated us into the kingdom of his dear son. Look at verse 16. For by him, by Jesus, were all things created that are in heaven and that are in earth, visible and invisible, whether they be thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, or all things were created by him. and for him. And Paul is clearing up. Okay, you want to speculate about the spirit world. Let's just say where Jesus stands in all of this. And then verse 20, and having made peace through the blood of his cross, by him to reconcile all things to himself. By him I say whether they are things in earth or things in heaven. And Paul's very clearly stating that Jesus is uh The apex, in a sense, just by living in this world, to sort of come full circle on this one, it's easy to pick up the values and priorities of everyone else around you. And not stay true to Christ. It's easy to think, is it not, that politics is the way to change the world. Is it easy to see everyone else spending money like there's no tomorrow and wanting to do the same? It's all too easy to s to adopt the values and priorities of everyone else, an amalgamation of everyone else's values, and maybe add it in with Christ. But we are to be Christ's followers solely. And those who are established firmly in their walk with God are not easy prey to wrong ideas about life or God's word. So how e easily influenced are you? By friends, by co-workers, even strangers? Peter was influenced by a stranger, a girl nonetheless, the night when Christ was crucified. Have you made up in your mind where you stand, and are your values or your beliefs even biblical? Young people like, oh yeah, I grew up in Christian home. My parents are here sitting down the road from me. What about you? Are your values and your beliefs about life are they even biblical And take that to heart. Where are you going to stand as a believer? So God's working in our hearts is essential for our growth. We can't do it on our own, being rooted in Him, being built up in Him, and being established in the faith. We can't do that on our own. See the th the first three items that that Paul mentions here in chapter two verse seven. Are things that God does to us. And it isn't interesting that when when in our spiritual lives, when things are getting done, that God's the one who's doing it When we're when we are are rescued and we are saved, it is nothing of our works, it's nothing of our ability, it's all what God does. And if we're going to become like Christ through the course of our lives, it's not because we're so good at it Or because our personality works well with it, is because God is the one who is doing that in my heart. And if I'm going to walk with him, then I must rely on that. Our ability to walk with God is not based on what we do, but on what we have um what has been done for us. He has rooted us in Christ back at the moment we believed. He is the one who is building us up in Christ by way of his word and by the Spirit. And he is the one who is making us firm and salt in the faith. And by the way, when God is working, it's our job to cooperate with where he is working. I tell this to our children, in a sense, trying to sort of give the same idea so that later in life maybe they'll they'll see it and apply it spiritually. But mom and dad, we're trying to work with you, to train you up to be socially acceptable by the time you leave our house, um to be to grow you up into mature adults And you need to cooperate with us on that, or or or your your life will be difficult. But also spiritually for us, that we would cooperate with where God is heading with us. But the last phrase in verse 7 is an act of response by you and by me. So while the first two are things that God does, the last one listed is our response to him, abounding in thanksgiving. And the idea here is pretty simple. It's being thankful. Pretty straightforward. So if the Colossians were going to walk faithfully in Christ, then thankfulness would be their good and proper response. And I I I think it's great because that fit right with the four G's from from Sunday school with the gratitude right in there. Um And we might think, well, why would Paul pick thankfulness? Why wouldn't he say abounding in love or abounding in grace or abounding in faithfulness, or what why is it abounding in thanksgiving? And I can think of several different reasons why, and several were discussed in Sunday school. But thankfulness is an indication of spiritual health. As I mentioned, we like to garden. And what do you expect to see in a healthy vegetable garden? Um what does it look like? You'd you'd expect to feed the little buds eventually, hopefully, because if you don't get the little buds then you aren't getting any fruit. You're expecting to see the little little buds on there, some flowers, uh that that things are going well. You expect to see the good bugs, you know, bright green colors. You wouldn't expect to see what we saw on our coal beans last summer, which I don't know about here, but central Pennsylvania was inundated by these Japanese beetles. They were everywhere. I had a two gallon or the two two quart pitcher that I kept knocking all of these bugs into and they it was it was a lot. That was not healthy for the for the bean plants. But what you expect to see would would be all those healthy hallmarks. And as lush green leaves are a sign of a healthy plant, overflowing thankfulness is a sign of a healthy Christian Paul insists throughout Colossians that thankfulness plays a prominent offensive role against a wavering faith and against false teaching Another one is, why thankfulness? Because thankfulness acknowledges what God has already done, that you've been rooted in Christ. And when I forget the significance of the cross, then I'm going to probably wander. And a person walking with God will be thankful. Another reason, thankfulness protects me from anxiety and from doubt. Have you ever been in a spot where you are thanking God? Where you've thanked God for protection in the past while biting your nails in the present? So you're thinking of all the ways that God has been faithful to you, He's seen you through, He's taken you through trials, He's protected you from danger, He's done all of these, and you're recounting all of the ways that God has been faithful to you, and you're thankful for that. But this time he's not going to do it. You know, it's those don't typically happen at the same time. Don't occur at the same time. If I am biting my nails spiritually and I'm worried about God coming through for me Then I'm probably not thinking about all that he has done for me in the past. Another is that thankfulness breeds contentment. Why are we abounding in thanksgiving? Well, because thankfulness breeds contentment. Um I can't tell you who said this because I did not properly footnote it, but somebody said, those who bubble over with gratitude for what God has already done. have no need or desire to look for fulfillment elsewhere, and cannot be taken in by false promises. And Paul encourages the Colossians to be thankful because it's an active response to keep us walking in Christ. My youngest child is I guess she's still an infant. Is she considered an infant? Seven months old? Okay, alright. I don't know I don't know where that whole like going from infant to baby is it two two years? Ah, okay. Oh well we'll we'll debate that later. But my youngest child is young, okay? She doesn't do a whole lot right now, and especially in the first several months she did even even less. You know, we had to do a whole lot to her and a whole lot for her. And all we got in response was the occasional smile. You know those really awkward ones where the toothless and it's like, you know it's a smile but it doesn't it actually looks you can't really tell if they're in pain or if they're happy. I think that was a smile But you know it's a it's a her gesture of gratitude to us, or at least uh satisfaction of having gotten gotten everything that she wanted for now. Um but in similar way, for all that God is doing in us For all that God is doing to us and all that God is doing through us, our response should rightly be thankfulness. I mean it really is kind of our meager response. our gesture of gratitude to God. And sometimes it it takes pausing long enough to notice God's hand. And that's why we have things like testimony time on a Sunday night or Wednesday night or what have you. That we would pause long enough to recount precisely what God is doing in my life, and that it can generate thankfulness and gratitude in my heart. And what is more, if you want to avoid being mired in spiritual quicksand, and if you want to remain faithfully walking in Him, you must purpose to have a thankful heart, because it doesn't come naturally. I don't have to tell you that. So when the car breaks down, thankfulness. When the doctor says there's not an operation for your diagnosis, thankfulness. This is the big stuff and the small stuff. And when your child spills her drink in the car for the thousandth time and you just vacuumed it, thankfulness. When you feel like you're the outsider, thankfulness. When work keeps you late and interrupts your plans, thankfulness. And when life generally isn't going the way that you had hoped for, or the way that you want it to go, thankfulness And all of these scenarios are an invitation to continue walking in him and trusting him and staying faithful to him and being thankful. I did put note this one. Warren Wearsby wrote that when a Christian is abounding in thanksgiving, he ri is really making progress. As we are abounding in thanksgiving, we are continuing down that path, walking in Him, walking with Christ We are challenged today by the Word of God to know the truth, to believe that truth, and resolve to stay firmly grounded in the truth. So answering that question of how do I walk with God throughout my life and relate to Him, what's to remember what you are in Christ, and to rest in that, to continue being built up in Christ regardless of the setbacks, because you and I are a work in progress. It results in our faith being made more solid over time. And all of this is marked by a genuine gratitude that's hard to refute. And people can debate you on facts But they can't really debate your attitude. If you have an attitude of thankfulness and of gratitude, you can't really like refute that. I suppose the best that happened in in Bible history would be the day of Pentecost. The men are are are teaching and preaching about Jesus, and they're like, these guys are crazy. But that's pretty much all you can say. You can't debate a thankful heart So remember your roots and remain steadfast and respond with gratitude Let Christ establish your values and guide your thinking and direct your conduct as you keep walking in him. Because it's not a game, it's not a joke, like I would play on my girlfriend, wife, fianc girlfriend, fiance, then wife. There we go. But be determined to keep walking in Him. Let's pray. Father, we're grateful for your great patience. We're thankful for your promise that you have given to us that you will finish what you have started in us. And we look forward to the day when we can stand with Christ and get to know you face to face. And we will spend eternity Asking you who you are and how you think and what is important to you and worshiping you for all of it. Until that day, Father, we take great confidence in what you have done for us in the past, placing us in Christ. That your great patience and long-suffering with us as we are being built up in Christ and as we're being established in our faith I pray today that we would come away from looking at your word encouraged and that we would come away with thankful hearts. for who you are and what you've done, and who you will always be, and what you will continue to do. So we thank you for all of these things, and we commit it to you in Jesus' name. Amen.