His word in Ephesians here that we need to walk in unity. And then he said that we need to walk in holiness. He then said that we need to walk in love. Then he said that we need to walk in light. And finally, today, we find from the writings of Paul here, through the inspiration of God, that we need to walk in wisdom. We are living a day that has greater access to information than probably any time ever before in the history of mankind. history of civilization, more than likely. It is I suppose possible that I don't think I'm turned on and I think that's my fault you guys are probably trying to No, I am on. Okay. Um it is possible that um we um There would be a time where we're just not aware that there would be an in internet, you know, in the prehistoric ages or something. But it's very unlikely. But you know, just because you have access to information does not mean you have access to wisdom. There is a vast difference between information and knowledge and wisdom Information and knowledge goes ununderdeveloped and really unused properly without wisdom. Because wisdom is the skill to be able to apply knowledge. That's what wisdom is. It is the ability that we are able to apply knowledge correctly. It is the difference between the theoretical, and the it makes the difference between the theoretical and the practical. There are a lot of people, and maybe you've met them, that they like to live in an alternate universe where they have sort of a theoretical, everything's theoretical. There are others that live in sort of in that same universe where everything is idealistic. Have you ever met somebody like, you know, sort of like a just somebody that's kind of off in the clouds and not very and then you have others that Never think about anything. Sort of the other side that s some people just don't seem to think. So you have some people that are just thinking and never bring it into practice, and you have other people that are always doing without thinking. And both of those are unwise, right? What God wants us to do, the Bible tells us here, is to walk in wisdom. And we see here actually that this is going to be an extended passage of Scripture. In the other passages, in the other admonitions for us to walk, we find four, five, six, seven verses to each one of these admonitions. But this is going to be extended, and it's going to extend, in fact, all the way through chapter 6, verse 4. All of what is being going to be talked about at this point from this point forward has to do with wisdom. And the importance of walking in wisdom. We need God's help for this, without question. Let's go to Him in prayer. Father, as we come to you today, we thank you, Lord, just for the privilege. of being able to access your wisdom. And I pray today that as we think through this, that you would really help us to do exactly that. We would admit before you, as we've already said, that we are not wise naturally, that we need your word to enlighten our hearts and our minds, to help us to understand How we ought to live a life that is one where we are walking in wisdom. And of course, the only way we can do that is to walk with you. Because you are the only wise God. And I pray, dear Father, today, that you would help us to learn how to do that. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. God tells us in his word here, first of all, that it says, as we look here, it says verse 14. That we henceforth be no more children. I'm sorry, that's chapter four. Chapter five, verse fourteen. Says, Wherefore he saith, Awake thou that sleepeth, arise from the dead, and Christ shall give thee light. And as a basis for that, it says, now you then are able to see. Now, if you're walking in the light, you are then able to see where you are going. And so as a result of that, we should be able then to walk. that ye uh we should be able to walk, the Bible says here, circumspectly. The word here means to walk carefully. to watch where you are going, to look around and look at all of the factors involved in how and where you are walking. The Bible says here to do it not as fools, but as wise. We cannot afford to walk in a way where we are just sort of flying by the seat of our pants. And not really thinking about what we are doing. And God's word here tells us that we need to walk carefully. We are not living in a world where people are walking and behaving carefully. We are far more desirous to be spontaneous than careful. To be to act on a whim instead of really thinking things through. But one of the traits of God's people is that it ought to be different for us. We ought to think carefully about how we are behaving, how we are speaking, how we are thinking, how we are walking Proverbs 22, verse 3 says, A prudent man foresee the evil and hideth himself. But the simple pass on and are punished. If you're familiar with the book of Proverbs, what you find in that pat in that book is that you have identified as one of the kinds of fools, a simple man A simple person does not think for himself. Instead, a simple person believes everything that he hears. A foolish person doesn't listen to anyone. So you have sort of a simple man who hears everything and listens to everything. You have a foolish person who listens to nothing. And then and is really actually so full of his own thoughts that he can't hear what's being said. And then you have a scorner who is actually so full of his own thoughts and it's all coming out and all he see has is sort of sort of transmit instead of any receiving and he's actually convincing other and other people to be the fool. And who do you suppose he's convincing and successful at convincing to become foolish? The simple. And so what you have there is a real problem in the book of Proverbs with that they're dealing with, the whole book is on wisdom, on dealing with the person who is simple and the fool and the scorner. God says that if you want to be wise instead of being foolish, if you want to walk in wisdom, you've got to look and walk carefully. You've got to think about where you are walking. The Bible tells us that the prudent man foreseeth evil and hideth himself. It tells us the prudent, the simple believeth every word. But the prudent man looketh well to his going. He thinks of ahead about where he is going I've noticed this about some of the often I will just tell you that as I think through some of the things that we find so difficult to do on a daily basis. Often it's because we're not really thinking ahead. Even something as simple as doing our personal devotions in the morning where we are able to have our personal worship time with God. Sometimes, oftentimes, it really requires a thinking ahead. If you're like some people, you wake up and you're not just bright-eyed as soon as you wake up Well, you need to know where your Bible is the night before. It would be helpful to know what, to sort of have a plan to think ahead. There are so many aspects so many so much of of this that can be done in the life of a believer that the Bible doesn't say you've got to plan out something ahead of time so that you can have your devotions. The Bible doesn't say, it just says meditate on and And study God's Word. That's what it says. But if you don't have a plan, a plan is wise. It's wisdom. Folks, one of the things it seems as though we're losing in our Christianity is wisdom. We sort of have relegated everything. If we're not careful, we relegate everything to whether the Bible says it or doesn't say it. And if the Bible doesn't say it, we don't have to do it. And if the Bible does say it, then we have to do it. And so we sort of have these lines in our mind. But Scripture is not only to be taken that way. There are certainly commands in Scripture that we must obey, but there are principles in Scripture that we must learn to wisely apply And there is wisdom that God has for us where and a lot of that wisdom has a lot to do with just walking circumspectly and thinking ahead. Oftentimes we that is the greatest danger that we come into is that we have not planned ahead. We've not thought ahead. We've not thought two or three or one or at least one step ahead of what you're doing. Can you you remember when you first learned to walk? Of course you don't. But you do probably remember when you first taught your child or when your first child learned to walk. I don't think we teach them that. I think they just sort of pick it up, right? I don't remember ever teaching my kids to walk. Maybe my wife did, but I think they just kind of start doing it. They probably learn from our example because like we're walking most of the hopeful us hopefully most of us. And they just start sort of doing it. But when a fur when a person first begins to walk, when a little toddler first begins to walk, what do they do? Where do they look? They look right at their feet, right? I mean they'll watch and they'll make sure that they are taking one step and and and one step in front of another so that they don't stumble, they don't fall Well, if you if they lift their gaze up and they begin to look and extend their gaze ahead, that's really kind of important, right? What do we always tell our toddlers? Don't do what? Don't trip, right? Don't trip. Don't fall. Why? Because they're used to looking right in front of them instead of looking ahead and seeing out and what seeing what might be coming. A mature person in Christ learns to look ahead, learns to see what is coming, and learns to walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wives. And the Bible then tells us how we are to do that. It gives us some very practical wisdom about walking in circumspectly and walking in wisdom. The Bible tells us that we need to walk prudently It says here in this passage, it says to redeem the time. Most of us Do not think of this as much as we ought to. We don't think about buying our time. That's what the word redeem means. It's no different than if you're going to take money and take it to the store and buy and buy something, you are redeeming that item for money. You're giving them money. You're redeeming it. You're buying it. And Paul says here in this chapter that we need to buy time. The Christian The unbeliever often talks about buying time, but they're not talking about buying time. They're talking about kill time. You ever heard that? Well I just need to kill time. They are very free with the use of their time. Most of the time, the world looks at time and says, What can I most get out of my time? I need to work a job so that I can live for Friday night and the weekend, and I'll work a job because I know I've got to, but I'm living for the weekend. And I'm living for my retirement. I am living for that time that I can have pleasure. I'm not buying my time. I'm not making good use of my time. I am living for something else. I'm living for the pleasure of my own time. And God says that for a Christian this ought to be different. We ought to redeem the time. Well, if you're buying something What does it say about your perspective on what you are buying? If you are purchasing it, you are saying that you what? That you that you value it. If we are buying something, it means that we are valuing it. And God says that for the believer, if we're going to walk in wisdom, we are going to have to learn to value our time. There are so many things out there that might be acceptable, but they are not God's best for us. They are not something that is the best use of our time. And very honestly, I will tell you that sometimes it is very hard to juggle everything that needs to be done and all the priorities that need to happen and knowing which ones to do first and which ones to do later and which ones can be put off and which ones don't need to be done The more responsibilities you have, the more careful you've got to be with your time. But do you know as kingdom citizens, every single one of us are responsible for our time? Have you ever thought about this? I know probably that everybody in this room If you're under the age, I mean if you're over the age of, I don't know, school age probably, over the age of five, at some time or another you have said, I don't have the time. Right? I don't have time. Every single one of us has said that at some time or another. I I just don't have time. I don't have the time. Well, um, sure, time is limited, isn't it? Time is not infinite. Well, when we get at least our time on earth is not infinite. But let me just ask you this question. Have you ever thought about the fact that God has supplied all the time you need to do everything that He wants you to do? Is that true? That God has given you every minute that you need to do everything that He wants you to do. That's true. What we've got to do if we're going to walk wisely, we've got to realize what is really What he wants us to do. That really becomes the key, doesn't it? Not what I want to do, although if my desires are drawn to what God wants, what he wants, not what I want, become the same thing. If my desires are drawn a different way, which we're going to learn about in a few moments, well that's going to be something entirely different. But if we just begin to realize this, then it really begins to help us to be able to prioritize our time and to purchase our time and to value our time wisely. We ought to ask the question, is what I am doing right now please the Lord? It doesn't, folks, it doesn't mean that we can't have recreation. It doesn't mean that we can't enjoy God's creation and the things that He gives us. But it does mean that at that point when we are doing that, we realize that this is what most pleases God. Because what we are going to see in this passage, what you'll see next here, and it really just dovetails with this very nicely, of course it's God's word, so we would expect that. But in Ephesians we see here, redeeming the time because the days are evil, verse 17, wherefore being not unwise, but what? Understand what the will of the Lord is. We need to know what God's will is. We need to redeem the time in order to know what God's will is. Often we are not going to understand what God's will is for us with regard to our time Because we have not first valued our time. But it says here why it's so important for us to purchase our time, to redeem our time. It says this because the days are what? The days are evil. I think what we have here is a contrast. What does evil do? Evil steals your time. Probably more accurately, evil steals God's time. That's what evil does. Because in God's economy, he has his purposes for the furtherance of his kingdom. But sin steals time. In our lives, when we sin and when there is evil that creeps into our lives, it is stealing our time from being All uh from from purposing everything we do for the purpose of what God wants us to do, for the furtherance of His kingdom. We've got to really begin to start thinking this way if we are going to walk in wisdom. Now, it says here then, wherefore be ye not unwise, but understanding So the th next thing we need to do is walk in an understanding way, walk understandingly. Be not be not unwise, but understanding what the will of the Lord is One of the questions that every Christian asks at one time or another is, I want to know God's will for my life. There is a another passage that we ought to our minds probably ought to go to almost immediately when we think about knowing God's will. And that is over in the book of Romans, chapter 12. Would you take your Bibles and turn there? Romans chapter 12. I want you to see this for a few minutes. After an extended discussion of the gospel by the Apostle Paul in this book in Romans, he now begins from the very outset of how we are going to apply his discussion on the gospel and the truths of the gospel. And he says right out of the gate in chapter 12, verse 1, I beseech you therefore. Brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present your bodies a living sacrifice, wholly, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. And be not conformed to the world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, that ye may prove what is that what That good and acceptable and perfect will of God. The way that Paul structures this passage He demonstrates that in the very end of this portion of Scripture, the result of whatever He has commanded us to do is that we will know or prove What is that good and perfect acceptable and perfect will of God? And before we get into that, let me just identify the word here. It says prove. That means we need to be discrimin we need to discriminate when it comes to our time and prove, does that activity Does that thing, does that, is that what God would have me to do with my time in? Would it be according to His good and perfect will of God? It's something that we've got to ask ourselves. But folks Do you know that we will never begin to understand or to prove what is God's will for us if we do not first present ourselves. Do you see that? I beseech ye therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present your what does it say there? Your bodies. We are talking here very practically, aren't we? Back in chapters one and chapter two, we weren't it was not that practical. It was very theological and doctrinal. It was wonderful, wasn't it? To see the greatness of who God is. But God God brings the greatness of who he is in the practical living when he says in Romans chapter 12 and in our passage in Ephesians that God wants us to present our bodies Now, folks, one of the things that Christians actually for centuries have done is they have wrongly made a distinction between the physical and the spiritual. To the point where if we're not careful, we think that the spiritual is all God's, but the physical is what we want to do for is just what we choose. What is very common in our culture is to say things like, this is my own body. This is my body. I get to choose what I do with my body. God says for the Christian, it's not your body. The Bible says that you are not your own. You are bought with a price. Therefore, glorify God in your body. What we've got to do if we're going to be practical practical about these things is we've got to understand that what our body, what we do with our bodies, and by the way, what do we do with our bodies? Well we we We use time with our bodies. And that's what you're doing. You're going throughout the day and you're using up your time physically with your body. We've got to present it. The word present there is you'll find also in Romans chapter 6, but it's translated yield. And as you'll recall from a previous discussion in Romans chapter 6, what we have there is the idea of knowing and reckoning and yielding in that passage. So Paul takes that passage in Romans 6 and that concept of yielding yourselves, and again says: what you need to do here is you need to lay your body before God. You've got to give him your body. You need to present your body a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is, it's, what does he say about this? That if you do this, you are one of the great Christians. That if you do this, your name is going to go down in history as one of those people that were totally sold out for God. Now, what does it say in the passage, folks? It says that it is just what? It's just reasonable. Why do you suppose it's reasonable for us to present our bodies to God to buy time with our bodies that we have presented to God? Why is that reasonable? Because Christ redeemed our bodies. Because Christ bought them back in the first place. It's only reasonable, folks, that we would give all of our lives, everything that we have to God, because it's not ours because he bought it with his own life, Christ did. And God says that the way his economy works is that when we give our lives to God, we genuinely, truly have life. And that more abundantly. That's why the Bible says, if you will give your life away, you'll what? You'll find it. Now, with all of that in mind, you might be asking be saying to yourselves, okay, well we're s how do we practically do this? This is this is so hard. It is so difficult. There I need, I can't do this in of myself I would imagine that if I had a show of hands, that every honest Christian in this room would say, I really struggle with this. That every honest Christian in this room would say to themselves, you know, I to that to be so disciplined about my time, to be buying it back constantly. to be careful with it, to walk circumspectly. This is something that I cannot do in my own strength. And if you would say that in all honesty, that would be absolutely pleasing to the Lord, because we can't do it of ourselves. And that is why in the book of Ephesians here we then move into what God says is necessary for us to walk wisely, and that is for us to be under the influence of the all-wise God. In the person of who? The Holy Spirit. Remember, we have said back when we were discussing the work of God in the gospel. The Father's work, and also in creation, the Father is the one who is the planner. Christ is the one who is the executor of the plan. But the Holy Spirit is the one who is the applier of the plan. He is the one that applies it directly. That's why it says in Col in In Genesis, that the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters, and he was involved in allowing this thing to take shape. So we have all three persons of the Trinity involved in various functions in creation, and we have all three persons of the Trinity involved in various functions in the creation In our salvation, but folks, we have all three persons of the Trinity involved in our sanctification and in our walk, we've got to depend upon the influence of the Spirit of God. He is the applier of the God. truth. Now with that in mind, what I want to do is to for us to move over to the book of Galatians because I want to introduce this whole concept of being filled with the Spirit. by turning there first in Galatians chapter 5. In Galatians chapter 5, the Apostle Paul has also written here, and he says in this passage that we need to walk in the Spirit. Now let me give you a little background. Galatians chapter one, it actually tells us that they were that the Galatians People were believing a gospel of the same kind. They were believing another gospel. It looked the same as the true gospel, but it was a false gospel And the reason that it was a false gospel was because it was causing them to revert back to obedience to the law to obtain grace. That the that they were were were saying that the initial stages of of trusting uh of of becoming uh converted had to do with with an expression of faith. But that they were now under the law. And God says in Ephesians, in this passage in Ephesians chapter, uh, I'm sorry, in Galatians here, in Galatians chapter 5, that they are not under the law. This is absolutely essential to understand if we are going to really follow wisdom. Because, folks, it is so easy for us To fall into the trap of thinking that if we follow certain guidelines and certain rules and certain forms of behavior, well then we are spiritual. Then we are okay. Let me ask you a question. Which is harder? Maybe not harder. Which is more difficult? To follow a list of rules or to follow God's Spirit Well, in a sense, folks, there is a sense in which it is more difficult. It requires more concentration. It requires more more direct focus to follow after the Spirit of God. There are one of two things that happen if you follow the forms of law and you think you're spiritual as a result of doing that. You either become puffed up because you think you're making it, or you've become defeated because you think you're not And God says to the Galatian Christians, he says, You're not under the law. Would you notice in this passage with us with me in chapter 5? It says, this I say it in Walk in the spirit, and ye shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. But would you notice what it says in verse 18? And I want to set it up this way. Verse 18 says But if ye be led by the s of the Spirit, ye are not under the law. Now let me just pause there and say this. That when it uses the word if, It is it is a conditional clause, but it's actually a and a Greek it's a Greek thing called the first class conditional clause, and it could be translated sensefair. Now, also we see the exact same thing, the same structure here used later on in this passage. in verse 25. Do you see that? It says, if we live in the spirit, it it you you you you really could say take that as since we live in the spirit. It's really not a bad translation the way it's translated there. Because it is a conditional clause. But for our understanding, it would be best for us to think of it in terms of sense. Now, with that in mind, what does it say here? It says, since you be led of the Spirit, what are you not under? You're not under the law. You're not under the law because the law is it's not a matter of the law being bad. The law is good, according to Romans chapter 7 and 8. But who has fulfilled the demands of the law? Christ has fulfilled the demands of the law. So that who you are now following is Christ. Because he's fulfilled the demands of the law. Well, how do you practically follow Christ on a day-to-day level? You've got to follow after God's Spirit. That becomes very, very important for us to understand. It then says here, we do see now the command. So let me put it this way practically. In radio terms You are being led by God's Spirit. In other words, if you genuinely know Christ as your Savior, the transmission or the signal, the transmitter is always being, the signal is always going out. The problem is, is are we receiving the signal? Just like we're almost getting to the place where we won't be using radios very much anymore. as as time goes on here. But you know, most of us still understand the idea of a radio and that you would turn to a particular channel and the and the the signal is always being transmitted and you've got to turn to a or particular channel in order to receive that transmission of that radio station, right? Well the Spirit of God is always transmitting. But the question is, is are we receiving? Are you and I receiving the transmission of the Spirit of God in our lives? Well, the next question obviously would be how do we do that? How do we tune in to the right signal so that we are receiving that transmission from the Spirit of God? And it has to do with our desires. Would you notice here what it says? Right after it commands us to walk in the Spirit as ye are walk in the Spirit, it tells us here in this passage in verse 17 For the flesh, what's the word there? What's the next word there? Lusteth. The word there, lusteth, means desire. The flesh desires against the spirit. And we have the Spirit rightly capitalized there. And the Spirit desires against the flesh. You have essentially, you have in your body, you've got two sources of desire. One source, one ultimate source comes from God's Spirit, if you know Christ as your Savior. The other source comes from your flesh. You've got two sources, right? And the Bible says that they war, they battle against each other. Christian, do you ever feel like you are in an internal battle? I think all of us can testify to that reality in our lives where there is sometimes an internal battle in us because we have essentially two sets of desires. There is one signal being transmitted by the Spirit of God that gives us a particular kind of desire. A desire that finds its source in the Spirit of God. And there is another kind of desire that finds its source in the flesh. You've got two sources of desires. And God says you've got to receive that source. You've got to follow after the source of the Spirit of God. Bruce Ware says this, and I think it's appropriate for us to think about it this way. We human beings perform our choices and actions out of what we desire in our hearts. That is what we most want, what we want most, what our natures incline us most strongly to do. This is the pool out of which the stream of our choices and actions flows There is a necessary connection between character and conduct, heart and hands, desires and decisions. Our wills give expression to the nature and character of our hearts. God says in his word in 1 Thessalonians 5 verse 19, quench not the Spirit of God. Now, folks, let's just go on here and ask ourselves the question. How is it then that we remain under the Spirit of God? How is it then that we know whether or not our desires are desires of God? Well, what God does in this passage in Galatians, first of all, is to tell us what kind of desires and what they look like when they are made manifest. It says in verse twenty, idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variants, emulations, wrath, strife, seditions Heresies, and you'll see an entire list there. And then you find in verse 22, the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, Meet this temperament temperament uh temperance. Against such there is a law. How do you know what kinds of desires are coming from the Spirit of God and what kinds of desires are coming from your flesh? It has to do with this. It has to do with what comes out. But also we can learn from another way. Would you take your Bibles and turn back to Ephesians? And I want you to see this in this passage. Back in Ephesians, we're going to see three results of being filled with the Spirit. It says in this passage, be not drunk with wine. The concept here is to help us to understand what it means to be filled with the Spirit. And I just want to say as we turn over to the passage that what we're not talking about is being indwelt by the Spirit. That happens as a one-time event when we trust Christ as our Savior. It's not talking about being baptized by the Spirit. That's something entirely different as well. What we're talking here When it says being filled with the Spirit is being under the influence of the Spirit of God. And what we find in this passage in the book of Ephesians here is it says for us that there are three results according to this passage. And the three results are, number one, in verse 19, we have the concept of worship. Number two, we have the result of thanksgiving. And number three, we have the final result. What's the final result? What do you think the final result is, folks? Oh, nobody likes that word. The final result, folks, is the word submission. What it's saying in this passage, these are participles of result, and what it's saying in this passage, folks, is that if you are under the influence of the Spirit of God in your life, you number one, you are going to have expressions of worship. You are secondly going to be one who is thankful and grateful. That is going to be a result of being under the influence of the Spirit of God. And you are going to have a submissive spirit. And need I remind you what submission is. We don't like talking about this, I know. Submission is choosing to arrange yourself under someone or something, even when you don't agree. Submission is not submission if you agree. It's just agreement. Submission is submission That when you choose to range yourself under someone or something even when you don't agree. Now, with that in mind, I want you to see something over in Colossians chapter 3. Would you turn there? Colossians chapter three, verse sixteen. Colossians really is a parallel book to the book of Ephesians. You have two-thirds of the content of Colossians in the book of Ephesians. They are sister books. And many of the concepts, you'll see in some cases, even the exact same wording. I want you to notice, picking up in verse 16, what we find here. It says here. Chapter 3, verse 16. Let the word of Christ, well, let's let's actually yeah, that's fine. Actually, pick up in verse 15 that let the peace of God rule in your hearts. To the which also you are called in one body, and be ye thankful, let the word of Christ dwell in you richly, in all wisdom Teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. You see there, folks, what is the first result of letting the Word of Christ dwell in you richly? You are going to what, folks? You're going to worship. Let the word of Christ dwell on you richly, teaching and emboshing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord. Verse 17, and whatsoever you do in word or in deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, doing what? Giving thanks. To God and the Father by Him. And verse 18, all women's favorite verse: wives, submit yourselves to your husbands as unto the Lord, as fit to the Lord. Folks, do you see what you see there? The same exact results of being under the influence of the Spirit of God, worship, thanksgiving, and submission. Are the exact same results of allowing the Word of Christ to dwell in you richly? Worship, thanksgiving, and submission. I'm not going to take the time to go through all those different results. But folks, we have just learned a few weeks back about the invasive The invasive sin of covetousness, which is the exact opposite of thanksgiving. If you want to move from covetousness to thanksgiving, it is all going to be based upon what you do with this book. What you do with God's Word, whether or not you are allowing the word of Christ not just to be not some sort of cursory understanding of God's word. Not just some sort of, okay, I've got my thought for the day and I'm fine. No, we've got to dig deeply and let the word of Christ dwell in us richly, and then we will be able, then, folks. To be under the influence of God's Spirit in our lives And then, folks, we will be walking wisely. Because if you are under God's, the influence of God's Spirit, you have a divine connection to the all-wise God. And let me just ask you. It it it isn't it amazing You probably s uh some of you may be saying, you know, you it's like you always end up there. You always end up like you just gotta study God's word more. And you always gotta you always end up, you gotta meditate God's word on God's word more. It seems like you're always ending up as though you've got to obey God's word more. I mean you're always ending up there. Like, isn't yes. Because it is so vitally important. And you might be saying to yourself in in the presence of our assembly here today, that I have no connection to God's wisdom Folks, this is something that an unbeliever does not have. You are not born with a connection to God's wisdom in your life. You don't have it naturally. There's no instinct that gives this to you. It is only when Christ, when you have been bought by Christ's own blood. That begins the entire process where you are indwelt by the Spirit of God and then when you are living by the Spirit of God and under the influence of the Spirit of God. of God, as you follow the desires that are cultivated by the Word of God. Now just bring, just follow this, folks. The more you are, the more you love the law of God. And I'm talking here there about very generally, the more you love God's word. The more you delight in it, says the Psalm 1, the more those desires become stronger and stronger that come from the Spirit of God in your life, the more they are cultivated, the more they are developed. The less the flesh has its influence. The desires will always be there. But the less they are developed, folks, the more you will be under God's influence of his spirit. But it all starts with knowing this book deeply. And for the unbeliever who doubts the Word of God, who doubts the claims in this book, I would challenge you this way. Do you know it? It is not a book to be taken at a cursory glimpse. It is a book with which the well runs deep, and you must draw from it deeply. And if you have questions in your mind about it when it comes to this book, I would just really encourage you to come and talk to me or somebody else that you're comfortable with, and we'll be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you can have a connection with God. The Bible says it's written that way. It says, these things are written, according to 1 John 5. These things are written that ye may know that ye have eternal life. God wants you to know. Come and talk to me after the service. I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you have eternal life and a connection with God. Let's pray. Father, we come to you today and we are just grateful for your word. We understand that The desires of the flesh are strong. And when we feed them, they become stronger. But when we feed the desires of your spirit Through your word, they become stronger. And we would admit before you that we will do what we most want to do. I pray that you would cultivate in us a greater the greatest want in our lives would be to please you. And as we do that, we would be most pleased. I pray that you would truly help us to walk in wisdom and be under the influence of God's Spirit. We thank you. In Christ's name. Amen.