And we're going to look actually today at verses one through seventeen where I realized as I was studying that I was going to need to break this up into two parts. I was my initial thoughts were overly ambitious. Uh which was often that happens a lot actually. Alright. Um you know it's interesting that there are m I feel like there is a lot of base today. What's is everything okay? It's just me? Uh I just got a lower voice today. Okay. I don't know. Something doesn't sound right. I'm not sure sure what's happening here. Anyway, um that'd be fun to sing like this. Like sing low Wow, it sounds really low. Okay. All right. Um so um you know it's it's sort of interesting that um How do you know when you've really grasped something, when you really have understood something? Is it possible to know the facts of something? but not really to grasp it. And that's obviously true. One of the ways you know you really understand a concept, if it's if in on some level you can picture it. In fact, studies have shown that we actually think in terms of pictures. And Jesus has in in previous passages He is given a lot of commands and details about how things are going to work. And this passage really is going to help us have a a picture of what it's like to follow Christ, what it's like to love Christ, what it's like to be operating within the provision of Christ. Um mu I remember many years ago now, it's a lot of years, where I took my my driver's test, um, and there were actually two parts to that, right? Did they still do that do it that way? You've got a written part and a drive driver's part. You know, where you actually have to drive? I hope they still do that. Because because ac although you drive around here and you're really not sure they still do that. I don't know. Um you know, you know, it's sort of um interesting. Is it possible, do you suppose that you could actually ace the driver, the written point part and have no clue how to drive? All right, certainly it is. It's quite possible to be able to do that. There is something different about sitting down and actually following what's in that manual, and you have to understand, you have to picture it as you go through. Like if if you're at a four-way stop and who has the right-of-way and all those kinds of things, you might be able to memorize the facts, but when you get into real life, if you can't picture it, you really don't understand it And so what we find in this passage is Jesus is now, after the resurrection, he's appearing to the disciples, and he's now going to give them a picture of what it looks like. to have Christ provide for them and for them to follow Christ. And I think there's some great for us to learn in this passage. Let's go to the Lord in prayer and ask his um ask his help with this. Father We do ask, Lord, that you would help us as we get into this text here, that you would give us, perhaps today, a clearer picture of what it looks like to follow you, what it looks like to have you provide for us, how those things work together, how what our function is And what it looks like, dear Father, for us to love you. So I pray, Lord, today, that we would just have some clarity about this as we go through this And that we would have on the other end of it a greater understanding of what it means to really love and follow you. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, we begin in verse 1 of chapter 21, and the location here we find is at the Sea of Tiberias. Tiberius, this is the only mention, I believe, in the entire Bible that Tiberius is mentioned here rather than the normal word, which is the Sea of Galilee. Of course, you would know that term as a much more familiar term. So they're going to the Sea of Galilee. It says, after these things, Jesus showed himself again to the disciples at the Sea of Tiberias or Galilee. And on this wise showed he himself. We find here that there is this location, and it and and This and it and we know from the Mark account in Mark chapter 14 and verse and chapter 16 uh Christ told the disciples to go to Galilee to the Sea of Galilee and wait for him. Mark 14 verse 28 says, But after that I am risen, I will go before you into Galilee. And Mark 16, 7 says, But go your way Tell his disciples and Peter that he goeth before you into Galilee, there shall ye see him as he said unto you. So this is a passage where the disciples, and we have seven named here, well there are seven disciples here, two of them are not named. We have seven disciples that are going to meet Jesus. They're going to see him. And we see, of course, it says on this wise showed he himself. There was this plan for them to reunite at the at the Sea of Galilee and for them to see who Jesus was. So they go there Verse 2 says this, and I want you as we read this, I want you to catch the catch the tone here of these next few verses. There were together Simon Peter and Thomas called Didymus and Nathaniel of Cana of Galilee and the sons of Zebedee, the two other of his disciples Simon Peter said unto them, so let's just pause here for a minute. They're all the disciples, they're going to the Sea of Galilee, and I think more than likely they're there, and Christ isn't there yet. They're sort of looking around waiting. They're waiting for Christ to be there. Perhaps a little bit of time has gone by, and we find Peter, who is very action-oriented by nature, decides he's going to take action. Notice what it says, Simon Peter saith verse 3 unto them, I go a fishing. They say unto him, We also go with thee. They went forth and entered into a ship immediately, and that night they caught nothing. So if you can kind of understand the tone of what's happening here. They're without the presence of Jesus. Can you read in there the tone, this sort of tone of of like, well, he's not here, don't really know what to do. Peter says, might as well go fishing. That was his default. There's a lot of different views as to what Peter was doing here actually. It's kind of some of them are kind of weird, but uh the the different views one uh th th there's a bunch of 'em but but um more than likely the view here that we should just take is that that was kinda I mean that was his livelihood. He didn't really have anything else to do. It's very likely that uh you he could s uh see you know that Christ if he came could see them out doing something. I don't think there's any real criticism here. Some some views sort of make this idea that Peter is di in disobedience to God because he goes fishing I don't really see it that way. I think Peter is sort of lost, doesn't know what to do, Jesus isn't there, and so he says, ah, go, I'm going to go fishing, and the disciples follow after him. But what you do see in the text is this sort of, I don't know what to do, I'm sort of lost kind of a spirit. This is really in contrast to the previous chapter. The previous chapter in John 20, verse 20, it says, and when they when he had so said, Jesus there, he showed unto them his hands and his side. And the disciples were glad when they saw him. There was this totally different kind of spirit when Christ was there, when he appeared to them the first time. There is this lostness without the presence of Christ. And I think that we can and and and they're going to of course have the presence of the Holy Spirit come in Acts chapter 1, verse verse 8. Uh Acts chapter two, I uh it prophesied Acts chapter one verse eight, and then and then later in Acts chapter two the the spirit com Spirit of God comes on them But at this point, there is this lostness without the presence of Christ. And I think I would just mention this by way of application: that there is always a sense of lostness. when you're not aware of the presence of Christ in your life. There is this, I don't know what I'm supposed to do. What am I supposed to do now? And if you feel that way, it may be because We're really not keyed into or tuned in to what Christ is doing, what God is doing, and how He is working in our lives providentially. We notice also here in verse 4, and I believe this is very intentional by Christ, that they, or verse 3, and in verse 3, they caught nothing And I think this is somewhat symbolic. You'll remember in John chapter 15, verse 5, it says, without me ye can do nothing. We have this great passage in John chapter 15 of the abiding of Christ. And he says there, without abiding in me, you have no ability to do anything at all. I think it was by divine purpose that they that day caught nothing. Now these were trained fishermen, they knew how to fish, but at this point they caught nothing. Now that set a perfect scenario up for Christ to come in and to teach them. But in this passage, Christ does very little instruction. What Christ does is nearly all action and behavior. He asks Peter some questions, he does some instruction later on in the chapter. But primarily what Christ does here is he just does certain set things and says very very specific things. But he really doesn't we don't have a long, long teaching section here. All of this is very much uh likely just to give us a picture of what it looks like when Christ is interacting with his followers after the resurrection. And there really is some great lessons for us to learn here as well in this passage. I'm going to show you, you'll see this as we as we go work through here, through this passage. But what we're going to see In the next few verses, as Jesus comes and he sees them on that Sea of Galilee, we're going to see God's provision. And how it works in the life of these disciples. And so as we go through this, we can't take a lot of time to go through this, but as we go through this We're going to be able to make some observations about how God provides for us and our role in His provision as well. Verse 4 says, But when the morning was come, Jesus stood on the shore, but the disciples knew not that it was Jesus. Now we don't know if they just couldn't see him well enough or if Jesus was actually withholding uh his identity. It's it's really not not able to say say in this passage, but at this point they couldn't see him Verse 5 says, Then Jesus said unto them, Children, have ye any meat? What he's really saying here is, haven't you caught anything yet? The person that's on this bank that's looking out, of course, is Christ, they don't realize this, but they but he's really saying It's almost like, why haven't you caught anything? He's identifying the fact that they are inadequate to do what he is going to be able to do for them And that really is our first observation as we look at what it means to have God providing Christ providing for us. God's provision involves Acknowledgement of our dependency. You know, oftentimes God will not provide for us until we at first come to the point where we realize we are just in need of Him. We just need to come before him and say, Lord, I am totally dependent on you. I can't do this. And of course, God knows us better than we know ourselves. He actually knows when we actually are dependent or when we're actually saying we're dependent, and there is a difference. But Christ here starts off in this great provision of food for them. He starts off by simply saying, haven't you caught anything? And the answer, of course, is no, they have not. We then see in verse 6 that Jesus is going to give them a bit of instruction. And he said unto them, cast the net on the right side of the ship, and ye shall find. They cast therefore, and now they were not able to draw in for the multitude of fishes. The second observation that we can make from this passage about God's provision is that God's vision often includes some level of guidance. God does not usually just drop provision out of the sky. There is His purposes in our growth as He provides for us. And one of the things he often does is he wants to guide us into obedience and following him, and he'll do so as he provides for us. There is this this interchange between his provision and our following of his provision. And we see that in this passage. Theoretically, had they not cast their nets on the other side of the boat boat, Christ would not have provided for them. It required of them participation. They had to do what God directed them to do in order to receive the provision from the Lord. And so it is often the case with us, and that really brings us to the next point, that God's provision requires our involvement and our effort. Often God provides not to the exclusion of our effort, but along with our involvement in our effort. Our primary role is to follow his direction. Just follow him. Whatever he tells us to do, to do it. That's really what he, and if we'll follow him, we'll see his provision. Sometimes it's a little hard to know what that is. That's where it becomes a little tricky. This is obviously clear. Throw your name on the other side of the boat. But the point simply is that in God's providing for us, He often requires us to have involvement. And we see in verse 7 the kind of reaction and response from the disciples And it's interesting that we have different disciples responding in different ways. Would you notice in verse 7 it says, Therefore that disciple whom Jesus loved saith unto Peter, It is Lord. So we have two disciples in this first sentence. Disciple Jesus love is obviously John. John is the thinker in the group. He's the one that considers and thinks about what's happening. He's the one that has sort of insight, and he identifies, he's the first one to be able to think about and identify Christ. That's Christ there Now, it is very likely that this is, of course, reminiscent of another time that Christ did this. You remember in the past? This isn't the first time he's done this. He said in the past, cast your net on the other side of the boat. We'll look at that in a few minutes. John probably remembered the other time where Christ did that and put the connect put the two and two together here Peter is the action guy. He's the guy that says, okay, well, that's Christ. Let's do something. And so we see Peter here jumps out of the boat. Now when Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he didn't recognize it was Lord, he didn't notice it. But when he listened to John, John said it was, he said, Well j John knows the Lord pretty well. I uh I'm gonna jump out. So that's what he does. He says, he girt his fisher's coat unto them, for he was naked, and he did cast himself inside of the sea, into the sea. Now let me just mention this. It was not likely that he was completely naked here Uh he was in in he he was in fisherman's mode, which means he probably did was not encumbered by a lot of other things. It was bare minimum I'm sure, uh, in order to be able to be free to fish and to work the nets and all those kinds of things. He of course was a bunch of with a w with a bunch of men here and uh and so that was his that was what he was doing. Uh it is a little bit unusual that he would jump out and swim, but first put a coat on. Um as I was reading commentaries, they all identified that this was it was like, why would you do this? Um but if you can just sort of imagine he the prob he probably wasn't planning on coming back to the boat to get his coat. And so the best logical logical thing is he wanted to take it with him. And so that's what he did. And so we see that he jumps out of the boat and he's like, okay, I gotta take action. This is Jesus, I'm getting out of here. I've been this this is what I've been waiting for the whole time. I've just been fishing to to kill time We're not catching anything. I might might as well go see Jesus. That's why he came. That's why they came there in the first place. Then we see the rest of the group. They're doing something too. I'm glad somebody was doing this. Look at what it says, uh, verse eight. And the other disciples came in a little uh in a little ship, for they were not far from land, but as it were, two hundred cubits And they dragging the net with the fishes. So you had this group of people that they decided they're going to actually take responsibility for the fish that were there, and they needed to gather all the fish together and they needed to pull it up into the boat. The all all of the different personalities, God used all of them to do his work and to fulfill his provision. You you have John and Peter who are very different, and we're gonna see that develop more later on in the passage. It'll be next next mm probably two weeks from now, but but um you see later on in the passage where John or Jesus tells Peter what his destiny is and then Peter says, Well what about John? And and and Jesus says, What's that to you? So there is this comparison going on between John and Peter in this passage. And the point is simply Probably the best point we can we can gather from this is that God used all of them. He was gonna and if you look at the ministries of John and Peter, they were very different as you go through the book of Acts. both called by God to be preachers of the gospel, but the particular capacities with which they they served the Lord was very different. Their personalities were very different. And God's provision includes all of these disciples working together to gather and to do to be good stewards of what Christ was providing here. So God's provision requires our involvement, but it does so in various ways. In this passage, we see that Now I want us to s at this point all mention something as well. It is nearly impossible to read this passage and not refer, not in our minds think back, and Peter or John was probably aware of this. It's probably why he was thinking about this. Thinking back to when Christ did this before. The disciples were all on the boat. They weren't catching anything. Christ says, put the net on the other side of the boat, and they catch fish. And that's found in Luke chapter 5. I don't want to take the time to turn to read all of that. You can certainly do that on your own time, but I just want to mention the very last thing that he that John Jesus says in this passage. He says in Luke chapter five, picking up in verse um verse eleven really. After this is all done, um well no, let's pick up in verse ten. And so also were James and John, the sons of Zebedee, who were partners with Simon. And Jesus said to Simon, Do not be afraid. From now on you will catch men. So when they had brought their boats to land, they forsook all and followed him. You know, when it comes to our responsibility and follow in in working with The provision that Christ has. Our main responsibilities are to follow Christ and to do the work that Christ wants for us to do. And we see that in this passage. Matthew 6, verse 33 says, Seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added unto you. And sometimes the reason we don't see the provision that God wants us to have is because we are not first seeking his kingdom and his work and his responsibilities for us. And as a result of that, we're not seeing him provide for us in a way that otherwise we could. We must follow Christ And we must be fishers of men, as the as the disciples likely were reminded of in this passage. Well, we see in verse 9 that this was all in Christ's plan. Christ came and he saw the disciples there. uh fishing. He saw it was probably predetermined that he they were not going to catch anything. And he made a fire, likely, before he ever called out to them. And we see this this fire is already going These coals are already burning because Christ knows full well he's going to provide for them. We see this in verse 9. And so then as they were come to land, they saw a fire of coals there. and fish laid thereon, and bread. Jesus saith unto them, Bring of the fish which ye have now caught. Sign uh so so he so he's already made this fire because he knows the fish are gonna come, because he knows everything. God's provision is is in line with what he what he predetermines already. He already knows what's going to happen. And so God's provision completes the work that he already knows is going to take place. The truth is we don't know what's going to happen, do we? Christ, only Christ knows that. That's why Christ has to be the decider on how he provides for us. We can't decide how he provides. We don't know what the end game is. But Christ does. And so we can learn from this passage that God's provision fulfills predetermined plans. And then finally we find in verse 11. That God's provision includes God's divine hand in the process. Verse 11 it says this. Solomon Peter went up and drew the net to the land full, so he was already on the sh on the bank, he had swum there. And uh uh it says to land full of great fish is 153. It's a very specific number, isn't it? 153 fish. Now there is you would not believe all the different views on what this 153 is if you look at the different commentaries. There's like they're trying to make all these different calculations of different things. And the truth of the matter is it's all a bunch of nonsense. More than likely the reason that you have this number 153 is that John wants us to understand that this actually happened. This is not a parable. This is not a you know a an illustration only. This actually occurred. There were 153 fish. They counted them specifically. But there was something that's very important here. Notice what it says. Yet the net was not broken. Now John was a fisherman. He knew full well that this net should have broken with that many fish, and yet they didn't. And you know what you see here? You see here God's divine hand. There's no other way to look at this. God did not allow that net to be broken. He did not allow it. And so we have, with God's provision, we also have the statement about God carrying it through. He's going to carry it through as he provides, of course, only in his way. Isn't that encouraging You ever notice sometimes God seems to provide and then it's like he stops and then he starts again and then you think he's provided but then he hasn't and You wonder what is what's going on. Isn't there a great comfort in knowing that God has a predetermined plan? That God is providing in accordance with that predetermined plan, even though we have no clue what it is. And that God's hand will guide the process to get to that predetermined plan. You know what our role is? We follow Christ. We just simply, one step at a time, the best we know how, follow Christ. Follow his word, follow his heart, do what God wants us to do. Then we see in this text a uh a turning here to Peter. There is this specific directed conversation that Jesus has with this man, Peter. Verse 11 starts this conversation. Well, actually verse 12 starts this conversation. Jesus saith unto them, Come and dine And none of the disciples durst ask him, Who art thou, knowing that it was the Lord. I I should mention this as well. There's so many principles here. This is not listed. Isn't it interesting though that they had already appear uh that Christ had already appeared to them, but they still had doubts. They're still not quite sh that it's they're I mean they're not they know who it is, but they're like This is so I I would just imagine that they're looking at this and going, this is just so unusual to have somebody rise from the grave. They're still processing this, and they're still having some semblance of doubt here. Isn't it wonderful that God works with us, even though sometimes we have doubts? Aren't you glad about that? God doesn't stop providing for you and providing for me just because we sometimes are doubting the process or sometimes we're doubting, Lord, are you really there? Are you really doing something? God doesn't do that. And we find that in this passage, he is continuing to provide even despite the disciples' doubts. Verse 13 Then says, Then Jesus cometh and taketh bread and giveth to them and fish likewise, and this is now the third time that Jesus showed himself to his disciples after that he was risen. So it this is the third time this has happened. Verse 15. So when they had dined, Jesus saith to Simon Peter, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me more than these. He saith unto him, Yea, Lord, thou knowest that I love thee. He saith unto him, Feed my lambs. He saith unto him, Again the second time, Simon, son of Joseph, lovest thou me? He saith unto him, Yea, Lord, thou knowest that that I love thee. He saith unto him, Feed my sheep. He saith unto him the third time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me. Peter was grieved because he said unto him, the third time, lovest thou me And he said unto him, Lord, thou knowest all things. Thou knowest that I love thee, Jesus saith unto him, Feed my sheep. Now, this is a passage that is chalked full of meaning. But I'll be honest with you. It has not it has not been often understood correctly. We're going to skip to point three here. And we're going to look at this, and I want you to notice something about this passage as we go into it. First of all, he asks the question In view of his disciples. Verse 15 says, So when they had dined, they're all together. Christ is asking these questions with the disciples present for a reason. And then he says to them, Lovest thou me more than these. Now there are different, some people suggest that maybe different views on who more than these are. Um some people say it's the fish. Now that's possible. Maybe he really loves fishing and got and Peter and Jesus is asking that, do you well are you willing to give that up for me? More than likely, he is actually talking about the disciples here in this passage. Do you love me more than these other disciples? Now, this is obviously, with these three questions of the same, I mean same question three times, this is obviously a reference back to the three times that Peter denied Christ. Christ is reminding Peter of his denial, of his failure, but he's doing so uh uh by giving Peter the opportunity to confess his love to him. Now what I need to do here And I have a feeling we're going to have to stop in the middle of this. So you'll have to come back next week. But we're going to start this way. There is so much misunderstanding about this passage, I want to begin this way by pointing out something here. You have Two different words in this passage for the word love. You have the word agape and the word phileo Now, there I have been, I have heard several messages on this passage, and the entire premise of the passage is pointed to the difference between Phileo and Agape in this passage. How many of you have ever heard a message by that? Okay, many, many of you. I have heard I can literally remember hearing a message by Tony Evans on this. I can remember uh reading John MacArthur's commentary on this. And I'm here to tell you I really believe they did it wrong. Oh no. You you you you're going against John MacArthur? What what in the world? How could that be ha happening? Um let me let me explain it this way. I don't think that there's any significant difference between the word Phileo and the word agape in this passage or really anywhere in the New Testament. You say, wow, I've always been taught there's a difference. How many of you have been taught there's a difference? There's a big difference between Fleo and Gape. Okay. Well I'm gonna prove it to you. Okay, I'm not d don't d don't just take my word for it, I'm gonna prove it to you Would you take your Bibles and turn to John chapter 11 and we're going to look at verse 5 for a moment? We're going to get into the details a little bit here. We won't linger on this too long, but I just want you to see this. John chapter 11, verse 5. Now this is John and his use of this word. In John chapter 11, verse 5, it says, Now Jesus loved Martha. And that word in the Greek is the word agape-o. Okay, that's the word agape. Would you look at 1136? Then said the Jews, Behold how he, do you see the word there? Loved. The object is the same. This is the word phileo. In this passage, it is being used absolutely interchangeably. The same thing occurs in uh in in other places actually. In in um, for instance, in chapter 3, verse 35, it says, the father loves Agape, the son. And then in verse Verse uh chapter 5, verse 20, it says the father loves Phileo the Son. So John is using these two Greek words interchangeably. There is no difference between how he's using these words. But if that's not enough for you, we actually find in the Greek translation of the Old Testament in the book of the Old Testament, which is called the Septuagint. That they use these words interchangeably. We won't take the time to look at those, but you can look at it later in Genesis 37, verse 3, and in verse 4. Two different words used interchangeably. You have the same thing in 2 Samuel chapter 13 with actually what they the quote-unquote love of Tamar. You have you have these words used interchangeably. Some people suggest that that that this is love for Agape is love for God, and Phil'o is love for man, or agape is God kind of love, and phileo is man kind of love. You do not find that if you look in the New Testament as uh and and you look even in the Old Testament in there in the Greek translation. And if that's not enough for you, 2 Timothy 4, verse 10 says, And Demas hath forsaken me, having loved this present world. What word do you suppose that is? It's not Phileo. It's agape. And again, in 1 John, we find it says, God so love or it says love not the world. The things are in the world. What word do you think that is? It's not philetho, it's agape. My point simply is that these words are interchangeable. In fact, it seems to be very clear From extra-biblical writings, and it it seems to be very clear all the way from 4th century B. C. that agape became used as an interchangeable synonym with phileo. And if that's not enough, we have guys like the likes of F. F. Bruce, who commenting on two Greek scholars between Trench and Westcott. who both ha couldn't decide on the difference they both say they're different but then don't know what the difference is or they they don't agree on what the difference is between the two. F F Bruce says when two such distinguished scholars scholars see the significance of the synonym so differently, we may wonder if indeed we are intended to see such distinct significance. So John MacArthur and Tony Evans or might be wrong about this. That's okay, right? Because they're not, you know, infallible And the truth of the matter is, I don't think there is any significant difference between these words and this passage. You know why John uses these words? It's entirely stylistic. Don't you ever u if you're writing if you're writing a paper or something or you're writing something, you say when I ever do that? If you're writing an email, everybody does that, right? If you're texting You might use the same word differently. You might use a different word the same way just because it's variety And sometimes that's what, and we've actually seen that in other places where John does that. Now, I say all of this for this point. I think we get caught up in those weeds and we don't see the real point of the passage. The real point here is that John, that Jesus is giving John the ability to replace his denials with confessions. That's the point. Jesus says, do you love me three times? He replies, Yes, I love you three times. Christ is desiring to reinstate Peter to give him the full ability and confidence with which he is going to be able to follow after Christ. That's the point of the passage. And we see great, great things about this passage. Isn't it wonderful to know that even if you fail, God, Christ desires to restore you. Even if you deny him, quote unquote, three times. And frankly, every time we sin, there's a sense in which we are denying Christ. That God desire, Christ desires and can, because of his grace, restore you. There are actually a lot of important principles in this passage. And we see here in this passage a couple of things, but I want you to notice, and we're going to cover more of this next week, but I want you to notice this particular principle. Jesus asks Peter three times, do you love me? Do you love me? And on the third time, he says, Do you love me? And Peter by then is grieved. He is probably grieved because by that third time he is clearly reminded of his failure in the past. There is no question in his mind, very likely, of how he has failed Christ. And he is grieved. But you'll notice in this passage that Peter has a different, he has a different response. Do you see any pride here in this passage? There is no pride in Peter's heart. When Christ asks him, do you love me? He says, Lord, I love you. I do love you. He again says, Peter, do you love me? And he says, feed my sheep. And we're going to go through that more detail next next time. He says, Yeah, I do love you. Then I want you to notice what he does. What does he appeal to? Well, before we look at that, let's ask the question: what did Peter appeal to before? When Christ said, I'm going to my death, And you all aren't coming with me, Peter said to Christ, No, I am coming with you. I will go to the death for you. What did he what was he he was actually contradicting Christ? He did that a couple of times in Christ's earthly ministry. What was Peter saying? What was he implying when he did that? He was applying, Peter was applying, I know myself. I know myself better than you, and you're wrong. I am going to do it. I'm going to get it done. I would never deny you. You don't see that in this passage, do you? Do you know what Peter appeals to this time? He doesn't appeal to his own knowledge of himself. Peter appeals to Christ's knowledge of him. He says, Lord, you know I love you. You know all things. You know I love you. I love you. I love you based upon your knowledge of me. There is this humble, open transparency, and admission that, Lord, you know me, not I love you, not based upon my own mustering it up or because I know better, but Lord, you already know. You know I love you. And you know, that is so important in the Christian life for us to have that kind of transparency and openness and honesty with our Lord. I was um a couple of weeks ago was talking with someone who is the owner of a small business and uh was really stressed out about about the business that they were in and about um making meeting up with having their income meet their expenses. They were just really s stressed out about this. And I asked them the question, I said I said, can I ask you a question, kind of a personal question maybe? I I said, have you like taken a spreadsheet and put all of your income on one side and all of your expenses on the other and and you know, see if they balance. And the person said to me, Oh man, I would never want to do that. Well, I mean that would be a really good idea. I mean y to to to be able to see it all on paper and know you've got what you need, that would bring confidence. There would be a low sort of a level of transparency there that you're not kind of waiting in fear to know whether you can do what you want you know that there is there's a lack of transparency there You know we do the same thing with God. It's like we don't want to, we don't, you know, we don't want to lay bare our souls to God. We want to We want to deceive ourselves and we somehow think that if we're deceiving ourselves, we can deceive God. It's like instead of just saying, Lord, you already know. And you know what we need to do is we need to be stop thinking we know ourselves. Stop thinking we oh I got it figured out, or I know what I know, or I know myself. You don't know yourself. The quicker we realize that God knows you and knows me far better than we know ourselves, if we'll just believe that He knows us better than we know ourselves. We can begin to have this openness and transparency with God. That's why it says in 1 John It says, if our heart condemns us, God is greater than our hearts and knows all things. John's desire for the people that are reading in 1 John 3, verse 19, is that where there would be an assurance in their hearts. Verse 19 says, And hereby we know that we are of the truth and shall assure our hearts before him For if our hearts condemn us, God is greater than our heart and knoweth all things. Beloved, if our heart condemn us not, then we have confidence toward God. The reason, folks, that we often don't have confidence before God is it's like we're trying to hide our we know mentally we can't hide anything from God. But somehow we're gonna hide it anyway, and we're gonna somehow just not lay open lay it bare in front of God Frankly, sometimes folks, that's what we need to do. We need to be open and transparent with our God about what we feel and how we think and what we He already knows anyway And when we begin to say, Lord, I love you, not based upon what I think, but Lord, you you know I love you. There's this transparency we need to have And I will just say this often the difference between defeat and victory has to do with how open you are willing to be with your God. Peter, after this point, we don't see him failing too often anymore. He gets the Spirit of God and he goes and does great things for God. Now he has a doctrinal problem that Peter deals with in Galatians. But other than that We don't see a lot of failures in Peter's life anymore after this. You know why we don't see a lot of failures in Peter's life anymore? Because he there's this Jesus, by his questions and his example, teaches him how to be open with his God here and to confess the same thing that Christ confess wants him to confess here. There is this, there is this Replacement principle that you find here. That Christ says he's basically giving Peter the opportunity to confess what he previously denied. I know you and I love you. And there are some times in our lives that what we really need to do is we need to look square in the face with our failures. We need to look at them. We need to lay them open. Satan would love for us to keep them in the light. We need to lay them open before God. And we need to say, Lord, I was wrong, and I am, but I'm going to do the reverse. I'm going to do the reverse, not by my own strength. But because I love you, because I know you love me. That is one of the things we see clearly in this passage. There is actually a quite a few more things that we won't be able to cover here, but let's just conclude this way. Number one, we must carefully and wisely follow Christ in a way that is consistent with God's provision. We need to really think about how God's provided. And follow him in a way that's consistent with his provision. Number two, well we uh let's skip number two if we can. That'd be hard. Just go to number three. Number two we'll come back to next next time. We must live in openness before Christ and choose to replace denials with humble confession and loving acts of service. Do you know what Jesus didn't do in this passage? Jesus didn't say, all right, Peter, let's focus on what you did wrong. Let's focus on your denials. Now, it's not he's not at all Peter Peter knew he did wrong. I think that this conversation would have gone differently, frankly, if Peter didn't already know what he was doing wrong. If he wasn't admitting wrong. I I don't think there's any problem. There's a humility here that clearly demonstrates that Peter knew he was he did wrong when he when he and he actually he he did demonstrate that the af right after he he denied Christ a third time. Folks, what you have here is is Christ is is giving this opportunity. To replace this behavior with positive, loving acts of humble confession and service toward God. And we need to do the same. We need to be willing to say, okay, I was wrong there, I'm going to reverse doing wrong, and I'm going to do right And we need to be purposeful in replacing those kinds of things in our lives. And you know what? God has the ability to be able to restore us. to service to Him. And we're and I can't tell you, I aren't you just grateful for that? We are all men most miserable without the grace of God in our lives in this way. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and thank you for who you are. We praise you because you are a God. Who provides for us, who desires to restore us, who loves us, and who wants us to live in humble service toward you And as we explore this chapter, I pray, Lord, that you would teach us how to do that. With clarity and with that we would realize the victory that we have in Christ. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.