All right, take your Bibles and turn to um turn to the book of Matthew if you would, Matthew eighteen. As I mentioned in my prayer, um I I'm I I need I'm probably going to start Proverbs next week, I think. But the Lord just led me to this passage of Scripture in Matthew 18. We're going to be looking particularly at verses 21 through 35 of this passage. As I mentioned in my prayer, there are three different pastors that I know of different areas, totally different locations. um that are just struggling or have because they have been they have been hurt by various people in that what in the ministries they're out of those ministries now It happens far too frequently. And um and I can think of many other situations in our lives Where we have to learn how to respond to conflict in the right way. The truth of the matter is we will Someone will wrong us in our lifetime. In fact, more than once, many times. Gary Ingring said this. He said Whenever two fallen people come in close contact for an extended time, they will have complaints against one another, some trivial and others significant. Whether we are talking about families, friendships, or churches, the fact is that sinners comprise these relationships. And you, I'm sure, can look back on your life and note many times that someone has wronged you. Someone has trespassed against you. They've done you wrong. And all of us can do that, but I think probably what may be harder for us to remember, but we need to remember, is that sometimes we have wronged others as well. I think part of the forgiveness process is actually realizing that we even sometimes accidentally or sometimes inadvertently can hurt others. Usually wronging others is not something you do accidentally, but certainly hurting others you can. And to realize that we are all so fallen, and that we are all in all of our various relationships are are going to we're going to have conflicts in life, we're going to have difficulties, and we've got to remember some very important things that I want to bring to your attention. this evening. Hebrews 12, 14, and 15 say this: follow peace with all men and holiness without which no man shall see the Lord Looking diligently lest you fail of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness spring up trouble you, and thereby many be defiled. There are some sins that were external outward sins that everybody would identify as sin. If you lie to somebody, it is you know that you've lied. You can identify that pretty easily. If you've stolen from somebody or if you've spoken in anger to somebody, those are things that you can that we do that we know we've done. And they're clearly we've committed them and they're wrong, and so we know we've done them. But um there there is a more insidious and dangerous kind of sin That can go unnoticed in our lives for extended periods of time, and that is the sin of bitterness. The sin of an unforgiving spirit. It can get deep into our hearts. We can push it away. We can compartmentalize. We can not deal with it. And if we're not careful, we can end up having what Scripture calls in this passage a root of bitterness in our lives. And the Bible says that if we allow that to continue to fester in our hearts, it will spring up and defile many This passage in Matthew 18 is going to address the issue of forgiveness. We've got to understand and really just be reminded of the importance It is absolutely necessary For us to learn to forgive. It is one of the most divine acts that human beings can do is to forgive others that have wronged us. And We need to, let's begin this way. Let's discuss first of all what forgiveness is not, and then what forgiveness is. We'll pick up in verse 21. If you'll notice in Matthew 18, it says Then Peter came to him and said, Lord, how often shall my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? Up to seven times? Jesus said to him, I do not say to you, up to seven times, but up to seventy times seven. Therefore the kingdom of heaven is like a certain king So Peter asks this question about forgiveness and how often he should forgive the uh uh someone who is who has trespassed against him. It's interesting that the previous passage is a fairly notable passage on church discipline starting in verse 15. It talks about what you are to do if somebody trespasses against you. That you're to go to that them alone, if that doesn't work, you bring a witness and then you take it to the church if that's not resolved that way The whole purpose of that is to restore a brother to Christ, or brothers and sisters to Christ, uh to restore brothers and sisters together again. That's obvious by the response that Peter gives. Peter says, well, how often am I going to have to do that? How often am I going to have to forgive? somebody that's wronged me. I mean, am I going to have to keep going to them? And they're going to have to keep we're going to have to keep restoring? How often is this going to happen? Well how often do you suppose it's going to happen? A lot. And how often does Christ say you need to forgive? As much as needed. And so we need to really understand this. Forgiveness is clearly commanded in the New Testament. It's not an option for a Christian. It's not something that we can decide to do and decide not to do. It's something that we have to choose to do No matter who has wronged us and how they have wronged us, we have to choose to learn to forgive. That is absolutely necessary. But we do need to understand what forgiveness is not. Number one, forgiveness is not a therapeutic method to feel better. Now here's what I mean by that. There was a um it was reported in the bomb uh after the bombing in Oklahoma City where there were 168 people killed. Uh back remember with Timmy Timothy McVeigh. Um there were six hundred injured and of course we've had another uh recent massacre as well uh in Las Vegas. But during that time back then, a pastor of a mainline denominational church in New England said, I have forgiven Timothy McVeigh, and I invite you to do the same. Now folks, that's not forgiveness. Why is that not forgiveness? Because that pastor was not wronged by Timothy McVic Vay. There were others that were, but it wasn't, that pastor was not. He was not that he didn't do any Timothy McVeigh didn't do anything against him. And so to say that I forgive him when he actually didn't sin against him is is sort of just It's sort of uh sort of just uh it's therapeutic method of we all just need to feel better kind of a thing. That's not really true forgiveness. Number two, forgiveness is not necessarily cognitively forgetting. It doesn't mean that you forget what happens, that you suddenly have you know, amnesia about something. It's not necessarily forgetting. It is not necessarily as well a restoration of trust completely. There is a difference between forgiveness and trust. Here's what I always say with this. The Bible doesn't tell us to trust people, it does command us to forgive people. But if you say, I'll never trust that person again, then you really haven't forgiven them. Forgiveness is is the basis of trust. It establishes the foundation of potential trust. Trust is earned. But forgiveness establishes that basis where with over time trust can be earned. If you never forgive somebody, you'll never be able to trust them again. If you do forgive, it doesn't mean you're trusting them immediately, but at least you have the basis to trust them again. I hope that makes sense. Someone should not feel guilty if they don't trust somebody. They should feel guilty if they don't forgive somebody. Does that make sense? That's wronged them. And we need to understand the difference between those two things Forgiveness means, its very basic definition is to leave behind or to let go of. It's the Greek word affi. For example, it's used in Matthew 4. 20. It says the disciples left their nets. That's a concrete illustration of this word, they left their nets and followed Christ. When they left their nets, that's what this word is. It's to leave. It's to leave it alone. It's to to to to to leave and go the other way. So it's a let go of or leave. It's used in the classical Greek as an illustration of a snake who sheds his skin. Right? That's a good good picture, right? A snake occasionally will shed his skin, I guess what, in the summertime or something? I don't know how that works. I can't remember how that works. But anyway He leaves it behind. Does that snake ever go back into that skin again and get all cozy up in that old skin? That never does that. He's already grown a new skin by the time he gets that. So he leaves the old skin behind. That's this word. The word is to forgive or to let go to not uh practically it means I'm not going to hold it hold something against someone anymore. Peter's question is telling. What is interesting about Peter's question is that this is in the context of a group of a discussion about weaker brethren. For example, in Matthew chapter 18, verse 6, it says But whoso shall offend one of these little ones which believe in me, it were better for him to that a millstone were hanged about his neck, and that he were drowned in the depth of the sea Again, in verse 10 it says, Take heed that ye despise not one of these little ones. For I say unto you that in heaven there are angels who always behold the face of my Father which is in heaven. This is a passage talking about how to be careful not to not to cause someone to stumble who is who is a young believer, an immature believer. And Peter is asking this question. How often would I need to offend, not be offended? He's almost, it's sort of strange, he's almost admitting he's not mature here. When you really think about it, because he has not really learned at this point to forgive. And I think we can all agree that Peter is saved at this point. But Peter is not mature. He's going to later on deny Christ three times. Really isn't until the ascension that Peter gets his act together and the Holy Spirit really begins to use him and he grows. And um and and really grows into maturity. Probably as a result of him denying Christ three times, he it really was a maturing time for him in the f in the sense that there was re of course repentance And a restoration from Christ himself, Christ restoring him in John, I think it's chapter 20, where he he that whole scene where do you love me and he there's a real restoration that occurs there and really a maturity that takes place as well. So he says 490 times is how how often, or as you know, as often as is needed What we need to do then is look at this illustration, and we're going to notice a couple of things about it. If you'll pick up in verse 23 then of Matthew 18, it says. Therefore, the king of of heaven is like a certain king who wanted to settle accounts with his servants And when he had begun to settle accounts, one was brought to him who owed him 10,000 talents. Now, 10,000 talents is the equivalent Of somewhere between 12 million and 1 billion dollars. It's an in in an uncountable amount of money. And the servant owes this amount to the king. Let me just draw the parallel. I'll draw it early. That's how much we owe Christ. Our sin causes us to be indebted to Christ in and not just in an extreme amount that we can never ever repay on our own. We never have the ability to repay all of the sin. Our sinful state, our The fact that we are born sinners, all of that can never, we can never repay God by our good actions that can never happen. And it's just like this man who owes a billion dollars. It's just never that's how we have to look at our sin. We'll never be able to repay it We have to allow Christ to take that for us, that sin on his on himself for us, which he has done on the cross, and we have to allow Christ to accept Christ's forgiveness of that sin for us in our place. Because we can't pay it. So the king in this verse, notice what he does. But he was not able, verse 25, but he was not able to pay his master Uh his master commanded that he be sold with his wife and children and all that he had, and that the payment be made. The servant therefore fell down before him, saying, Master, there's there is this remorse and there's this submission to the to God. Master, have patience with me and I will pay you all Then the master of the servant was moved with compassion, released him, and forgave him the debt. Forgave him all the debt. So this guy goes free. He's a servant of the king. He's forgiven the debt, and he goes free. Then verse 28 says, Then a servant went out and found one of the fellow servants who owed him a hundred nari. And he laid hands on him and took him by the throat, saying, Pass pay me what you owe So his fellow servant fell down at his feet and begged him, saying, Have patience with me, I will pay you all. And he would not, but went and threw him into prison till he should pay the debt. Now, so he did not repay the small amount. He did not uh forgive the small amount himself. Now notice what happens, verse 31. So when his fellow servants saw that he had not uh uh what had been done, they were very grieved and came and told their master and all that had been done. Then his master, after he had called him, said to him, You wicked servant, I forgave you all the debt because you begged me. Should you not also have the compassion on your fellow servant, just as I have pity on you? And his master was angry, and delivered him to the torturers until he should pay all that that was due to him. Verse 35 says this. This is now Christ's comment on this whole thing. So my heavenly Father also will do to you, if each of you, he's talking to his disciples here, from his heart does not forgive his brother his trespasses. That is pretty severe, isn't it? Now, the question is, what how does this work in our in in God's economy with us? How is it that if we choose not to forgive, God is withholding forgiveness from us? How does that work? Well, we need to understand, number one, it cannot be talking about a loss of our position in Christ. It can't be talking about that. The New Testament is replete with one example after another after another of the fact that we can't lose our position in Christ. John chapter 10. 1 John chapter 5, Hebrews chapter 15, Romans chapter 8. I mean there's t all all there's tons of places So once somebody comes to Christ, there is no way uh that he is going to be able to continue in Christ. And so that can't be what he's talking about here. We also have to dismiss uh uh he he he doesn't once somebody comes to Christ, he's not going to fall away from Christ. Uh we also have to dismiss the possibility that this person was never saved in the context. This can't be talking about somebody who's never saved. Clearly, he's talking to his disciples. Clearly, the person in the pat in the parable was a servant of the king and was forgiven of all. That can't be what it's talking about either. Here's the question we need to ask ourselves. Is eternal damnation? Is hell the only consequence for sin? And the answer is no. There are other consequences for sin this side of eternity. Have you ever thought about the fact that there are things that happen in life that are direct consequences of sin? And there there are there are many examples. If somebody, for example, gets goes through the very painful, painful um experience of divorce. And it is a very painful thing for anybody to have to go through. There are consequences as a result of that, even in the best situations, even when there is no fault on one side. Which is not usual, but but it could it's possible. Uh there it's there's still a c and and not only do our consequences affect us, Sin affects others around us and can have consequences of others around us, right? So consequences are not just what that's what it's got to be talking about in this passage. It's got to be talking about not eternal consequences, but temporal consequences. Now, would you take your Bibles then and turn to Matthew chapter 6? Matthew chapter 6 is a description of the Lord's example prayer to us. And it is very interesting that in this passage, in Matthew chapter 6, verse 12, verse 1, It says that we need to pray, forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors And then that the prayer goes on, and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil, for thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. And then Just to reiterate this need to forgive, he says in verse 15, for if you forgive, I mean the prayer's over. But he says, For if ye forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will forgive you. But if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses. There's one thing that seems to be clearly obvious. Forgiveness is good, unforgiveness will hinder your prayer life. If we have bitterness in our life, if we have resentment, if we are choosing not to forgive somebody for something, then it will necessarily hinder our prayer life. That is one thing that seems to that just jumps off at this in the repeated uh discussion of forgiveness in the midst of this prayer. That much is true. What then is he talking about here when it comes to treasure trespasses and all of this? Well, he is very likely talking then about the issue of consequences. Consequences for our sin, as I mentioned before. Remember that in that we that in the very in the beginning of the message We looked at Hebrews chapter, I quoted Hebrews chapter 18, where it says, a root of bitterness will spring up and defile many if it's not, if it goes unchecked. Well, in that very same passage, it says this, verse 6: whom the Lord loves he chastens, and scourges everyone whom he receiveth. If ye endure chastening, God dealeth with you as with sons. For what son is he whom the Father chastens not? So what it says here, folks, is that if we have a root of bitterness in our hearts, and we do not forgive, We are going to gain the full measure of God's chastening in our lives, the full measure of the consequences of sin. I don't know about you, but I don't want those. Do you want the full measure of consequences of your sin? I don't want those. Now the full measure obviously is hell. That's we're taught we're exempt from that or eternal separation from God. I'm not talking about that. I'm just talking about in this life. Did you know that God's grace is so sufficient that if we learn to forgive others when we sin Certainly there are still consequences, and sometimes there are inevitable consequences no matter what we do. But I tend to think that there are that those consequences can lessen. If we have a forgiving spirit toward others, if we forgive others uh readily, And so it is extremely important that we learn to forgive. One of the reasons that we have a hard time not forgiving. is when we become overly judgmental toward other people. We can't see past their faults. The Bible has an answer for that in Matthew chapter 7, the next chapter over in Matthew. He says, make sure that you take the beam out of your own eye. You know the passage. Before you try so you can see clearly you take the speck out of your brother's eye. And sometimes the reason that we can't forgive is because we've got this log in our eye. And we can't we're so occupied with that person's sin, the other person's fault, we don't realize we have serious fault ourselves. And when we're in conflict with others, when we are in relational conflict with others, one of the things that we've got to do is we got we've got to understand that there is usually some fault of ours we've got to come to grips with. Now it's not always the case. I have learned that sometimes you can do everything right, and the person still is going to do wrong. And and so sometimes that is the case. But many times but we do need to be very, very sensitive to our own faults, to check ourselves. C. S. Lewis said it this way. May God's grace give you the necessary humility. Try not to think much less speak of their sins. One's own are much more profitable theme. And if on consideration one can find no faults on one's own side, then cry for mercy, for this must be a dangerous delusion. That is quite a statement, is it not? I will tell you that there have been times where I've been in where I've done counseling with people, and one of the sides felt as though they z they had zero fault in the matter. Not usually. Not usually. So we have to be very careful if we're going to say I had no fault in this at all. Maybe it's minor, maybe it's a small percentage, but on some level there's there's probably some fault that we have to be aware of. Number two, we need to realize our own undeservedness and depravity. That is very helpful when it comes to forgiveness. I remember when I was up in Pennsylvania and there were and I had and I would was wronged by some people. There's no question that I was. Um and uh false accusations, those kinds of things. I remember sitting in my car I drove up driven up to my driveway of my house and I sat there and I said, why in the world? Is this happening to me? You ever said something like that? What's going on? Why is this happening? What have I done? What have I done so badly that this is happening to me? You know, certainly I I was I maybe you know I young pastor, I did unwise things. I probably still do it, I'm sure I do unwise things. So so you see you have but like why did I do so badly that this is happening to me And you know what the Holy Spirit not audibly said, but I sensed with my conscience, and my conscience was saying to me. You're a filthy, rotten stinking sinner. You don't deserve anything. You deserve hell. That's what you deserve. So if somebody falsely accuses you Don't feel as though you don't deserve that. I mean, yes, practically you don't, but we deserve, we're we we are totally depraved. We deserve hell. That's what we deserve. It's really easy to forgive when you realize that you have no expectations to be forgiven. If you have no expectations of the other person to do right, Or to treat you a certain way. When you have no expectations about that, then you are able then to come to a realization that you know what? God has forgiven me. That's exactly what the illustration, the point of the illustration God has forgiven me of a billion dollars worth of sin or more, more, actually, immeasurable amount. Certainly I can forgive of whoever has done whatever they have to me. There is no comparison between those two things Certainly the proportion is much greater of how much I have sinned against the Lord. And that's all of us because we are born into sin. Remember Christ's forgiveness to you. That's number three. Remember Christ's forgiveness in your life. Ephesians 4, 32 says, be kind one another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another. How? Even as cr God, for Christ's sake, hath forgiven you. We need to remember God's forgiveness of us, forgiveness of us. To choose not to forgive someone else that has wronged us is to choose is to choose to really not truly consider God's forgiveness of us. And then I would also say this. Sometimes our sense of justice wants to retaliate. Well, that person needs to be brought to justice. Let me just put it this way. If you can't forgive someone, it's very unlikely God is going to use you to bring them to justice. Romans 12. 8 says this, dearly beloved, avenge not yourselves. Don't avenge yourselves. But rather give place unto wrath. For it is written, Vengeance is mine, saith the Lord, I will repay. You do not need to bring to justice someone. It is not your responsibility, not mine. God can do that perfectly well on his own. I'm not saying that God doesn't use us in those tasks to bring people to justice, but if they've wronged us, it might be kind of unlikely that God actually uses us to bring them to justice, particularly if we have not forgiven them. And so we leave it up to the God. Let God do that kind of thing. It really actually boils down to faith, doesn't it? We have to trust God with these things. We have to leave it in God's hands. And know that He will deal with it in His time. So the question really is this, are is there somebody in your life that you're having a hard time forgiving And I would just encourage you to really don't don't let this sin go. Don't let it it this is like the easiest sin for some reason. It's the easiest sin to cover over, to push back, to compartmentalize, to we're we're very good at at not dealing with this thing. And if we do, the Bible has grave consequences for us. We will not have our prayers heard. We will experience the consequences of our own sin. And we will certainly not have the blessing of God, and we will not be living out the kind of forgiveness that God has for us. So I really encourage you to just it it's it's it's you know you've heard all this before. This is not the first time I preached this message. But it's so important for us to remember these things. We forget them. We lose them. These are extremely important for us to remember, and I hope that these things will be a help to all of us to remember. Forgive one another, even as Christ hath forgiven us. Let's pray together. Father, we pray that you would help us to forgive. That we would really be careful. About this matter. And um and that if there is any bitterness in our hearts toward anybody, that we would deal with those with that and that we would make sure that we have forgiven them Maybe it it's going to be a repeated a repeated kind of forgiveness. There's going to have to we're going to have to forgive them every day. Maybe it we that we've been hurt and wronged so often that it's or so so deeply that it's going to be a maintaining of a forgiving forgiving spirit towards someone for quite a while Lord, I pray that you would help us to have that kind of spirit that we are deserving of nothing. You have benevolently given us your grace and your forgiveness. And may we, because of that, be able to forgive others, and we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen