Let's begin our worship service today by singing Jesus the Son of God. Let's stand together as we sing. Jesus is the The Son of God, the Lord of all, the chosen one, the Son of Man, the King of King. Who gave his life for me? This Jesus the great We bow down before Him who is worse. Worthy of worship, worthy of worship and praise. We bow down before and Ador this Jesus, the Son of God. Jesus is the Lamb of God, the righteous one. The sacrifice who bore my sin, the Prince of life who lives and reigns on high This Jesus is coming again. We bow down before him who is worthy of worship. Journey of worship and praise we bow down before and humbly adore. This Jesus, the Son of God. Please remain standing for opening prayer. Okay, let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are indeed worthy of our worship, Lord, and our praise. And Lord, we are a thankful people, Lord. We're thankful for all that you do for us each and every day. We're thankful most of all for the grace. The grace of God, Lord, that That leads us to salvation. We thank you for your Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, and the sacrifice that he paid. And Lord, you are truly our Heavenly Father And on this day, Lord, that we honor Fathers, we especially think of you as you are our great Father. And we Are humbled before the love and just the mercy that you bestow upon your children. And we thank you for that. And we thank you, Lord, for the fact that If we do if people don't know you, Lord, that you are there and you have open arms, Lord, that if they believe on you, Lord, then you can be their Heavenly Father as well. And we thank you for that. And Lord, we pray for those who aren't here today because of illness. We uh especially think of uh Caitlin and Jim Sr. , Lord, and just ask that you would help them to feel better soon. Bring them back to us. And Lord, any others who are traveling or who may be ill as well, Lord, that you would just be with them, give them traveling mercies. And Lord, we just would pray that everything we do here would bring glory and honor to you. And we again thank you for who you are in Jesus' precious name. Amen. Okay, may be seated. We're in John chapter 9. We're going to be reading verses 1 through 12 and 30 through 41. John chapter 9. And as Jesus passed by, he saw a man which was blind from his birth. And his disciples asked him, saying, Master, who did sin, this man or his parents? that he was born blind. Jesus answered, Neither hath this man sinned, nor his parents, but that the works of God should be made manifest in him. I must work the works of him that sent me, while it is day. The night cometh when no man can work. As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world When he had thus spoken, he sat on the ground and made clay of the spittle, and he anointed the eyes of the blind man with the clay. And said unto him, Go wash in the pool of Siloam, which by interpretation sent. He went his way, therefore, and washed, and came seeing the neighbors therefore, and they which before had seen him that he was blind, said, Is not this he that sat and begged? Some said, This is he, others said, He is like him. But he said, I am he. Therefore said they unto him How were thine eyes opened? He answered and said, A man that is called Jesus made clay and anointed mine eyes, and said unto me, Go to the pool of Siloam and wash. And I went and washed, and I recited sight Then said they unto him, Where is he? He said, I know not. Verse 30 The man answered and said unto them, Why herein is a marvelous thing that they know not from whence he is, and yet he hath opened mine eyes. Now we know that God heareth not sinners, but if any man be worshipper of God and doeth his will, him he heareth Since the world began, was it not heard that any man opened the eyes of one man born blind? If this man were not of God, he could not do this, could do nothing. They answered and said unto him, Thou wast altogether born in sins, and dost thou teach us? And they cast him out Jesus heard that they had cast him out, and when he had found him, he said unto him, Dost thou believe on the Son of God? He answered and said, Who is he, Lord, that I might believe on him? And Jesus said unto him, Thou hast both seen him, and it is he that talketh with thee. And he said, Lord, I believe, and he worshipped him. And Jesus said, For judgment I am come into this world. That they which see not might see, and they which see might be made blind. And some of the Pharisees which were with him heard these words and said unto him, Are we blind also? And Jesus said unto them, If ye were blind, ye should have no sin, but now ye say, We see, therefore, your sin remaineth. And our song of the month, Grace You may look at all of these phrases and terms and think, wow, we serve a great God. And that's true. But as we go through this song and as we continue to learn it together, I'd encourage you to ask the question, as we go through why. And what I mean by that is, well, when you go through the these verses and what they mean, your will cannot lead me where your grace will not keep me. Your hand will protect me. Why is that? Well, it's because of his grace. I rest in your care. Why can we rest in his care? It's because of his grace. Your hand um your eyes will watch over me. Why? Well, it's because of his grace. Your love will forgive me. It's because of his grace. And so forth and so on as you go through this song. The answer continually over and over again is because of his grace, and it is appropriately titled Grace. Let's stand together As we continue to learn this together. Lord, as I seek your guidance for the day, I find my thoughts unyielding confusion crowds my. But then when I bow to you, the challenges you guide me through, your promises are ever new. I claim them for today. Your will cannot lead me where your grace will not keep me, your hand will protect me, I rest in. In your care, your eyes will watch over me, your love will forgive me, and when I am watery, I still will fall. Today's design is started by your hand and graciously revealed as I I seek your master clear. Keep my business faithful when from you I go return me to the joy that your Blessings can be stored. Your will cannot leave me. Where your great will not leave me, your hand will protest. I rest in your care, your eyes will watch over me, your love will forgive me, and when I am You may be seated. I will sing number 130, Amazing Grace Amazing great sound sweethaw sound. That seems already like me. I was just was but not. Was why was all I see was great that hold my heart to fear And grace might is remade how precious in that grace of year the high I personally through many dangers, foils, and snares. I've already called his braces brought me saved thought for and grace. The Lord has promised good to me his word mine. And corson me as one as well. When we bend ten thousand years bright shining. Thus all we ignore's praise than when we come. Well good morning. I do want to wish uh happy Father's Day to all of you fathers out there. Uh fathering is not an easy job, it is difficult, um, but it's certainly very rewarding as well, and um so Uh today's probably a good day to sort of honor fathers. Uh uh wives I'm sure you have things planned. You'll cook dinner for 'em, right? You do that anyway, right? So anyway. Um but uh encourage uh definitely wanna uh just uh it isn't it's it you know, I I know the the card the greeting card companies came up with this, but It's it's a nice thing anyway to to honor fathers. Um my dad is sick today, as well as my uh is Caitlyn, and we have actually several other people in the church that are sick So just be in prayer for those who are Cheryl, I think, or Bailey is, I think, and others. So just be in prayer for those who are sick and those who are traveling because of the because of Father's Day as well. And um I do want to mention as well we're having Vacation Bible School coming up very soon, not this week, but the following week. We do have some needs in that department with um uh the snacks and there's a sign up shit uh sign up uh sheet there in the uh in the um narthex so I I would just encourage you to sign up uh for that. And um as well as um Just check out your bulletin for other other things as well. If you're a guest here with us, we're just really thankful to have you. We hope that you feel very welcomed. And if you would fill out a visitors card for us. It should be one in the back of the chair in front of you or in a in the guest package you came in. Just fill that out, drop that in the offering plate. That can be your offering to us. And uh we can get a record out record of your visit out out to you, uh and a letter out to you. All right, let's go ahead and have the gentleman come forward for the offering. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and thank you just for the privilege of coming to your house to worship you and And I pray today, Lord, as we do that, that we would do it with hearts that are pure before you. Lord, we pray that you would Help us to see that Christ is the light. And we live in a very dark world. And although we, if we know Christ as our Savior, have seen the light, We admit before you that sometimes we will follow darkness. And I pray, Lord, today, that you would help us to see the process. that takes place when Christ begins to work in a person and show them the light of the gospel And who Christ really is. And if there is somebody here today that doesn't know you as their Lord and Savior, I pray today that they would understand their own sin. And that their sin keeps them, all of us, in darkness, but Christ is the light. And He illuminates our thinking and causes us to see that That Christ is the one who died to pay the punishment for our sins, so that we could have our sins forgiven. We could have a right relationship with God, with you, Lord. And I I pray, Lord, that if there is anybody here today that doesn't know you, that today would be a day where they would come to know you. Lord, we just thank you for the privilege of coming together, and we pray, Lord, that you would really be pleased with our worship this morning. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Yeah. For our final song before the message, we'll sing number 139, leaning on the everlasting arms. Let's stand together as we sing, and children at this time can be dismissed to junior church. What a fellowship, what a joy divine, being on the everlasting arms, what a blessedness, what a peace of mind. Leaning on the everlasting arms, leaving leaving, safe and secure from all arms. Oh my sweet remote in this pilgrim wave leaving on the everlasting Oh how bright the path grows from day to day, leading on the everlasting on the day. We secure from all me on the ever birthday. I have blessed me through my words of here, be on the everlasting. Safe and secure for all hearts and we You may be seeing it. Take your Bibles please and turn to John chapter nine this morning. John chapter nine. I'm sure all of us many, many times um go throughout our life and Go into dark rooms and turn lights on. This is something that happens on a normal occurrence throughout each day and uh something that we're we're very much accustomed to I don't know if you've ever been out in the in the wilderness where uh the only light that you have is the stars, particularly if there is no moon out and it and how dark it can be. Or in the woods where even stars are blocked by tree cover. I remember one time when I was um there's a Place between Elkridge and Catonsville, uh race road back in there. Uh you go through the the the state park uh uh the Uh taps go and and if you go at night time, uh it's that way. It's completely covered by trees. And one time, I don't know why I did this, but I stopped my car. And uh and I turned off all my lights and I just wanted to feel how dark what like how what it would feel like to be in complete darkness. Because the tree cover there was no outer lights, there's nothing, so it was total pitch black. That would be terrible if the car didn't start after after that, but but anyway, and um I just just to to know what it would be like to be in utter darkness. Well, we've seen from the book of John that clearly the world is that way. They are in in utter darkness. And we have seen from John chapter 8 and now in John chapter 9 that Christ is clearly the light. So when Christ is the light and it shines in the darkness, There are two possibilities. And in John chapter 8 and chapter 9, what John is going to do is he is by way of of two groups of people, the f the Pharisees, the r religious leaders of the day, and this man who was blind, he is going to contrast the the ide of what the the two possibilities of what happens when light shines Now, we all know the normal possibility when light shines is that you are no longer in darkness. And that for us would be normal. But there is another possibility when light shines. When light shines, if someone focuses on the light rather than the effects of the light. It also could produce further blindness, particularly if you were to look directly into the sun for a lengthy period of time. You could it actually could produce some semblance of blindness in you. And what we're going to find is that's the case in the book of John in this chapter that there are actually two possibilities When light shines, when the light of Christ shines, there are some that will receive the light and they will and they will be enlightened. And there are others that will receive the light, that will that the light will shine, and they will become more, it's almost though as though of course they're already in utter darkness, but they will be in complete darkness. And so what we want to do today, and you've noticed that uh in the scripture reading that we're sort of skipping around a little bit, but what we're going to do is we're going to highlight today What happens when the light shines and someone received the light? Next week we'll look at from John chapter 9 and actually the end of John chapter 8, because we've we've skipped a few verses purposefully. We'll look at what happens when light shines and it doesn't turn to light. The people are not enlightened, and in fact they are hardened to the light. And so we're going to contrast the two. Today is the more encouraging of the two messages. Today is the day where we're going to be able to look at someone who truly comes to the light of Christ. And John is going to use a miracle of Christ to describe in practical terms what it's like for someone to spiritually come to light. Now I want to say this just by way of introduction. We always, whenever possible, we want to look at Scripture in a literal manner. We want to take what the Bible says and just take it for what it says. rather than taking it in sort of this m metaphorical manner where it could mean just about anything you want it to mean. And we want to be careful about doing that with Scripture. But we can go too far If we don't see where clearly there are scriptural indications that something, that a narrative passage, for example, is symbolic. Sometimes when God Christ heals, he's just healing to demonstrate his power. But when John cites these specific miracles, For the sake of showing something specific about Christ, we need to understand what He's doing, what He's doing here. And so with that in mind, I'd like us to actually go to the Lord in prayer. And ask his blessing on our time. And then after we do that, I'm going to take you through and I want to show you the significance of what is going on in this passage when this blind man comes to the light. And we'll see that in a few moments. Let's pray first and ask the Lord's blessing our time. Father, as we look at your word this morning, I pray that you would use it. Help it to encourage us. Help us to realize that Christ, even in a dark world, is still shining his light. And we're thankful for that, Lord. And help us to be be move to gratefulness because you have shown us Christ's light. We have received the light if we know Christ as our person as our as our Lord and Savior. And we're thankful for that. And Father, I pray today as we see this process of someone who is coming to the light, I pray, Lord, that you would teach us. I pray that we would understand from our own perspective how it is that we come to the light, even as Christians, the Bible tells us that we need to walk in the light. as you are in the light, so that we can have fellowship one with another. And I I pray also that you would help us to see this for discipleship purposes. That we would, as we bring people to Christ that we would see your working in their lives and identify the processes taking place as they come to the light. And I pray, Lord, that all of this would honor you. And I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Would you take your Bibles, keep your finger in John chapter 9? What I'd like you to do is take your Bibles and turn to the very first chapter in chapter one. And I want to recover a couple of things in this particular chapter because in the very first few verses, which really is the prologue for the entire book of John. We're going to see this concept of light and Christ being the incarnate Son of God being the light. You'll see this picking up in verse 7. of chapter 1 of John. It says the same came for a a witness to bear witness of the what? The light. Of course, there it's capitalized, it's Christ is the light there. That all men through him might believe. He was not that light, talking about John the Baptist, but was sent to bear witness of that light. Christ is that light. That was the true light which lighteth every man that cometh into the world. In other words, the world, the light is there, Christ is the light, and it is come it is there in order to lighten every man. It's there to The offer is there for every man. But notice what happens. He was in the world, and the world was made by him, and the world did what? Knew him not. Here Christ comes into the world to shed his light, and the light is there for every man, to offer it to every man. And yet the world doesn't know what it's looking at. It doesn't recognize the light. And we find uh we found over and over in the book of John passages on life and on Christ's explanation of why someone is not receiving him. They're not recognizing him. They're not knowing him. We see here, verse 11, not only the world didn't know him, but his own, speaking of the Jewish nation. His own family didn't know him. He came into his own, and his own what? Received not. And so we have this concept of receiving the light, and the world, and the majority of those who knew him well, even did not receive him. Verse 12 says this though, but as many as received him, to them gave he the power to become the sons of God. Even to them that believe on his name. So we have here the reality that there will be some who do receive the light. Now, this is all John's introduction and setting up the book to understand the entire book of John. But something else that's very significant in the book of John is that John uses some miracles to describe and to illustrate the points he wants to make in his book. Of course it's God's book God, through the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, caused John to write this. But I want you to see this if you'll just flip over a few chapters over to chapter 5 for a moment with me. I want you to see in verse 36 that the word here for works is is a word that could be translated signs He's talking here about the miracles that authenticate Christ and who he is. And we see here in verse 36, chapter 5, it says this. But I have greater a greater witness than John for the works which the Father has given me to finish. The same works that I do bear witness of me that the Father has sent me. Alright, so that passage tells us that there's a greater witness even than John the Baptist. It's the works that he does. He's talking about those miracles that he does. It demonstrates who he is. Now, if you would take your Bibles and then turn to John chapter 8. And we're going to see something else that we need to see in order to understand John chapter 9. John chapter 8, and would you notice verse 12? It says, then spake Jesus again unto them, saying, What? I am the light of the world. He that followeth me shall not walk in darkness But shall have the light of life. And then with that in mind, with all that in mind, so we have this concept of the light in the first chapter of John. And that some most will not receive it, and some will receive it. Then we have Christ is going to ex uh or God is going to display this, and John's going to use the miracles to explain how this works Then we have in this chapter, Christ has now introduced himself as the light to the world. He says, I am the light, which is actually a statement of his deity. And then what you notice in John chapter 9, picking up here in verse 5, he says This. He says, as long as I am in the world, Christ is speaking here, I am what? I am the light of the world. Now that connects chapters eight and chapters nine. Christ is continuing this concept of Christ being the light. Chapter 8 is describing him as the light. What should we do? We should follow him in the light. What happens when you don't follow into light? We have some of that in chapter 8. And in chapter 9, we're going to have the same thing. Who is this, what happens when light shines? You'll notice then very specifically about this particular passage. Look at what it says in verse 4. I must do what? I must work the works. Have we seen that before? John chapter 5, 38 says that the works testify of me. Now he says John chapter 9 verse 4 I must do the works while it is day. The night cometh when no man does it. He says, As long as I'm in the world, I am the light. And then he says this, when he had spoken, it connects this. When he had spoken this He spat on the ground and he's going to perform his miracle. The point I'm making here, folks, is that this is clearly a true story where Christ does heal the blind man. But in doing so, it is more than just demonstrating a general miracle where he is performing it and showing that he is God. That's true. But more than that, it's specifically demonstrating how Christ is the light, and it's specifically demonstrating how someone, the process by which someone receives it. Now, just to confirm that, would you take your Bible and turn to John chapter 9 and look at the last verse here in John chapter 9? Actually look at verse verse 40 and 41. Verse 40 says, And some of the Pharisees which were with him heard these words and said to him, Are we blind also? Now, are the Pharisees speaking there? We're going to learn all about this in the next couple of weeks. This week and next week. But are the Pharisees speaking of physical blindness there? When he asked, when they asked Christ, are we blind also? He's not, is he? Yet there's going to be this interaction with the blind man, okay, or the one man who was formerly blind. And he asked now, Jesus, are we blind also? He's talking, of course, here about spiritual blindness. We see that clearly in the passage in verse 30 40 by their question. And we see the same thing in verse 41 when Jesus answers the question. Jesus said unto them, If ye were blind, ye should have no sin Clearly we're talking about spiritual blindness, but now we ye say, we see therefore your sin remaineth. We're clearly talking here about the Pharisees being in spiritual blindness. So, folks, as we go through this passage, what we're dealing with is a man who is in total blindness and he's coming to the light, and this is This is to illustrate the process by which someone comes to Christ. Now you say, why is that important? I know how someone comes to Christ. Do we Would you not agree that there is some mystery about that? I want to pique your interest this way. We like to clearly define the point at which someone passes from death into life. Is there that point? Clearly there is. Clearly there is a point in time when someone passes from death unto life. They come to Christ. They pass from death unto life. And we like to, but in our way of trying to make things clearly defined, sometimes we like to define these things in a sense where we want to pinpoint the actual time and place. And we almost think as though if we can't pinpoint the time and place, well maybe the person hasn't come to the light. Or sometimes we put too much emphasis on that time and place where the person hasn't actually come to the light They actually haven't received Christ. They just had some sort of awakening or something. And clearly, and you know where this kind of manifests itself more is when you're a parent? And you see your kids gradually understanding things, gradually coming to the light, gradually learning more and more. Now I want to be clear. There is no question that there is a time where we pass when somebody comes to know Christ, where they pass from death unto life. But let me suggest to you, and we're going to explain, we're going to see this in the passage, that there is a lot of preparation before that time occurs. There's a lot of things that go on in order for someone to come to the light. In other words, for example, there's one that you'll definitely agree with, conviction of the Spirit of God. Does that not happen before someone comes to light? They've got to be convicted of their sin before they come to the light. And so certainly we know that occurs before they come to the light, before they really receive Christ as their Savior. But there are there other things, and that's one of the things I want to just we're gonna we're gonna look at. How does this man come to the light of Christ? How does he receive it? And I think it will be very helpful for us in two ways. One is it will help us to understand when we come to the light. Now certainly if we know Christ as our Savior, then we are we we have accepted Christ as the light. But the Bible tells us that we walk in dark that we sometimes walk in darkness, and we need to walk in the light, 1 John. Even though we've received the light, it's still possible for us to walk in darkness. 1 John 1. And so Some of this could be helpful for us as Christians just to understand and remember, okay, this is walking in the light versus walking in darkness. And certainly as we also explain to others who who perhaps we work with and we rub shoulders with about Christ. Seeing that process of whether or not they are rejecting the light or they are coming to the light, when at what point do they come to Christ? Have they come to Christ yet and where are they at spiritually? Those kinds of questions are going to be helpful for us and they'll be answered to some extent by illustrating these points. Now I've taken a long time just to Help you understand the significance of this for this reason. We've read this story many times. Many of the stories in the new in the Old Testament and the New Testament we read and we just kind of go through them and yes, we know Christ healed the blind and he made the lame the walk. But but if we don't see the significance of this, we're missing something. And we're really, I think, missing what God has for us. And so It is important for us to go through these very familiar passages and to look at it with a first-time mentality. Like, what is what is God saying here? What does he mean by what he says? So with all of that, let's then get into the passage and we're going to look at this man who has eventually this process of receiving the light. Verse 1, chapter 9. And as Jesus passed by, he saw a man which was blind from his birth. We'll stop there. Here's a man who is blind from his birth. It specifically tells us it is from his birth. Do you know that there are many people that are not born blind, but because of whatever uh macular degeneration or some sort of something, they they bec they lose sight over time Why is it that Christ in this verse would identify specifically? Why would it be re- recorded here that this man was born was born that way? And I think it's for a very specific reason. Because that's how we are born. We are born blind. We are born in darkness. It is not though as though we have some spark of divinity in us. Or we have some light that will somehow receive what light is there. No, no, no. We are born blind. This man was born blind, and we are born spiritually blind. We were born in darkness. And you know, that's important to remember for this reason. Those of us who know Christ have known Christ as our Savior for many years. Can forget of the of the great the awesome work that Christ did in us at ages four, five, six, seven, and and you know, in in those early stages of life, we can sort of take it for granted or forget it. It's important for us to remember that we were all born completely blind. And it it was necessary for the light of Christ to penetrate that darkness, that blindness, that we might be able to give us light. The other thing that we're going to find in this passage, the reason that it says he's born blind is to demonstrate the impossibility of him receiving light. There are certain kinds of things that can be somewhat reversed or maintained when it comes to blindness. But when you were born without the ability to be blind, without the ability to see, there is on a natural physical level no hope. And someone who is born blind has just got to they they they realize that this is not a possibility even that they would then later on receive their sight. In fact You can't find anywhere in the Bible where, in any other occurrence, where someone is healed from blindness when they've been blind from birth. That's how significant this is. It is demonstrating the impossibility of what Christ is going to now make possible. The impossibility and the inability of this man to come to the light. The inability of this man to be able to come to Christ. And yet Christ makes it possible. And it tells us something about our our coming to Christ too, doesn't it? It is impossible for us to come to Christ without Christ. Christ must reveal Himself to us. He must, the light must penetrate our dark hearts. We must see how blind we are. We must see our own spiritual blindness. We must see our sin. Or we cannot come to the light. Verse 2 says, And his disciples asked him, saying, Master Now notice what it says. Who did send this man or his parents that he was born blind? Do you notice the question that they ask? They say, who sinned that this man was born blind? Here's a man that was there and had been there, probably begging, more than likely, for many, many years. He was probably right outside the temple precincts, or at least inside uh very likely right outside the the temple precincts. And it was very common for people to pass by and to see him and to give him uh some of their their wealth in order for him to be able to survive. It was very common. And so as the disciples passed by, they saw this man and they asked, they were curious. They said, Who sinned? His parents or him Now this is because folks in rabbinical writings it had come the and then the the the the thought of the day in that during that time period was that if you were sick it was because of personal sin. It was because of sin, but it was because of personal sin as well. And they would want, or the sins of your parents, and they would make these kinds of assumptions Now, in a sense, it is true, for sure it is true, that all sickness is because of sin Generally speaking, that's true because of the fall. We would not have sickness, we would not have any kinds of diseases or maladies without sin, without the fall. And that's actually very important to remember. I remember when my mom uh uh passed away when she when she uh was in fact uh early when she was going through cancer and suffering through cancer, it was important for me to think theologically about this. that it was it was a result of the fall. It was a result of sin. And then to think that God did allow it, but it was a result of the fall. I had to think through biblically how to think through this. It wasn't But but it really does stop there. Christ condemns the idea of us making an assessment on someone for a particular sin that they've committed in order to have some sort of sickness. And folks, that is errant That is wrong to do that. And we first of all, even if it is a i if it if it could if it is the case, we would never be able to judge that We do find, if you recall several chapters back when Christ heals the lame man. Do you remember that? And he comes back to the lame man and he says, Go and sin no more lest something worse happen to you. And when Christ says that, Christ is God saying that. He is perceptive. He knows exactly what's happening. And we do find in the New Testament there are times where sickness is a result of sin. But folks There is no way we could ever judge that. And we need to be very careful about ever coming to that conclusion. It was a wrong conclusion that these Jewish people had come to. And Christ is going to deal with this. Notice what he says about this. He says in stark contrast, he says, verse three, Jesus answered, Neither hath this man sent. Nor his parents. Now, not that he was sinless, but that his sin was not result, this his blindness was not a result of sin at all. He says, Neither has this man sinned, nor his parents But that the works of God should be made manifest in him. This man Uh it was intended for God to be able to use this to manifest the works of God in his life. And did you know that, folks, that there are some times that God brings sickness and disease and struggle and difficulty? and and even debilitating kinds of things for his glory. You think of people like Fannie Crosby, who was blind, and Helen Keller and fo those kinds of people, and it is true that God chooses to limit them actually to glorify himself, to bring more glory to himself. And that's what he's saying in this passage. He's saying that that this sickness is actually going to bring more glory to Christ. And in fact, we find in the passage that he is going to, of course, heal this man and demonstrate in an impossible situation, an impossible situation, Christ's own power. Then we see in verse 4, I must work the works of him that sent me while it is day. The night cometh with when no man can work. Now it's interesting that Christ says this at this point. He says there is an urgency about what Christ is saying. We now see Christ beginning To anticipate the time where he is no longer going to be with his disciples. We see it clearly in John chapter 12, where he says, I'm going away, and here's what you need to know. We see it through the upper room discourse, we see that. But here we begin to see that he's anticipating now that at some point in the future he's going to be away from his disciples. So what is he talking about here? Now, it's important to sort of frame this in the right way. He's going to explain in John chapter 15 and then John chapter 12 and 14 and 14. Oh no, 14, 12 and 13. Oh, yeah, and 14. All three of them. He's going to explain the work of the Holy Spirit. And that the Holy Spirit is actually going to come when Christ leaves. He's going to depart, and the Holy Spirit is going to come. And they're going to do great things for God, aren't they? So what is he talking about here? He is more than likely speaking of that intermediate period. The time between when Christ ascended to his father And the time when the Holy Spirit comes. There is this gap. And you know what Christ is very concerned about? That these men during that time don't lose faith. Do you know why? It is because we are incapable of maintaining our own faith. Did you know that? I mean, just think about that. It demonstrates our s we are so unable to do this ourselves. It demonstrates how unable we are to even maintain our own faith. It's God that keeps us until that day. And this and sent his spirit to indwell us inside of us. So that we could that we could continue in the faith. And when Christ is leaving, he's concerned that there's going to be this gap of time and he wants to demonstrate as fully as he can while he hear the light to these to these people. So that they can maintain their faith in the light until the Holy Spirit comes to them. Of course, we know now that after that point and after after some time uh went on, uh the God made it so that when somebody gets trust Christ as Savior and they pass from death unto life, they receive the Spirit of God who seals them into the day of redemption. We have all kinds of passages in the New Testament on that. But But Christ is dealing with this during this time. And the reason that this is significant is for this reason. We've got to remember how we've got to depend on Christ and His Spirit. For our life, for our spiritual well-being. We've got to be completely dependent upon Christ. And we and we need to understand this from this passage, we do see this. Then we find in verse 7 He's now going to heal him. We read this from verses seven through through, we'll go all the way through verse 12. It says And said unto him, Go wash in the pool of Siloam, which is by interpretation sent. He went his way, therefore, and washed, and came seeing. The neighbors therefore, and they which before him seen him, that he was blind, and said, Is not this he that sat and begged? Some said, This is he, others said, He is like him, but he saith, I am he. Therefore saith they unto him, How were thine eyes opened? He answered and said, A man that is called Jesus made clay, and anointed mine eyes, and said unto me, Go to the pool of Siloam and wash. And I went and washed and received sight Then said they unto him, Where is he? And he said, I know not. Here we have this man who is who Christ heals. We are not surprised by the fact that Christ heals someone. That doesn't surprise us, but the method in which he chooses is interesting, isn't it? Christ for b begins this work of a miracle by by using his own saliva And going and dipping it in dirt and making mud and putting it on his eyes. Why would Christ do this? Well, it's actually hotly debated why he did this. It's not, it's very hard to figure out why he did this. He used the ground, and so it may have been that he did this in order to be consistent with creation. He was working in conjunction with creation, consistently with creation, rather than apart from creation. There are many church fathers in their writings that suggested that this was in order to sort of uh make it even harder for him to comp to to full perform the miracle. He sort of Uh to demonstrate to everybody but the impossibility of this, he covered over the eyes with something else, with an additional barrier sort of to demonstrate that when he wa when he received his site how amazing this was. It was more it was more vivid for people to be able to see this this way. And that's a possibility. There are other possibilities as well that we can find as suggestions. The reality is nobody really knows. But More than but it certainly does demonstrate that how impossible I I think that might be a good possibility. But what isn't what is made clear in this book is that he tells this man to go wash in the pool pool of Siloam. And John does not leave it up for debate as to what is going on here. He tells us that this word saloon means sent. We also know from Isaiah. That these waters, it says in Isaiah 8. 6, that the waters of Shiloh, which are the same waters, were actually rejected by the people. So when you put these two things together, what you discover is that this is sort of to illustrate a particular point, that Christ was sent by God. But rejected by these people. Not by the person that was that is going to be healed, but by the other people that were around, that the majority of people were going to reject Christ when he came. And so that he was sent by God and reject re but rejected by people, and that is a symbolic uh he's symbolically showing that uh in this passage. We also see in this passage that the man the man born blind, it was verified by many witnesses. Many witnesses had seen him blind and seen him on the road, on the side of the on the road. And it was so strange to them not to see him anymore that they they actually and they they thought uh it was so impossible for him to be healed That they wanted to come up with some other explanation for this. I mean he it couldn't have been that he was actually healed, that's why he wasn't there anymore. And it he had to tell them specifically himself, this is what happened to me. And then they wanted to go out and find and meet him. And we're going to speak more about that next week as as to what happens in that whole context. But what I want to do is now move to verse 30 for this reason. What I will tell you at this point is that the Pharisees have had this long discussion and several interrogations to determine what what this miracle was all about and the v the veracity of the miracle and everything, because they were trying to find fault against Christ. And they went specifically now now to the man himself. And this man in verse 30 demonstrates something about the process by which he is coming to the light. And I want us to notice this. He is surprised by that these Pharisees will not believe that Christ healed him and will not believe that Christ is sent from God. He's shocked by this. And he shot for this reason. Let's let him explain in verse thirty. The man answered and said unto them, Why herein is the marvelous thing that ye know not from whence he is And yet he hath opened my eyes. He says, why do you not understand who's done this? Who he's been sent by. Verse 31. Now we know that God heareth not sinners. Now follow, he's going to give a very logical argument. Okay? He's using common sense, which isn't that common apparently. He's using common sense here, and he says this. The man, verse 31, now we know that God heareth not sinners. But if any man be a worshiper of God and doeth his will, him he heareth. Since the world began, was it not heard that any man opened the eyes of one that was born blind? If this man were not of God, he could do nothing. Now, let's follow his line of reasoning. The blind man says this. He says, God doesn't hear sinners. We know this from other passages of Scripture. Of course, he does hear a repentance center for faith in Christ, certainly. But we know passages like you know Psalm 6618 where it says if I regard iniquity in my heart the Lord will not hear me. It's rare actually all over the these kind of passages are all over the place Proverbs fifteen twenty nine, for example, says the Lord is far from the wicked, and he heareth the prayer of the righteous, and we have this contrast in Proverbs. All over the place you find this in Scripture And there was essentially this con this idea uh that was prevalent in that day that the the proportion of of righteousness would be proportioned to the answer to prayer Now, aren't you glad that we are clothed in Christ's righteousness? So we need to understand that. We're clothed in Christ's righteousness, and the effectual further for prayer of a righteous man availeth much, according to James. But it is true, and you have to factor that in, but it is true that a right God can't see a sinful person. He's not going to answer the prayer, particularly of this kind of a sinful person. And so this man says, would you Would you understand that wouldn't he have to be of God since he has performed this miracle and he says in the passage, it's never been done before? The impossibility of this miracle and the fact that Christ has done this demonstrates that he must be from God. Now, let me ask you this question. Do you think that this man at this point has passed from death to life? Now, if you read the rest of the passage, you're going to find that he is not yet. That's interesting, isn't it? He has not yet come to Christ. He will, but he has not yet. And yet, he is thinking very clearly. He is taking scriptural truth. He is applying it to a situation, and he's applying it logically to come to a conclusion that Christ is sent from God. What does that tell you about coming to the light? It tells us this, folks, that there is a point in time before someone actually receives Christ as Savior where we would call them an awakened sinner. That they have been awakened by God's word and the Spirit of God in some way. You remember over in Romans chapter 7 we see this? Romans chapter 7, the Apostle Paul is speaking, and he says, I did not know my own sin until I saw the law, and that it says, Thou shalt not covet, then I knew I had sinned And there is this understanding of sin. There is this understanding, this process of coming to the light before actually receiving the light. It doesn't, in other words, folks, a person does not necessarily come to faith in Christ without first thinking through things. and receiving some things and the Holy Spirit working on them over time. Now, have we not seen this in our own personal experience? Have you not talked with somebody for some time and work with somebody for some time before they either clearly accept Christ or reject him. Or maybe you came to Christ that way yourself, where there was some things that happened in your life, circumstances that occurred in your life, things that God was doing in your life to bring you to the point where you finally came to Christ. It's important for folks for this very very clear applic application reason. There are some times where someone has an in that they receive initial truth and we think that person has come to Christ. Or they are convicted about something and we think they've come to Christ. Or they have sort of an experience that they're sort of enlightened about something. Or they're they're um They they realize maybe that their life is not what it ought to be, and there's some sort of thing in their life that that maybe the Lord is working in their life, probably is working in their life. Folks, it's important for us to understand that there is a drawing process before someone actually comes to Christ. And it's important for us, when we are working in discipleship and we're working in evangelism, we're working with people, to realize that there might be a process before someone comes to Christ. There's lots of applications of this But we find this to be the case in this man's life. But he is what is he he is doing is this, and this is the key. He has he is receiving the light that God has given him so far. Now Christ is going to come and he's going to directly say who he is. But up to that point, he is receiving the light that God has already given him. Does that make sense? It's important to understand that. And when someone is coming to the light, they are they're going to receive the light that God has already given them. But at any time Isn't this true at any time they could begin to reject it? Now he that doesn't happen in this passage. But at any time they could say they could move and turn away from the light. And it's very important for us to understand that. I think sometimes, I'll just say this, sometimes we sim see someone make a profession of faith. And we and they think and we think they know Christ, they're they're saved. And we wonder why six months later it seems like there's no interest in spiritual things at all. And we under we wonder six months later why they're they don't have any desire to serve the Lord, they don't have any desire to walk with the Lord, they they have no desire of these things It is entirely possible that they have never, that God was working in their life, but they've never actually passed from death unto life. That they've never truly come to Christ. Now, that sets us up very well because the question that would we would want to ask, isn't this true? The question we want to ask is, how do we know when someone's come to the light? How do we know when someone has truly received Christ? And this man's testimony is very clear. Let's notice how the text puts this. Picking up here in verse 35, Jesus heard uh that uh Jesus heard that they had cast him out. And when he found out oh by the way, uh uh the Pharisees rejected this whole line of thinking. They rejected the light. The light came and they didn't receive the light that God had given them. They rejected it, which is why got Christ didn't give them more light. Now, uh and they they they casted him out. Verse 35, Jesus heard that they had cast him out, and when he had found him, looks like Christ is pursuing him here. Something to think about. When he had found him, he said unto him, Dost thou believe on the Son of God? It's a good question, isn't it? Do you believe on the Son of God? Now, here is what the man says. He answered and said, Who is he, Lord, that I might believe on him? How how does the man respond? The man responds with he does not have all the information he needs. Does that make sense? In other words, he's not rejecting the light he's been given, but he does not yet have all the information that he needs in order to accept Christ. But what he says is, please tell me who he is so I can. It demonstrates a right direction in what? In his will. In his will. His will is conforming so that he will accept what God gives him. In other words, folks, there is more than just an intellectual ascent to Christ. There's more than just saying, okay, I know the facts about Christ. I know the facts about the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. There's more than that. I have to, with my will Embrace him as my Lord and Savior. I have to accept him that way. I have to receive him And it requires the will. And Christ is going to continue to give him more light. Why? Because he is willing, he wants to receive the light that God has already given him. And by the way, I want to make this just very simple application for the Christian. Do you know that's the same way for the believer? Sometimes we reject the light that God's already given us. Or we don't fully understand everything. What God wants us to do is not to know the end from the beginning. That's his job. He wants us simply to receive the next Step or receive the light that God has already given us with a willing heart. The problem with us is not often information. The problem is our will. The problem is we want to have everything understood before we are willing to do what God wants us to do. And in this case, what we have is the exact opposite We have Christ asking him a question and him saying, Hey, I'm willing. And then we have Christ giving him the information that he needs. Very important lessons here as we go through this. Then would you see what happens? And Jesus said to him, Thou hast both seen him, and it is he that talketh with thee. He basically says, It's me. So how does this man respond? I want you to notice how he responds. He said, teacher. Is that what he said? Verse 38. No, he doesn't say that. Rabbi. He doesn't say that. He says what? Lord. He says master. He says Lord. And he says, I what? I believe. And then he says, well, and then what happens? And he what? Worship him. Now, let's just put this into perspective. First he says, I'm Lord okay, Lord, I I believe. He understands the information he needs to understand who Jesus is, and he accepts him as Lord, as master. That's what the word means. And then, though, as a result of accepting me as Lord, he worships him It demonstrates for us that not only is there a volitional a volitional acceptance or reception And an intellectual reception. But there is of the whole being this reception of Christ. with everything that he has. The word worship means to it sometimes means to give obeisance to. It's the idea of of uh of to kiss the hand is actually what the what it technically means It's the idea to give oneself over to. And so we have this. Now, let me be very clear about this. We fall off the altar pretty easily, don't we? John Romans chapter 12, it tells us that we sh we should commit ourselves, we should present ourselves as a living offering to God. It's very easy for us to stop worshiping Him with our lives. But folks, in the initial outset, when someone comes to Christ, when they pass from death into life, there is this response of worship in their life where they are willing to do what God wants them to do and where they are willing to give themselves over to the Lord. And I just want to say this w when it comes express this Sometimes people sort of make these time these point-in-time decisions and think they've got like their ticket. A ticket to heaven or something? So a very dangerous notion. We've got to understand That I'm not I'm not saying that somebody doesn't come to Christ. That does happen. There is a passing from death to life. But we need to understand that there is there should be some sort of result that is seen Where there's a willingness to follow Christ, not that following Christ is necessary to come to Christ. Let me also point that out. Sometimes people switch this around and say, well, in order to come to Christ You have to follow him. You have to believe you or not believe, but you have to follow him. You have to obey him. Obedience precedes faith. Obedience doesn't precede faith. Faith precedes obedience. You must believe, but true faith is going to result in obedience. And folks, when we see all of this put together It shows us that a person that truly comes to Christ desires to worship him and to live for him. And we see the exact same thing happening over the last time The last time we see somebody came to Christ in John. You know it's been a little while. The last time we've seen somebody come to Christ in John was in John chapter 4 with the with the with the woman at the well. Do you remember that And do you remember the discussion in John chapter 4? It was over this concept of worship. She wanted to know who we who was she to worship. And Christ said, or what place should she go to worship? She wanted to know all the particulars of the place, and Christ says, it's coming where the place isn't going to matter. You must worship me in spirit and in truth. And we find the exact same thing here in this passage. Now, just by way of application, I just want to mention a couple of things. So number one, and I think this is just helpful for us as Christians. This is a passage that just should be refreshing for us to see. How someone comes to the light. It's a simple passage. But how does someone receive Christ We're coming up on vacation Bible school. Maybe someone's going to re truly receive Christ there. I pray that that happens. Or we're moving into a season where we're rubbing shoulders with more people or maybe having cookouts, those kinds of things. This is something we want to keep in our minds. But let me ask you a question. Are you aware of how blind you were before you received Christ? And I want to say this. Maybe there's somebody here today who hasn't received Christ before. Maybe there's someone here today who knows some things about the Lord, has some familiarity about church and those kinds of things. But when it comes to understanding that you have sinned and understanding that Jesus died to pay the punishment for your sin. That your sin, the result of your sin is eternal death, Romans 8, Romans 6. And that Jesus Christ used his own death to replace your punishment of death. So that he could give you his righteousness and that you could receive, uh he could receive your sin on himself and replace it with his righteousness. So that you are righteous in Christ, not by any works of your own, not by any merit of your own, but entirely on depending upon Christ alone for faith. Christ alone for salvation. That is how you come from, the Bible says, pass from death unto life. So that when John chapter 1 verse 12 says, But as many as received him, to them gave he the power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. You, all you've got to do is you need to say, I need to stop trusting in self to have a right relationship with God and start trusting in Christ. who died for me, who paid the price for me, so that I could have my sins taken away, put on him and paid for, and my his righteousness applied to me And that I could stand guiltless and righteous before God. And if you're saying today, I have not received Christ's righteousness in my life, Well, today is a day where God desires for you to do that. He's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. And let me encourage you If you're not sure about this, let me encourage you just to come and talk with me after the service or somebody else that you see in their life, this kind of lifestyle of righteousness and a relationship with the Lord I encourage you to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you are have a relationship with God because He's placed His righteousness on your account of no merit of your own. And for the rest of us folks, should we not return from time to time to gratefulness for what Christ has done for us? If we have trouble in our lives with serving him and sacrificing for him and loving him and forgiving others and those kinds of things, it is because We have forgotten of the great sacrifice that Christ has made for us, and we're not grateful for it anymore And God desires for us to come back to him in gratefulness. We were lost. We were blind. But now we see because of Christ. Let's go to him in prayer. Our Father, we do come to you and thank you. We thank you for Christ. We thank you for the righteousness that can be applied to anyone who will accept it by faith, who will not depend upon themselves, but will depend upon fully upon Christ. To save them from their sin. And I pray, Lord, that if there is anybody today that doesn't know you, that today would be a day where they would come to Christ. And Lord, for those of us who don't do know you, I pray, Lord, that this would remind us of the great work, the miracle that has been done in our lives. Where we have been passed from death unto life, where we have gone from darkness to light, where we have gone to blo from blindness to sight. Lord, may we live in that in that light in that in light of that, and to live in gratefulness, and to respond in love to you and to others And to respond in forgiveness to you and others. And I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.