Please take your Bibles if you would and turn to the book of Acts, Acts chapter two. I so much appreciate Harry's uh preaching last Sunday morning. And I'm I'm very grateful for how the Lord has blessed us with a lot of solid um men that can teach his word. Um that is not something that ever Every church has and I'm very grateful for the men um that are in our church that can that can handle God's word so well. Um and I was thinking about that. Even with our Sunday school class we've got men that are teaching the different classes and I'm thrilled to see what the Lord is going to be doing uh with uh opening up another adult science school class. I encourage you if you weren't out today uh to come and check those classes out But I really am just thrilled about that and thrilled to see what the Lord is doing in our church, and we just need to continue to pray that God will work in his way. The passage that we're going to be looking at this morning is really, we are right in the middle of Peter's message that he has been preaching to the Jewish people in Jerusalem. And so we are going to take a look at this passage. I'll just remind us that we've already seen as Peter has preached. that he has spoken of the incarnation in verse 22 and the death of the cross in verse 23, that it gained salvation for us. In verse 24, we see that the resurrection validates all of the person and the work of Christ. And all of that is leading up to the exaltation of Christ in verses 33 through 36. That then brings us to the application of the message, and that's where we pick up today in verses 37 through 47. And so we'll read that together for our scripture reading this morning. Verse 37 of Acts chapter 2. Now when they had heard this, they were cut to the heart and said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, Men and brethren, what shall we do? Then Peter said to them, Repent and let every one of you be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins. And you shall receive the gift of the Holy Spirit, for the promise is to you and to your children, and to all who are afar off, as many as the Lord our God will call. And with many other words he testified and exhorted them, saying, Be saved from the perverse generation. Then those who gladly received his word were baptized. And that day about three thousand souls were added to them. And they continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship and the breaking of bread. And in prayers. Then fear came upon every soul, and many wonders and signs were done through the apostles. Now all who believed were together and had all things in common And sold their possessions and goods, and divided them among all as any one had need. So continuing daily with one accord in the temple And breaking bread from house to house, they ate their food with gladness and simplicity of heart, praising God and having favor with all the people. And the Lord added to the church daily those who were being saved. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you and we thank you for who you are. We thank you for your work in the early church to bring about The fur very first local church in its infancy, and how your spirit superintended and applied all of what he applied to bring about what occurred in the midst of those people. As they worship you in simplicity, and they fellowship together in depth and intensity We pray, Lord, that you would teach us what you want us to know from this passage. Help us to apply these things to our lives and our hearts. I pray, Lord, that there are many that there will be many things in this passage that our church Would be able to emulate and grow in in the days to come. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Uh I have had the privilege of seeing all three of my children born. Now I just want to say this, uh when I was coming up with this illustration for the introduction, I I I did I was not thinking at all of Zach and Krista And then I realized, you know what, Zach and Kristen will be here, but uh so this will kind of apply in a special way to them perhaps. But how many of you were able to see your children born? I'm just curious. Well uh la men I'm talking about ladies, yes. It's kind of obvious your role's pretty obvious. Uh and very, very important. I I will tell you that when I saw the each one was was different. The first one, the anticipation of what it would feel like was almost intense. as actually watching watching uh Caitlin Bourne. And uh I was speechless. I with all of my kids, I you know, I usually have no problem coming up with words. That's usually not a problem of mine, but but when it can't comes to my kids, I mean the bet the best I could say was something like, She's beautiful or she's cute or something. And it seemed to be so much less than what I was feeling when I watched them being born. It was an indescribable experience. And um Zach, it will be for you in a day or two or three. What we have in this passage is the very first local church in its infancy being born. And we have the privilege of seeing how God chooses to give birth to this church. And there is a great special special attention that we ought to give to this. And it is it is quite impressive as we look to see What happens when the Spirit of God comes and saves people and then baptizes them and dwells them and fills them? What occurs as a result of all of this? I want to give special notice to this reality. That throughout chapter 2, we have seen the Spirit of God mentioned on several occasions. In chapter 2, verse 4, it says the Spirit gave them utterance. In 2. 17, it's mentioned. He's mentioned again in 2. 18. and 233 and 238 and so on. The Spirit of God is just all over this chapter. And that's important to recognize because To understand the significance of what we're going to learn in this passage of Scripture, we've got to realize that all of this was as a result of the working of the Spirit of God in the midst of these people who previous to this time did not know Christ. But were brought to a place of understanding their sin and their need of a Savior and accepting Christ as their Savior, the Spirit of God coming to on them, baptizing them, and dwelling them, filling them. And then all that is going to happen is really a result of the Spirit of God's work in their life. And for us to be able to look and say to ourselves, what does a spirit-filled church look like? And the answer to that we can find in this passage. We pick up, as I mentioned already, in the middle of Peter's message. And I just want to note here that Peter, for an extensive number of verses. Has explained in detail Old Testament scriptures to them. Very little exhortation, just clear teaching on this on what occurred in the Old Testament and how Jesus is the fulfillment of the prophecies of the Old Testament. Before he ever gets into exhorting them to apply this, there is clear teaching. And I would just make this note. In any good preaching, there is always clear teaching. The very foundation of all good preaching is clarity of the teaching of the scriptural truth. And Peter is certainly no exception. In fact, he is a prime example of this. But now he has gone through an explanation of the incarnation and fulfilled prophet prophecy and the exaltation of Christ and the resurrection, all those things. And now By the work of the Spirit of God, as they heard this, the people now are going to respond in the middle of his message. And they're going to ask, what are we to do about this? How are we to apply this? Notice what it says in verse 37. Well when they had heard this, the clear teaching of the Word of God, they were cut to the heart and said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, Men and brethren, what shall we do? They wanted to know what they were going, what they were supposed to do with what they had been taught. It's interesting, it uses the term cut to the heart as a description of their own conviction of their sin. The Apostle Peter was not bashful about saying that they were sinners. In fact, he pointed to them and said, You are sinners that put Christ on the cross. In 2. 23, it says that he uh he said you have taken lawless hands and have crucified and put to death the Son of God in 236 the same kind of thing is mentioned whom he said he says Therefore, let all the house of Israel know assuredly that God has made this Jesus, whom you crucified, both Lord and Christ And so, because of the teaching of the Word of God and the explanation that they were sinners who had put Christ on the cross, they were cut to the heart. They were convicted by the Spirit of God. And when someone is convicted by the Spirit of God, there is this restlessness inside of them that wants to know what they are supposed to do to correct the matter. Do you remember when you first came to Christ and you realized your sin? You realized that your sin was an offense against God. You realized that your sin was separated you from God. And that you could not pay your own sin debt. There was nothing that you could do to merit a grace or a favor from God that you had to fully place your dependence on what Jesus Christ did alone for salvation. Conviction came upon you. Conviction is absolutely necessary for someone to truly come to Christ, realizing they're a sinner, that their sin separates them from God, and that their sin is an offense against a holy God. So they ask, what are they to do? And the Apostle Peter's reply is one that we need to give attention to He says in verse 38, you must repent. Notice what it says there. Then Peter said to them, repent. I'm afraid that many times in preaching today, repentance is something that is not mentioned as a need to appropriate the gospel. But Peter clearly believes it's important and he uses the term repentance here. This is not the only time he uses it. In fact, in much of the preaching in the book of Acts, you find this term repentance used. What does it mean to repent? Well, in Acts 3. 19, you're going to see another sermon. And in Acts 3. 19, it says, Repent therefore and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out. So that times of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord. It says in that passage, repent and be converted. In Acts chapter 14, verse 15, the Apostle Paul there says, you shall preach to you that you should turn from these useless things In Acts chapter 17, verse 30, it says Truly, these times of ignorance God overlooked, but now commands all men everywhere to repent. There is this universal call this absolute necessity that in order to come to Christ, there must necessarily need to be repentance. Repentance is a change of mind that results in a change of behavior. It is a turning, if you will. Now let me be clear. Changing behavior is not necessary to come to Christ. You cannot change your behavior in order to come to Christ. But change of behavior will occur when someone genuinely knows Christ. This idea of turning is really the key to understanding what repentance truly is. You're going to turn from depending on self and turning to Christ. Turn from your sin and turning to the Savior. Turning is the idea when it comes to repentance. And there are many people that would like to place their faith in Jesus Christ and say they have, but there has never been a turn to a turning in a different direction. Clearly, these Jewish Christians, Jewish people who had been depending upon themselves and the law and their good works and those kinds of things To be rightly related to God needed to turn from that to depend upon Jesus Christ and his work alone. And so he says, repent. Peter also includes this, he says, and be baptized. Now, this might be confusing for some people. Why would he say be repent and almost in the same breath be baptized? Wouldn't that be a bit of a problem? Is baptism absolutely necessary in order to be saved? Well, let me just mention a couple of things to you, a couple of observations. Number one, let me mention to you this: that later on in the book of Acts, you're going to see in 3. 19, for example, repentance is mentioned without baptism. So it says to repent in chapter 3, verse 19, but baptism isn't included in that passage. And we know biblically from the New Testament that there is absolutely no work that we can do, any self-effort at all. cannot be included to saving faith or you don't have saving faith anymore. Titus 3. 5 says, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us. And Ephesians 2. 8 and 9 says, For by grace are ye saved through faith, and that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. So clearly, folks, baptism is not necessary in order to come to Christ. But baptism is a natural, a natural next step for those who truly have come to Christ. In other words Someone who has truly come to Christ wants to be baptized. They want to obey the Lord of baptism, and they want to show that they have truly come to Christ. They want to show in the presence of God's people that they have done that. But the question then remains: well, why would Peter say it this way? Why would he include baptism in the same breath? Now, keep in mind all I've said before already when I mentioned this, but this will help us to understand this. Back in those days, the idea of immersion in water was not something that was foreign to the people that he was speaking to. In fact, in Israel, in that time They had a problem with actually having fresh water, largest, large pools of fresh water, and there were specific pools that were built in order for people to be immersed in them. What was this immersion for? Well, it was a symbolic immersion, and it was there, it was done specifically to demonstrate a transfer of ownership. A transfer of ownership. It was a symbolic showing of a transfer of ownership. Now that might help us then, folks, and we won't get into all of that, but that might help us then, folks. To understand why Peter in this context would mention this. What happens when you come to Christ? There is, folks, a genuine transfer of ownership. You go from owning yourself to being owned by Christ. There is a transfer of ownership. And I think very likely that the Jewish listeners, he wanted them to understand that this is what needed to happen. They needed to go from owning themselves To being owned by Christ. And so he uses baptism as a symbol for them to understand that. 1 Corinthians 6, verse 19 says this. Do you not know that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit who is in you? Whom you have from God, and you are not your own, you are bought with a price. And this goes to help us to understand and to remember that you and I are owned by Christ. He says that Genuine repentance in this passage, genuine repentance will lead to a remission of sins. The word remission is often translated forgiveness. It's the exact same Greek word. as is translated, forgiveness. And it and it is and the is the idea of a remission of a debt. You could think, for example, to Christ's illustration. Do you remember the illustration of the the um the man who was in prison And the king pulled him out of prison. Uh uh he could not pay his debt to the king. He owes an innumerable amount of money. And and then he went and and extracted a debt of a very small amount from somebody else. Remember that story? and how it demonstrated what true forgiveness is. True forgiveness is a remission of debt. Our debt is our sin, and we cannot deal with it on our own. We cannot Solve it ourselves. We cannot pay for it ourselves. It must be remitted. It must be forgiven. And it's forgiven by Christ, only by Christ, because of the death of Christ. and his work on the cross and taking on our sin on himself and us being able to receive his righteousness when we come to him. It says here in the passage as well that you will, when this happens, receive the Holy Spirit. Now, notice the order that Peter says this in. He says, repent, be baptized, and then receive the Holy Spirit. And I want to mention that this is not intended to be a prescriptive order to how things work when we come to Christ. In fact When we come to Christ, as we've learned before, we are baptized by the Spirit of God and dwelt by the Spirit of God immediately upon salvation. That occurs simultaneously with our salvation. And then of course water baptism occurs after that. Just as a clarification, understand that in chapter 10, verses 44 through 48 in Acts, you're going to actually see in that passage that the Holy Spirit coming upon them precedes water baptism. And so this isn't intended to be an order, a specific order of how things work when it comes to salvation. We know from very clear teaching passages. in the in the New Testament that that isn't the case, that actually someone comes to Christ, they are baptized and dwelt by the Holy Spirit of God, and then they are able then to participate in water baptism. We see, though, that they are going to receive the Holy Spirit. Very likely, the way that this is written and laid out is to emphasize that this is all the work of the Spirit of God. Every part of this is the work of the Spirit of God. And we're going to see this. And we have this universal offer here. He says, when this happens, you will receive the promise. The promise is a reference to the Spirit of God. You may want to write down Joel chapter 3, Isaiah 32 and 44, and Ezekiel 11. Those are passages that talk about this promise. of the Holy Spirit of God that are clearly promised in this passage. Who are the recipients of this? He says, those who come to Christ, you can come to Christ and receive the Holy Spirit. But it doesn't stop there. He says, your children can do this. And then he uses this term afar off. He says, those who are afar off can do this as well. Those who are far off are a reference to the Gentiles, according to Acts 13, verse 33. Peter is pointing out that the Holy Spirit will be given to all those who accept Jesus by faith. And we have this specific call. Notice it says, as many as the Lord our God shall call. This is a reference to Joel chapter 2, verse 32. In that passage it says that whoever calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved. Of course, we learned that in verse 21 of this passage. For in Mount Zion and in Jerusalem there should be deliverance, as the Lord has said, among the remnant whom the Lord calls. Now did you catch that? In the beginning of that verse, it says, whom we call, whoever calls the Lord will be saved. In the second part of that verse, this is Joel 2. 32, it says, Whoever the Lord calls will be saved. Which is it? The answer is both. Who the Lord calls will be saved, and whoever calls in the name of the Lord will be saved And it demonstrates that, in a sense, the working of God in the life of a person and our wills, there is this calling on both sides that run in tandem with each other. And it's really there is a mystery there. But if you have the calling of God on the life of a person without the calling of the person toward God, you have a problem. Likewise, if you think that somebody is called uh calls on the name of the Lord without a calling from God The Bible says very clearly that Jesus said this, he said, that no man comes unto me unless I draw him, you have a problem as well. And so you have this, you have this joining together. And the perfect illustration of this is it not is marriage. You have one who initiates and another who responds, but both make the choice to come together. And that is a perfect illustration because that's how we're described in Ephesians chapter 5 as a bride of Christ. Now, with all of that, we find this exhortation in verse 40. It says. And with many other words he testified and exhorted them, saying, Be saved from this perverse generation. He points out that they're living in the last days, which we have talked about before. This alludes to the day of the Lord. This is a crooked and perverse generation. And he says, you need to be saved out of this. He's pointing out that as you look at the world and you see the crookedness of the world, you see the fallenness of the world, he says there is only one way to be saved out of that, it is to come to Christ. Now, folks, all of this is to lead up to the Spirit of God's working in these people's lives. And we find that the Holy Spirit of God motivates God's people to worship in simplicity in this passage, beginning in verse 31. Verse 31, we have this grand result. Then those who gladly received his word were baptized, and that day about 3,000 souls were added to them And they continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine and bet and fellowship and breaking of bread and prayers So you have here this passage, verse 41, then those who gladly receive his word. This is a receiving his word is going to be used several times in the book of Acts. to mean the same thing as calling or repenting. Now notice the terms that Peter's used so far here. In chapter 2, verse 21, he says, Whoever calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. In chapter 2, verse 38, it says, if you repent, you'll be saved. And now he says, if you receive the word, you will be saved. Well, which is it? And the answer, it's all three. It's all talking about the same thing. How do you receive the word? You repent. When you repent, what will you do? You'll call on the name of the Lord to save you. All of these things work together to bring about a true faith in saving faith in Jesus Christ. And we see that. The word receive is going to be used in chapter 8, verse 13. And chapter 11, and again in chapter 17, we'll see this receiving the word, which is absolutely necessary in order to come to Christ. It says they're baptized, and then it says they're added to the church. There seems then to be a connection between baptism and church membership here. So you have now 3,000 souls who are now added to the church. Apparently there was some sort of counting that occurred there in that passage. And we sort of get, this is not a direct relationship, but we sort of get the idea. That membership is a good idea when it comes to seeing this passage and seeing how it was laid out. They were added to the church. Now, you'll notice in the passage That there are 3,000 souls that are as of the church. But I want us to recognize this, that those those people went 3,000 that's a lot. Big number, right? Those people went out and they spread the word and spread the word over time. And in Jerusalem alone, it is estimated that probably over 60,000 people came to Christ from their those 3,000 people and their witness. This is an amazing thing that the Lord has done. The Holy Spirit has saved three thousand souls And these people now we get to see how they respond to the Spirit of God in their lives. Would you notice what happens in verse 42? We have this simplicity of worship in 42. And they continued, the word continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine. I want to just mention what this word continue means. It is the word to mean to be devoted. they devoted themselves to. It is an ongoing continual devotion. It's mentioned in Acts chapter 10, verse 7, the same word. It's actually mentioned six times in the book of Acts, but in Acts chapter ten, verse seven it says, And when the angel who spoke to him had departed, Cornelius called two of his household servants and a devout soldier from among those who waited on him continually. They continually were involved and devoted in in sim in simple worship of God. And I want us to understand, folks, that this is all as a result of being indwelt and filled with the Spirit of God. What does it look like when a person is dwelt and filled by the Spirit of God? What does it look like for a church when the church is indwelt? And filled by the Spirit of God. Folks, this is what it looks like. And what you find in this passage are in this next verse are four different practices. None of these practices are commanded, but all of them took place continually, consistently, over days and days and months and years. And really throughout church history, we find these being practiced. And we do find them commanded in other places in the New Testament. These are things that they continually devoted themselves to. You know, there are a lot of things, folks, that a church can be involved in. There are a lot of different activities and different practices and different Different things to be involved in. But folks, there are four essential things that we find in this passage that sometimes it's really good just to come down to brass tacks. and to see the simplicity of the worship that occurred by these new believers. We find here, number one, then. The teaching of the word. It says the apostles' teaching here, the apostles' doctrine. The word doctrine, by the way, in the New Testament, the word teaching are the exact same Greek word, the same word. So we're talking here about teaching from the apostles. And notice this: that the filling of the Spirit of God did not negate the need for good teachers. There are sometimes in various denominations, various places that suggest that if you're really filled with the Spirit of God, all you need is the Spirit of God And the Word of God. You don't really need anybody to teach you the Word of God. All you need is those two things, and you don't need teachers any longer, and you can just figure things out on your own. Folks, that is not at all the case. It's not how God set it up. We find in Ephesians chapter four that God gave the pastor teacher for the equipping of the saints For the work of the ministry. We have teachers found in James chapter 3. All over the place, we find that there are there is this need for the tea, there are clear teaching of the word of God. Those who are genuinely filled by the Spirit of God are those who desire the teaching of the Word, not those who reject the teaching of the Word. Are those who realize their need for the teaching of the Word, not think that they can handle it and understand it on their own In Matthew chapter 28, verses 19 through 20, in the Great Commission, we find that we are to make disciples by teaching them to observe all things. Very first on the list here is teaching for this simple reason. Teaching is absolutely fundamental and necessary when it comes to worshiping God. It's used actually 30 times in the book of Acts, this word teaching, this word Dedaskalos. 30 different times in the book of Acts, which means that it is extremely important and emphasized In 2 Timothy 1 verse 13, Paul tells Timothy, hold fast the pattern, literally the deposit of sound words. which you have heard from me in faith and love which are in Christ Jesus. He says, hold fast Pass those things that I have taught you, the deposit of teaching that I have given to you, and pass it on to others. There is this need, folks, for sound teaching in the local church. There is an absolute necessity and it will always be the case. That's why the Old Testament, the Bible says that it says, My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge. There is this need to think biblically, to know what God's Word says, to have the knowledge of the Word of God. That's where it begins. True worship will always begin there. But folks, there is more to true worship than just teaching. It starts there, but we find other things that are necessary as well. The next is fellowship. Would you notice what it says in the passage? It says The Apostles' Doctrine and in Fellowship. Well, what is fellowship? Fellowship is mentioned 19 times in the New Testament It has to do with the sharing with one another on all levels. Sometimes you actually find the word fellowship in the context of sharing material goods. In fact, this passage is used that way. Other passages in the New Testament is used that way as well. You have this term fellowship that's used. In 2 Corinthians 13, verse 14, it says the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ The love of God and the communion, sometimes it's translated communion, of the Holy Spirit be with you all. So this word fellowship, koinania, or the word communion, these are all the same word. In Galatians chapter 2, verse 9, it says, And when James, Cephas, and John, who seemed to be pillars, perceived the grace that God had given me They gave me Barnabas the right hand of fellowship, that we should go to the Gentiles and they to be circumcised. 2 Corinthians 9 verse 13, it says, Through the proof of this ministry they glorify God for the obedience of your confession To the gospel of Christ for your liberal sharing with them and all men. The word sharing and the word communion are other ways that this word is translated. Folks, what we find here in this passage is that there that and we're going to see how they fellowship in a few moments. But one of the necessary aspects of worshiping God in simplicity Simplicity is that there is this sharing of things. Now, this really frankly is not talking about sharing about who is going to win the Super Bowl. Or who is going to lose the Orioles, obviously. Those kind of things are not going Believe me, I'm a little bitter about that, but that's okay. Those kinds of things, folks, are not really, that's not what fellowship is Fellow there's nothing wrong with doing that. Nothing wrong with talking about those things. There's certainly nothing that says we can't talk about those things. But folks, fellowship is something more Fellowship is the sharing of things that God has given us. It's the sharing of truth. The most concentrated kind of fellowship is actually the Lord's Supper. Did you know that? It is the most concentrated kind of fellowship in all the New Testament. And folks, that's why you have here the very next thing is the breaking of bread. Would you notice what it says in the passage? It tells us here that the breaking of bread is a necessary Is is one of these components of the simplicity of worship. In, it says the breaking of bread. Now let me mention this. Sometimes in the New Testament, the breaking of bread has to do with just simply partaking of a meal. But here it is specifically talking about the Lord's table. And we know that because there is this definite article that is used. In fact, every one of these have a definite article. The Apostles' Teaching. The Fellowship. The breaking of bread. And the prayers. It's all, even though it's not all in English there, it is all in the Greek. You have the in each one of these. And so you have here the breaking of bread. So he's talking here about the Lord's Supper. The Lord's Supper. The breaking of bread is mentioned several times. Sometimes it's called different things in the New Testament. It's called the Lord's Supper sometimes. It's called communion also, as well. I want us to take our Bibles because we're actually participating in the Lord's Supper this morning. This is a great time to do this. Would you take your Bibles And keep your finger in Acts, but turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 10 for a moment. And we're going to look at verse 16. I want you to notice something about the connection between fellowship And the breaking of bread. By the way, as you're turning there, I want you to notice a couple of things. Did you know that the breaking of bread, the Lord's Supper, was done practiced by the early church every day? That was evidently the case. It was certainly, as time went on through church history, practiced every Sunday. And in more recent days it's practiced, it seems to be less and less. Folks, I just want to suggest to you that it should That in my opinion, the Bible doesn't prescriptively tell us how often we ought to practice the Lord's Supper. Never actually says how often we ought to do this. But folks, we ought it ought to be regular. We know that. And I just think monthly is a minimum, to be very candid with you Notice what it says here in the text when it comes to this. He says, Paul's teaching here says the cup of the blessing which we bless. Now the cup of the blessing is actually a for reference to the To the third cup of the Passover, which Jesus used as the cup in the first Lord's table. He says, He took bread and gave thanks to God in the presence of them all. And when he had broke it, oh, I'm sorry, it says, the bread which we break, um, is it not the communion of the blood of Christ? So he says, Is it not uses the word communion? Is it not the communion of the blood or the fellowship of the blood of Christ? The bread which we break, is it not the fellowship, the communion of the body of Christ? Now here's what he's saying here in this passage. Paul is teaching us what the Lord's Supper is all about. How do you come to the Lord's Supper? How do you come to this breaking of bread? Do you think Do you think in its first instance, do you think of it as something individual? When you come, are you preoccupied with trying to confess every sin that you can that you can think of? Do you sort of treat it as some sort of Baptist confessional? Do you realize, folks, that that is not the intention of the Lord's Supper? Now, it does not mean that we should not examine ourselves. The Bible says to do that, 1 Corinthians chapter 11. But folks, the intention of the Lord's Supper is for all of us to realize that we are in unity, sharing with one another in the death of Christ. That we are understanding together that we are all collectively depending upon the finished work of Christ. His shed blood and his broken body, his suffering on the cross, to pay the punishment for our sin. There is this concentrated sharing and unity one with another. This practice in the early church began uh to be so prolific and so pronounced that even officials, even government uh unsaved government officials began to identify the early church by this practice. They said there are this there's this sort of there it's written in some of the early uh extra biblical writings in the second century, the word uh the uh and and and it's mentioned one letters writ right into another letter about these people that gather together and they do this drinking and breaking bread thing together. It's it's sort of interesting the way that it's being observed by the government officials and the Romans uh during that time. And it is it's it's it's a clear demonstration, a symbol that we all agree together that Jesus and the work of Christ on the cross is the payment for our sin. And that is the unity that we have in Christ. All of our unity, folks, is in that. It's not on other things. We don't find our unity necessarily in our background. We don't find our unity in our commonality, in our interests. We don't find our unity in in various uh in the same you know uh the same socio you know uh s background or or those kinds of things. We find our unity in this, in Jesus Christ, who he is, and what he did on the cross for us. With all that in mind, then we find this fourth thing is corporate prayer. It says here, folks, the prayers. And it's actually plural in the Greek. The prayers, he says. That is that the first century church was very, very focused on corporate prayer together. Let me ask you this question. When you think of prayer, do you think first of it as an individual practice or do you think of it as a collective corporate practice? Which one is more important? Well, don't answer that. I don't think the New Testament can emphasize there is probably not one that's more important than the other, but folks, they are both absolutely important Now I think sometimes we tend to think that the individual prayers, that our individual prayer, if we have a good personal prayer life, that corporate prayer is really not all that important or it's secondary or not necessary. And what we find in this passage is that, and we find the example in the book of Acts, is that is definitely not the case. Corporate prayer is a response of a collective group of people that are filled by God's Spirit. They will pray together. And this is absolutely necessary. Folks, this is something that in practice we need to practice, not just on Sunday mornings On Sunday nights and on Wednesday nights, this is something that we need to collectively realize the importance of corporate prayer together. It is equally important to these other aspects It's absolutely necessary and absolutely important. And that's why tonight part of what we'll do is pray together as a body of believers, realizing how important that is that we do that. And folks, we ought not do it just as a obligation or responsibility. It ought to be as a response to the fact that we are filled with the Spirit of God, which assumes that we are praying personally. We need to pray personally before the Lord. Now, all of this then brings us To the Spirit of God working in these people, how did they worship? They worship folks with intense devotion. Would you notice in this passage what it says in verse 43 through 47? Verse 43 it says, Then fear came upon every soul, and many wonders and signs were done through the apostles. That is, they were in awe by what God was doing. Wouldn't it be wonderful that we would be in awe by what God is doing? And you know, I will say this, that there is a sense in which we as a local church in a much more diminished way than than in the book of Acts, we can can we not do that, Bethel Baptist? Can we not look back and see and be in awe at what God has done? Whether it's giving us a new building or bring or adding to his increase in his time and and people being discipled in this ministry and people coming to Christ in this ministry. All of those kinds of things, folks, there is a sense in a much smaller way that we can really be in awe of what God is doing. Folks, we ought to always have that, those are our antennas up, if you will. to see what God is doing in our midst and to recognize that it is God's work and He is doing it. There is this intensity of devotion, this awe, this devoted attitude. Then you'll notice this, and moving quickly to it, number uh verse 44, you'll see this. It says verse forty-four, Now all who believe were together and had all things in common, and sold their possessions and goods, and divided their possessions and goods, and divided them among all. as anyone had need. Now, folks, let me just mention this. You know, most of the time when we come to this passage We are coming to this passage and we and immediately we we run and say, okay, well this is not prescriptive. This is not something that we are supposed to follow. And it is true that we are not, this is not something that we necessarily in the same form are supposed to follow. But I think that there is a real misunderstanding about what this what happened here. As I have studied this out, I really found that it there's a lot of things that were not occurring here. First of all, I want us to understand that this was not a kind of forced communism here. In this passage, when they were giving to each other, this is not forced communism. Number two, this was not a total disposal of private property. Don't think, don't read that into the passage. It's not as though they sold everything and then gave everything to each other. That's not what was happening. That's not what's going on here. And this is not advocating that people shouldn't work. It actually says in Ephesians 4. 28, it's commanded that we work So that we have to give to those who are in need. So that's not what it's talking about here. But I want us to understand here, and we'll pick up on this in the future, but I want us to understand three applications of what's happening here in this passage. I want us to understand what number one that what was going on here is that they were so intensely devoted on what on studying the scriptures. On praying together, on knowing the Word of God, on listening to the apostles' teaching, they were so intensely devoted to these things, they were absolutely unwilling to refuse, or they were unwilling to let anything get in the way of that. Let me ask you this question, brothers and sisters in Christ. What keeps you from having, when you struggle with having personal devotions, personal time with the Lord, what keeps you from having that? So there are some that would say, well, it's really just disinterest. And if that's the case, folks, then you have a much deeper spiritual problem, honestly. If you have no interest in spending time with the Lord, there is a real spiritual problem. But folks, for many of us, the thing that keeps us from really spending quality time with the Lord Is the cares of this life. Is it not true that what occurs in our lives is that we get up in the morning and things just have to be done And or we go throughout the day and things have to be done. It's like the thing that can wait is our Bible reading and our prayer life. But but things everything else ha I mean things have to be done. This doesn't really practically has to be done, but other things have to be done. I mean, is that not your experience? When you struggle with having a devoted time with the Lord, is it not true, folks? that it's because it's the tyranny of the urgent, if you will. Christ talks about this. He uses this parable of the sower and the sewers And he says in Matthew thirteen, verse twenty-two, Now he who has received the seed, which is the Word of God, among the thorns He is he who hears the word, and the cares of the world and the deceitfulness of riches choke the word and become unfruitful. Whether it's the deceitfulness of the riches, maybe not, maybe, maybe not, but the cares of this world certainly do they do they not These people were absolutely refusing to allow the cares of this world to keep them from having time with the Lord. And lots of it actually. Now let me just make this application. We ought to emulate that. And we'll talk more about what all this means, but we ought to we folks, we ought to emulate that. We ought to realize that in the short run there may be things that have to be done, but in the long run, we cannot afford to not spend time with God. And there is something else with regard to this application here that I just want to mention as well. I was looking at this passage and I was realizing that what occurred here. is that people when they had need, others would get, would meet those needs. They realize, as it says in Romans chapter that they were members one of another and they met each other's needs. How do you know when it's time to meet someone else's need in the body of Christ? Let me just make this application. I was thinking about this and meditating on this. Do you know how you know Well it seems as though they are so preoccupied that perhaps they're having a hard time with spending time with the Lord. If you have a family member, husband or a wife, and you realize that they're not spending time with the Lord. Well maybe there are there are needs that need to be met in order for them to be able to do that. Husbands, maybe there are needs that your wife needs to you need to meet for her so she can spend time with the Lord. Or wives, maybe there are needs that you need to meet for your husband. But I think folks it may expand beyond that. I think it may expand beyond to just the body of believers. together, that we together would understand and be so knowledgeable about the needs of one another that when there when there becomes a distraction When there becomes something in the life of a believer or a family that is so preoccupying that we ought to, that is a time that we ought to step in and help. Are we sensitive to the needs of others in that way? And by the way, I'll say this: if you find yourself in a way in a place that you are so preoccupied with your own needs, your own physical needs that you That you can't spend time with the Lord or you're just preoccupied with that, that's when you need to get help. Can I just say it that way? If you find yourself that way, you need to get help. Because that is one of the reasons from what we could see in this text that the body of Christ has come Together to help each other in this. And I encourage you to really consider this. There's a lot more here, and we will cover a lot more of it in the future, but just let us settle in on that. Relentlessly refusing to allow the word to be plucked from us because of the cares of this world, number one. And number two. attentiveness to the cares of others that are keeping them from being able to spend time with the Lord as well. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you and we thank you for for your goodness. We thank you for your for the clarity of the Spirit's work in this passage. Lord, I it it is amazing what you can do with a group of people. That will be consistently filled with your spirit. Lord, as we delve into this passage, not just today, but next Sunday as well. I pray that it would teach us and convict us and encourage us and challenge us and exhort us To give significant attention to receiving the word And I pray also, Father, that we would be attentive to the needs of others, that we would be able to meet the needs of others in the body, so that they too can continue to worship in this way. Lord, I pray that you would just work in our lives as individuals and in the and in this in this body collectively as we look at a clear example from Scripture. May we not be so preoccupied with the things that are not there. That we don't see the things that are clearly there. And Lord, as we go in now, we enter into a time of communion, a time of Fellowship, time of sharing one another with one another, of the of the death of Christ, the very concentrated kind of fellowship that you have given us in this ordinance. I pray That we would bring to remembrance Christ, his death on the cross, what he has done for us That we would celebrate this together. That we would, that this would be a true symbol of our unity together. Lord, may we do this together in remembrance of Christ. And may we be proclaiming the Lord's death until he comes. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. This time what I want to do is your