And we'll read today in verses forty-three through forty-seven of this passage. Acts chapter 2. Last week we looked at the four practices that the early church were involved in. Four sort of ordinary practices. And actually we'll pick up in verse 42 and we'll read there so we can sort of get the context for our study today. Acts 2. 42. And they continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship in the breaking of bread and in prayers. Then fear came upon every soul, and every one and many wonders and signs were done through the apostles. Now all who believed were together, and had all things in common and sold their possessions and goods and divided them among all as any one had need. So continuing daily with one accord in the temple and breaking bread from house to house, they ate their food with the gladness and simplicity of heart, praising God and having favor with all the people, and the Lord added to the church d daily those who were being saved. Let's go to the Lord and ask his blessing on our message. Father, we come to you and we thank you for this early church, this very first church. That you give us a description here that helps us to understand the very essence of what they're doing. We have an example of the of the most important things that we ought to be doing as a local church here in this passage laid out for us. And we can see what it looks like. To have a church that is spirit-filled, a church that is authentic in its approach to worshiping you. Not attempting to manufacture what only you can do, but being faithful in what you have given us to do. And we pray, Lord, that as they did it there, we would do it here. That we would focus on your word and the teaching and the preaching of your word, that we would focus on fellowship. We would understand what it means to have a sharing with each other of the things that you have given us. That you would help us to understand what it means to worship you in coming together for the Lord's table. the commonality that we have in Christ, the unity that's represented there. And in corporate prayer prayer, dear Father, something that seems to often be put on the back burner, Lord. May we understand that you desire for your people collectively, not just individually, but collectively to pray, to bring our requests before you and to And to lift our hearts before you in wanting you to do extraordinary things through ordinary means. And we pray, Lord, that you'd help us today as we look at all of this. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. How many of you all have seen that the first Lego movie? How many of you have seen that movie? Alright, well I've I've seen parts I think I see I saw all but you remember Emmett, the beginning of that movie? Emmet is um a character in the movie there's uh and he is con he is singing this song Everything Is Awesome all the time. The same song. Every day, all the time. And he watches TV and that song comes on the TV. And this is all This is all as a result of Lord Business, who later on he's uh yeah, Lord Business is what is his name. President Business is what they call him and he ends up being Lord Business at the end of the movie All is a result of his construct to create all of what is going to happen. And really, everything is awesome. Just the very phrase everything awesome means that nothing is. If you really think about it. In fact, at the end of the movie, Emmett says to Lord Business, you don't have to be a bad guy. You are the most talented, most interesting, most extraordinary person in the universe. And so is everybody. Well, the we live in a society that that seems to just want everything to be epic. We want everything to be revolutionary, transformational, life-changing, impactful, extreme, ultimate I have mentioned the book Ordinary by Michael Horton a couple of times in the past. And we tend to want everything to be extraordinary when Really, what God wants us to do is to be faithful in those ordinary things of life. And even as a church Sometimes churches are I I I see a lot of things on different I'm I'm friends with a lot of different kinds of pastors on Facebook and Honestly, sometimes it feels it looks like they I hope I'm not being overly critical, but it looks like they are used car salesmen on those things uh on on videos and they're saying, hey, this is gonna be the best Sunday ever I sort of like, really? Well why? And there's some series they're doing about, you know, some you know, we're gonna do a s series on the family. That means we're gonna be the best Sunday ever And I sort of look at it and say, well, what was wrong with last Sunday? And what about the pre- the future Sunday? What we find in this text as we go through this is we're going to find a group of people that are not looking for the epic. They're not looking for the transformational, the life-changing. They're living daily a certain way. You see this term daily. They're daily worshiping with each other. They're daily praying with each other. They're daily fellowshipping with each other. And the Lord at the very end of the verse 47 says, the Lord is adding daily to those who would be saved, those who are being saved. So how is it that God wants a church to be? Is it that it ought to be marked by epic events? Or should a church be marked by the faithful, can we say, ordinary, teaching and preaching and praying and fellowship and worship? Should that be how a church is marked? Now, I want to be clear. As we look at this passage, we are not going to find a mediocre church by any means. Ordinary doesn't mean mediocre. The things that God has called them to do in this passage in verse 42 are sort of ordinary kinds of things. They're not things that happen every once in a great while. They're things that are intended to be done daily. regularly, weekly. But they're not to be done in a mediocre way. And as we look at this passage, we're going to find anything but that These folks in this passage, 3,000 souls plus, are are absolutely intense in their worship of the Lord. We have a church here that is That is simplistic and yet not simplistic, simple, not really simplistic. It's simple, it's beautiful, there's an energy here, there's a life and a vitality here. This church is a church that we ought to want to emulate. A church that loves the Lord and loves each other and follows after the things of God and holds high His Word and applies His Word. Those kinds of things that are not epic There are those kinds of things that on a day-to-day, week-to-week basis, we are faithfully doing. And when a church does that, from what we see in this passage, God does extraordinary things. And we're going to see that in the passage. So let's begin as we look at verse 43, and we see the very first response to these four things, these daily things that God wants them to do. We see first of all That fear came upon every soul, verse 43. What does it mean there that fear came upon every soul? Well, Luke uses this term in different ways. In chapter 1 of the book of Luke, of course, remember Luke is the writer of the book of Acts. In Luke chapter 1, verse 12, the angel appears to Zacharias. Zacharias is troubled, it says, and Zacharias saw him and was troubled, and fear fell on him. He saw the awesomeness of this angel, and fear fell on him. And later on in that same chapter, you'll recall that Zacharias loses his ability to be able to speak. And yet When he regains his ability to be able to speak, the people respond, and fear came on all who dwelt around them. And all these things were discussed throughout the hill country of Judea. There was this fear that came upon them In Luke chapter 2 verse 9, it says, the angels appeared to the shepherds, and fear came upon them. And in Luke chapter 5, verse 24, we have a man who has been paralyzed and who is healed. And it says this Verse 25, immediately he rose and before him them took up what he had been lying on, and departed on his own house, glorifying God. And they were all amazed, and they glorified God, and were filled with fear This tells us then from all these different passages, it tells us that when it's when Luke uses this term, their souls are filled with fear. It's not talking about the kind of trepidation where where it doesn't allow for you to sort of constricts you where you don't think you could do anything because of fear. No. They are in awe. They are in awe of God's working in their lives. Every time Luke uses this term throughout throughout Luke, or most times he used this term. It's in response to what God is doing. It's in response And in awe of God's working in their life. And Luke 7, 14 through 16, you'll see in that passage it says, Fear came upon all, and they glorified God A great prophet was risen, they said, a great prophet was risen among us, and God has visited his people. In that passage, Christ raised someone from the dead. And there was great glory that occurred from it. And they glorified God. They were in awe of what God was doing. The New American Standard says it this way, and everyone kept feeling a sense of awe. When I do my study, I look at all kinds of different versions that one was particularly everyone just kept feeling a sense of awe. Can I ask you a question? Is that how you think of the local church? That we are doing ordinary things on a daily and regular and weekly basis, and that God through us is doing extraordinary things through the ordinary things that God wants us to do. And there is this sense of all. The word then there in the passage indicates That the reason they had this sense of awe was not because of the miracles that are after the ver that come after, but because of this this constant daily practice of worship and fellowship. It was a beautiful thing, this first century church that was able to worship and fellowship this way. We need to understand and want to emulate this. And I was thinking just in reflecting on our church, I'm very thankful for the unity that we have. Those of us who have maybe experienced disunity knows how precious unity really is. But you know it's something we can grow in. Something we can we can move forward in and wanting to grow closer together one with another and And we're going to see in this passage how they did that. There ought to be, as we are faithful in the ordinary things that God wants us to do, there in this passage. God will do extraordinary things through us and so that we can say we just stand in awe. Wouldn't it? Do you want that? You want to be able to see what God is doing in our midst and to be able to just have this constant feeling of awe of what God is doing. Not what we're doing, not the great thing that we're doing, but what God is doing through us as we are faithful to His Word. We're going to see then in the passage that says that there were wonders and signs being done. That's going to take place. We're going to see an example of that in the next chapter, in chapter 3, verses 1 through 8. It indicates here the reason that God did this in this first century church was to place his stamp of approval on what was happening. He was authenticating their work. He was saying This is my divine activity. We don't really need that kind of thing anymore, at least the kind of way that was the proliferation of miracles. And what we need to be able to do is we need to be able to follow and see what God's Word says, then be able to obey it in our own lives and be faithful, and to see what God does as we are faithful to Him. As we are faithful to him, we can be awed by the things that he does through us Well, what does this sense of awe look like? I mean, what does it practically look like when there's a group of people, a church? They're gathering together, in this case, by our standards, a very large group of people, there's 3,000 here. They, by the way, couldn't leave the area. They couldn't leave Jerusalem. You know why? The church was there. They couldn't leave and go to another church. This is the only church. Until there was provision made for that. They were They pretty much had to stay where they were. They were sort of quote unquote stuck where they were because they wouldn't want to go and not be part uh of the church. And so they pretty much had to stay there, which created some needs, didn't it? I mean just think about it. If you're not able to fulfill your livelihood the way that You thought you were going to have to be able to because you want to continue to worship with God's people in the area in Jerusalem that you're at. You just came to Christ, you've been baptized, and now you want to continue in the church and worship God's people. There's going to be ha sacrifices there have are going to have to be made And they couldn't go back to their place where they were. They had to remain where God had put them. With that in mind, let's look at verses 44 through 45. Now all who believed were together, and had all things in common, and sold their possessions and goods, and divided them among all as any one had need. Now this is a passage that has been really, to some degree, misunderstood and in some ways misapplied. I want to begin by noting that there was this, they were all together, this phrase all together. The emphasis on the passage is that they were in unity. Whatever they were doing, and we're going to talk about what they were doing, but they were in unity when they were doing it. This truly was a fulfillment of Christ's prayer when he prayed prior to his death on the cross to his father in John 17. Now I am no longer in the world, but these are in the world. I come to you, Holy Father, keep through your name those who you have given me, that they may be one as we are. Christ prayed for their unity. And now it was happening. It was an answer to Christ's high priestly prayer. They were being, they were all together. It says in a practical manifestation of this that they all had things in common. They were selling possessions and dividing them among those who needed them, essentially. And you see that in the passage. There are many times where I've heard preachers come to this passage. And they immediately begin to sort of be critical of the passage, or not the passage itself, but they'll say, well, this doesn't apply to us immediately. And I would actually suggest that we need to be cautious there. We need to be does is it a prescriptive passage? No. But are there things that we ought to be learning from this passage? Yes. There are things that we can emulate, certainly. I think part of the misunderstanding of the passages is really has to do with the misunderstanding of what was going on here. What were they actually doing? And so we're going to look at this. Before we look at what they weren't doing here in the passage, I want to note that this was something that was repeated. In fact, if you take your Bibles, you can turn there. Just flip a A few pages over to Acts chapter 4, and you'll see in Acts 4. 32 that this is a repeated practice that they were doing here. And it in that passage you actually find more detail about what was happening. Acts 4. 32. Now the multitude of those who believed were of one heart and one soul. Notice the unity there again. Neither did anyone say that any of the of the things he possessed was his own. But they had all things in common. With great power, the apostles gave witness to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and great grace was upon them. Nor was there any one among them who lacked, for all who were possessors of land and houses sold them, and brought the proceeds of the things that were sold. And laid them at the apostles' feet, and they distributed to each as any one had need. You find over in Acts chapter 5, we won't take the time to turn there, but you'll remember the passage about Ananias and Sapphira and how they chose to give uh a portion of what they had, a pro particular property that they had, and problem there was not that they only gave a portion, the problem there was that they lied about how much they gave. Course with great dire consequences in X five. So this is the kind of thing that did happen in the early church With that in mind, I'd like to mention a few things just for us to understand what this was not. What was not going on here? This, number one, was not a kind of a forced communism. That's not what this was. In fact, you find in Acts 5. 4 a question was asked of Anias and Sapphira, was this not your own before you gave it? It wasn't as though they sort of absolve themselves of all personal property or something like that. And that wasn't at all the case. In fact, you find in various places in the book of Acts that People are worshiping in the house of so-and-so, indicating that they owned the house that they were in. So they didn't suddenly decide to no longer have property or something. That really leads to the next point. This was not a total disposal of private property. In Acts 12. 12, it says the house of Mary. In Acts 3, the house of Mary, the mother of John Mark. And by the way, in Acts 4. 34, in this passage When that says they gave of those who are possessors of houses and lands, notice the plurality of that, the lands plural and houses plural. It wasn't as it as though they were giving of of of um like their own dwelling places or their families on the street because they're selling their house. That's not what was in the passage. That's not what's indicated there either. And this certainly is not advocating either that people shouldn't work. We find a clearer message in Ephesians 4 28. Let him who stole steal no longer, but rather let him labor, working with his hands what is good, that he may have something to give him who has need. What was happening here was that there was this continuous attentive noticing of the needs of God's people. And the desire and the appropriation to meet those needs. You have this term from the or the at least the idea of from time to time this would occur. There are five imperfect tenses in the passage if you're uh if you know y you're familiar with Greek and it's the idea of a continuous action that has results into the future. There's this past continuous action with results in the future So it's not as though this is a one-time thing where everybody put everything into one pot. I think it's important to recognize because Because sometimes the reason we don't actually find what's really here for us to apply is because we think something that's is there that's not really there, if that makes sense. But then the question is, what is this? What what did occur here? Well, number one, what occurred here, obviously. is that there was this intense focus on spiritual things and on the needs of the body. There was this intense focus on spiritual things. If you would just say it, if you just sort of understand it this way, they are all ravenously desiring to know the word. To know the truth, the apostles' doctrine, to fellowship with each other, to worship with each other. This is their primary concern in their life. It's not their only concern. Doesn't mean that they necessarily, the ones that were actually in Jerusalem, quit quit their jobs or something. But this was their primary concern. They wanted to know they had this hunger for the Word of God and to know the truth. And frankly, for the foundation of the church, this was the foundation, they really needed to uh absorb as much truth as they possibly could, really as quickly as they could, because All these 3,000 were going to be sent out to establish churches all over the place as God providentially caused them to do that later on in the book of Acts. They were obedient to the idea of not hoarding as it's in Luke 6. 30. They had more than they needed, and so they did not want to hoard. I want us to see another New Testament example of what this probably what this looked like. When you take your Bibles and turn to 2 Corinthians chapter 8, and what we're going to do as we look at this passage. is really just to, I want you to see the heart attitude behind this. Notice what, just the spirit that's here in this passage as Paul describes what's going on here. Second Corinthians chapter eight, picking up in verse one. Moreover, brethren, we do we do you to wit of the grace of God bestowed on the churches of Macedonia, how that in a great trial of affliction the abundance of their joy and their deep poverty abounded under the riches of their liberality. For to their power I bear record, yea and beyond their power, they were willing of themselves. praying us with much entreaty that we would receive the gift and take upon us the fellowship of the ministering of the saints. And this they did, not as we hoped, but first gave of their own cells to the Lord, and unto us by the will of God. And as much as that we desired Titus, that as he had begun, so he would also finish in use the same grace also. Therefore, as ye abound in everything in faith, and utterance, and knowledge, and in all diligence, and in your love to us, see that ye abound in this grace also. The Apostle Paul says to the church of Corinth, the people of Macedonia gave. They gave willingly, and they gave graciously, and they gave And notice in the passage it says that they gave themselves to God, and of his will gave himself to others. Folks, that's what's happening here in Acts. They gave of themselves to the Lord, and as a result of that, they were ready and willing and responsive to giving of themselves to each other. And folks, in a in a in a real sense, this is something that we can emulate in the body of Christ. It doesn't necessarily mean we would do it in the same way they did. Of course, they're The situation is different. The context is different. But folks, I believe that there are some serious things that we can learn from this passage rather than skirting it as something that doesn't apply to us. You see this intense desire to take care of each other, and that is something that God wants us to have. Number one application is this, we ought to emulate And when I mentioned this last week, we ought to emulate their refusal to allow the cares of the world to choke out the received word. They were unwilling to allow the cares of the world To choke out the received word of God in their lives. They were unwilling to do that. In Acts chapter or Matthew chapter 13, verse 22, you have that parable there. where it says that the seed was planted, but it and the seed is the word of God in that passage, but there is this possibility, and could we say almost this probability? That the cares of the world, the everyday functional things of life, would crowd out, the thorns would crowd out the word So it couldn't take root deep in our souls. And the first century church refused for that to happen. They would not allow that to happen in their lives, but secondly, they wouldn't allow it to happen in each other's life. Would you notice? See that? You see how this was a natural response to the needs that were there and the need that people couldn't travel, they couldn't go back to a place where there was no church. They had to stay there. And the others realized this and they gave as a result of the needs that were there. And they wanted to do this to make sure that the that God's people were fed spiritually. In other words, they fed each other physically so they could feed each other spiritually, and they could feed on the word. And this ought to be something that we ought to be attentive to, not just attentive to in our lives, but be attentive to the lives of others. Is there a need that we can meet that will help someone be able to be more focused on the world? Are there cares in the lives of others that are so great? That they can't focus on the word as they should, or as God would want them to, or perhaps as they would even want to. What can we do as a local church? Number two, we ought to realize that we are members one of another. Very rarely, I think, do we really think that way, that we are vitally linked one to another in the body of Christ, that we are members one of another. Romans chapter 12, verse 3 Beginning verse 3 says this, for as we have many members in one body, but all members do not have the same function. So we being many are one body in Christ. We're one body. And individual members of one another, let me just pause and ask the question, what does it mean that we're Christ's body What does it mean, folks, that the church is the body of Christ? Let me put it this way, folks. We are Christ made visible. Outside of the church, if you do not have the church, you do not have Christ made visible to the world. Christ expressly intended his church to be the visible Christ to the world. That is the body of Christ And so the importance of the body of Christ cannot be underestimated. Well, how does it function in a way that it does represent Christ to the world? The answer is in that in Romans 12 there. It says, having been gifts. Differing according to the grace that is given to us, let us use them. If prophecy let us prophesy in proportion to our faith. Or ministry, let us uh let us use it in our ministering. He who teaches and teaching, he who exhorts and exhortation, he who gives with liberality, he who leads with diligence, he who shows mercy and with cheerfulness Let love be without hypocrisy, abhor that which is evil, cling to that which is good, be kindly, affectionate to one another with brotherly love and honor, giving preference one to another, not lacking in diligence fervent in spirit, serving the Lord, rejoicing in hope, patient in tribulation, continuing steadfastly in prayer, distributing to the needs of the saints given to hospitality. It's not as though the book of Acts of the first century, the first church here, they distributed the need to the saints, and then they stopped doing it. We have a mandate, actually, that we ought to be doing this in Romans chapter 12 here. We ought to be distributing to the needs of the saints. We ought to be taking care of one another. And folks, we are living in a society where we are so insulated from each other and isolated from each other at the same time. We can control exactly how much exposure we have to one another. We can isolate from each other if we choose to do so. And there is this great need to understand that we are vitally linked one to another. We are members of the same body, one with another. Philippians chapter 2 tells us this. Let each of you look out not on your own interests, but also on the interests of others. We ought to constantly desire to meet the needs of brothers and sisters in Christ. These are the things that we can learn. As this first century church did this, they did it liberally, they did it unhindered, they did not do it with great grudging, oh I they got they got a need, I'll go to. No, they wanted to meet the needs of each other. Why? Why do they want to meet the needs of each other? Because in doing so, they would all be able to stay connected to the Lord and to worship them unhindered. Worship Him unhindered. That's why. Because the reality is when you have deep needs, there is this possibility that it will crowd out the truth of the Word of God. With all this in mind, folks, notice then the joy that occurs, the things that result, this leads us to authentic worship. Verse 46. Verse forty six. He says And they continued, uh that's verse 42. Uh so continuing daily with one accord in the temple. And breaking bread from house to house, they ate their food with gladness and simplicity of heart So they continued daily with one another. There was this constant fellowship with one another, this dependency on one another, depending on God and with one another. And they were one accord. You see this oneness continuing. In the temple, you see it. And the breaking of bread from house to house. This constant desire. You know, it was like they they notice it says they met in the temple. But that really wasn't enough for them. They wanted to meet with each other more. They wanted to get together more. And so once a week in the temple, that wasn't enough. They wanted to get together, and so they started meeting together in houses houses together Enjoying one another, fellowshipping one another, eating together. And they ate their food, it says, with what? With two things, with gladness and simplicity of heart. Don't you love that? I mean, just think of it. They ate them their food with gladness, this joy and simplicity of heart. And that's exactly what the word means. It means in the Greek, it means simplicity of heart. That's what it means. You know, sin complicates things. Our world complicates things. You look at a complicated situation, and it's either because of a fallen world or because of sinful actions, or both. Our world complicates things. And what God desires for us as a church is to have a simplicity of heart that doesn't complicate things. That has this joy and this glad. You know what complicates things? Things like pride. Well, I know better than he does I can figure this out better. Or fear. Well, I don't want somebody to dupe me. I don't want to get somebody to get over on me. I gotta be careful. I've got to be hindered. I gotta be I gotta watch that. Those kinds or self-protection. Those are the kinds of things that complicate things so there is not this simplicity of heart, and we are all guilty of this. Why is it that these people were had this, they ate their fruit with joy, there was this fellowship and this worship and this simplicity, this This ordinary daily experience that was just brought them great joy, it was because their heart was simple. Doesn't mean their minds were simple. Doesn't mean they weren't learning of the rich and deep truths of God, but their hearts were simple. And there was not they were not polluted and convoluted by all kinds of sinful attitudes that got into their souls. There was this simplicity of heart. They loved God. They loved one another. And there was gladness as a result of it. There was joy. This is a kind of a kind of a joy that is not well developed in our churches today. This is a kind of a joy that that is it's it it almost seems as though sometimes it's unheard of. We are so looking to other things to to stimulate us to Have joy in other places where God says this gladness, this joy in this passage is just as a result of a simple heart doing simple things with God's simple people. And as a result of all of that, there's this joy that comes. Do you want this? I mean I read this passage, I'll just say very candidly, sort of extemporaneously, I read this passage and I say, this is this is wonderful. This is what we want. I'm thankful, I'm very grateful for a church that is unified. I think it's so important for us to remain that way. But we can we we can grow in this area, can we not? This is an area that we can really develop in. And we have to fight the culture when it comes to this, because the culture is absolutely going the other direction when it comes to all of this. We have to find ways to do that. The kind of joy that is here is the kind of joy when you have fellowship with other brothers and sisters in Christ, and when you have this kind of worship that is unmatchable. You'll throw away your computer games for this. You'll throw away your your other kinds of enjoyment. I don't know why computer games came to my mind, but you'll you'll throw away that stuff. Just to be with God's people. And by the way, I'm not saying throw away your computer games. I'm just saying, just in case somebody goes out here and says that. No, I'm not saying throw away your computer games. I'm just saying you'll you'll want that it will be a m a minor thing These kinds of things that we stimulate ourselves with will be minor if we can find joy with God's people in a major way. The priority, the authenticity will be there. And then we see the results of this. First of all, we see the behavior in verse the first part of verse 47, praising God and having favor with all the people. They just gloried in the truth of God and fellowship with one another and all of this, and they just praised God unhindered. They loved him and they loved what he was doing, they loved him working in their midst, and they were knowing truth more, and they were working with each other, and they just lifted their hearts to praise unified praise to their God. Then there's this result. Notice the incredible result of all this. And the Lord did what? The Lord added to the church daily those who were being saved. There was this recognition recognition. I love the way this is this is worded. It's not as though these people, by their own effort And their own method and their own epic event saved these, you know, fifty people in a event. Twenty hundred of people in event. Two hundred people. You know, if that genuinely happens, praise the Lord. But that's not what it says here. God saved the people that were saved. As people were being saved, there was this recognition that God was doing this. It wasn't man doing it. It wasn't Their methods do it. It was God doing it. As they were faithful and doing what God wanted them to do as a body of believers, then people were coming to Christ. There was clearly Clearly, in extra-biblical literature and in the New Testament, you have unsaved people that were coming in the midst of them and were observing what was happening. And were coming to Christ as a result of this kind of spirit, this kind of attitude, this kind of authentic worship that they had. And I want us to notice as well, the Lord added them. First Corinthians 3, verse 6 says, Paul says, I planted, the Apollos watered, but God gave the increase. So then neither he who plants is anything, nor he who waters, but God gives the increase. Matthew sixteen, verse eighteen, Christ says, I will build my church, and the gates of the grave will not prevail against God is the one that adds the increase. He's the one that saves souls. He's the one that brings people to Christ. As we are faithful to be the church that God wants us to be. This is of great importance to us to recognize what we have here. I want us to ask some simple questions here as we close. Remember this, folks. The church is, before we get into questions, that the church is God's gospel, the gospel made visible. That gives us a responsibility to be this. It's going to function a little differently in our context, but essentially to be this. So that God in his way can add to his church. There is, and this is always the case, there is our responsibility And God's providential working that go hand in hand together. And you find this clearly in this passage. I'd like to ask us to ask three questions. Number one. Are we constantly in awe of what the Lord is doing in his church? You say, well, you know, I'm not really sure I'm in awe of what God is doing in his church. You know, there may be a couple of reasons for that. One is there's just not an attentiveness to what God is doing. Very candidly. Maybe that there's a a lack of connectedness as to what is going on in in people's lives that you're not seeing spiritual growth in people's lives. We're not seeing discipleship for discipleship happening or people even coming to Christ or those kinds of things happening. I get to see more than most people do when it comes to this. And so I can praise the Lord for certain things I'm seeing in the lives of people. Folks, there ought to be not just me saying it at all. We ought to see each- in each other. Spiritual growth in each other's lives. People coming to Christ. Discipleship happening. Those kinds of things ought to be happening. Are we constantly in awe of what the Lord is doing in his church? Number one. Number two. Are we intensely devoted to worship and meeting the needs of others, members, and the body of Christ? Are we intensely devoted to two things, to worship and to meeting the needs of others? This is simple, isn't it? It's not complicated. Those two things. Folks, if we are going to corporately worship the way God desires for us to, we've got to worship individually. Did you realize that your individual worship has a a component to it that fosters corporate worship, that when we come together and worship the Lord, there is this there is the sincerity, and I'll put it this way in a negative sense. If you come and you're singing the songs, the hymns, and all those kinds of things before during the service, and you are not seeing great meaning to the message of those songs. Either we've done a bad job in selecting the songs, which I don't think is happens very often, or maybe you haven't worshipped in the individual aspect worships on an individual basis and so we come together to worship and those just don't have the kind of meaning that they ought to have. I would never judge that in somebody else's life, but it is an indication, is it not? When you come to worship corporately if it's empty It may be, folks, that the individual worship is a contribution to that and why it's not, the corporate worship is not the way it ought to be. Number three. Are we seeing and expecting God to add to his church as we are faithful to him? God adds to his church as we are faithful. Are we seeing that happen? Are we expecting God to do that? Are we looking? Are we looking for God to work in our church? We ought to be looking for those things. Because this passage teaches us that when we do, there is this kind of joy, and it's not just this passage, it's really many places in the New Testament there's this And Paul says, fulfill ye my joy that ye be like-minded. Philippians 2, for example. There's all kinds of places where this occurs, but the joy that we have that we can have is re is absolutely dependent upon the the collective unity that we have together as a body of believers. And all of this is centered on Christ. And I want to be very clear about that. All of this is centered on Jesus Christ and who He is. These people, 3,000 souls, did not come together because they they just they all liked the same football team. Or they all had the same hobby or something. That is not why these people came together. They came from every tindered tribe, tongue, nation. They were so diverse. The gospel is what kept them together. Maybe you're here today and you're saying to yourself, you know, I even in our church there's various backgrounds, various different approaches and all kinds of things. What brings us all together? Maybe you're saying you don't know the Lord is your Savior. You're looking all this, what what is it that unifies us? That's what unifies us. It's Christ. If you don't know Christ as your Lord and Savior, if you are not sure of where you will spend eternity, If you don't, I'm just not sure of that. I don't know him. The Bible says, these things are written that ye may know that ye have eternal life. And if you don't know him, let me encourage you before you leave today, Come and talk with me after the service. I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure where you will spend eternity. So that you can do so with the Lord. Let's pray together. Father, the simple prayer of our hearts is simply that you'd make us what you want us to be. Thank you for adding to your church and we we and building your church, Lord. We pray, Lord, that you would help us to think in terms of not manufacturing what you are to do, but simply being faithful in what you want us to do. Fulfilling our responsibilities toward you and toward each other. You will add to your church the way you want. You will do what you want to with us, and we will joy in it. Lord, I pray that you would grow us and help us to spiritually grow us and help us to understand these things more. And maybe they're Maybe there is there are things in our lives that are hindering this kind of thing from happening on a corporate level. Help us to understand that what we have in our lives individually does affect us corporately. Help us to understand that you want us to Please you with our lives individually so that we can have the impact collectively that you want us to make in the world to glorify yourself. And uh we pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen.