It's about 10 degrees hotter up here than it is down there, so the jacket's coming off today. Take your Bibles and turn to John chapter 8. John chapter 8. How many of you all have seen the kids' movie um Ratatouille? How many of you seen that? Okay, like almost everyone? 'Cause 'cause we're all kids at heart. Um it's a cute movie. It's it's a it's it's a it's a perfect mix between cute and gross at the same time. Um you have uh you have on one hand you have a rat that basically uh grows up to become a cook um in a in a in a restaurant in Paris. It's a little far-fetched, isn't it? And uh in this cute story about a rat who becomes a cook, he ends up bringing all his other rat friends to uh the kitchen as well to help him cook when everybody else leaves because he's a rat. And uh then the inspector shows up. And the inspector opens the the large walk-in freezer or refrigerator and turns on the light. And he turns on the light and all of these rats scatter everywhere. And and obviously the reason that all these rats scatter everywhere is because they have been exposed. And that uh is a very silly illustration for what the light does to people. The light exposes. Last Sunday we were discussing what the light does when it shines brightly. And we uh and we looked at at John chapter nine when dealing with the blind man and the fact that he was born blind and came to the light because of Christ. And we see there we saw there a lot of symbolism and illustration of of what happens when someone comes to the light. This week we are going to look at what happens when someone comes to the light, or when the light shines, but particularly when the darkness rejects the light. Now, we have seen throughout the book of John this concept of light. In the very first chapter, we've seen this. And I would remind us about John chapter 1, verse 5, which says, the light shineth in the darkness. which is what Christ did when he came. And the darkness comprehended it not. The word comprehended is really the best translation that you can have with this word. It really means to o overcome the light did not over the darkness did not overcome the light. But it has the idea of knowledge with it. So it's sort of a play on words that John uses here. And the point that he is making is that the darkness was not able to understand the light and therefore not be able to overcome the light. But there is in that verse this idea that the darkness cannot understand the light. The darkness does not get it. It doesn't understand the light. And then we find in John chapter 3, verse 19, it says, and this is the condemnation, that light is come into the world, and men loved darkness rather than light. Why? The Bible tells us men love darkness rather than light because their deeds are evil. You see When we receive the light, we are enlightened. We go from blindness to being able to see. We go from spiritual blindness to spiritual sight. But when the light shines and we do not receive the light, we remain in spiritual blindness, but we react to the light because we are exposed. In the same way, rats are exposed by the light, if you if you shine a light in the in the in a freezer or cockroaches scatter in the kitchen if you turn the light on. Not in our kitchen. We we don't have cockroaches. I'm thinking an industrial kind of a kitchen. These kinds of things occur as as light shines. So, what we're going to learn today is going to be very helpful for us in a couple of ways. One way this helps us when we see, I mean certainly we know, even just by looking around and experiencing life, we know that the world is in darkness. We don't even have to read the Bible to know that. Of course, the reason we know that is because we've read the Bible and we've accepted the light. But look around and and and you know the world is in darkness. But the light does shine. Christ's light does shine, and it continues to do that, but men Reject the light. And the main reason they reject the light is because the light exposes them. It exposes them And we're going to find, as we look at this passage, men who are going to be exposed by Christ's shining of his own light brightly. This helps us in a couple of ways. We're going to observe how these men, these Pharisees, react to the light. And we see the same kinds of reactions in our world today. And we're going to be able to parallel them very easily. We're going to be able to see the reactions of these Pharisees, and then we're going to see, you're going to say, yeah, you know, the world does the same thing. And that, to some degree, when we look at that and we see that Satan's tricks are the same 2,000 years ago as they are today, it helps us to understand and really, in a sense, to strengthen our faith Have you ever thought to yourself, well, so many of people oppose the gospel. What if I'm wrong? Well, when you realize that people have like there's no new tactics, it's all the same at It's two thousand years ago, it was it was opposed the same way it is today. You begin to realize that it's Satan's tricks done over and over again. There's nothing new under the sun, and Christ is the light, and we need to just understand that it's going to be opposed by the majority in the world. The Bible is very clear about this in Matthew chapter 7 that the way is broad. That leads to destruction. The gate is wide, but the way is narrow, that leads to life And so it should not surprise us when the majority of the world opposes the light. But it is true that there's sort of a sense in which when you think of someone in life who've who's grown up in this country and perhaps they've had a moral background but they don't know Christ, and there are a few of them. Seems like it's com becoming less and less as our world as our country declines more and more in depravity and m immorality. But But if you think of somebody who has grown up in a moral family, there's a sense in which they could sort of float along Where they're good people, they're well meaning people, they have good they're there's they're good hearted, they're they're just kinda good people. But when the light shines brightly, it is going to expose. Until then, it's like somebody can sort of go along and think they're okay and sort of think they're a Christian. When the light shines brightly, it is either going to expose them and they're going to recoil and react, or it's going to expose them and they're going to be drawn to it and they're going to change. That is really the two options, conversion or reaction in unbelief and opposition. Until that light shines brightly, you can sort of stay on the fence. But when the light shines brightly, you're going to either react in opposition or you're going to accept and embrace and change. Through belief alone. Now, with all of that in mind, what we want to do is look at look at this passage And we're going to see here, when light shines, what does the darkness do? Before we do that, let's go to the Lord in prayer and ask his blessing on our time together. Father, as we look at your word this morning, we pray that you would help us to understand from it what happens from your perspective when light shines brightly. And darkness rejects and opposes the light. I pray also that this would strengthen our faith and would help us as we interact with darkness all the time, every day. That we would be able to sh to express and to reflect Christ's light to the world, and that we would know how to do it from Christ's own example. Teach us, Lord, today, that we may walk in your truth. And grow in the furtherance of the gospel this morning. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. We're actually going to begin in verse 47 of this chapter, chapter 8. I was going to try to cover chapter eight and also some of chapter nine when it when when Christ is exposing the Pharisees in chapter nine and I realized in the middle of the week there was no way I was going to be able to do that. You know, I wish for the you you could You you don't probably, but I wish for the Puritan days where I could preach an entire message and it'd be about two and a half hours. We could get it all in one one message. Um and uh that would be that would be wonderful, wouldn't it? You're going, you are nuts. That would not be wonderful. That was what they did back then. You preached an hour and it was a sermonette. Um And so sometimes I'm going through a passage and I see the con the continuity of the whole thing and I wanna I wanna give it all to you at one time. And you say, please don't. Um so I am resisting and basically this is gonna be Become a three-part message. What happens when the light shines, and we're on part number two today. But we begin in verse 47 where it says He that is of God heareth God's words. Ye therefore hear them not, because ye are not of God. Jesus begins immediately now to shine his light directly and brightly by pointing out the problem with these Jewish leaders. He says, you're not of God. And because you're not of God, you can't hear the words of God, or the words of Christ, which is the words of God. Now, it's interesting that in other places he says, in order to be of God, you need to hear the words of God. He says this in John chapter 15, later on, for example. It's sort of interesting, isn't it, that the world is in a paradox? On one hand, in order to recognize God's word, you need to be Have your source in God, like you've got to be from God. And on the other hand, in order to be from God or to be resourced in God, you've got to be able To know God's Word. There is this sort of paradox, this trap of darkness that the world is under Where on one hand, they can't see God's word and cannot recognize what they're seeing because they're not from God. They're not from God. They're from darkness. They're born blind. And on the other hand, they're not from God. And they need the only way is for the Word of God to shine in their hearts. And we see, of course, the need for the Spirit of God to work and use His Word to convict hearts and the intervention of God in the lives of people in order to be able for them to see what they otherwise cannot see. And Jesus says to them in very blunt and clear terms, you can't see my words, you can't recognize them, you can't follow them because you're not of God. Now, that probably would not go over very well with anyone, would it? And it doesn't go over well with the Pharisees. Now if you recall from the previous from a couple of weeks ago when they were discussing all of this, the Pharisees claimed to be from Abraham. They can they claimed to be descendants of Abraham. Of course, they were Jewish people and physically they were descendants of Abraham. Abraham. And there was this this whole discussion uh as to whether or not they were certainly they were physical descendants of Abraham, but Christ essentially was saying, even though you're physical descendants of Abraham, you're not spiritual descendants of Abraham. And they are taking everything literally, and they are they are saying they are basically assuming that he is accusing their lineage. Now, in their mind, that was very offensive to them. They were offended when he said, you may be a physical child of Abraham, but you're not a spiritual child of Abraham. They were offended by that. Why were they offended? Because their entire identity was placed upon Abraham and being a descendant of Abraham. And their relationship with God was entirely placed on that. And Jesus was exposing the problem with that and identifying even from an Old Testament biblical perspective that they were not spiritually from Abraham. And they were offended. In fact, they said to him two things. They made two very, very sharp accusations. Now, this is how we see the darkness reacts to the light in definitive unbelief. And we see this in this passage in verse 48. It says, Then answered the Jews and said unto them, Say we not well that thou art a Samaritan and hast a devil? Two things he says. Number one, you're a Samaritan. And secondly, you have a devil. You have a demon inside of you. The first accusation was really like a racial slur. They were so racist against the Samaritan people. That to be called a Samaritan was was was a considered to be an extreme insult to them. Christ, interestingly enough, does not even answer that, dignify that with an answer. He doesn't deal with that at all. And of course we know from his lifestyle already that he went to save Samaritans. He went to the Samaritan people, and he led the Samaritan woman and a lot of other people to Christ in the Samaritan region of of of that area. And so we know from his lifestyle what he felt about this racism. He was absolutely against it. And he doesn't even address this at all. He doesn't say I'm not a Samaritan. He doesn't say I he he just doesn't deal with that. And the reason he doesn't deal with that is very frankly because he's not you never you ever heard I'm not gonna dignify that question with a response? And that's really what he's doing now. I'm not gonna dignify that response. I'm not even gonna deal with that. Touching that. He does touch with touch on the second point. And the second point, he says, is that you have a demon inside of you They they assume now at this point that he now he'd actually already accused them of being of the devil, if you remember. Very sharp passage in the uh a couple weeks ago. And he is going to say, You you have demonic they're going to say to him, You have demonic influence. Now this is not surprising at all. Uh in fact, several places in the book of John they've done this and Uh and and John chapter seven they did it, chapter eight, chapter ten. He they keep thinking that he has this demon, and that's why he can do the miracles that he's doing. Matthew chapter 12 shows us the same thing that as they should have attributed all of these works to the works of the Holy Spirit as a witness to the authenticity of Christ. Instead, they say they're the works of Beelzebub. This is nothing new to Christ, and this is happening over and over again in his ministry. How does he deal with this, though? Now remember what they're doing. What they're really doing is attributing Christ's, Christ's teaching, and Christ's work. To Satan. They're saying, well, no, you have supernatural power, but it's not from God, it's from Satan. They explain away all of what he has been teaching and what he has been doing. And you know that is our world does that as well. The world that lives in darkness, every time they see the power of God, they want to explain it away. Every time they see something that is done, that is clearly done by the Lord, they desire to give some other explanation. They do not want to believe, for example, of the infallibility of Scripture. The inerrancy of the Word of God. They are absolutely against that idea. And so they'll put books out like the Da Vinci Code that came out several years ago. You remember that book? That basically attempted to provide another cogent regional explanation for the Word of God outside of divine inspiration. You have that, you have that folks in our world. They they don't want to believe that the supernatural comes from God. It's interesting that some that we did live in a time where in in in a a rationalist time period where they didn't want to believe that there was supernatural on any level of anything. They just didn't want to believe that there was any that everything could be explained by science. That there was no supernatural in life But you know, that's not even our world today, is it? We are the world is fine with supernatural things. They're fine with ideas of things that happen that aren't natural. As long as they're not as long as they're not of God. As long as you don't attribute to God's power being supernatural. And you could find this, you turn on the tablet. I mean, I think these there's even a show called Supernatural Isn't there? And and I've never watched it before, but I think I've seen like an advertiser or something for it. And and so you you have this in our world, this this idea, it's okay to have supernatural If you want to believe it, but it's not of God. To attribute to the God of the Bible, that would never be something that they would do. And so you see this as an obvious example of living in darkness. So the question is, when we face and when Christ faced this kind of opposition, trying to explain away his own teaching and his own miracles, how did Christ deal with this? And I think we can find some very important lessons for us as well. I want you to notice what he's going to do in all of his methods for dealing with this. He is going to continue to expose. His light is going to continue to shine. It's going to continue to do its exposing work. And he begins his exposing work, number one, he begins it by correcting a fallacy. The fallacy, of course, is that these people are in that he is has a demon. And he just very directly says in verse 49, he says this. Jesus answered, I have not a devil, but I honor my father, and ye do dishonor me, and I seek not mine own glory. There is one that seeketh and judgeth Verily, verily, I say unto you, if a man keep my saying, he shall never see death. The first thing that Jesus does is he corrects the obvious fallacy. And folks, we need to be ready to do this. When someone has a barrier in thinking in their life where they have attributed wrong thinking, a wrong idea to God's working. We need to be willing to deal in a humble way. We need to be willing to deal with the fallacy that is keeping them from seeing who God really is and seeing the work of Christ. And so we see that. Number two, we see in this passage that he declares his intention Jesus declares his intention and his mission in his passage, and he does so by identifying who he is wanting to honor. It's interesting in the passage, he's going to do this twice. Once he says, I do not desire to honor myself. That's not my goal. My goal is not to glorify myself. My goal is to honor my father, not myself. And what I want you to notice by this is one for one thing to notice is this. Who desired to honor themselves? Well, the religious leaders desired to honor themselves By Christ saying, I desire to honor my Father and not myself as a light, what is he doing? He is further exposing their wrong motives. He is saying to them, look, I have no desire to honor myself. I wonder, just by way of application, when we're dealing with the unsaved world, What they say of us, you know, he has no desire to honor himself. When we're responding and we're working with someone that doesn't know Christ as their Savior, Let's perhaps maybe we're witnessing to them or maybe we're just interacting with them. But let's suppose that we're witnessing with them and we're sharing of Christ with them. Do we ever get in our attitude the kind of manner that would cause them to think that really he's just self-promoting. We never want to do that We always want to have the the mindset and the motive that we want to promote God and promote the the And folks, when we come across in an unruly manner or we come across in an overly abrasive manner, when we're not harmless as doves Sometimes we can come across as though we are just really trying to honor ourselves. We are trying to defend ourselves Rather than really desiring to honor God. Christ didn't do that. He reminded them, I'm not here to honor myself. I am here to honor my Father. And he points that out to them, and we can learn a great deal from that example. Now, it is interesting in chapter 5, verse 44 of John. That he says in that passage as well as John chapter 17, which we'll look at in a few moments, he says that when I honor my father, essentially, my father honors me, that the two go together. He's going to explain why he is being glorified and why he is going to ascend and be glorified. Because as he glorifies his father, he is also glorified. But John makes a clarify, or Christ makes a clarification here to these men, and he says, my desire, my goal, my intention, my thrust, my purpose is not to honor myself. Finally, he then says Christ, then Christ also appeals to God as judge. Now again in doing so he is identifying, he is shedding more light He is piercing the darkness with this. Because what do you suppose the the religious leaders desired to do? They desired to be the judge. They were known for their judgmentalism of all kinds of external practices. They were judgmental. They desired to be the judge. And do you know that that is true of our world today? It's true, folks, because the world wants to be their own judge. In fact, that is essentially the core problem. They judge within themselves what is truth and what is error. They judge within themselves what is right and what is wrong. And the reality is, because we live in a fallen world and we are born fallen, there is no way for us to be able to rightly judge these things. It is only God that can really, truly, objectively judge. And Christ points out to these people that God is the judge, and in doing so, it further exposes the fallacy of their thinking. When we're speaking with people that are basically putting themselves up as the judge, well I think this and I don't think that and I think this and I don't think that. You know, some at some point it may be a wise idea for us to simply say You know, it do you think that we're able to judge correctly? Are we perfect? You know, most people in the world will admit that they're not perfect. Now, they think they're better than the other guy, and they think they're good enough. But they don't usually think that they're imperfect. I mean they don't they usually think that they're perfect. They're a little delusional if they think they're perfect. And so they they sort of realize that. And so uh when when you say this, you say, well, in order to judge perfectly, wouldn't you need to be perfect? And then you say, well God is the only one to that can judge. He's the only one that can, because he's the only one that can perfectly judge, because he's the only one that's perfectly Perfect. It would it would demonstrate the need to humbly come to God. I can't come to God in pride, thinking I'm the judge. I've got to come to God in humility, realizing there is no way that I can judge. And it could essentially almost disarm them. It will either disarm or what will it do? It will expose them and they will continue to react wrongly. And folks, that's what we'd find in this passage. They are going to continue to react in the wrong way. Would you notice then what it says in verse 52 of this chapter? It says, Then said the Jews unto him, Now we know that thou hast a devil. Abraham is dead, and the prophets and thou and thou said the prop uh let me read By the way, he said that. He said, If you keep my words, you'll never taste death. He uh that's a f that's a fourth point that I skipped over. I shouldn't have skipped over. Christ extends an invitation to keep his word. And he says, if you do this, you'll never taste death. Well, they take this literally. What does Christ mean when he says if you believe my words, you'll never taste death? Well, he's talking about spiritual death He's talking about eternal separation from God. They don't take it spiritually at all. They take it literally because they're blind. They can't see spiritually. And so as a result, they're going to take this blindly and they're going to say Well the invitation the uh the invitation is going to be rejected and they say, Well, you're living and our and the people we're trusting in are dead. Something is not right here. Notice what it says in verse fifty-three. Art thou greater than our Well, let's pick up in verse 452, it'll make sense better now. Then said the Jews unto him, Now we know that thou hast a devil Abraham is dead, and the prophets. And thou sayest, if a man keep my saying, he shall never taste death. Art thou greater than our father Abraham, which is dead, and the prophets are dead? Whom makest thou thyself? See, what they said now what they said to Christ is, we are comparing you to the authority in our lives. The authority is Abraham. The authority is the prophets. And what you are saying is a contradiction to the authority in our lives. Now, let me ask you, in this case, let me ask you a question. Were the prophets an authority in their lives? Was that a right authority? Well, certainly the writings of the prophets were, the Old Testament, that was an authority. And certainly the writings around that centered around Abraham. That was certainly authority as well. So what was the problem? The problem was that they were in darkness. And so they couldn't interpret things correctly. They were seeing discrepancies where there were none. They were seeing discontinuity where there wasn't any. And so when they come to this situation, they think that Christ's words are opposing the words of Abraham and the prophets. And do you know that our world does the same kind of thing? They take what they believe to be authorit authoritative facts and data, and they compare them to the claim of claims of Christ. And they simply say that these two things don't go together, that these things are opp opposing each other. I thought of four areas where this is done. The first area is probably the most obvious, maybe would come to your mind as well, and that's science They attempt to say that Christ's claims and the Word of God oppose what we know to be true and factual about science. Another example of this is history. You look at the history of the world and you see all the problems with Christianity. You look at the history of civilization and you see And you see all these things and the world will quickly point all of these kinds of things out and they'll say, see, these are these are incongruous with with what is right. and what is moral and your li and and and uh and and they'll make these discrepancies in Christianity. Another thing I thought of was just philosophy. And there's all kinds of Eastern philosophies, and there is Plato and Aristotle. And you talk to some people, and they're going to use those as authorities to try to disprove the Bible. One that I found to be most prevalent in our postmodern society is this experience. that their experience contradicts the truth that they know, or the truth from from, or what they don't think it's truth, but contradicts God's word. They say, well my experience, how can a loving God allow a tsunami to occur? How can a loving God do these things? God says the Bible says God is love, and yet we see these things happening. If there is a God, they make all of these discrepancies. They're walking in darkness. Their presupposition is darkness. They presuppose that something must be wrong. Why? What's the problem? They're the judge. They're being the judge rather than letting God be the judge. So, how does Christ deal with these problems? How does he deal with this wrong comparison? Well, he does it in a couple of different ways. Number one, What Jesus does is he shows consistency. He shows consistency in three different ways. One, he shows consistency between the glorification of his Father and His own glorification. Would you notice what it says in verse 54? Jesus answered, If I honor myself, my honor is nothing. It is my Father that honoreth me, for whom ye say that he is your God. Now he has just said that he honors God alone. What he says here is that I do not desire, I do not honor myself. He reminds them again, that's not my intention. But apparently he knew that they were seeing that he was going at he was being honored and continued to be honored. And and we find this theme in the book of John where he continues His ascension, his glorification that starts with his crucifi well, his life, his crucifixion, then death, burial, resurrection, and then ascension. In in John's mind, this is this this ascending kind of thing uh for Christ. And he says here, look, I don't glorify myself. God glorifies me. Well, there's a way to apply this, isn't there? Have you ever had somebody say to you, boy, you're a really good Christian. You are handling that so well. I couldn't handle that like you are. It must be because you are religious. Or have you said somebody have you it's it I'm glad you have the family. I don't have the family you've got. I I want the family you have and I can't have it, but I just not good enough to to have the family that you have. Folks, we have to be very careful in those kinds of situations to deflect any praise to God. Frankly, the only reason we've got the families we have or we resist we we resist problems that we we've come across or we Respond to things correctly. The only reason we do any of that is because of God's glorifying of us in a sense. Now he doesn't glorify us. He will one day, once we see him face to face, he will be We will be glorified. But we are in the process of Christ-likeness, which is sanctification. And one day we will be glorified in Christ. But folks, when we when people see a difference in our lives, we need to be as clear as we can about redirecting that to Christ. And you know, the same thing is true about our church If people come into our church and they see love, they see unity in the body and they see those kinds of things, we ought never say, well, we've got these programs. Or we've got these, we've got this preaching, or this pastor, or this. We should never say those kinds of things. We should say, well, that is something that only God can do. It's only God that can do this through the gospel. What a great way to go into the gospel. If God ever gives us the opportunity to be able to uh demonstrate his wisdom to the world in that way, we need to be ready to attribute it to God's working because you know what? It is And so we need to be careful about that. Christ showed the consistency between glorifying his Father and His own glorification. Number two, Christ showed The consistency between knowing God and obeying God. Notice what it says of the passage. He says, um He says picking up here in verse uh 55. Yet ye have not known him. He points out again, you don't know God, but I know him. He says, I know God. I don't think he's saying that in any way to be conceited. He says, I know him, and if I should say I know him not, I should be a liar like unto you. It's pretty harsh words, isn't it? Then he says this But I know him and what? How are they supposed to know that he knows him? In other words, how are the Jewish leaders supposed to know that Jesus knows God, his Father? And I keep his saying You see, there ought to be a consistency between knowledge of God and obedience to God In fact, do you realize this, folks, that there is no distinction in God's mind. To know God is to obey God. And to obey God is to know God. For us to say that we know God but don't obey God is to be a liar. We ought not say that. Now, of course, there are levels of knowing God. We know that as as Christians we we are continuing and growing in our knowledge of Him, and of course we're continuing and growing in our sanctification and we're not perfect and all that. That's the the other side of this. But folks, do you know that the only way that the world is going to be able to know that we know God, it is going to be by our consistent lifestyle. And Jesus directs these people, and he says, Look, I keep God's word. I don't just know him and say I know him. I know him and demonstrate that I know him because I keep his word. Could that be said of us? Could it be said of us as we rub shoulders with unsafe people in the workplace? Could it be said of us as we as we uh interact with neighbors and friends? that that don't know the Lord. Well new that do know the Lord for that matter. But when could it be said of us? Well he knows God. Why? Well because he talks about him all the time, but he lives differently. Oh, or well, he doesn't talk about it a whole lot, but he lives it. People need to know we know God, not just by what we say. But by how we live. And we've got to remember that. And we've got to understand that that's how how Christ deals with this. Isn't that amazing that how that's how he deals with it? He doesn't deal with this discrepancy. They're bringing up this sort of discrepancy between what Abraham says and what and what Christ says. And he says, number one, realize my father honors me, I don't honor myself. And number two, realize my word is consistent with my practice, and I know God because of I keep his word. That also would be an exposing light to them, wouldn't it? Because the reality is the Far the Pharisees and the leaders of the Jew the Jewish leaders, they didn't keep God's word. They may have kept the external laws, but they didn't keep the internal ones. They knew that they hadn't kept his word. And Christ is saying to them, Look, you want to know if my word is true? I you want to see consistency? You're seeing discrepancy between Abraham and me and and and my words. You want to see consistency? I keep the words of Chr of God. I keep God's words. And that's how you can know that I know him. Very convicting, isn't it? Very important for us to remember. And then finally, number three, Jesus shows the consistency between himself and the authoritative sources. He's not afraid to deal with the issue. First he wants to show him first he wants them to see um he wants them to to see his intentions. Then he wants them to see his lifestyle, but then after that they see his intentions, they know his motives are right, or they at least he says that they are. I don't know if they know this, but but what he's doing his best. And they see his lifestyle. Now he is ready. He is ready then to say uh he is ready then to show the consistency between the authority and the authoritative sources. So the authoritative source that he mentions is Abraham. They have put all their faith in what Abraham says and this is what he says. Notice what it says in verse Verse 56. Your father Abraham rejoiced to see my day, and he saw it and was glad. They're saying to him, they say, they said, you know, your father rejoiced in the plan of God. Now there are some commentators that suggest from this passage that there was some sort of secret meeting between God and Abraham where he actually showed all of the details of Jesus being born in Bethlehem and all those different things. so that he could see it all happening and so he rejoiced during that time. But there's no reason to assume something like that. What we find in God's word is that in John Genesis chapter twelve we have an a covenant made with Abraham. And this covenant was made with him and it said that in thee all of the families of the world will be blessed. And of course it was And then later on in Genesis chapter 17, verse 19, it says, Sarah and thy wife shall bear thee a son indeed. And thou shalt call his name Isaac, and I will establish my covenant with him for an everlasting covenant, and with his seed after him. Abraham knew that this covenant would last forever, it would be with Isaac, he did not know all the details. But what Jesus is saying is that I am the fulfillment of the Abrahamic covenant. And Abraham, had he been here, would be rejoicing at what is going on. He's trying to show them the consistency between his his uh uh his authority and the authority of Abraham. And if you think about this folks, you can do that kind of thing. Once you have gained a hearing with somebody, they've seen your lifestyle, they know your n your your intentions are right Once that's the case, you know, you can begin to talk with them about these kinds of things, these discrepancies, their experience versus what God's Word says scientific what they think to be factual versus what God's Word says. I think the other two things have got to come first. But you can begin to explain these two these things to them and you can begin to show them from God's Word how these things How there is no there is no inconsistency between true, factual, objective, verifiable science and the Bible. These things are actually consistent with each other. And every time they think they're not, there's new discoveries all the time that actually they go, oh yeah, the Bible actually said this is the way it was. Find that in archae archaeology all the time. And so and so we can begin to show those things. But folks, I'm just going to suggest this to you. If you start there and you don't they don't see your consistent lifestyle and they don't think you have right intentions You're not going to get very far. Because we've got to show by our life and by our heart that we desire God's best for them. That we have no desire to self-honor or self-defend, that our desire is entirely to please God and to do and to love Him supremely. Now, finally, we find in God's word here, it says that when light shines, we're going to find that darkness attempts to destroy the light. These men have had enough. They are fed up. They are done. They realize that what Christ is saying here Is in their mind either truth or blasphemy, and they're choosing blasphemy. Would you notice what it says in verse 57? Then said the Jews unto him, Thou art not yet fifty years old, and hast thou seen Abraham? Verse 58, Jesus saith unto them, He said, first of all, you're you're not even 50 years old. How could you have seen Abraham? He was essentially claiming that he's seen Abraham, that they that he knows about Abraham, that he's experienced Abraham. And that Abraham, in the sense of it, has experienced Christ, which of course he did in salvation, according to Romans 4 and Galatians 3. Well then we find in verse 58 it says, Jesus saith unto them, Verily, verily I say unto you, before Abraham was, what does it say? I am. This is, now, let me just just think about this grammatically. If you were going to say this grammatically correctly, Before Abraham was, those of you grammarians out there, what would you say? Before Abraham was, I was. You wouldn't say I am. You'd say before Abraham was I was. Why was Christ saying that? He's claiming deity. There isn't any question about this. He's clearly claiming deity in this passage. And we remember from Moses, when Moses asked at the burning bush, Who should I say that you are? God says in the burning bush, I am. And Jesus is saying here, I am. I transcend time. Before Abraham was, I am. And I am now. I am. And these people knew exactly what Christ is saying. And by the way, let me just say this. This is for free. I was talking about the specific passage to the some Jehovah's Witnesses that were on my doorstep one day about a couple of uh we weeks ago. And they tried to tell me that Christ wasn't saying that he is God here. That these that it was just the religious leaders that misinterpreted what Christ was saying. As though they could understand what Christ is saying better than these people that were right there. I don't that's just for free. I couldn't believe it. I'm going No, I don't know how to say this, but no, that can't possibly, why would he say it that way? He would not say it that way. He would say, before Abraham was, I was. He wouldn't say Abraham was I am. He was making a definitive statement about his deity here, and there isn't any way of getting around that Jesus is God, and he says he is. And of course, these people, what, of course, according to law, their intention was to to destroy him. Because the law said that blasphemy was punishable by stoning. They did not believe Christ's claims, and their desire was to destroy him. And that's what the darkness does. The desire, the darkness attempts to destroy the light When the full light shines on them. You know, in our world you have the same desire to destroy the light. Don't be deceived about this. There are some people that would that sort of live in fairyland. And they think as though nobody's really against anybody else. And they sort of think, well, you know, if I just explain myself well enough, they'll believe what I believe and it'll be okay and Look, there is the ruler of the darkness of this present world that is absolutely opposed to the truth of Christ. And he's subversive, and he is he is deceitful, and he is he's he's deadly. I came across one particular instance of this. Actually, my grandfather was reading a book by Adrian Rogers. written back in nineteen ninety six called Bring Back the Glory. How many of y'all know who Ray Adrian Rogers is? Um and uh and Adrian Rogers told an account uh that is that is quite striking even by today's standards. He says this. A couple of years ago several mainline denominations in the country got together To host what they called a re-imaging conference. The central task of this conference was to help participants re-image God. Allegedly they called it this. Re think about this. The embed uh what does Romans 1 say? It's it's it's unbelievable. Allegedly a Christian conference. It was coordinated by feminists and attracted 2,200 people from 49 states and 27 countries. The hostess made a point saying that they should they would do nothing in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, a statement that drew whoops and applause They trashed the concept of the Trinity, praying to the goddess Sophia, and used milk and honey for their communion elements. One of the speakers, a feminist theologian, scoffed at the idea of Christ's atonement. I don't think we need folks hanging on crosses and blood dripping and weird stuff, she said. We just need to listen to the God within. This is seemingly under the guise of Christianity Do you think do you think that every church out there is a good church? Or that every church out there is is opposed is is consistent with with the the claims of Christ or what God wants to do or oh that they're good hearted people. No, some of them are bad hearted And they are following the deceitfulness of Satan. And they are opposing truth and the gospel. And there and they get you get to that point and there is not much you really can do with them. They get to the point where they are just heretical and they're actively opposing truth and the gospel and good doctrine. And do you know what Christ does in this example? Now what could Christ have done? He could have just obliterated them, couldn't he? Alright, you're gonna stone me? There you go. Bang, you're dead. He could have done that. Of course he didn't. What did he do? He walked away. He just escaped. He moved on. And I will tell you this: sometimes when someone is vehemently opposing us, opposing cr the gospel. Don't waste your time. Sometimes the best thing to do is really just walk away. And there is a point, I mean you we ought to, we ought to contend earnestly contend for the faith. We ought to serve as but when somebody is a Literally opposing, directly opposing the claims of Christ and the gospel and the word of God, there is a time where you just simply separate and you move on and you And you uh and you and you just do. I remember one time I'll never forget this, when I was young, I was uh uh in a in a in a good doctrinally uh good church. And somebody came in um on a Sunday night and um my dad greeted uh him And the pastor of the church greeted them and and and he continued to talk afterwards with them. And this man this man was at first seemed to be fine, but as he got into what he believed, it was absolutely totally It was it was it was just from the pit of hell. This was not, uh okay, you know, maybe I could see it. It wasn't anything like that. And he began to assert himself uh in the situation. And there and basically there was a point where the pastor of the church and my dad said, you just don't come back. They just very firmly said uh I mean they talked to him for a little while, he tried to try to reason from the scriptures, and they were so concerned about this with the with the with dealing with this guy that they just said you you really ought not be back here. There is a time, not that we have to ever be ugly But there is a time where we just say enough is enough. Now folks, we ought not come to that point quickly. We ought to love people. We ought to reach out to people. As long as people are living, there is a chance that God can get a hold of them and work with them. But there are times where you sort of so sort of say, you know what? God's got to deal with that person. I can really do no more. God has to deal with them directly. And you can always do what? You can always pray. And you can always ask God to deal with them directly because really it's futile to try to work with them anymore. There are points in life when you when you walk when you're dealing with people That that you sort of have to come to that. But folks, does it not take wisdom to understand that? The Bible wants us to be, God wants us to be wise as serpents and harmless as doves. He wants us to understand how to interact with a world that is in darkness. And really, just in summing this up, I just have a couple of questions for you. Let me ask you this. Have you ever wondered the validity or the veracity of your own faith because of all the opposition? Do you see from this passage That the same tactics that occurred back then, the same opposition, and the same methods of opposition that occurred when Christ shined his light on these people happened today. Don't be surprised by it. Don't be even alarmed by it. It's going, I mean you can be alarmed, but but but don't be surprised by it. It's going to happen. But secondly, are we living a consistent lifestyle before the unbeliever? Are you and I, how are they ever going to know that we know God if we're not living according to His His standards. If we're not living according to his principles, we've got to ask ourselves, are we living a consistent lifestyle before unbelievers? Number three. Are we prepared to handle the opposition while speaking the truth in love? Are we prepared to handle the opposition? And what we see here in this passage is Christ is very firm. He's extremely direct, but remember he has had lots of dealings with them in the past. What God wants us to do is to learn to speak the truth in love, to be har wise as serpents and harmless as doves, to shine forth Christ's light into the world. And we need to understand that the majority of the time they're going to reject it. But sometimes, like the blind man in chapter 9, sometimes they will receive it. Their eyes will be opened. They will be enlightened, and they'll receive the light. And we look forward to those times where God does that in the life. of someone and we can be thankful that God does that and uses us in that way. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, as we come to you this morning, we thank you for your word and we thank you for the truth of your word. We thank you that it teaches us from every angle how we are to live and move and have our being, how we are to live in this world. And we see the example of Christ, and we see him shining his light directly. And we pray, Lord, that you would help us in our world to shine the light of Christ to others, to expect opposition from the darkness. But we would shine brightly anyway. Help our hearts, our life help our motives to be only intentional for the cause of Christ. Help us to only desire to honor you, and may others, may our manners show that in our lives. May our lifestyle be consistent with Christ and with his pleasure in our lives. And Lord, may we be ready to give an answer that asketh us a reason of the hope that is in us with meekness and fear. We thank you for this passage. May we apply it in the way that honors you, and we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.