And he really does this in this passage. Let's read the first two verses or the these two verses here, and then we'll we'll look into this. James chapter one, verse twenty-six says this If any of if any man among you seem to be religious And bridleth not his tongue, but deceiveth his own heart, this man's religion is vain. Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this. To visit the fatherless and the widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world. Let's go ahead and ask the Lord to help us with this, and uh then we'll get into that. Father, I pray, Lord, as we just take a few minutes now and look at the difference between vain religion and true, pure religion. that it would align our hearts and help us to perhaps if we've gone if we have um sort of veered off the path that we would be redirected in our minds and our hearts to what is true what really matters to you and what's really important when it comes when we're thinking in terms of serving you and ministry in general. And I pray, Lord, that you would just bless us in our time. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. I want to begin just by a few questions. Number one, how do you know if someone has a pure heart? Number two, how do you know if you have a pure heart? Now, the first one, everybody the answer is, well, there is no way m somebody might say, well, there is no way to know that. The second one, have you ever asked yourself, well, do I have a pure heart? And have you ever said to yourself You know, I'm not sure if I can even answer that for myself. How many of you have ever struggled with that before in your own thinking? I know, you know, it's easy. It is. It's like, well, is my heart really pure? Perhaps in one particular motive pursuit of something or whatever. Number three, have you ever felt that you're that you've been deceived by someone? Okay? And number four, have you ever felt deceived? Have you ever felt that you've deceived yourself? Um And all of us, I mean I think all of us, if we've been saved for any length of time, can say, yeah, I can think of times where I've deceived myself. Or perhaps even that someone has deceived us. What all of these are talking about is is really talking about the the difference between, and James is going to contrast the difference between vanity and purity. We wouldn't normally think of those two things being contrast, but would you notice in the in the passage, the first verse, if any man among you seem to be religious, and bridleth not his tongue But deceiveth his own heart, this man's religion is what? Is vain. And then it's contrasted with what? Verse 27. What kind of religion? Pure religion. So the contrast here is not maybe not the contrast that you and I would think of, but he says the contrast here is vain versus pure. So I'd like to refer, this is a very simple illustration. Most of you have not all of you have heard this before, but Jim Berg cites this uh you remember his book, Change into His Image, he must I think it's a good one to go back to sometimes. So what about this pure heart, whether we have a pure heart or not, or whether somebody else has a pure heart or not? Well, the question is what happens if you look at a teabag and you can you tell just unless with no label, can you tell by looking at a teabag the kind of tea it is? You can't tell. And really, you can't tell someone what the kind of person somebody is just by looking on the outside. Now this is very basic. We we all know this. I don't think anybody would question that. But what do you have to do in order to know the contents of a tea bag? You gotta put it in hot water. Right? You put it in hot water and then you find out what kind of tea it is. And you know, a lot in a lot of ways that's exactly the way we are. We're going to go in hot water before we find out what we're really made of. And then what's inside comes out. You see, because Paul is going to, or not Paul, James is going to say here, verse 26: if any man among you seem to be religious and bridleth not his tongue. Well, he's going to say in a few verses from now that no one can tame the tongue. So how can anybody have true religion We'll talk about what religion is in a minute, but how can anybody have this if you can't pain the tongue? I remember dealing with struggling with this in my first ministry up in Pennsylvania. It was a ministry that at one point I I I I was told after I left there that um It was kind of one of those ministries where you uh you had to be from the area in order to minister to the people in the area. Um I wish I had known that before I I went there. But anyway. Um but I actually found that out later. In fact, uh I found somebody down at Bob Jones that wrote a whole dissertation on pastoring in that area. area because it's such a difficult area. And I I read the I read a lot some of the dissertation and uh talked with a man significantly, Dr. Coolan is his name. He pastored there for like thirty years But I wish I'd have read it before I went up there. But anyway, but the Lord put me down here, right? So I mean, you know, the Lord works out works all those things out, you know. But anyway, one of the things that they did was they picked apart what I said all the time. It was like they were constantly nitpicking it with it. You said this, you said this, you said this, you said. And it made me it made me sort of self not just self-conscious, but it may be like Um maybe that's the the best word. I don't know. It just made me very cautious like I had to parse everything I said and make sure that it was said exactly the right way and And you know, when you're doing that, you lose total freedom. It's like you're that my preaching my preaching was the word. It definitely was very biblical, but it was there was no freedom to it. And so it was just a very difficult thing that that w and so I wrestled, even when I left there, I wrestled with, okay, I'm kind of an outgoing person and I'm kind of an extrovert and uh you know I tend to talk a lot. And and the Bible actually tells us that in the in you know in in the multitude of words there wanteth not sin, so us talkers have to be careful. But I also didn't wanna inhibit like like be somebody that I'm not and so I struggled with it until I I re I just thought about this illustration and I thought to myself, you know what I really gotta do is I gotta I focus on my heart. It's not the outside, it's not the words that I say, but if if the heart is right, what comes out will be right. And so I think this is important. And what he's saying here is, verse 26, if a man seems to be religious And he doesn't bridle his tongue. In other words, he's just shooting his mouth off and and it's demonstrating what's in his heart. We know that to be the truth of the case because it's The next phrase he says that, but but how does he contrast the person who shoots his mouth off versus the person at what? You see it? But deceive his own what? His own heart. Okay? In other words, if you're the uh have an unbridled tongue It's because you're deceiving your own heart. It doesn't mean you can't talk a lot. It just means that what's coming out is unbrought is not you're it's not you're deceiving your heart somehow And so he says here in verse 26, though, he says, if any man among you seem to be religious, seem. Now, let's just talk about what the word religious means here. When we think of religious, do we think of it in our culture negatively or positively? Usually negatively, even among Christian circles, how many times have you said to somebody, even an unsaved person, I'm not part of a religion, but I have a relationship with Christ? We all know what we mean by that. But of course, in this particular passage, when it says religion, we're talking about a good thing. James is saying you need to have pure religion. So what is he talking about? It comes from the same word where we get our term worship in some places in the New Testament. Well, that helps us a little bit. For example, in Colossians 2, verse 18, it says, Let no man beguile you of your reward in a voluntary humility of worshiping and worshiping of angels. There's the word worship there. So it has to do with our religious practices or our worship, better our worship practices. Well, let's ask the question, what's worship? What is worship? Well, worship is our a proper response to God's attributes and acts in our lives. A proper response. Okay, so so if someone seems to be responding in his lifestyle to God's attributes and acts, He seems to be doing this. But his but his he he's his tongue is unbridled and he's res and he's deceiving his heart. The Bible says that this man's religion is what? Vain. Well, what does vain mean? Let's use another word. It's empty. Right? Isn't that what vain means? It's empty. Or let's use even another word, practically, it's it's not useful. It's useless. Later on in chapter 2, he's going to talk about faith versus works. Remember that passage? And he says, You show me your faith without your works, I'll show you my faith by my works. And faith without works is what? It's dead. This religion that he's talking about here, it's dead. This worship he's talking about, it's dead. If you don't have There is a kind of worship, a kind of service. Can I put it this way? A kind of ministry, because the term worship is also sometimes translated service What we do, sometimes it can be dead. In other words, it can be useless. Now, I would imagine that nobody here wants their service to the Lord to be useless. Every single one of us that we want our service to be useful. So let's look at the other side of the coin here. Well, what is a useless first f first of all, we got an unbridled tongue and we have a deceived heart. That's a that's a useful uh or a useless life. That's what a useless life looks like. But let's look at what a useful uh a pure life looks like. Alright. What does it say next, verse 27? Pure what? Well, pure religion or pure worship or poor pure response to God's attribute and Mutanax. And undefiled before God and the Father is this. He says before God and the Father, that's who that that indicates something. just by saying that. Let's just contrast that. We don't we have almost an implied contrast there in the previous verse. Who do you suppose the vain man is serving? Or in other words, who do you suppose the vain religious person is concerned about looking at him? Well, others, right? He's not occupied with what God thinks of him. But if you're if it's pure religion, pure service to God, That kind of service is far more concerned with what God thinks. That's why it says pure religion before God before God and the Father is this. So that tells us something here about what pure service is. I am concerned not with everybody, what everybody else thinks. But I'm concerned about whether I what I am doing is before God what he wants me to do. That is a purity of service to the Lord. And that is what we need to be preoccupied with. What is God's view of what I'm doing? Not what I am doing or what others think I am doing or what others perceive. perceive I am doing. Are we ever pressured to serve the Lord because of the perception of others? Or we don't want others to think badly of us if we don't do this, or we do want others to think well of us if we do do this. Are we ever are we does that ever happen to us? Sure it does, doesn't it? And God doesn't want us to serve that way, does he? He really does not want us to serve him because we are concerned with how other people are perceiving us. He wants us to serve him. It's kind of like when uh we sin and we don't want people to know that we don't really consider God Mm-hmm. Yeah. Not sure. What to elaborate a little bit. Well, I think about what Um you were talking about um self-water and and keeping God in focus. Yeah. And uh I think when we sin, we think we can hide it from people we can act like we don't have that sense. Mm-hmm. And it doesn't bother us that God sees us. Oh gotcha. Yep. Sure. Right. So if right Yeah, that's good. That that does that doesn't that indicate to us that there's something wrong with our hearts? If if if we don't care what God sees And we're we're concerned with we don't really uh it it's fine. And but we want to keep it from as long as everybody else doesn't know and it got right, it does indicate something about our hearts. For sure. Um, we've got to be concerned, very much occupied with what God thinks about us and what God's concern is for our hearts. hearts. It's very, very important for us. Now when it comes to I don't think necessarily that we we should be letting our airing our everything that we've ever done with with other people. I don't think that's what Harry's saying at all. And I think we've got to be careful about that. And we don't want to cause other people to stumble in in Some of the things that we we uh you know if we we have issues and problems, things. So we have to be careful there, but we ought to be very concerned with what God thinks about us. us and make sure that our hearts are right with him. So the next thing is here, number one In fact, look at the passage, what it says here. Pure religion and undefilable for God and the Father is this: to visit the fatherless and the widows in their affliction. To visit the fatherless and the widows and their afflicted. Why would God here or James use these two examples? Let's just put it in terms we understand. Why would he use these as ministry examples? He doesn't say, I'm not saying any of these things are not ministry, but he doesn't say Sunday school. He doesn't say truth trackers. Of course, you wouldn't say that right. Okay. He says pure religion before God and the Father is this to visit the fatherless and the wid and the widows and their afflicts. So so why does he use these examples? Any ideas? Yes, Cliff? Yep. Along the same line, she's helping with the care of someone who doesn't have the head of their family there to take care of them. Yeah. So let me ask, so so that you have a legitimate clear need here This isn't a felt need. This isn't something that somebody thinks they need. This is a true need. You've got a fatherless, you have somebody who's fatherless and they need a father. You have a widow who needs help. So you have clear need here And so service the Lord, the kind of service that God's talking about, is one where you're able to see a need and you're able to help with the need. Good. Rose, did you have something? Well, just the fact that a In general, they would be able to pay back with stories and help them. I agree. Is there any personal benefit in these I mean think about it. Are is anybody gonna say, well, you know what, is it is it are these glamorous things to do? You know, to go visit somebody And help them. These are not things that that you say these are not things done in front of people where everybody thinks how great you are That's not these things. These things are just things that needs that need to be met, that that you're wanting to please the Lord and you're seeing a need, and you want to meet those needs And when we think in terms of ministry and service to the Lord, if we boil everything down to brass tacks, I really think that we've got to think in terms of of, well, just as we go throughout our days each day, Lord, what do you want me to do with my day? How do you want me to serve you? Not what does everybody else think about how what I'm doing. But Lord, what do you want me to do with my day? How can I do things that will not benefit me, but just be of true service without any expecting anything in return? And I think those kinds of questions that we're asking are that we're asking are very important questions. You know, it's just, I'll just make an application here. None of these, neither one of these ministries that he mentions, and this is just by way of application, neither one of these ministries that he mentions are Ministries that are done done within the four walls of a building. Right? Not that ministry in within the four walls is not ministry. It certainly is. However, these are ministries that you just personally see a need and you just personally choose to meet that need. And nobody else really knows about it. Maybe somebody does. You're not trying to hide it, but you're also not trying to tell anybody either. And so I really encourage us with this. This should be helpful for us in understanding. And then also the other thing is this: and to do what else? To keep himself what? Unspotted from the world. So we are actively involved in meeting the needs of others But we're also we're also keeping ourselves where we're not spotted by the world. And you know, I just would say this that my my um W th there is a balance here with some of this. Um but you know in in sort of staunch fundamentalism, you sometimes have You sometimes ha sometimes have legalistic sort of walls that are put up for for maybe the wrong reasons. But there's also a sense in which we can we can swing the pendulum too far the other direction Where we sort sort of take down protections that should be there, where we stop realizing that we can be defiled by the world Where our hearts can be corrupted by the world. If we're not careful, things can get in our in our hearts that we don't even realize are there. We deceive ourselves. And and why? Because we've allowed them, we've allowed our hearts uh to be contaminated by the things of the world. You know, and in a day where you were constantly inundated, inundated on every level by things in the world, I think, I think I'm just going to be real candid with you, and this is by way of application If we're protecting ourselves for the right reasons, we're not doing it because we think we're better. Actually, maybe we're doing it because we think we're worse. But we're not doing it because we think we're but if we're prote Thing ourselves for the right reasons Does that not honor the Lord? Because we don't want things to contaminate our hearts. We want pure hearts before the Lord. It's hard, look, you don't even need the world to have an impure heart, do you? The world could be gone completely and you still have an impure. You and I still struggle with an impure heart. We still struggle with deceitful our heart being deceitful and desperately wicked. But certainly it's that much harder when you've got input coming in that's going to that that could potentially corrupt our hearts. And so I just in my own life personally I've really been thinking about this a lot and And I think that we need to be careful. If you start taking the walls in your life and the protections in your life And you start saying, that makes my holiness, you have a problem. But if you if you are taking the protections in your life and you're saying, I'm protecting myself from having my heart contaminated and I understand the proper place of those things, well that's something entirely different altogether. I think it's something that we need to really think about. God's desire is for us to really not be unspotted by the world. Now that doesn't mean we're not in the world. It doesn't mean we isolate ourselves from the world. We know that. Christ said, He prayed in John 17, he prayed that we would not that we would be He said, I pray that you would not be that my People would not be taken out of the world, but that they would be in the world. So we're not isolating ourselves from the world. That's not the goal. But but protections, maybe maybe that another word would be insulating ourselves from the world Well we're really protecting ourselves from the influences of the world. And I think, I mean I don't I think we'd be careful that we don't judge other people for having different different maybe views of what that means. But I think it's something that we need to seriously take into account. Because ultimately, ultimately, folks, isn't this true that if we're going to be useful for God's service, it's going to have to be with a pure heart? It's going to require that of us. If we don't have a pure heart before him, there's going to be vanity. It's going to be use not useful to the Lord. Ultimately. But if we have a pure heart before Him, then we are then going to be used in a way that is useful for the Lord's service. And that really is the point of of this text. And it's very simple. There isn't anything complex about it. But I think sometimes it's helpful for us to just get down to some of the brass tacks things and simplify things. to to to that point. And sometimes and we do need to be careful just in serving the Lord why we are doing what we're doing. Are we doing it for God or we're doing it for others? It's just an important question to always ask ourselves, and we want to make sure we're doing what we're doing for the right reason. All right, let's go ahead and close with a word of prayer. Father, we thank you, Lord, just for your love for us and we thank you for your goodness to us. We thank you, we admit before you that we have many times failed in these things. And all of us struggle, and yet we pray that you would help us to keep these things in focus, that serving you Not looking for anything in return, seeing needs around us that we can meet, is the kind of ministry that you call pure and undefiled. Kind of ministry where our where we're deceiving our own our own hearts is a kind of ministry that is vain. I pray that you would indelibly mark this in our minds and hearts and help this to be some Something that we think about as we serve you. May we do it with a unique heart before you. May we do it with a purity of heart. And Lord, we admit before you we can't do this. You have to change this from the inside out. We know that. We thank you that your word tells us that He who has begun a good work in us will complete it the day of the Jesus Christ. And we thank you that as we submit our lives to you, then you will be able to conform us from the inside out the way you want us to. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.