But uh we're up on sermon audio, right? And we're w you if you're joining us by way of YouTube. Okay, so here's the deal. There will be no commenting today. I can't see your comments, so uh it won't do any good to comment. I'll just do this more of a monologue today, unfortunately. I can see there are 21 people on Facebook, which is great, and there's um a few people on this uh on the YouTube as well now eleven people on the YouTube. Um and uh hopefully I'll you know I'll have to figure out what's going on with my computer so that we in the future so that we can figure out uh what to do here. Let's do this. Let's pray because we need to and uh ask the Lord's help with the rest of this and then we will we'll move forward. Father, we thank you, Lord, for the time that we could spend together this morning. And of course, with uh the newness of having to use technology is the possibility of things going wrong. That has basically occurred today. I pray, Lord, that you would um help us, Lord, today as we uh endeavor to make uh use with what we have. And that you would use your word as it is spoken today and as it is preached. And we pray, Lord, that you would help us with this. And we thank you that we can trust in the truth of your word in times like these. We're thankful that you are in control and sovereign in all things. And we pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, a couple of things by way of announcements. Um you should have received uh an email not too long ago with regard to um a couple of things. Um of course you'll see on there the first thing you'll see is the is that we have um is that we have an off uh the offering is forty dollars, uh uh which is last week's offering, last Sunday's offering. Obvious there's obvious reasons for that. Um because we were not here. We were not uh um uh having service um physically. We did stream last week but we didn't have service physically Um so there are a few people that have given since then, so I don't I want to be clear that that's not all we didn't we're not we're not we haven't calculated all of the offering that we're receiving through today. And the way this will work moving forward is next Sunday we will report on what we've received in our offerings for starting in Monday through today. That will be reported next Sunday and then you'll see the same kind of thing happening again. So next Sunday, uh the following Sunday will be reported on everything that we receive from Monday, tomorrow through the following through next Sunday. So it it will it will act the exact same way it has uh as far as the bulletin is concerned, except that you can give offerings anytime um through PayPal or uh through the mail You can give offerings anytime, and we will we will add everything together from Monday through Sunday, and that will be our offering report. And so offering report this Sunday is extremely low, it's forty dollars. And um I will just say that um if I could say it this way We do need to I I if I could just encourage you to continue. If you haven't s of or some of you are struggling, maybe there's not you don't have income coming in. If you don't, I've lost Facebook. Oh now I've I'm back. Okay. Um if you don't have income coming in then that's certainly understandable. But if you have income coming in then um I I uh we do have uh lots of financial commitments. We have missionaries on the field. Um and if I could just encourage you to give um through the means that are listed there. On the email that you received that you're reminded of how to go about um listing the different uh go about the different options there is a two percent Roughly I think two percent fee for using the PayPal donate option through our website. Um but and uh so just you want to take that into consideration, that's that's fine, but just take that into consideration. And also if you uh want to mail directly to our treasurer's home, you've got you have the email or you have the mailing address in order to do that, and he will get it. If you wanted to mail it to the church, you certainly can do that. Just address it to treasurer. uh specifically um and so Jeff our treasurer will be counting all the money and making the deposits until we're able to uh meet physically again And I'm very thankful for Jeff's, you know, uh ability and expert uh expertise in in handling all this. So that's a blessing. So uh um make sure you read through the announcements. We will do that each Sunday when as long as we're not uh um going through this. Um as long as we're going through this uh this technology um way of of streaming. Um Let me also say that as time goes on, we are going to we'll continue to meet on at 11 o'clock on Sundays. We'll also meet again on Wednesdays. We're also looking at other options, doing sort of a virtual home group options and Sunday schools and other things. So stay tuned as we As this quarantine goes on, uh we'll continue to try to make make sure we're all connected and hearing from God's word and fellowshipping the best we can. under these circumstances. So there will be more to come with regard to those various things. I want to read some scripture from Psalm 143. Psalm 143 says this. Hear my prayer, O Lord, give ear to my supplication In your faithfulness answer me, and in your righteousness do not enter into judgment with your servant. For in your sight no one living is righteous. For the enemy has persecuted my soul, he has crushed my life to the ground, he has made me dwell in darkness, like those who have been Dead. Therefore my spirit is overwhelmed with me within me. My heart within me is distressed. I remember the days of old, I meditate on all your works, I am used with the work of your hands I spread out hands to you. My soul longs for you like a thirsty land. Answer me speedily, O Lord, my spirit fails. Do not hide your face from me, lest I be like those who go down into the pit. Cause me to hear your loving kindness in the morning, for in you do I trust. Cause me to know the way in which I should walk, for I lift up my soul to you. Deliver me, O Lord, from my enemies. In you I shall take I take shelter. Teach me to do your will, for you are my God. Your spirit is good. Lead me in a land of uprightness. Revise me, O Lord, for your namesake For your righteousness' sake, bring my soul out of trouble. In your mercy, cut off my enemies, and destroy all those who afflict my soul, for I am your servant. So that's Psalm 143. It talks about the deliverance, uh God's deliverance of his people. You can hear the the even the despair and the discouragement in David's voice as we read that psalm, but we know that he resolves his emotions and struggles. with um with the truth um of God being the our deliverer Alright, if you can turn to Exodus chapter 1, we're now going to be looking at Exodus 1, and we're going to read the entire chapter. Now the what we're going to be talking about today is just the question of what is going on in the world. And hopefully this is going to be helpful for us as we look through this chapter. What I'm going to do is I'm going to read verses 1 through 16, and I'm going to stop and I'm going to ask this question, so you have the question ahead of time. What seems to be missing? There is something that seems to be missing. Remember, this is God's word. Remember, this is God's truth from the book of Exodus. But there seems to be something missing. What seems to be missing? So let's read in Exodus chapter 1. It says this. Now these are the names of the children of Israel who came to Egypt. Each man and his household came with Jacob. Reuben, Simeon, Levi, and Judah, Issachar, Zebulun, and Benjamin, Dan, Naphtali, Gad, and Asher, all those who were descendants of Jacob were seventy persons. For ju Joseph was in Egypt already, and Joseph died all his brothers and all that generation. But the children of Israel were fruitful and increased abundantly multiplied and grew exceedingly mighty, and a land was filled with them. Now there arose a new king over Egypt who did not know Joseph And he said to his people, Look, the people of the children of Israel are more and mightier than we. Come, let us deal shrewdly with them, lest they multiply. And it and it happened in the event of war And they also join our enemies and fight among fight against us, and so go up out of the land. Therefore they set taskmasters over them to afflict them with their burdens, and they built for Pharaoh supply cities, Pitham and Ramses. But the more they afflicted them, the more they multiplied and grew, and were in dread of the children of Israel So the Egyptians made the children of Israel serve with rigor, and they made their lives bitter with hard bondage, in mortar, in brick, and in all manner of Then the king of Egypt spoke to the Hebrew of one was Shipra and the name of the other Puah. And he said, When you do the dut duties of a midwife for the Hebrew women, and see them in the bark burststools, if it is a son, then you shall kill him, but if a daughter, then she shall live. Alright, let's just pause there and ask the question. What's missing? What is missing so far it's not missing, but what seems to be missing from this passage? You've got a A passage of Scripture. It's God-breathed. It's God-inspired. We're reading through the passage. We get all the way from chapter 1, verse 1 through chapter 1, verse 16, and there seems to be something missing Now if we had the ability to be able to comment, I would ask you what you thought they were, what what you think that is, but I can't see your comments, so I won't ask the question that question at this point. I'll just simply point this out That what you have that is missing is you have no mention of God so far. We read verse after verse after verse, and we don't have And even I can see any actual explicit mention of God all the way from verse 1 all the way through verse 16. The first mention of God that we see is in verse 17. That's remarkable that you have this, that this is the case. So why do you suppose that is? Now remember that when a narrative is written, whether it's in scripture or even extra-biblical narratives that we see, there's reasons why things are included and why things aren't included. in a text. For example, you find in this text there's no there's no mention of who Pharaoh is. You've got a mention of Pharaoh, but we don't know who he is. We don't know which Pharaoh it is. There's probably a reason for that Uh they d the author does not want us to be sidetracked. Moses, who's the author of this, the human author doesn't want us to be sidetracked, but ultimately God doesn't want us to be necessarily to be sidetracked with that. So what is it in the passage that's missing? The answer is there's no explicit mention of God. Now here's another question. Well, let me before I get on another another question, let me mention this as well. Why is that? Here's let me let me give you a suggestion why that is Because from the people's point of view, during this time, the nation of Israel, God's people, as they're enslaved, it may feel very much like God isn't doing anything. It may feel very much like God is that like they're alone. What in the world is God doing? Egyptian the Egyptian pharaoh has taken over. He doesn't know Joseph. He's enslaving the people, he's oppressing them Everything seems to be going wrong for the nation of Israel. And if you can imagine being one of God's people, being one of the Israelites And looking or and seeing what's going on and wondering, how long, oh Lord, how long, God, are you going to allow this to last? There's no mention of God. And and you may feel that way as you go through life. As you go through difficulties and as we look at this pandemic and everything that's going on, you may feel like, Lord, what is what are you doing? Five minutes ago, I'm thinking to myself, Lord, why would this fail now? Why would this why would we have problems with all these platforms right now, trying to get out of God's word? There's sometimes we feel we know it's not true intellectually, but we feel as though we can't figure out what God is doing, why God is allowing what He's doing. Why is What's going on? It feels as though he's not there. But let's take the same passage and think about it. Even though God is not explicitly in this passage, do you see God there? Do you see what God is doing? If you go through this passage again, in fact, many of you may have missed the fact that God is not mentioned from one uh from verse one through verse 16. Simply because it almost looks like God is doing something there, because of course He is. If you look through the passage, actually what you find is that God is doing something. God is actually relentless. in his working through his people, despite the opposition from Pharaoh. Even though it's not explicitly said We know God is working. The nation of Israel continues to grow. It continues to multiply. It continues to move forward, even though The people there may not have felt like God was working. We could see, we could take a bird's eye view of this and see that God is working. And so understanding that is very important. So, how is it that God is relentless working relentlessly through his people? How is that occurring? And the answer to that we're going to find in this passage. First of all, we're going to see in verses 1 through 7 the furthering of God's kingdom. We're going to see the furthering of God's kingdom. So we pick up in verses 1 through 7, and the first thing that we see in verse 1 is this. Now these are the names of the children of Israel who came to Egypt. So you've got this list of names. In fact, there's 70 people total. There's different tribes, but they're different the the the sons of Jacob. But you've got then descendants were a total of 70 that came into Egypt. uh that were there during this time. And the reason that this is included in the text is because God wants us to see a connection between Genesis and Exodus. So there's in other words, when we look at the book of Exodus, actually what we should be looking at as it's not as a separate, isolated book. It's really the second chapter in the book of maybe the Pentateuch, the first five books of the new of the Old Testament, or the second chapter of the Bible, you could actually look at it that way. It really is, there really is a connection. In fact, the connection you can actually find in Genesis 46 verse 8. We won't take the time to read that, but there is a very clear connection there. And you find also in other places in Isaiah 45, verse 16, and God is intent on making lots of connections. For example, in Isaiah 45, if we were to take the time to look there, which we won't uh for sake of time, we've lost a little time here uh in in in all this, but uh for s uh f uh there there's a lot of um of connections that God makes. He makes the connection between creation and what God is doing in redemption through the nation of Israel. He makes the connection and God leading them into Babylon and leading the nation of Israel into Egypt. and and delivering them from Egypt and how God will deliver them from Babylon. God makes these connections throughout the Old Testament. He wants us to see God wants us to see his continuous working through his people throughout the Old Testament. But that actually moves into the New Testament. In the Old Testament, you see all these genealogies, everywhere you see genealogies. You see them in 1 Chronicles and 2 Chronicles, you see them in Genesis, you see them in uh uh in uh Exodus, you see them in the book of Numbers You see them all over the place in the Old Testament. And you open up the New Testament and you see the same kinds of genealogies. And you find that the connection, though, that is clearly made in the New Testament That's not so clear in the Old Testament. The connection in the Old Testament is God's people. The connection in the New Testament is Jesus Christ. That's the clear connection in the New Testament. All the genealogies you find in Matthew, the genealogies that you find in Luke, those are connections that all point us very specifically to Jesus Christ. Those are the connections that we see. So there are clear connections to Christ through the genealogies. But not only that And I have a point in what I'm about to say here with all this. There are clear connections that God makes through uh in Christ to the Old Testament, even in Adam. We see these connections in Romans chapter 5 verse 12 all the way through chapter 6 verse 14. But in Romans chapter 5, verse 12 particularly, actually in verse 14, it says this Nevertheless, death reigned from Adam to Moses, even over those who had not sinned according to the likeness of the transgression of Adam, who is uh who is a type of him who was to come But the free gift is not like the offense. For if by the by one man's offense many died, much more the grace of God and the gift by grace of the one man Jesus Christ abounded to many. So we see a clear connection made between Adam, who is the first man, first human being, to Christ, who is the last Adam, and we see this connection made there. So my point in simply saying is that even I'm going to make some connections here between the Old Testament and the New Testament since we are now going to be going through the book of Exodus in the coming weeks. There's another clear connection that's made from the Old Testament into the New Testament, and that is the clear connection of faith. So we have the clear connection of Christ, but we also have the clear connection of faith. And we find, for example, in Romans chapter 4, as well as Hebrews chapter 11, in the book of Galatians, in 1 Corinthians chapter 10, all throughout the Bible. But I'll read from Romans chapter 4 particularly, we see that it says this. What then shall we say that Abraham our father has found according to the flesh? For if Abraham was justified by works, He has something to boast about, but not before God. For what does the scripture say? Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him for righteousness. Now to him who works, the wages are not counted as grace, but as debt. But to him who does not work, but believes on him, who justifies the ungodly, his faith is counted as God. for righteousness. And so we see from this passage that that there is a clear connection of faith How did people come to come to uh uh a connection with God in the Old Testament? It was by faith. How do people come to being connected with God in the New Testament? Again, it's by faith. And really, even in the Old Testament and also in the New Testament, it is by Christ. Christ connects the God's people in the Old Testament with the people in the New Testament, God's people, the church, and faith connects God's people in the Old Testament with connections with God's people in the New Testament. Now that's important to understand because there is the nation of Israel is a separate entity from the church In fact, it's interesting that there are some that would say that the church is simply and only a continuation of the nation of Israel. But the problem with that is actually find in Ephesians chapter 1 that the church is thought of before the very foundation of the world. And so it's not just a continuation of the nation of Israel, but there are connections, and we want to see the connections. There are two more very important connections. And those are the clear connection of lessons. So we have the connection of Christ, the clear connection of faith, but we have the clear connection of lessons. Now I want to say something here. We this is actually gets where it gets a little bit dicier. Because sometimes we look at the Old Testament and we take it as a list or a group of moralistic stories. You may have heard them uh growing up. For example, have you ever heard the story of David and Goliath? And David is the protagonist, and you need to be like David and kill your giants. Or Abraham, or Moses, or the patriarchs, or all these different people, and they did this, therefore you should do this, and they did this, and therefore you should do this. And although sometimes that's the case, sometimes we're actually reading into a text into the text in a way that we ought to not read into it, where we're making these patriarchs arcs Moralistic examples that actually end up breaking down. Did you know that? They break down. Think of David, a moralistic example that breaks down. Even Moses, there are times where this moralistic example breaks down. Abraham. All the sin that Abraham did, here's a man of faith. We have no question about that. The Bible says that faith connects us to Abraham But as far as moralistic lessons from Abraham, he is not an exemplary moral character that we can follow in every respect. So the Old Testament is not for that. It's not for us to look at all of these different characters and to find how we can follow exactly the way uh they they they lived and okay well Saul did this so we do that and David did this so that no no be very careful about that that's not that God doesn't make those connections He makes the connections I mentioned, and I'll mention two more that he makes. One clear connection, a lesson, if we look back at the Old Testament and we see what God wants us to learn. One clear connection is the is the lesson of warning. And we find that in 2 Corinthians, or 1 Corinthians, rather, chapter 10. It says this there. Now all these things that happened to them as examples, but it specifically tells us what he wants us to understand. The Old Testament examples And they were written for our, and we have this term, admonition. And that word admonition is it means warning. So the Old Testament examples of God's people are intended, according to the New Testament, to be a warning to us. Upon the ends of the ages have come. They are to be a warning to us. That's going to be important. Let me give you an example. As we go through the book of Exodus, we're going to see sometimes that the nation of Israel complained. And God had to chasten them for their complaining. See, that is a lesson we can learn. Why? Because it's a warning to us. It's a warning of how God God has to chasten his people when they rebel, when there's complaining, when there's idolatry, and it's a warning for us. And biblically we see from 1 Corinthians chapter 10 that that is a lesson we are to learn from the Old Testament. And we're going to see that a lot. There's another passage in Scripture in Romans chapter 15, verse 4, it says this whatsoever therefore were written aforetime, were written for our learning, and it tells us specifically this: that we through patience and comfort of the scriptures might have hope. Did you catch that? It says this. That is that we can look at the Old Testament, we can see how God worked through his people, and this tells us, Romans chapter 15, that it gives us hope. It says through patience, that's the word endurance. And it says through comfort. That when we read the Old Testament, the working of God in the Old Testament. And we see God's people being used by Him and worked with Him and His patience and His goodness and all those kinds of things, His faithfulness. Then we can look and say, we have hope that God will continue to work through us in the New Testament. Now, I want us to think about this for a minute. Isn't it the case that we need hope? We are living in a world where there is a reduction of hope. Uh w it was already hopeless before this whole pandemic. But now I think people are feeling it more. There is a hopelessness. Now there's a hope that we'll find a cure, and there's a hope that we'll find a vaccine. and therapeutic medications and all these kinds of things that we're trying to put our hope in. But for God's people, our hope needs to really transcend all of that. Our hope needs to be in the goodness and the faithfulness of God as we look back at what he has done for his people. And we can do this through our own lives. We look ahead and we're worried and we're concerned and we're We're occupied with what's happening and the and the the lack of per uh you know the lack of uh of of stability and all those kinds of things. We can see God's can can you not see God's faithfulness in your life? Can you not see God's goodness? Look back at your life and see the faithfulness of God and the goodness of God, and that is going to help you to look ahead and to see hope. But even beyond that, we're going to see in the book of Exodus the faithfulness of God. We're going to see in the book of Exodus the goodness of God. And we're going to see that the faithfulness of God and the goodness of God is not based upon how good the nation of Israel is. It's not based upon how all the nation of Israel and Moses boy they do everything right, and so God's faithful to them and God's good to them because they do everything right. That is not what we're going to see We're going to see instead that God is relentless in working with the nation of Israel despite the fact that they trip up. That they make mistakes, that they sin, that God continues to be relentless and is working with the nation of Israel throughout the book of Exodus. And we're going to see that. We're going to see the goodness of God. We're going to see the faithfulness of God. And we're going to be, see that by patience and comfort of the scriptures, it's going to help us to have hope. I hope that you get excited about Exodus and you get excited about what we're going to find in this book as we look As we look in the past at the working of God through the nation of Israel, and we look ahead to the future, and we see that we can have hope. Now, we then begin to see we see those connections and I want you to pick up in verse seven and we see first of all how God, even though it's not mentioned explicitly We see how God is working for the nation of Israel in this passage. Would you pick up here and would you notice what it says in verse 28? I'm sorry, not verse 28, verse 7. It says, For the children of Israel were fruitful and increased abundantly, multiplied, and grew exceedingly mighty, and the land was filled with them. Did you catch all that? All you have many, several descriptions of really the same thing. God when when you see that, God really wants to get across something to us. It's repeated. You've got this word fruitful increased abundantly. multiplied, grew exceedingly. Four different descriptions of what was happening in the nation of Israel as they were in this situation where they were under under Egypt during this time. Why? Well, and then also it says they grew exceedingly mighty, and the land was filled with them. Now when you read through that, that they were fruitful and that they multiplied, what does that remind you of? Well, it ought to remind you of Genesis. It reminds you of Genesis, in Genesis chapter 1, verse 28, it says this. Then God blessed them, and God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply, fill the earth and subdue it. Have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the air, and over every living thing that moves on the earth. So it says, be fruitful and multiply. In Genesis chapter 1. So God sets up this thing called the human race, and He gives He gives them the responsibility of being fruitful and multiplying. And we see the same thing in Genesis chapter 8, verse 17. Bring out with you every living thing of all flesh that is with you, birds and cattle and every creeping thing that creeps on the earth, so that you shall may uh that you may abound on the earth and be fruitful and multiply on the earth. Again you see the scene the same thing in Genesis chapter nine. It says And so God blessed Noah and his sons and said to them Be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth. In the book of Genesis, on repeated occasions, you have this command from God that in order to further his kingdom purposes, he says, be fruitful and multiply. And what you're going to see here in this passage is that God now is causing them to do exactly what he wants them to do. He wants them to be fruitful and multiply. You remember in the early stages in the book of Genesis, you remember how he said, be fruitful and multiply and scatter about the whole earth, and they didn't they didn't want to do that And God says, okay, I'm going to confuse your languages, so you do scatter, so you do you are fruitful, that you are multiple, that you fulfill what I'm saying. By the time we get now to Exodus, God has chosen to work through the through the descendants of Abraham. He's now going to He's working through a particular family, the descendants of then of Jacob, the twelve tribes of Israel. And uh the w there'll be tribes, and not tribes yet, but the the the family of Israel, and he's going to make from a family a nation as God originally intended. And what you're now going to find in this passage is you're going to find opposition from Pharaoh and from Egypt to this intention. You're going to have opposition. Now let me just make this connection. What is God's primary way of his church to further his kingdom? What's God's primary way Well it's not certainly we should be fruitful and multiply, certainly we can have children, we ought to raise them in the nurture and admission of the Lord. But that really that really is not the primary way we do this. The primary way, according to Matthew 28, is what? That we, as we are going, we make disciples. That we ought to be multiplying disciples, that we ought to be sharing the gospel with others. We ought to be giving the gospel out to others that we are going to make disciples. And that is that's a sense in the New Testament way of multiplying in the Old Testament. And here's what we can guarantee, God will do what He will do in that. Just like He's doing here. And what we see in the book of Exodus in chapter one is we're going to see opposition to this And the more opposition you see, the more God is just going to continue to work. So let's look then at the opposition. And what we're going to find is we look at this in verses 8 through 16, and we're going to try to move through this fairly quickly And hit some of the highlights. But in verses 8 through 16, you're going to find opposition to God's kingdom purposes. That's the second point of our message. Opposition to God's kingdom purposes. And you're going to see opposition in three ways. Number one, you're going to see in verses 8 through 11, you're going to see opposition through enslavement, the enslavement of God's people. How are God's people opposed in the Old Testament? Enslavement. By the way, how are God's people opposed in the New Testament? The answer is enslavement. We won't take the time to look at this, we'll have time in the future, but understand this that we also can be enslaved. God is going to use this term in the future. And Satan's desire is actually for you and I to be enslaved. That's Satan's desire. So, we find in the passage that that's Pharaoh's desire. Of course, we find that now this Pharaoh doesn't know God. And we pick up in verse 10, and you're going to see this, it says He's concerned. Actually, look at verse 9. It says, and he, this is the Pharaoh that didn't know Joseph, didn't know what Joseph had done for them. Verse 9 says, And he said to his people, Look, the people of the children of Israel are more and mightier than we. Come, let us deal shrewdly with them. Lest they multiply. And it happened in the event of war that they also join our enemies and fight against us, and so go up out of the of the land. Therefore they set they set taskmasters over them to afflict them with their burdens. And they built for Pharaoh supplies cities, Pitham and Ramsa. So okay, so verse ten says this, let's deal this jewel shrew shrewdly with them. We're now going to oppress them. And he has this concern. He says to he says, uh I guess to his people, he says, look, um we don't they're growing so much We're concerned they're going to join with our enemies and they're going to overtake us. Now, give you a little historic background. We don't know exactly who this pharaoh is, we we have a good idea of who it is, but the the Bible doesn't tell us, so we don't want to be uh dogmatic on that. Um but it's possible and maybe even likely That this is the first pharaoh uh that has come into power, uh that is that has conquered what is known as the Hyksos dynasty. Now we won't get into all a lot of detail about that, but the Hyksos dynasty, they were a group of people that were not native to the Egyptian uh to to Egypt. They were people people that came in from the outside. And from what I understand Uh the Hyksos dynasty did not actually ever take over all of Egypt. It was mainly the northern part of Egypt that they took over. And um um and and not all of it, but it's but at some point you have now a new pharaoh that comes in and conquers the entire area, but the Hyksos people might still be uh lurking for another opportunity uh to take things over. And so this Pharaoh is probably what he's talking about here. It doesn't have to be this way, but probably what he's talking about here is he's saying We don't want the nation of Israel, we don't want this these people now, uh what will be the nation of Israel, we don't want these people now to overtake us And so we need to enslave them. And somehow he thought that enslaving them would be the kind of opposition that would cause them to keep from multiplying. But we find that that doesn't happen, that they still continue to multiply. We find that in verse 12. It says this. But more uh uh but the more they afflicted them, the more they multiplied and grew, and they were in the dread of the children of Israel. So what happens is they they continue the resiliency of God's people, they continue to multiply And then in verses, and so the next thing that happens: how are God's people opposed? Well, we have oppression. So we start off with enslavement. And and and by the way, I'll just say as far as application of that, that you and I have to we run the risk of enslavement as well. Satan wants to enslave us. Paul says He says, All things are lawful to me, but I will not be caught under the power of any. He he was very concerned about being under the power of anything, even if it's good, of being under the power of something, besides under the power of God. And there are things that are addictive. There are things that are are things that we bec that become idols in our lives. maybe even good things that they become things that we are just we are just obsessed over and those things actually work to enslave us Which oppose then what God wants to do through us. And we need to be aware of that. We need to be aware, secondly, then, of the oppression of God's people Now we have not seen that so much yet in our in our twenty-first century. Where now in other parts of the world probably. But in uh certainly, but in our Western world we haven't seen too much of the oppression of God's people. But it doesn't mean it's not coming. We find then that they make it hard. The Egyptian people, along with Pharaoh, make it hard and bitter, it makes make their lives bitter with hard bondage, Scripture says. They take this sort of next step. Has that happened to the church? In church history, it certainly has. In fact, most of church history, the true church has been under oppression. In the first century, we found that to be the case. Remember the Emperor Nero, and he oppressed uh the the uh the people of God. And we find the same kind of thing happening to the people of God in the New Testament that we found in the Old Testament, in the book of Exodus. The more Satan and the world tries to oppress God's people, the more they multiply. We find the same kind of thing going on in the New Testament that we do in the Old Testament. God is relentless in working with his people. He will work with his people. in times of difficulty, even though in certain times it may feel like he's not doing anything. Or he it may even feel like he's n uh we can't figure out what he's doing or he seems to be even reducing our ability to be able to serve him. We have to be content with the fact that God and and be convinced of the fact that God is working through his people. to the oppression of God's people. Now then we see in the passage uh there is a third There is a third attempt thing that we're going to see in this passage. We're going to have an attempt to eliminate God's people. Look at verses 15 through 16. It says, then the king of Egypt spoke to he to the Hebrew midwives, of whom the name of one was Shipra, and the name of the other Pu'ah, and he said, When you do the duties of a midwife for the Hebrew women and see them on the birth stools, if it is a son, then you shall kill him. But if it is a daughter, then you shall live. So he now is moving on. He's saying, this isn't this oppression isn't working, this enslavement isn't working. We're now going to move on and try to eliminate people. And what he told them to do, he told the midwives, he wanted to do it very secretively, he didn't want to make a big mess over things, he wanted to do it uh uh basically he wanted the su in my the way I see it is he wanted the midwives to to put the children to death immediately and to make it look as though um This was a the these were stillborn kids to make it look as though that uh this was this was uh just happening um by by some natural cause I think that's probably what's going on here. And the midwives are now going to be involved in God's kingdom purposes. Now, um, let's then move on to verses 17 through 22. We saw the opposition of God's people, of God's kingdom. Now we're going to see the involvement of God's kingdom, uh involvement in God's kingdom purposes. So what's interesting in this passage is the the the the The heroes of the passage, quote unquote, if you could call the heroes, would be these midwives. And these midwives are involved in God's kingdom purposes. Now, understand this. God isn't doing, and I want to be clear about this. God is not doing, he's not intervening in this situation by by um Extraordinary means. Now he's going to later. He's going to intervene in through plagues, he's going to intervene through all kinds of ways in the future. And the people of God are clearly going to see the work of God. At this point, they're not seeing God working through extraordinary means. They're seeing God work through ordinary means. God is working, verses 1 through 16. I don't think there's any question about that. God is working. But he's not working through extraordinary means, he's working through ordinary means. Now that's important to understand that sometimes, in fact I would almost say maybe most of the time, God chooses to work through ordinary means. Through the creative processes that he's already established. The Bible says in Genesis chapter 1 that what God created, he said what about it? That it is what? It's very good. So the way that God chooses to work most of the time is actually not Not in some extraordinary way over and above God's created order. He does do that. We call those miracles. But God's ordinary way of working is through God's creation, not over and above his creation. So sometimes I think we get it wrong as God's people when we are looking for God's extraordinary intervention. Now, God can choose to do that. We could pray for that. We can look to that even in our pandemic situation. God, would you work in an extraordinary way? Nothing wrong with that. But understand that God works both through his creation. And sometimes, I think it's less often that he works in an extraordinary way. But here's the thing about the midwives. The midwives, in the midst of God, working through ordinary means. Where it's not even mentioned that God is intervening in the passage. The midwives, notice what it says about the description of the midwives. Why is it that God is going to use them? What caused them to be able to use? Verse 17 But the midwise, what does it say? They feared God. In fact It's said again later that they feared God. This is something that they really God wanted to get across. And the midwives feared God and did not do as the king of Egypt commanded them, but saved the male children Saved uh the male children alive. The midwives, they feared the Lord Folks, that needs to be our response when we don't see what God is doing, when we don't see God's swims uh God's Extraordinary intervention. When we don't see God's inserting his hand into a situation, we've got to believe that God is working through his ordinary means. He is working through his creative order, which he said is good. And we got to believe that God is there. What does it mean when it says that these people feared God. Well, this is an Old Testament term that's used very frequently, the fear of the Lord. Probably m the most familiar phrase in Scripture w with regard to this is the fear of the Lord is the what? The beginning of wisdom. Moses employs this six times in the Pentateuch. That's the first five books of the Old Testament. He uses this term six times. And really what he's talking about is this. It's talking about the um it's talking about uh it really is an idiom for the idea of belief. I'm not going to go into the details of why that is, but basically it's an idiom for they believed God. They knew that God was there with them. And we also see that there was an awareness of God's presence. They believed God and there was an awareness of God's presence. So they feared him. In other words, they were respectful of God watching them. They were respectful of God being there with them. Folks, this is so important that at the baseline, the foundation of how we live, it needs to be in the fear of the Lord. It needs to be in a belief that God is there, that He's present. And in spite of the fact that the nation of Israel didn't see God's extraordinary working at this point The midwives believed God. We have this amazing passage in Hebrews chapter 11 where it says, Abraham and others believed God. And it was accounted to him for righteousness. You and I must believe God and trust God if we are going to be a part of God's kingdom purposes, if we're going to be involved in God's kingdom purposes. We must believe that in what God is doing. Now, there there comes a question about this as we continue through the text. What is going on here? And I'm gonna just ask for your for your we're at twelve oh four right now. We might be going a little bit over what I what I expected to go over simply because We had so much delay in getting started here. And I apologize for that. We'll work on on backup plans in the future to try to mitigate that possibility. But anyway, And when it comes to this concept of fearing the Lord uh and believing him, it's very important to understand this. And then notice then in the passage what What happens? They refuse to follow Pharaoh. Now, we ought to follow as much as possible. We ought to follow what God says to do in Romans chapter 13. Romans 13 says that the powers that be, the government authorities, are ordained of God, and we need to follow them as much as we can. But if they ask us to do something that is against Scripture. That goes against the moral prohibitions or commands of Scripture, then we do, like it says in the book of Acts, we obey God rather than man. And this these midwives had such a fear of the Lord, had such a belief in God that even though Pharaoh, who had actually power Could have done it, could put them to death, they chose to believe God and fear and to fear him instead. And so they protected them. But there then there comes up a question. Notice what the text says here. Um picking up in verse uh fift fifteen Uh actually let's pick up in verse 18. So the king that the king of Egypt called for the midwives and said to them, Why have you done this thing and saved the male children children alive? And the midwives said to Pharaoh, Because the Hebrew women are not like the Egyptian women, for they are lively and give birth before the midwives come to them. Therefore, God dealt well with the midwives, and the people m multiplied and grew very mighty. And so it was because the midwives feared God that he provided households for them. Now There's a question about this. Pharaoh comes to him saying, says, why isn't, you know, he understands that he he gets wind of the fact that they're continuing to multiply, and he goes to the midwives and he says, Why haven't you done it as I've said? And the midwives say to him, Well, the they are the the Israelites are not like the The Egyptian women, the Israel women, are more the word is lively or translated vigorous. They're more lively. Now What in the world does that mean? I mean I read it, I'm like, what does that mean? So I try to look it up. It's the only time in the old whole Old Testament that this Hebrew word is used. It's called a Well, it doesn't matter what it's called. But basically it's it it uh it it's the only time it's used, this word vigorous or this m this word lively. So that wasn't I can't find another cross-reference to figure out what this means Well you probab what you have to go to th this is conjecture, but what you have to go go to is culturally what's going on And culturally, you have a m uh physiologically do you have that big a difference between Egyptian women when it comes to giving birth and and Israelite women when it comes to giving birth? You you uh arguably there's probably not much difference physiologically. But culturally there there could very well be and probably are major differences. Now I'm going to read to you because I'm more comfortable reading about this. I'm just going to read to you from a commentary that I think captures what probably is going on here. It says this. He says conjecture to be sure, but a reasonable one that the actual difference between the group the two groups uh was a matter of family style rather than physiology It is possible that at the time of the Exodus, Egyptian women, at least of the classes that Pharaoh would be familiar with, and that of the midwives we're referring to in 119, took a minimal role in delivering their own children. They may well have mainly lain back with their eyes closed during the perhaps perhaps immediately after the child childbirth and let midwives do all the rest If this were so, it would certainly fit with the with Pharaoh's original expectation that a midwife could easily kill a baby at that point of emergence from the womb without a mother's realizing it, since the mother's role was usually so passive. Did you catch that? So basically it's a matter of style and and what the midwives are saying is that we we couldn't because they're so active in how they deliver, uh we can't get them get to them fast enough. And it it I think they're not lying here. Now it looks like that maybe they are. But I think what they're doing here is I I think that they're not lying. I think that that that was the case. Now could they have put could they have put these babies to death anyway? Answer yes, but not in the way that Pharaoh wanted. And so they chose they chose to follow after God. rather than rather than what uh what rather than what Farris said. Now there's another possibility. Another possibility is they actually got word to the Israelites, Israelite women. They could have gotten word to them, hey, don't call on us until the baby's born. And then come get us and we'll help you. That's a possibility as well. And then they were they could be honest to Pharaoh Now, is there a possibility that they actually were lying or deceiving here? That is a possibility. And note the passage, as we've said already, and We're not looking to every every thing that all of these different people do as exemplary moral character for us to follow. So if they were aligned, which I actually don't think they were But if they were lying, that doesn't mean that that is the example that we ought to follow, that we can lie sometimes as well Uh I think rather what's going on here in the passage is that this was a style this is a personal stylistic difference in as far as the culture is concerned, and s and they were taking advantage of that possi of that reality. Now. That didn't stop Pharaoh. Pharaoh goes one step further. Notice what it says in verse 22. So Pharaoh commanded all his people. All of them. He says, okay, forget the midwives. I'm going to command everybody. All his people saying, every son who is born you shall cast into the river. That's the Nile River. And every daughter you shall save alive. He says, he just says, okay, I'm gonna everybody this is gonna be law. This is gonna be the law of the land. Cast everybody into the river, all of the male uh babies that are born into the river. And just save it save the dollars but cast the rest into the river. Now, two things I want to note about that. He wants them to be submerged in the Nile River. Now, the reason he probably did that was because the Nile River was the primary river that ran through the through Egypt And it ran at a fairly f probably ran at a fairly fast pace and uh and a cur very fairly fast current. And so this would be the cleanest way. of disposing of uh the easiest, cleanest way of disposing of babies. It's it's really horrible to think about it. Um and frankly, um I can't help but think of the fact that our country is um is le has is has legalized uh uh uh an equally heinous act of abortion. I won't get into that because that's not the main purpose of the message, but I can't help but think uh that that is the case, uh that that that is an equally horrible, horrific thing that that that our country has legalized. But I want to make two points about this. It's interesting that what God does in the future. Remember what happens later on. The nation of Israel is It makes its its exodus from Egypt into uh uh up to Mount Sinai into the promised land eventually. And they go through uh the Red Sea. Do you remember that? What happens to the soldiers that are chasing the nation of Israel? Yeah, they're submerged in water. The Red Sea collapses on them. And so that's just something to to note. Something else that's interesting about this. The next this is the the last verse in verse twenty-two is that. That's the last verse. It sets us up. For the need for a deliverer, which we're going to see in verse in chapter two. Okay. But let me ask this question. Uh what happens in chapter 2? You know the story well enough. What happens in chapter 2 chapter 2? You've got Moses' family, and what do they do with Moses? They put him in the Nile. But they do it in a basket. But they put Pharaoh, but they put Moses in a basket, and God actually uses that for the salvation of Moses, and then ultimately for the deliverance of God's people. Two interesting facts that we're going to see later on as as we see God's working through through all of this. Now, let me just then reiterate three points that I think are going to be helpful for us to understand. Number one. Reflecting on past faithful uh concluding applications. Number one, reflecting on God's past faithfulness Results in a future hope. If you are struggling today with hope, You're looking at everything. Understand this, that you must look to the faithfulness of God and the goodness of God in the past. Reflecting on God's faithfulness and God's goodness will help us in future hope. Look back on that. Look but read through the Old Testament narratives and see how God was Over and over and over again, faithful and good to his people. It didn't mean that, but God over and over again was good and faithful to his people. And if you and I are really um honest. Has not God been good and faithful to us? He has. And we have an uncertain future But we can have great hope, great comfort when we look at the faithfulness of God. Both In the life of God's people in Scripture and also in our lives, reflecting on past faithfulness, results, and future hope. Number two. We must anticipate opposition through enslavement, oppression, and even elimination. This should not surprise us. First Peter talks about this. Don't be surprised when fiery trials come upon you. You must expect enslavement and opposition and oppression. And even a la even elimination. Even during this time with the coronavirus and all what's going on, understand That that that there is that God wants us to be involved in his kingdom work in various ways through prayer. That's probably number one. That's not even probably, that is number one. The training of our children, the reading of Scripture, all of that, we need to continue to be faithful in those things. God wants us to be faithful in those things, but there will be opposition. Understand that. Be aware of that. Expect that. But then finally, number three. In the uncertainty of an opposition, we must respond in the fear of God rather than the fear of man. We must respond in the fear of God rather than the fear of man. Or even the fear of our circumstances. These are things that we ought not fear. God does not want us to fear. God has not given us the spirit of fear. but of love and of power and of a sound mind. Now I want to issue this this belief. Maybe you're listening to all this and you're saying, no, I don't see the faithfulness of God. I haven't experienced the goodness of God. I don't have the fear of God, the belief in God. Understand this. That you can. And the way that you can is simply this. You understand that Jesus lived a perfect life. And he died to pay the punishment for your sin. And he rose from the grave victorious over sin and death. And if you will accept Him as your Lord and Savior, you can be connected with God and you can know the goodness of God and the faithfulness of God. You can know the and have a sustained belief in what God is doing even when you can't see. The Bible actually says that true faith is believing without seeing. Faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. And if you say, well, I'm struggling with my faith, I'm struggling with having faith, let me encourage you to contact me. You can contact me just you can met if you're on Facebook, you can message me. I can get a hold of your message. If you want to call me, you can call me. I would be glad to take a Bible and show you over the phone. How you can know for sure that you can have this relationship with God where you know God is working and you're involved in the kingdom work. For the rest of us, we need to be encouraged by by the fact that God is relentless in his working. All of this opposition From Pharaoh, all of this opposition from the world, and God is relentless in his working through the nation of Israel. through his people to bring about his kingdom purposes. And God will continue, despite the fact that we're meeting I'm in an empty sanctuary on a Sunday morning. Despite the fact that we are all in our homes and trying to stay away from each other, God will continue his kingdom's work until he comes for us. And we can know for sure that that will happen. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for the time that we could spend together. We thank you for your word and the teaching and preaching of your word, and we pray, Lord, that it would be applied to our hearts. And that we would continue to be to respond in the fear of you and belief and in trust, that our hope would remain constant in the midst of uncertain and uncertain world. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.