You may be saying, didn't I hear a message from this passage not that long ago? And it's true, you did. And while I was talking to Pastor Jim about what I would speak uh on this morning And what passage I would be focused on. He said, you know, this would go really well with uh the study that he's going through in Revelation with the the message to the seven churches. So with that encouragement I said, you know what, I think I'll go ahead and do this passage. And um I must say that This is one of those passages that has been etched in my thinking for quite a while now. Let me take you to about seven years ago now. Where my family and I are living in the north woods of Wisconsin, and by North Woods I mean North Woods, an hour and a half north of Green Bay, Wisconsin where it is cold and then we have the season that's cold not as cold. So we're up there. I'm I'm spending my last year uh in Bible College and we start to hear thoughts of that some are having about planting a church in a town nearby. And uh we begin to uh uh several families and students as well began to talk about this idea of planting church in Crivast, Wisconsin. And you might say and might think, well gee, that's a nice thought. How do you even get it going? What are your next steps such of that. And we had one um professor who had been a church planter at one time and he was sort He was the leader of our company. He'd been there before. And that fall he took us through a series of Bible studies on Wednesday night. And he was asking this question. The question was, what kind of church do we want to be? And when asking that question, he wasn't talking about denomination or anything like that. He he he was saying, what kind of church do we want to be marked as? When people look at our church, if God decides to bless us, what do we want to look like? He gave uh three stand out in my mind. He he gave uh a study that was declared that we wanted to be a word church. We wanted to be a church of the word. He also one of those studies was uh was called that we wanted to be a church, a loving church. And that was based out of John chapter 13. And then he went to this passage, Matthew 16. And the idea there was that we wanted to be a Christ-built church. We wanted to be a Christ-built church. And out of those Bible studies, two sermons came. In my own personal study. I have actually preached that love that love sermon, authentic love, before. Some of you may even recall that. It. But yes, the other sermon that came out of those Bible studies, in my own personal study, was this one: that we would be a Christ-built church. Matthew 16, and dealing with the middle portion of the chapter, it's the context of Peter confessing that Jesus is the Christ. You know, this idea of Christ being the head of the church, well Quite honestly, if you've been through Pastor Jim's orientation class, if you've been here any length of time, that concept, that idea that Christ is the head of the church is very foundational for what we do here at Bethel. It's something that as a leadership we go back to. We have to remind ourselves, we have to think about We have to take a hold of that and recognize this is Jesus Christ Jesus Christ's church. The questions and the portions of this interaction between Jesus and his disciples, they are quite honestly very simple questions. But very profound in their depth, in their weight, and the implications of them. We read the passage earlier, so I won't go ahead and read the whole passage again. But we see here as Jesus is traveling with his disciples, he stops and he turns to them. And he asks, he asks this, he asks, who do people say that I am? Who do people say that I, the son of man, am? Let me ask you something. Who is Jesus? Who is Jesus? If you were to ask the common person today, who is Jesus, what would they say? Would their answer be accurate or inaccurate? It would be correct or incorrect. If you were to ask a Christian the same question, would the answer be accurate or would it be inaccurate? That is the question that Jesus poses to his disciples. Let's look here at verse 16. So Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ. Oh, I'm I'm a little bit ahead of myself, sorry. Verse 13 And Jesus came into the coast of Caesarea Philippi. He asked his disciples, saying, Whom do men say that I the Son of Man among the man? And they said, Some say that thou art John the Baptist, some Elias, and other Jeremiah, or one of the prophets. So what we have here is Jesus is asking for a public opinion poll. What we have here is the disciples' account of what they've been hearing other people in the land say that Jesus is. It's the public opinion of Jesus' identity. And there are a variety of answers, are there not? We can gather from this public opinion that the identity of Christ at that time was rather shadowed, was rather uncertain. Who is this man that teaches new things that, according to some people, have done Rather miraculous things. I don't know if I can believe that yet. I don't know who this man is. Maybe he's a prophet. Maybe he's a new prophet. Maybe he's one of the old prophets that have come back. Maybe he's Elijah or Jeremiah or someone like that. Think about this Think about today in our age the variety of answers that are given as to who Jesus is. Can you think of any in your own minds? Who do people say that Jesus is? I came up with a few that I've heard and hear, and in some cases on a regular basis. They say, and some of them are comparable to what they were saying about Jesus in the first century I've heard people say that he is a good man. He was a good man. Heard some people say he was a good teacher. He was a prophet. Maybe he was the greatest prophet And when you get into doctrinal positions, people then, you know, who are thinking, people who are thinking more critically about him. And say, well, he was God, but he wasn't a man. Or he was man, but he wasn't God. Then you get even more into our day and age where atheism is becoming Becoming more and more prevalent, they say, well, he's a myth. He's a fictitious character. He doesn't even exist And for those who believe he does exist, well, he's just a crutch that they need. Who do people say that Jesus is? My friends, more often than not, people get it wrong. More often than not, they don't understand the true identity of who Jesus is. We see here in these answers that the disciples give about Jesus that they aren't necessarily derogatory. To be labeled as a prophet, well that would be a fairly high honor. To be even labeled as one of the prophets of old, that would be a very high honor. They were well esteemed. Now, although I'm not sure why the the disciples don't answer this way exactly, but obviously there were those who held Jesus as a blasphemer, as a heretic. And certainly that would be part of the um the uh the the view of who Jesus was. But for the most part, these are very flattering descriptions of Jesus. But they are wrong. These answers that the public opinion has of Jesus fall short of who Jesus truly is They're all the wrong answers. You know, people today, just as people back then, misinterpret Jesus' actions. They misinterpret his actions, his words, and they misinterpret what he accomplished while he was on earth. Think about even in our day what entertainment has done with the identity of Jesus Even so-called documentary type pieces, what they have done with the identity of Jesus. Books and movies like the Da Vinci Code specials on the life of Christ, portray an image of Christ that is far different than what is in the Bible. People miss the real Jesus today just like they did when he walked on this planet. Because of false teaching. Because of false teaching, whether it's intended or unintended, I believe that there are a more variety of answers today regarding the identity of Jesus than the During the time that he lived. Which brings us to this very important conclusion that we need to grasp and have in our minds as we go through this study. The conclusion is this people don't know who Jesus is. People don't know who he is. And if this conclusion is reality, if people don't really know who Jesus is Then they need to be told who he is. It needs to be explained who he is. But at the outset, for that to be accomplished, we need to know who he is, right? If people are going to accurately tell someone else who Jesus is, they themselves need to know who Jesus is. And that's exactly where this conversation turns. It turns next to the disciples' opinion of who Jesus is. Jesus is. The disciples' opinion of his identity. So Jesus gets the answer from the disciples of who Jesus is in the minds of all those around him, but he turns to them in verse 15. and says, but whom say ye that I am? The contrast here is evident. Okay, public opinion, yes, but more importantly who who do you say that I am? Who do you say that I am I really I really like to put myself in that scenario. Because remember, these are real people in a real dialogue with Jesus of Nazareth. And I can't help but wonder if there was any apprehension on the part of the disciples at this point. point. We know obviously that Peter, as he usually does, opens his mouth and answers. But I wonder what kind of time lapsed between the question and the answer. And I wonder if the disciples, all of them, really got who Jesus was at that point. Although Peter would open his mouth at time from time to time and be wrong at from time to time, he, I believe, in this answer, was completely convinced about the answer he His answer is this in verse sixteen. He says, Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ The Son of the Living God. Thou art the Christ, the Son of the Living God. That's his answer. Now, again, I in my own imagination I wonder what the other followers of Christ were thinking. That didn't answer. What were they thinking? Were they saying immediately, yes, he got it right? Or were they saying, gee, I hope he got that right. You wouldn't want to mistake the identity of Jesus, would you? No, of course not. I wonder, do did the rest of them understand who they were walking around Israel? with. You know, if I were to put myself in their position, having followed Jesus for all this time that they had been following him. And I tell you, the the prepared selection is perfect because what were the types of things that they saw Jesus do? The type of things that said that made them say, What manner of man is this that the wind and the sea is a What and I'm sure the thought crossed their minds again when the first miracle took place, when he turned water into wine. And he made the lame to walk again, and he said, Lazarus, get out of the grave. And he woke up and he Came out. You know, if you follow that man and you witness those things, let me ask you something. Would you listen to what he has to say? Whenever he spoke, would you would your undivided attention be on him I think it would. I think you'd probably listen to that man better and more concretely than anybody else So then again, Peter gives his answer, and then there's a space. There's a space between that answer and what Jesus says next. I'm sure they were very interested in what the next words from Jesus would be. And the answer came in verse seventeen Says this. Jesus answers and said unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon Barjonh, for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee. My Father, which is in heaven, and I say unto thee that thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. Well, ultimately, Peter got it right, didn't he? He got it right. He accurately understood the identity of Christ. He understood it. But let's look at this at these words more closely now. Let's look at Peter's words more closely. Let's look at Christ's words more closely You know, perhaps when you were a child, perhaps with your own children, you have you have seen or experienced this common misconception. I think it's rather cute when a little boy or little girl thinks that the word Christ is Jesus' last name. And the fact is that it's not a name at all, it's rather a title, right? The term Christ is a title that is given to Jesus. In summary, Christ comes from the Greek word Kristas. It means literally an anointed one. Who is anointed? You'll note that Peter puts in front of the word Christ the definite article, the. He says, the Christ. You are the Christ. Christ. Okay. When referring to a person that way, Peter Is designating a specific title to Jesus that Jews at that time would have known very clearly, and that title would be Messiah. When you look at the Greek translation of the Old Testament, anytime you see Messiah in that word would be Christos, it would be Christ. So Peter is saying, you are the Messiah. You are the one foretold by the Old Testament. Now, understand that these are Jewish men with at least a variable understanding of the Old Testament, a very variable familiarity with the Old Testament. So that they knew all of these passages that I'm about to explain, maybe not. But the concept of Messiah was ingrained in their minds. It was someone they were waiting for. From the very beginning. From Genesis. I speak often to the teens in the teen group about the most important verse. in the book of Genesis. I won't put them on the spot now, but hopefully by now they get it. Genesis 3. 15 Genesis 3. 15 talks about that Christ, that there would be one who would crush the serpent's head, that would overthrow That vile serpent that tempted and caused man to stumble and fall into sin. There would be one to set things right So in the beginning there was only a little bit of knowledge about this one, but one would come, and it would be from the seed of a woman. You go from there, and you see In Deuteronomy chapter 18, that there declares a prophet would come from Israel, that he would be like God Jeremiah calls him the righteous branch from the lineage of David. Isaiah declares him to be from the root of Jesse. He will swallow up death, Isaiah 25, 8. He is called the Redeemer, Isaiah 59, 20. He is called the Cornerstone, Isaiah 28, 16. He is called God's servant, Isaiah 42, 1 through 4. He's called a man of sorrows in Isaiah 53. It was prophesied that he would be born of a virgin, that his name would be wonderful counselor, the mighty God, the everlasting father, the prince of peace. It's said that his name would be called Emmanuel, God with us. In Zechariah 9:9, he's called is told that a he is called king, that he would ride on the colt of a donkey. And Micah 5. 2, he would come out of Bethlehem. You go through the Old Testament and you see these hints and these depictions of who this serpent crusher would be. And little by little you begin to know more and more and more about him. When Peter declares that Jesus is the Messiah, He is saying, you encompass all that was talked about in the Old Testament You are the fulfillment of that prophecy. We believe that about you, regardless of what public opinion is. That's who we believe you to be. You are the Messiah, the one that we have been waiting for expectantly for so many years. And you have finally come. This is a title given to Jesus. It is bestowed upon him. Do you remember when it was first given to him? It was given to him when he was born. You can go ahead and turn there if you'd like. Luke 2 verse 9, it says, And the angel of the Lord appeared to them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them, and they were filled with fear, talking about the shepherds. Verse ten An angels said to them, Fear not, for behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy that will be for all people. For unto you is born this day, in the city of David, a Saviour who Is what? Christ the Lord. That's not just a nice thing that they said about him. Said, your Messiah has been born today. And he's in Bethlehem right now. You should go see him Who, what is the identity of Jesus? Who is Jesus? Who do you say Jesus is? Well, if it's anything less than Messiah If it's anything less than God, if it's anything less than our Savior, it is an inaccurate view of the Son of God. God. Who is he? He is Christ. He is Christ the Lord. That baby that we just spoke about, that was wrapped in swadding clothes, that little baby is your salvation. He is your Messiah. He is the one the prophets foretold. He is born in Bethlehem. Now, at this point, we turn then to Jesus' response We turn to Jesus' response. You know, if there was anything wrong about Peter's statement about Jesus, this would be the time to tell him. Right? If there was any inaccuracy in what Peter says about Jesus, this would be the time for Jesus to say, ah, you've got to tweak your ident your view of me a little bit. That's not what he does. It's not what he does. He doesn't deny this designation, nor does he rebuke Peter for identifying incorrectly. He affirms This title from Peter. And not only that, he specifically says that this isn't given to you out of yourself, out of flesh and blood. No. This understanding is a gift from my Heavenly Father that has been given to you. You understand this because God has revealed it to you. It came as the gracious act of God. Now it should be noted. Perhaps you've thought of this, perhaps not, but this is not the first confession concerning Jesus. There are other portions. In in before this time period in the life of Christ, that the identity of Jesus has been talked about Nathanael confesses Christ as the Son of God in John 1. 49. The disciples even declare him as God's son after he spilled the storm in Matthew 14. In John 6, Peter gives a confession of faith when the crowds left after uh left Jesus after his sermon on the bread of life. In fact, when Andrew had brought his brother Simon to Jesus, it was on the basis of this very same belief of the identity. But this confession from Peter does differ in some ways. Let me explain. It it differs because, number one, Jesus explicitly asks for it The others weren't prompted by Jesus. This is prompted by Jesus. So there's a very deliberate, a very deliberate action taking place here on the part of Jesus. So, in other words, this response, this confession given by Peter is Apart from any miraculous event, any specific action or words from Jesus Himself This is you might say on the fly. Who do you say that I am? You see, it's possible we don't know, but it's possible that maybe some of those confessions prior were maybe not as genuine. Maybe, you know, it was an emotional response because, gee, he just um stopped the storm by talking or whatnot. But this confession has none of that. It is bare bones. Who do you believe that I am right now? Nothing else is going on. What's your opinion of who I am? See, this isn't an emotional response from a person who has seen a miracle. You might say this, as I read in one commentary, it says, this is the studied and sincere statement of a man who had been under the teaching of Jesus. and had followed him as one of the twelve. I love that. It's the studied and sincere statement Do we see Jesus this way? Do we see him as the Messiah, as the Christ? Let me ask you. We are in this world. We're not supposed to be of it, but we are in this world. We are. They are inaccurate views of Christ all around us. You don't have to go very far. Do we see him as the Messiah or the Christ? You know, uh the next time I see something that says the real Jesus. I might snap. Because I'm so tired of my Jesus being inaccurately portrayed. You want to know who the real Jesus is? Read this book. Don't go to some something on the history channel. History Read the word. Read the word. What God says about his own son. Not some man-made fabrication of who they think he might be based on Gone whatnot, and this and that. Read this book. But as a Christian, are we tempted to have inaccurate views of Christ? You know, it's possible It's possible even for a believer to come to conclusions that are inaccurate about Jesus. You know, if if Jesus is anything less Then who he declares himself to be in these pages, in these verses that we just read. I'm quoting a book title now, but I'd like to say that your Jesus is too safe. What do I mean by that? Well, if he's anything less than what the Bible declares, then he's only a good teacher. He's only a good man. He's only, at best, you know, some kind of prophet that God used. But when you believe that Jesus is the Messiah, then you believe that he is the only way to the Father. The only way to receive salvation. The only person that can remove your sins. He is the only one that can give you the righteousness that you need placed on your account. To replace your own inadequate righteousness. That is how the Bible depicts Jesus. Well, in this scenario that we've already covered is very deliberate on Jesus' part. He initiates this conversation and he uses the answer. He uses the answer that Peter gives as a platform. To explain to them a new truth. Amazing truth, really. Says here, in verse 16, he says And Peter gives his answer, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. And Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou Simon Barjona, for flesh and blood has not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven. And I say unto thee, if thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. Christ says that upon this rock I will build my church. What is this rock? You know, it is a text that is, as many of you probably know, has been abused and twisted to mean something that it is not. Let's investigate a little bit about what's going on here. It says thou art Peter, and if you understand, if you know, Peter is is the Greek word for stone or rock. uh uh pebble, that type of thing. And then Jesus says, and upon this rock I will build my church. Now at the outset, we need to make one thing Jesus is making a play on words when he says this. He's using Peter as kind of the example. But is Jesus Christ saying that he will build his church on Peter That's the controversy, that's the question that uh that has been in many people's minds, and some would declare that it absolutely is, and there is a whole denomination that is based on on that misinterpretation But here's the truth. On the contrary, when Jesus says this rock He is either pointing to himself as the rock, or he is pointing to the truth about himself within Peter's confession. And that's where I lean. I don't think he's pointing directly to himself, but I think it's it's implied that it's to himself because he is speaking about the truth in Peter's confession. What is the truth? That he is the Messiah. That he is the one that was foretold and promised. So it is on the truth about himself that this church will be built on. Either of those are in harmony with scripture. And this makes sense contextually speaking. Jesus Himself And the faith and faith in him are the basis for Christ's building project that he speaks about here. So, the question then is next: what is it exactly that Christ is building? Well, the answer really isn't a what, is it? And the answer is not a what, it is a who. It is a who Again, remember how we were talking about when you uh are following a man who does miraculous things that you would You know, as he is giving this answer again, they are hanging on every word Their ears must have been finely tuned to what Jesus was saying. And as they understood that Peter answered correctly, I believe what came next out of Jesus' mouth was unexpected. Maybe even a little bit of a letdown Why do I say that? Well, in their minds, in the Jewish mind, especially in that time period The Messiah was one of a political ruler and and a ruler of armies. That's how they understood. They were very kingdom-focused. They saw the Messiah only as one who would usher in God's kingdom. And in their context, and where they are, who's in control of them? Well it's not Israel. There is no king in Israel. Rome is in control. So politically there they are bound to this way of life, and they don't like it They would rather be free from Rome. And they see Jesus as the answer to that. So as he says this, can you imagine the excitement swelling? Blessed art ye thou, Simon Barjona. Oh, he got it right. Thou art Peter, and upon this rock, oh yeah, yeah, Jesus, what are you gonna say I will build all your kingdom. You will build your army to overthrow Rome. No, he doesn't say either of those things. He says church. And unfortunately, maybe to their minds, that is one of the most common overused words in the first century. When they heard the word church, they would have thought the word that it means, it just basically means a group of people. Now it was used in in secular terms as a perhaps uh in in councils and and groups that that gathered together for a purpose But it essentially just means a group of people. Jesus says, I will build my group of people. I will build my assembly. That's it? Okay. Hoping for a little bit more. Like how are we gonna get this accomplished? What you you know that Rome is still there, right? They're still over top of us And although maybe they may have been a little disappointed, maybe that's not what they were expecting. Jesus was introducing something new and priceless to his disciples. See, Jesus was describing to them his building project. His building project It didn't involve wood or any other materials. It involved people. And it started with the twelve that were following him. As we move on here, you might say that this building project of Christ had full coverage insurance. Why do I say that? Well what does it say there in the text? It says at the end that the gates of hell shall not prevail against it The gates of hell shall not prevail against it. Now, the term hell is probably not a very good way of rendering that word there. The word really is Hades. And especially as we think of hell and the the what the images that come to our minds when we see that word, that that portrays an inaccurate view of what Jesus is really talking about here The word Hades is really talking about death and the grave. That is the idea here. So the gates of death shall not prevail against it. In other words In other words, let's just get right to the point. Jesus is saying that not even death can stop my building project. In fact, death is just the beginning. Because after death comes what? The resurrection. And after the resurrection comes being with Christ in glory forever and ever. Ultimately, Jesus is saying, nothing will stop my building project. It cannot be thwarted. What does it mean for us today that Christ will build his church? What does it mean for us today that Christ has this building project? And it's ongoing today. Well, quite honestly, the relevance is so significant. And the relevance is so significant that when it is ignored or abandoned or forgotten, Quite honestly, a s uh a local church can become severely imbalanced. Severely imbalanced. Let's think about the implications that Jesus is the master builder of his building project. We see here that Jesus Christ is the builder of his church. So he is the foundation, he is its founder, he is its author, he is its owner. The church belongs to him. As depicted in Ephesians chapter 1 and some of chapter 3, he is the head of the church. Makes him the head of the church. This gives him authority over it. Is his to control. And the followers that he is bringing together to build his church are his sheep. And as depicted in John, he is the good shepherd. The sheep that are his, he does not lose, but he keeps them. You know, in thinking about this series that Pastor Jim is going through now in the Seven Churches in Revelation, it is on this basis that he can say what he says to them. No one else has the mandate to be able to declare, to condemn, to commend, to rebuke, to correct the churches in Asia Minor like Jesus does He can accurately and in and unequivocally assess his church. No other person can do that. No other person has that position. And really, who would even dare think of removing Jesus from that position? Right? Who would even dare think of supplanting him? Maybe you're thinking it right now. You know what? It is easier. than you may realize. It is easier to remove Christ from his headship over the church than you may think. And the truth here is staggering. Really, it's it's important for several reasons, but I'd like to highlight one of them. It is this, when serving in a local church, which you could call the local representation of Christ's building project. Think of it that way, okay? We have the universal church, that is the believers all across the world. Well, we gather together in locations, right? And so we here at Bethel Baptist Church, we are a local representation of Christ's building project. When we are here and serving in the local church, we can be tempted to take control of the church in different ways. And it's because of incorrect thinking. Think about it. When we think that something that is happening in the church isn't right based upon the fact that we just don't like it. Based on our personal preferences. Rather than what the mind of Christ is on the matter, we supplant Christ as head of the church. When we are pragmatic in our approach to reaching the lost, compromising the truth found in the Word, we then believe that we have a better way than God. And thus supplant Christ as head of the church. But then there's the other extreme, when we isolate ourselves from others, from other churches, from the loss, in order to achieve what we would think is a greater amount of holiness and favor with God. We then disregard Christ's teaching, and therefore supplant him as Head of the church. When we are too numbers focused, when we're too focused on the local church as more just on the operations and the projects and the programs. And we maybe look at it more as a business model than rather a church that Christ died for. We supplant Jesus as head of the church. the church. Or how about this? When we lose our love for brothers in Christ, based on petty differences. That don't involve issues of false teaching of doctrine and the gospel and issues of church discipline when it's not on those things, then we believe we know better than Christ and we supplant him as head Of the church. You know, when we forget that Christ is the head of the church, because he is the builder, the founder, the owner, and the life within the body, when we forget that. Life within the body becomes more stressful. Do you know that? Maybe there's Maybe there's heartache in your heart. Maybe there's frustration or stress in your heart. Maybe it's because there are ways in which you are thinking that you are actually sub Planting God as head of the church. This can happen Because we're trying to change things that we can't change. We're trying to control things that we aren't supposed to control. Christ is the head, not me, not you. We think about things and we let things fester. Maybe maybe it's why did that family leave? Or why is that person here? What do we do with this situation? Why don't these people who I've given the gospel to, uh why why why do these people that I've confronted, these brothers in Christ, why don't they get it right? Why don't they just live for Jesus? You know, much of the time we have a place in situations like those. There isn't an uh an absolving of of responsibility in those areas that I'm talking about. But there are certain responsi so in other words, there are certain responsibilities that we can't ignore, but the outcome, the outcome, we are not responsible for in many cases. Because Christ is the master builder of his church. So if we are struggling with some of those things that supplant Christ's head, we need to pray to the head of the church. We need to pray to the Master Builder that he would work in the hearts of others. And also recognize that our view of things may not be so accurate. I can be wrong. You can be wrong. In fact, all of us could be wrong at the same time regarding something. But not Christ, not Jesus. When Christ sits at his rightful place in our minds as the head of our church, of Bethel. When he sits as the master builder of his building project, there is a liberty, there is a freeing feeling because you are taking responsibilities You aren't guilty for things that you ought not to feel guilty about. Things that Christ never intended you to be guilty for. What we need is to be obedient to the head. We need to be obedient to Christ, understanding our place and not going beyond the place that Christ is You know, if you've gone through again Pastor Jim's orientation class, you are familiar then with the illustration that he gives, right? What's the illustration that he gives? The church is a what? A car, that's right. It's the car. And obviously it's an illustration, so it has flaws here and there, but ultimately I think the main point is driven home. Because who is the driver of the car? Jesus Christ is the driver of the car. And who else could be? And we misstep so much, though. If we're somewhere in that car and we we want to take the steering wheel, boy, that is not our place. That is not our place Jesus is supposed to be driving. And no one else. No one within the church owns the church. No member, no deacon, not even the pastor owns the church. Jesus is the good shepherd. Pastors are the under-shepherds, and they are designated to feed the flock of God and watch for their souls. So skipping ahead a little bit here, so we're running short on time and I want to be mindful of that. As we've discussed these things and we've had these things rattle around in our minds. Let me let's let's think about this. The question that Jesus poses to his disciples: who do people say that I am? Who do people say that I am? And what do you say that I am? Let me ask you. Who do you Say that Jesus is. Who is He? And then if we're going to be a part of this building project that involves souls, The question then becomes, are we saying it? Are we saying it? You know, I'm out there every day in the workplace I see those that don't follow Christ. I see those that mock the name of Christ. I see those that have no clue who He is. I have to ask myself on a regular basis, am I saying who this Jesus really is? Could you be able to bring up the map for me, please? Well hello. There's our area, right? There are we are in Glen Burney. That's the local that's where our local assembly meets, right? Now let me ask you something. This is maybe a little out of the ordinary. I live in Pasadena. That's where I live. A little bit north of Saverna Park there. I live, or I work rather, just outside of 495 in Beltsville, which isn't marked there, but that's where I work. How about you? Where do you live? As I look across this room I know there are many of you that come down from the Annapolis area, Edgewater area. That's that's a long way. It's way down there. Thank you for coming that far. Others of you, how how many of you also how many of you live in that Annapolis area? Go ahead and raise your hands. Okay. How about uh closer to church? Glen Burney, Pasadena, Savannoe Park. Okay. How many of you are a little bit closer to Baltimore? Yeah, very good. Okay, how about pushing west a little bit? Columbia, Jessup, Severn. Anyone from there? Yeah Yep. All right, how about where you work? How many of you work in the DC area? How many of you work in the Baltimore area Yeah. Do you see where I'm going with this? We are Christ's local representation of his building. building project. And yes, we meet here in a very s m confined small area. We we we're right here But our impact goes a lot further than this one building. Our impact can go a lot further than Glenbury, Maryland. You know, my we were having a conversation and my wife, Miranda, mentioned this thought and it stuck in my head. You know, we live in a crazy world. It's getting more topsy turvy, it seems like every day. And we can curse the darkness and we can say, oh, it's so bad out there. It's so terrible Why can't God just take us home? Just be over with it. But she essentially said this: you know, as the world turns darker. That's when our light can shine brighter. So it brings me to the same question. Who do we say Jesus is? Are we saying it Are you submitting to the master builder? We have we are a part of something pretty Awesome. That's Jesus' idea. This idea of the church. Have we bought in To what he is doing? Are we a willing participant in Christ's building project? The need is great. Hey, we have established people don't really know who he is. They don't know him. Maybe some get close, maybe some have a vague idea and notion of who he is and what he did, but it is incomplete People need to have a full understanding of who this Jesus is. And we've been entrusted, we've been entrusted with the answer. We know who he is. We can tell others who he is. What do people say about Jesus? They are so wrong. The need for the truth to be spoken is great. With all the deception that surrounds the identity of Christ. Who do you say Jesus is? Are you saying it? Are you speaking the truth about Jesus to others? Jesus is building his church. He is building his group of people. Let us not lose sight of who Jesus really is. And what that means for us as a Slock. Let's pray.