I remember when I was a senior in high school, I was reading a book report, and the title of the book was What Every Preacher Should Know What every pre preacher should know it was it was a an end-all handbook for every pastor And I remember one of the chapters that I read in that book was entitled, How to Get Bigger Offerings. How to get bigger offerings. And this particular pastor, uh who was pretty well known in the circles that I grew up in, uh talked about how to get bigger offerings. He talked about things like how the lighting needed to be And he talked about how the music should be played. Very upbeat. Make sure that it's a very exciting song that you do. And he was just talking about how to, well, milk the people. I guess for lack of a better term. Why in the world would a pastor take that kind of approach? Well, I think the answer is simple. The fact is that we often are not very well motivated to do the things that we ought to do. And so sometimes people think the way to get us to do it we're supposed to to do is to manipulate. You understand what I'm saying? How many times do pastors who want To see their people do the right thing, use means that really are not right to try to get them to do it. And we could give all kinds of different examples. It could be something like manipulating people to give to a project It could be something like manipulating people or we could say putting them on major guilt trips so that they'll be involved in the building project or they'll be involved in the outreach ministry or they'll be involved in the children's ministry And over and over and over again, the pastor harps on this issue or that issue. Well, the reality is what's going on is a person sees a good thing, but rather than going through it the right way, they short circuit it. Okay? In fact, a lot of times people uh will have these re revivalistic type crusades And what will happen is someone will get up and they won't really preach a lot of Bible, but they'll be very animated, they'll be very excited, they'll preach something And all of a sudden somebody will begin playing a hymn, and then they'll begin to have people bow their heads and have them raise their hands. And before you know it, that evangelist has essentially manipulated people to respond to his altar call. People flood the altars, people make decisions, and people are unchanged by it. But the evangelists can go out and talk about all the people that got saved or all the people that made huge decisions. Well the reality is what I'm talking about is something that I think is a really big problem. in the independent Baptist Church movement. I think it's a really serious problem. The problem is that people are trying to use manipulative tools To gain spiritual fruit. And it just doesn't work that way. Law doesn't produce fruit. Manipulation doesn't produce fruit And the flesh doesn't produce fruit. My question is this: how should a person, could we say, appeal in a godly way? Well, I'm going to give you an example of that today. I'd like us to look at Romans chapter 15, a very interesting text. In Romans chapter 15, we'll be looking at verses 23 to 30, but I won't read all those verses. I'll read 23 to I think it's 25, and then I'll read verse number 30. But this is what Paul says. He says, now having no more place in these parts, And having a great desire these many years to come unto you, whensoever I take my journey into Spain, I will come to you, for I trust to see you in my journey journey and to be brought on my way their word uh their word excuse me by you if first I be somewhat filled with your company Then he says this, now I beseech you, brethren, for the Lord Jesus Christ's sake and for the love of the Spirit that you strive together with me in your prayers. to God for me. Let me ask you a question. What is Paul's purpose for writing the book of Romans? You ever thought about that? Why did Paul take the time to sit down and write what has been described as one of the greatest theological treatises on the gospel in the entire Bible? If you were to read the Reformers, Luther and Calvin, some of those men, they would have huge things to say about the emphasis of the gospel in Romans. Why did Paul sit down and write this epistle? Have you ever thought about that? And what was the significance of the way that he appeals to the church in this passage? So I'm going to begin with that question. What is the specific purpose or occasion for Paul writing the epistle to the church in this passage? of Rome. Well, right now you're thinking something I hope. Maybe you're thinking about what you ate for dinner or what you're going to do when you get home. Stop thinking about that Think about the question. Why did Paul write the book? Was his primary intention to explain to us how to present the gospel to a lost person? We've all been familiar with the Romans road. I'm not attacking that particular method. I'm just simply asking the question: is that why Paul wrote the book of Romans? Was his primary intention to defend the gospel against false teachers Was his primary intention to present this comprehensive systematic theology of the doctrine of salvation? Well, all of you are sitting here going, oh, all three of those sound like pretty good possibilities, but the reality is it is not. least in my opinion, not any of those three. The answer is this there are really four strands that follow throughout the epistle And when these things are brought together, they form his primary intention. Let me mention a couple of them. One is there's a huge emphasis on God's Righteousness. We could say this. God is a righteous God. A second aspect is this: this righteous God has chosen to justify sinners By grace alone, through faith alone, in the person and work and righteousness of Christ. The third is this The righteous God has chosen to justify two groups of people that are at great odds. Jews and Gentiles are equally condemned in Adam, and when brought into Christ, are equal members of the household of God. These are three very important strands. But the question is, why did Paul present those truths? Well, here is the fourth, which I think is very interesting. Paul wanted the church at Rome to partner with him as he went to Spain to preach the gospel. Did you know that that is really what is behind Paul writing this epistle to Rome? You say that's impossible. He talks about justification, he talks about sanctification, he talks about the righteousness of God, he talks about the wrath of God, he talks about propitiation, he talks about all kinds of theological things You mean to tell me he wasted all of his time talking about those things when all he wanted to do was ask him for money? Well, that's oversimplifying a little bit what I'm trying to say, but the reality is this: Paul wrote the letter to appeal to the church to partner with him. Ministry. We could put it this way. Paul writes this final section of the epistle to appeal to the church to partner with him. and the advance of the gospel into Spain. And let me demonstrate that to you. I want you to look at it because you will see in the text exactly what I'm saying In verses 15 and 16, Paul states his position as an apostle. Look at what he says. Brethren I've written the more boldly unto you in some sort, as putting you in mind, because of the grace that is given to me of God, that I should be the minister of Jesus Christ to the Gentiles. ministering the gospel of God that the offering up of the Gentiles might be acceptable, being sanctified by the Holy Ghost. Why does he start by emphasizing his position? as an apostle and specifically to the Gentiles. Well, you're going to see in just a second. The second thing that he does is this. He shares This burning passion that he has in his heart. In verse 19, he says, I have fully preached the gospel of Christ. Yea, so have I preached the gospel that where Christ was uh I s uh uh yea, so have I strived to preach the gospel, not where Christ was named, lest I should build upon another man's foundation But as it is written, to whom he was not spoken of, they shall see. They that have not heard shall understand. For which cause also I have been much hindered from coming to you The second thing he is emphasizing to the church is that he has an incredible passion to proclaim the gospel to those who have never heard. And he's emphasizing that these are Gentile people He's even saying this because he's saying, look, I wanted to come and see you at Rome. I had been hindered. And the reason I've been hindered is because of my ministry. And now I'm telling you about this ministry because I'm going somewhere. The third thing that he does is this: he shares with them his need. And desire. Verses 23 to 24. He says, but now, having no more place in these parts where he's writing from, Having a great desire these many years to come unto you, whensoever I take my journey into Spain, I will come to you, for I trust to see you in my journey. Now catch the next phrase. And be brought on my way thitherward by you. Did you catch that? He said, I want to come and see you. I'm going to Spain, and I want you to help me get there. Did you catch that? If first I be somewhat filled with your company. Now, that was not a command. In fact, that was even a little bit of a veiled question. Like he wasn't even asking them to partner with him. He was just saying, this is kind of what's on my mind. In fact, it's very interesting. Ghanaian culture, if somebody wants to ask you something, they don't ask you straight. They're kind of like go around. Like the long way around. And somewhere in the middle of what they're telling you, you're starting to kind of get the idea what they want to ask And so you're just kind of waiting and waiting and waiting. And eventually they get there. What they're doing is they're preparing you for the question. They may not even ask the question actually. They may even kind of leave it just kind of so open that you just feel compelled to say, well, you have this need, can I help you? That's really what I think they'd like to see happen. And in a sense, it seems like that's what Paul is doing. It doesn't really seem like he's manipulating, does it? He's just stating his position, his desire, and his passion. Next, he says something else. In verses 25 to 27, he gives examples of people who have been very giving. And what's interesting is he emphasizes that these are Gentile churches who are ministering to a Jewish church. It's kind of significant, and we'll say why in a minute. He says, Now I go unto Jerusalem to minister unto the saints, for it has pleased them of Macedonian and Achai to make a certain contribution for the poor saints which are at Jerusalem. It hath pleased them verily, and their debtors they are. For if the Gentiles have been made partakers of their spiritual things, their duty is also to minister unto them them and their carnal or their physical things. Why does Paul give an example of Gentiles ministering to Jews? He's not quite to his question yet. Next we come to 28 and 29. He shares his confidence in the church. When therefore I have performed this and have sealed to them this fruit, I will come by you into Spain. Now he's saying this. He hasn't even asked them for their assistance. He's saying, I'm confident that when I go to Spain, you're going to help me. I am sure that when I come unto you, I shall come in the fullness of the blessing of the gospel of Christ. And then he comes to his final blessing. Verse, verse 30. And here's the question. I beseech you, brethren, for the Lord Jesus' sake, for the love of the Spirit, that you strive together with me. In your prayers to God for me. You know what's very interesting? Paul never directly asked the church to give money He didn't do it, but it's very obvious that's what he wants. He does ask very, very specifically that he wants them to strive together, and I believe that in Paul's mind That involved praying and that involved a financial partnership as well. But the question that I ask is this How does he make the appeal to the church? The reality is this: Paul spends twelve chapters Of doctrine. He lays out doctrine all related to the gospel And then he deals with many practical matters that flow out from the gospel before he ever asks them the question. Why? Why? He expounds various facets of the gospel message. He's driving the specific and pertinent application with this intent To appeal to the church, to partner with him in the next phase of his ministry to the Gentiles. Paul was teaching glorious doctrines that he knew would properly shape the way that the Church of Rome thought. He believed that shaping the way they thought would remove the hindrances that stood between them and being willing to partner with him. In this ministry with the Gentiles. We can put it this way: he believed that by expounding the gospel to these people, that would stir up godly affections. Godly desires that would compel them, not by him forcing them, but literally from within, they would be compelled to say, We want to be a part of what you're doing. Do you see what's going on He wasn't playing music. He wasn't dimming lights. He wasn't giving an invitation. Paul was expounding the gospel, and he was saying, I believe that if people think right about the gospel If people think right about the implications of the gospel, those doctrinal truths are going to be the tools through which the Spirit stirs up and motivates these people to do what is right. And my friends, that is a very, very important thing for us to learn about. The reality is, it takes a lot more faith to preach truth. And trust God to work in heart than it does to manipulate people to get what you want. It takes way more faith. And by the way, one demonstrates that you really believe that this gospel is true, and the other one kind of could leave you with a doubt whether or not somebody's really convinced of the Power of the gospel. What is more important? Manipulation or truth? Does the Spirit need our assistance and our help? Why does Paul take the approach? This is what I believe the reason is. The gospel, like no other m message, when properly understood and internalized, cuts to the heart of man's Greatest problems. Every issue that you and I deal with, every issue that we deal with is simply a symptom of a much deeper and greater problem that resides in our hearts What's interesting is the problems that we have in our hearts, the way that we think filters out in one person very different than it does in another person. It's amazing. You can have two people that seem to have such different dispositions, and the way that they're sinning seems so different, but if you sit down and you analyze it, it's all coming from the same root problem It's absolutely incredible. And the reality is, Paul understood that there were tremendous hindrances to these people. Getting involved in what was going on. Let me tell you something about the church at Rome. This is very interesting. I did a little bit of study on this. The book of Rome was written about 10 years after a pretty tumultuous time in Rome. In the forties A. D. , the Roman Empire Emperor was having problems with the Jews in Rome. And so what he did is he sent the Jews out of Rome. He literally kicked them out of the country. We have immigration issues in America. It'd be like if we had a president who just decided, you know what? We're kicking everybody out of this country that didn't come here legally and all of a sudden he takes a certain segment of the society. By the way, this won't happen, I promise you But let's just say he did, and he said, We're kicking them all out. We're gonna send them back to their own country. That's what the emperor did in Rome By the way, that is how Paul met Aquila and Priscilla in Corinth. They got kicked out of Rome. You know what's very interesting? When Paul writes to the church of Rome, Rome, he mentions in chapter 16 Priscilla and the church that's meeting in their house. Why is that? Because there was enough time that went on that they had been kicked from Rome And now they could go back, and they did go back. And the reality is that all those Jews who got kicked out of Rome, who came back to Rome, how do you think they viewed the Gentiles? Let's put it in kind of a practical situation here. Let's say that you were from uh Mexico. Let's say you're from Mexico and you live in Dallas, Texas, and the mayor in Dallas decides he's gonna kick all the Mexicans out well, Houston, let's let's go to Houston. He's gonna kick all the the Mexicans out of Houston. You're a Mexican. He's like I want Mexic I want Houston to be an all-white city. Wouldn't you feel a little offended as a Mexican if that was the case? And so you got kicked out. You couldn't stay in the city. Every time somebody saw there's a Mexican, they kicked him out. Well, ten years later They decided the Mexicans could come back. So, you know, you had a nice job, you had a family, you you had a good life there in Dallas. I'm sorry. Houston, I got it wrong. So you go back to Houston and you establish your life. And so there you are, a predominantly Mexican church And this pastor comes and he says, we need missionaries to go to the all-white city of, I don't know, let's just pick a city. Detroit Detroit. Not Detroit. Let's just say Detroit. Would you have a hard time getting excited about a mission trip to Detroit if it was an all white city and they were the people that kicked you the next Mexican out? Would you have a hard time with that? Come on. You would. You'd have a very hard time. When that guy was presenting that work, you in your heart would say, I want nothing to do with this I don't want to help these people. Look what they did to us. Yeah, I'm saved. Yeah, they need salvation, but hey, I don't want to help them. The reality is this. Those Jewish believers at Rome and those Gentile believers at Rome had serious animation Towards one another, and it was going on even within the church. It's interesting if you read the book of Romans, you see many, many times that Paul emphasizes the commonality between Jew and Gentile, over and over What's the point? The point is this. Paul knew that for the church to get behind what he was doing and to partner with him Unless he's going to manipulate them, unless he's going to strong arm them, the only way they're going to get behind what he's doing with a deep love and being compelled from the heart is if He expounds the gospel. Romans 1, what does he do? He emphasizes the doctrine of man, the depravity of all men. Jew, Gentile, the hopelessness, the ignorance, the rebellion, the blindness. Of man abandoned. after God. And he emphasizes this. He emphasizes the doctrine of God and he talks about God's wrath and God's righteousness and God's holy He talks about the doctrine of justification by faith alone, to the Jew first and also to the Greek. He emphasizes the doctrine of sanctification. He emphasizes God's providence in Romans 9, 10, and 11 and how God is going to use listen to these verses. Because of unbelief, the Jews were broken off, and thou standest by faith. Be not high-minded, but fear. Blindness in part has happened to Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles become in. So all Israel shall be saved, as it is written, For God hath concluded them all in unbelief, that He might have mercy upon all, O the depths of the riches of the wisdom and knowledge of God of God. How unsearchable are his judgments and his ways past finding out. He emphasizes God's providence, how God has wisely governed men's affairs using many means to bring both Jew and Gentile into the kingdom. And you know what he also emphasizes the doctrine of the church. God in his grace has brought Jew and Gentile into the same body. He has made them Listen to Romans nine. What if God willing to show his wrath, to make his power known, endured with much long suffering? vessels of wrath fitted to destruction, that he might make known the riches of his glory to vessels of mercy, which he hath afore prepared for glory. He writes this, whom he hath called not only of the Jews only, but also of the Gentiles. I will call them my people, which were not my people. Why does he take so much time to emphasize the fact that God's going to use Jewish blindness to bring Gentiles in To this kingdom, and he's going to use Gentiles being brought into the kingdom to ultimately bring Jews into his kingdom. Why? Because he wants them to understand something Jews and Gentiles need each other in the body. Jews and Gentiles are equals in the body. And so if you're a Jew, love the Gentile. And if you're a Gentile, love the Jew. What are the implications that flow from these truths? The reality is this: every excuse that we use Or we could say that these people would have used to nurse bitterness and hatred for a people group was going to be corrected and removed by a correct understanding of the gospel. Every stigma that would be created by these ethnic and cultural differences, the material diversities in the church, removed by a correct understanding of the gospel that would grip them from the heart. The gospel removes our pride, our self-centeredness, the disdain that we have for others, those things that hinder us from serving Christ fully. The gospel is something that stirs up compassion. And mercy in us for people that we would not naturally have compassion and mercy for. The fact is this if the gospel has not gripped our hearts, neither will Christian ministry If the gospel has not taken root in our heart and overwhelmed us, if these truths are not on our mind and on our heart, if it's not the center of our life, the reality is Christian ministry isn't gonna is Isn't going to hit our hearts either. It's impossible for it to do that. And so what'll happen is sometimes people will say, we want the ministry side, so rather than emphasizing the gospel so that people are overwhelmed by these wonderful truths We short circuit it and we manipulate. And there's no need for that. Godly affections are the product of the Spirit In the heart of believers. Genuine affections can be imitated, but they cannot be Produced by the flesh, by the law, or by manipulation. Genuine Godly affections can be, we could say, imitated, but they cannot be produced through fleshly means. Godly affections are the result of Of God's work in the heart. And He does it through our understanding of the gospel. We could put it this way: godly affections are the gifts of God that are cultivated by the Spirit in the hearts of saints. Who are rooted in a knowledge of the gospel that is robust, one that has content, one that has life. I'm going to ask you a question. Do you sometimes feel like what you know you should do, you really don't want to do? Yeah. We all do. So how do we deal with that kind of a situation? Do we just get up and do it? I mean there is a sense in which we just need to be faithful and work hard, but the reality is this. The reason we don't want to do something is rooted in a deep And we've got to go to where the real problem is. Why don't we love people like we should? Why don't we serve Christ? Like we should? Why don't we really care like we should? Because there is a misunderstanding, or there is a lack of focus on those wonderful truths found in the gospel. What did John say in 1 John 4, 7? He says, Beloved, let us love one another. Here's the thing, for love is of God. That means Means he is the source. Everyone that loveth is born of God. His point is you cannot love as God commands you to. Unless you're born of God. So if we see genuine love, that's a perfect indication that person's genuinely converted. And then he says, and knoweth God. The point is this: your knowledge of God is what God uses to give you Love for the brother. Love for God. We could say that is what motivates us properly You know, as I think about this passage of Scripture, I'm reminded of a very simple truth. Paul, as an apostle, had tremendous authority. He could have said, you need to give I'm gonna go, you need to give. He didn't do that. He writes a very lengthy epistle expounding the gospel, going point by point by point Point. Talking about the wrath of God on all men, talking about man's hopelessness and man's depravity and the fact that man can do nothing apart. From the gracious work of God. He talks about God's love. He talks about God's love not just for one people group, but for all the nations. And as he goes point by point through these things His intention is this, to give those people a firm grasp of these truths so that through it it would create right desires so they would be involved in something That was for the kingdom's sake. And my prayer is that God will help us to be like that. Let's put our hearts together in prayer. Father, these are simple truths. But they're truths that we often forget about. The fact is a lot of times we want To do things the short way, the quick way, the easy way. But the reality is, right action does not necessarily mean right. If it's not been produced out of correct motive. Father, I pray that you'd help us to get firmly rooted in the gospel. Help us to be people Who are overwhelmed by your grace and by your love that has been poured out onto us. Help us to be overwhelmed by our own sinfulness, the fact that there is nothing that we can give to you. That will make us acceptable. Father, help us to rejoice in our position in Christ and the freedom that we have from the law and from sin's dominion. Father, help us to love because you've produced it in us through a correct understanding of you and your being. gospel. May you work in the hearts of your people. May we go forth with a new perspective. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.