Okay, so somebody tell me what is the difference between what's the so we the two contrasts are fool and wise. What is the distinctive of a foolish person? How do you know a foolish person? Does anybody know? A foolish person is one who does not listen. Okay. Doesn't listen particularly to wise counsel. You know a fool when you see one because he doesn't listen to wise counsel. That's actually all over the book of Proverbs. What is a simple? Is a simple a fool is a simple person a fool? No. Actually a simple is almost the opposite of a fool He's one who listens to everything. He's totally naive. He doesn't know how to discern between wise counsel and foolish counsel. And so he sort of listens to everything And and so he he just is open to everything. Who are the people in Proverbs that will benefit, who are out of the three kinds who will actually benefit from Proverbs? The Bible says the wise will, they'll gain more wisdom, and the other are the the simple. The simple can go from simple to wise because they're at least listening and they can listen to God listen to God's word of they'll learn discernment and not be simple anymore The fool will come to Proverbs, and if he continues in his foolishness, which is characterized by not listening, he won't be able to receive the wisdom of Proverbs. He won't be able to benefit from Prov from Proverbs. And so that's actually extremely important as we go into the text today, Proverbs chapter one here, and we're now uh we're we're getting into a section particularly with regard to instruction. I want to illustrate it this section this way. Um I don't know most of the s really almost every w most of us are now in some way using computers in one way or another. It used to be years ago that I I just know I I learned of someone actually that our conference teacher. Did you catch that? He said he does not own a computer. Um actually he does own a computer, he just didn't know it. He has he has a cell phone which is definitely a computer, um, and he was taking pictures of his handwritten sermons and sending them back to a secretary. Um he told us that's how he did it. Uh he filed his stuff. So he actually was he does own a computer, but he doesn't own a a PC or a you know a la a laptop or something. But most people do. And the one thing that's true about computers is that they are only as good as what you put into them You know, uh uh that's just the case. Whatever you program them with is what they end up they end up able to do. And they're limited to what they can do based upon what they receive And there is a real sense in which we're the same way. Whatever, what we allow in, what our input is, what we receive, is going to end up coming out as to what we do So however we whatever we take in is what we end up becoming and what we end up doing, which means we've got to really be careful with what we listen to Who we listen to, what our thinking is when we're listening to things. So if someone is trying to be wise, if someone is wanting to learn wisdom, They're simple. Let's assume they're simple. They're not foolish. They listen to they listen to everything. They're not not they're not ignorant in the sense that they don't listen. They do listen, but they listen to everything. They don't have a discernment to know what to listen to. That's what the author has in mind when he gets to this verse eight of Proverbs chapter one. Which says, My son, hear the instruction of your father, and do not forsake the law of your mother. He is now speaking to, Solomon is speaking to one of his sons. I don't really know which son he's speaking to particularly, but we know he's speaking to one of his sons. And uh probably a future prince. And as all young people, he is not wise yet. He is apparently not foolish or he wouldn't be try, you know, Solomon would not likely be trying to write to him. So he's trying to help him to understand what he needs to listen to. The key to wisdom is listening to the right thing, to listening to the right people, listening to the right input. And so he says the first thing he says is, My son, you need to hear. You've got to hear. Have you ever parents you ever talk to your kids and say, you just need to listen. You're not listening. I feel like I'm I tell that say that a lot um uh to my kids. Um I can think of one in particular that I often will say that to. Um actually two in particular. So I can say that too, so I only leave one left. It's not too hard for you to figure out probably which ones I'm talking about. But anyway, um he says, My son, hear the instruction of your father, and do not forsake the law of your mother. Now this is a young man the that is not likely, you know, he's probably in his teen years Very frankly, that's probably where he is. Maybe he's maybe he's even a young adult, but he is he is at least uh of of the ability to be able to listen to instruction and to think through things. Uh his father's obviously writing to him And so these are these principles are extremely important as you uh teenagers, those of you in the room, as you're growing up, as you're trying to figure out how to what your how your life's going to be, what you think, how you think, those kinds of things. This is instruction really that is really for you. This is directly for you And it says here this, it says the first verse, my son, hear the instruction of your father And do not forsake the law of your mother. The word instruction has the, it carries the idea of discipline. So it says to hear the instruction that that has a discipline component to it if you don't hear it. Essentially is what it's saying in this passage. It's actually sometimes translated as as as discipline. So it's extremely important that we hear. Now I wanna I want to back up for just a second and talk about this whole idea of hearing Or listening. The first time this word listen is used is in Genesis 16, 11. It says, The angel said unto her, Behold, you are with child, you shall he bear a son a son And you shall call his name Ishmael, because the Lord has heard your affliction. He's talking about talking to Hagar there actually. So he heard and he answered. There is a there is an engagement going on with this kind of listening. Why is this important? And what is listening? Let's just really break this down. What is listening? The word hear here actually means listen rather than just hear. So let's contrast it and say what is the difference between hearing something and listening? Any any ideas? What's the difference between hearing and listening? Comprehension. Okay. Uh comprehension? What else? Yeah. Well um active and passive. So we hear it's Just pass the play. Okay, good. Any other ideas? Listen, hearing involves basically your hearing some information, it goes in your mind and it just stops there. And it m probably doesn't go very far. Listening involves the mind, the will, and the emotions. Particularly the mind and the will, but probably the emotions as well. Listening means I'm engaged, I'm understanding with my mind what's being said, and I'm acting on what's being said. I am following it. And that's what he has in mind here. And he says here, the instruction of your father, because the word instruction has the idea of of instruction with the idea that if you don't listen, you will be disciplined There is a clear component there. It's it's in the way it's used in the Old Testament several times. It's the idea of if you don't listen, you will be disciplined. So he's saying, listen to the kind of instruction that if you don't listen, you will be disciplined. It really indicates then that there is a level of submissiveness that he's asking his son to. He's saying, son, be submissive to your father. Now, he also says this, he says, and forsake not the law of your mother. Here's this is not saying what we're not what it's not saying here is that the father gives instruction and the and the mother gives law. That's not what it's saying. This is using Hebrew parallelism. What that means is that law and instruction are both interchangeable And father and mother are interchangeable. So you could just as legitimately say the father is giving law and the mother is giving instruction. They're completely interchangeable. It is interesting that in most wisdom literature during this time period, rarely do you see anything about a mother giving instruction. That's unusual, actually. Usually it's always instruction that's coming from the Father. But there is, I'm just going to suggest that there's an implication here and really an application as well What we see here from this Hebrew parallelism is that mom and dad are on the same page. They're on the same page. They're hearing that the son is hearing not two voices. The son is hearing one voice. That's actually an important thing to understand as parents. Our kids should not be hearing two voices. They shouldn't be hearing two different two different sets of directions, two different ways of thinking. Our kids should hear one clear voice from both parents, which means both parents have to stay on the same page. And both have to agree with each other about the instruction or the law as it as it were that you're giving to your kids. And I just want to say this by way of application, if we are giving our kids two sets of instructions instead of one, our or teens, two sets of instructions that it can become very, very confusing. And it can cause a real level of frustration. So that's just by way of application. The point in the passage is clearly though, we've got, if we are going to be wise Everybody starts off simple. Okay, you're born simple, and you're kind of born foolish too, actually. Right? I mean, you ever seen your three year old who doesn't listen? Okay, so so we're probably born between somewhere between simple and and and foolish. Sometimes they're simple, sometimes they're foolish. But one thing that a three-year-old is not is wise. Okay? That's one thing he's not. And as he grows up, he if he's going to be wise, he is going to have to listen to wise counsel. Now, this does presuppose that the parents are giving wise counsel. Do all parents give wise wise counsel? The answer is no. Not every parent does give wise counsel. But this is assuming that that it is happening, and of course If a parent desires to follow after the Lord and desires to follow after h his word, then he is very likely going to give instruction that is wise. I'll tell you one one of the reasons why It's so important for children to follow their parents. Teenagers, listen, this is important. It's important because your parents have already been there. Now teens often think my parents don't, they're out of touch, they don't know what I've been through. That's exactly the opposite of what is truth. They have been there. They have already been there before. Now it may have been years. And in some cases a lot of years. That's a joke, you can laugh. But they have been there at some time or another. And they also know you because it is from whence their loins you come. They There you've got their genes. They understand how you think, they understand how you behave. They understand these things. Because they they the closest thing to you is them. Now I'm not saying you're it's exact, of course not, everybody's unique, but the closest thing to you is them. And so wisdom says I'm going to follow after the instruction of my parents And this is absolutely important for us. This is the beginning of wisdom for a child growing up. He's got to learn to listen to wise counsel and to be submissive and desire to hear what his parents have to say to him. Teens, I would encourage you this way. And I I will use per a personal example here. I can distinctly remember as a as a preteen, I think I was probably eleven or twelve years old, deciding that if I really wanted to please God. I was going to need to but my best shot at that was to please to follow God's word and to please my parents. Even when I didn't even it didn't agree with what they were saying, that I still knew that I could please God if I were if I was going to please my parents. I'll give you one illustration and it's always interesting giving illustrations when your dad's sitting here, but um I'll go ahead and give it anyway. There was Well i i i my memory's my memory's better than yours. But anyway, so so uh so I remember one time when I was a teenager, I think it was like thirteen or fourteen. And uh maybe fifteen or sixteen. Anyway, somewhere around there. I cover all my bases in case he corrects me. And and um and and I wanted I'd already done one year of summer missionary work. I w was going around doing five day clubs and teaching kids and and uh for the summer. And I really believed at that point that God wanted me to go do that a second year. I don't know if you remember this or not, but I went to my dad and I said, Dad, I'd like to do this a second year, and my dad said, No, I think you need to get a real job. And I immediately said, I did not really agree. But I I said, you know what, if I that's what I'll do. If I I must have been sixteen at least if I were gonna do that, but fifteen, fifteen. Um and I I s so what I did, teams listen to this, this is important. What you know what I did? I said, okay Dad, I'll do that. if that's what you want me to do. I may have said um I may have said something like, uh I don't I feel like the Lord wants me to do this, but I I did not I know that I I just said okay And I don't know what was going through your head, maybe you could tell me now, but um I prayed about it. And I just said, Lord, if you want me to do this, would you change my dad's mind? Do you know what? He did. He came back to me, I don't know, a couple m uh a month or two later, or maybe weeks later, I don't know. And he said, you know, Jim, if you feel like the Lord wants you to do that, why don't you go ahead and do that? See, if what we really want is what God wants, and you don't agree with a decision that your parents make, you do have one option. Pray about it. And if God if you really want what God wants, God can change their minds. But until God changed their minds, you need to bet you just need to follow. Unless they're telling you to do something against God's word. You need to follow and choose to please your parents. The level to which you please your father, particularly, and your mother, but particularly your father, and I'm going to make that application specifically for a reason Is the level to which you choose to please your father as a teenager is the level to which you will choose to please your heavenly father after you're no longer under the authority of your fa of your earthly father. So really, this is what this is saying. My son, hear the instruction of your father, and do not forsake the law of your mother. For why is that? Here's what they it says. For they will be graceful ornament, uh be a graceful ornament on your head and chains about your neck. It's actually talking about having a wreath. You say, I don't care I want a wreath on my head. What what what's up with that? It's really talking about uh uh an honor. a something that's placed on you for to honor you. Do we like to be honored? Yeah, we we actually do like to be honored. Uh I think one of the things that parents and teens struggle with, just between in relationships, I I I've heard this quite a bit. A parent will say to a teen, you can't do that. And a teen will say, why not? Don't you what? Don't you trust me? And the teen is very, very hurt, or seems to be very, very hurt that the parent does not trust him. Why is the teen hurt? Because who you trust, you honor. The more you trust someone, the more you are actually honoring them. The less you trust someone, the less you're honoring them. The problem is that trust is never commanded in Scripture, except toward God. Trust is always earned, isn't it? So we have to earn, kids, you have to earn your parents trust. And when you do, when you follow, the best way to earn your parents' trust is to listen to them. And if they know that you're listening to them and you're engaged in what they're saying, you're follow- they're following what you're saying, when that happens, I can tell you right now, as that occurs, then they'll begin to trust you more. And you will begin to be honored by their trust. There is something that is really special. When a parent can can gradually give more and more trust to their teenager and to their to their uh young adult as they grow, can gradually give more and more trust to them And they can gradually more have be feel more honored by their parents. There is something that is very special about that. And that's something that teens you should be striving for. You should want to feel honored by your parents, but that's got to be earned. It's not right for them to give it to you. The truth of the matter is Nobody's trusted ex- Paul said, I don't even trust myself. So the idea of having explicit trust, you're never gonna get that from we shouldn't nobody should get that from anybody But there is graduated amounts of trust that you can have. Realizing we're all human beings and there are certain things it's just like, no, I don't trust you, and I wouldn't trust myself in that situation, it's not happening. But understanding that we are honored as we listen, as we grow, that is something that is very important for us to understand. This is just vitally important information. So The parent speaking to the son has one very, very significant bit of advice. He basically is going to say, you need to listen to me. instead of listening to the wrong crowd. And he paints a picture of really a gang here. It's a gang of a group of of young people that are wanting all to go their own way. And it's very enticing for them to want to go their own way. Notice what it says in the passage. My son, if sinners, plural, a group of sinners, entice you. What does he say here? Do not consent. Don't go with a group of sinners that are that would entice you to go that way. Now let me ask you a question. Is that a temptation? Is it a temptation for young people as they grow up to be enticed to be pulled away from their nuclear family? Is that something that's a temptation? It is. It's a very common temptation. Why do you think that is? I'm just curious. I I'm going to ask the question. Why do you think it is it is a a very common thing for that to happen? Yes, Rose? I feel like that means that there are lows there. Good. Kim? Sometimes it's just pure pressure. Okay. Okay. Yes. More exciting? Potentially exciting. Potentially exciting. Okay. Yeah, I think all of those are are very good reasons. I think uh that probably the maybe the maybe the root reason or maybe the most primary reason is is the one that Rose mentioned. Is that essentially everybody wants to belong. Everybody wants to have a sense of belonging. That is just the way we're we're we're we're wired that way. What God intends is for us to find our sense of belonging in our nuclear family. When I'm saying nuclear family, I'm talking about You know, father and mother kids in a home. Okay. Not not aunts and uncles. That's where God intends for us to find our bel our sense of belonging. Unfortunately, sometimes it's it's to some degree the fault of the parent. They're really not giving their kids for whatever reason that sense of belonging. Sometimes it's actually because they're not setting enough boundaries. There is a level of safety that no no one no one feels like they want, but when they have it there's something to be said for it. When you ha when you know your boundaries, when you have certain boundaries, there's this sort of this But that's not the only thing. Just a sense of love, a sense of listening. Parents need to listen to their kids. They need to listen to what the kids what they're especially as they grow up is And teenagers listen to what they're saying. There needs to be a sen there needs to be a desire to understand. Now, I'm not saying you could fully understand, but there There needs to be a desire for that. A sense of belonging is absolutely necessary for a for a family, and if they don't feel that sense of belonging They may be tempted to go finds elsewhere where they do have a sense of belonging. And the problem is that because they're not wise, the son's not wise, he's trying to warn him, because he's simple yet right now. Okay, that that he is tempted he may be tempted to go the wrong way and go a totally wrong way. And we're going to see that in this passage. He says If centers entice thee, it is enticing to have a group of people that say, hey, we're going a certain way. Come on in and join join with us and we're going to go this way. It's a very enticing thing. And he says, if sinners entice you to not consent, if they say, come with us, let us lie and wait to shed blood. Let us lurk secretly for the innocent without cause. Let us swallow them alive like Sheol, the whole like those who go down to the pit. We shall find all kinds of precious possessions. We shall fill our houses with spoil. Cast in your lot among us. Let us all have one purse. My son, do not walk in the way with them. Keep your foot from their path. There are then next several things that that we need to be aware of. Why should this Why should we be so careful, and frankly, all of us, this can be applied to all of us, going the wrong way, finding our belonging in the wrong group of people. Any of us, all of us are tempted to do that. Why is this such a bad idea with this group of people? Number one, it says their plans are violent. There is a hunger, there is an appetite for violence. And sometimes I I've seen this when I was in college I saw this. You know it's really funny. Uh when you go into college, if you go to a larger school uh you know with several thousand people in it. You tend to find your sort of niche within people of like interest. You know one of the things I've seen that was when I was when w when I went to school that I thought thought was sort of Unique or interesting, was that there was a group that I could tell by watching them that the only thing that they really found in common The sense of belonging, the sense of camaraderie with each other. I mean, it was clear they had this laser focus of camaraderie one with another that they all, you could tell they they loved talking about this. They always were discussing this. It was something that they found the sense of belonging. They all absolutely hated the school they were going to That was the one thing that they all sort of gathered around to agree upon. And I would rec recall like roommates that would between four rooms that would all kind of gather together. I'd be off in the corner or something studying and one time I had a roommate that said, We want to know if we can trust you. And I said, What are you talking about? He said, Well you seem like a pretty nice guy, but we're a little concerned because you don't you know, you don't break the rules and we're willing um I said, You should not trust me. Just don't trust me. Uh So but uh there is this there is this this common commonness that happens and it can really be around the wrong thing, like a a plans, uh a thirst, a hunger for violent violence. I'll tell you something else. Their character is cowardice. They're gonna lurk privily. They're gonna stay in These groups of people, they're not out in the open. They're there's a cowardice to them. And you can see this among some groups of people in adolescence. You can see they're sort of off in the corner. They're sort of in they're not wanting to to uh to be open. There's sort of a closeness and a cowardice there and he's warning them against those kinds of people. Also, their intentions are evil. They want to harm innocent people. They want what they want, and they don't care if anybody gets hurt or stands, and if anybody stands in their way, they're just going to get hurt. This is absolutely utter destruction and utter evil. They are preoccupied with death and darkness. Notice what it says in verse 12. Let us swallow them alive like Sheol. and h and and whole like those who'd go down to the pit. This is the way they're talking. It's not just let's kill 'em because we're they're in our way. Let's have them go to a deep dark place. Let's have them go down to the pit. They are preoccupied with death and with darkness. And they are inherently selfish according to verse 13. We shall find all kinds of precious possessions. And shall fill our houses with spoil. They're just in it for themselves to get what they want to get, to do what they want to do. Verse 14. There's the sense of belonging. Look at verse 14. Cast in your lot among us. Let us all have one purse. It's like, let's cooperate together. We're going to get a lot of of increase by dishonest gain and we're gonna all put this all together and and you'll be part of this. You'll be part of a great group here. Past in your lot among us Let us all have one purse. My son, he says, do not walk in the way with them. You have a very clear prohibition here in verse 15. Don't walk in the way. Here's what he's saying. The word way is he's talking about, and he'll use this term in Proverbs in the future as well. He's talking about a lifestyle. Do not have this kind of lifestyle. Don't walk in the way with these kind of people. And he says, really, don't go anywhere near them. Keep yourself clear from them. Stay away from them. It says That they it says, keep your foot from their path. Don't step on the same path with them. Don't go down this road with them. This is a great d the lure is the sense of belonging. And now he says, do not make sure that you do not adopt their lifestyle. And he says this. Verse 16, it says, For their feet run to evil, and they make haste to shed blood. He's identifying what would not be not be apparent at first. Nobody thinks that anybody's this evil. People are the simple is very na they're very naive. They don't know uh they don't have the wisdom to know what they're getting into. And so he's warning them don't go down this path. For their feet do run to evil, and they make haste to shed blood. Verse 17. He says this, he uses an illustration, he says, Surely in vain the net is spread. and the sight of any bird. This is an uh analogy based upon a fowler who has cast a net to catch a bird. Except that that this net uh is not very effective. It's in vain that it's being cast out because Because it's the fowl can see it, the bird can see it. It's not going to be very effective to catch a bird and something that the bird can see. And he is basically saying, look, this is actually if you will look at this with clear objective view, if you will see the the path that that these people are going down, if you'll just look You're gonna see that there's a net there that's obvious that you're gonna get caught in. If you keep going down this road, you're gonna get caught in this net. He says, Surely the vein is net uh the in vain the net is spread in the sight of any b bird. But they lie in wait for their own blood They lurk secretly for the men for their own lives. They lurk secretly secretly for their own lives. Verse 19. So so are the ways of everyone who is what? What's the root problem? They're greedy for gain. And it takes away the life of its owners. He says that their end is destruction. How do you know somebody like this this person is someone who ultimately is just greedy for game. He just wants what he wants. When he wants it, that's what he wants. And he is saying, if you know what he's saying here, what's being implied here? If you hang around these kinds of people, you're gonna be just like them. You're gonna learn to want what you want the way you want it. Instead of really desiring to follow after in the passage, to follow after the desires of your parents. And to learn by following after the desires of your parents, to follow after the desires God It's an interesting thing that that is that is that happens I think and I don't have I don't have teenagers yet. I say that with some trepidation. Um but I was a teenager, believe it or not. Some of you might ha have a hard time believing that. Um I was a teenager and I d and and it it is an interesting thing. I think sometimes, you know, when you're when when when the kids are young You tend to say, look, do what I told you to do. It's just that simple. As teenagers get older, parents have to battle, have to wrestle between Help giving the kid what they the this kid, the teenager, what they would like or what they want, versus the child the teenager having to do what the parent wants. You know the truth of the matter is there should be no battle in this. There should be no battle at all, and I'll tell you why. Because both parents and teens should want what God wants. When both parents and teen want teens want what God wants, you won't have a battle. The problem becomes is if the parents are wanting to try to appease the teen. Or is the teen is just simply wanting what he wants and want not thinking that his parent knows best or wants what's best for him. That's when you come into conflict. If everybody wants what God wants, this becomes a whole lot simpler. And frankly, the very best life that we can live is is the life that we're simply asking, Lord, what do you want of me? I just want to do what you want me to do and to please God. I think that that is really the key to all of it. Desiring to everybody desiring to do what God wants and to please him. Which sometimes is easier said than done Uh and easier to figure out than done. Uh harder to figure out than than said. Any other thoughts on this passage that you see from from Proverbs? Alright, that's the that these are entry-level verses. The next section that we're going to be looking at is now seeing what wisdom, how wisdom is described. It's actually the woman wisdom. uh and it's going to have this long description of what wisdom is uh uh based upon Solomon's observations and what scripture says here. Um but he has this This, before we get to what wisdom is, this is like the entrance to wisdom. Listening to the right people. For teens, that's clear. For adults, it should be clear as well. We're following after those who are following after God's Word. So let's uh let's go to the Lord in prayer and ask his help that we might really do this. um each one of us. Father, we do pray, Lord, that you would be with us as we as we think through this this passage. Lord, I there are so many draws and so many temptations and so many ways of being enticed. We can so m easily listen to the wrong voices instead of listening to godly and wise counsel Instead of listening to truth and desiring to please the right kinds of people. And Father, I pray, Lord, that you would help us To desire to listen to the right kind of instruction, to follow it, to be submissive to it. Father, I think of the teens that are in this room tonight and they really have a decision to make Really it's a daily decision, but it really s it may even start with a point-in-time decision where they choose to just follow the wise advice and counsel and mandates even of their of their parents. I pray that they would understand just how important this is. that they cannot please you and have a heart to displease their plant parents And Lord, I pray that you'd help us as parents, that you would give us wisdom, that there would be a genuine desire to have our teenagers to just have a sense of belonging with us, that they would know that there's a security and a love that is unconditional. And that our desire is just that we love them and we want to see what's what you will do with them. But that there would be a desire, uh just a sense of belonging in our homes that we can pr provide for our kids that would make it it certainly they will still be tempted to go elsewhere. They would they'll be tempted to find their sense of belonging from other places. But certainly if we can do that as parents, it will be much easier. Lord, I pray that you'd help us to be wise with our counsel, biblical with our approach, that we would stay on the same page with our spouses. That we would be giving the right kinds of instruction and signals to our kids and to our teens. I pray, Lord, that you would help us in these areas so that we can We can all learn to follow after you and to please you. I'm reminded of your your word that tells us that faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word of God. And I I think in terms of just raising children and the importance that we have of and that that is there of them learning to hear and to listen to us So that when God, when you want to speak through your word, they'll be listening. They'll be have the ability to listen to it. And I I just pray, Lord, that you would help us in those things. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.