When we come to lesson 12, it's important for us to understand that there ought to be fruitfulness for a Christian. There are some Christians that are so busy working and serving that That they aren't thinking of they're not growing spiritually, they're not really they're really doing it in their own flesh But there are others that are so it's like they're so busy, or they're not busy, they're they're sort of um they may even have a good devotional life and have a good um Maybe maybe they feel they have a good walk of the Lord. But they're not there's no production. They're not producing anything. In the Christian life, you've got to have both. There's got to be a good devotional life and a fellowship of the Lord, but that is going to lead us to fruitfulness. It's going to be a natural hour. If somebody is not serving the Lord faithfully, it is because that there is a spiritual problem. It doesn't necessarily mean it doesn't necess but the the reverse is not necessarily true Just because somebody seems to be serving the Lord's faithfully doesn't mean that they are spiritually well. They could be doing it after the uh doing it with fleshly modus or self-immodus or whatever and doing in their own strength, which will result in burnout. So we want to make sure that we're serving in the right way for the right reason with the right strength and the motivation from God's Word and the Lord. But we ought to occasionally look at ourselves, look at what we're doing, and see if there is fruit. And if there's not It's appropriate for us to ask why there isn't fruit. If you think of John chapter 15, what we find there in that passage is he says, My desire for you is that you bear fruit And much fruit, more fruit, and much fruit, and that your fruit would remain. The emphasis on the primary emphasis on John 15 is to abide in Christ. But there is a frequency of this concept of fruit in John 15 that does make it that we do need to really consider this So he begins this lesson talking about the enabling. He says the most exciting truth in the world is that we are in Christ here. That is, by the way. The most exciting truth in the world, that we are in Christ. Um, do you ever feel as though you take it for granted? It would feel as though you've been saved for so long and you have and your life is so much in within The Christian realm that we just sort of take the whole thing for granted a little bit. So that there's not an appreciation for just being in Christ. What is the let me ask you, let me let me pose this question. If you're if there is a sense in which you're taking Taking the reality of being in Christ for granted. How do you get out of that? How do you How do you begin to realize and appreciate who you are in Christ again? Any ideas? Kim? I think that's probably the best. Okay. Okay. Okay. Alright. You've got to change, I mean it's kinda like being in a r I mean I hate to current this down so much, but it's like being a rug change change your outlook on everything. You know, get back into the word. you know, change your pattern, change your habits so you can live and react more. So what you're saying is that um and all these are right, so you're saying that you have to sometimes behavior is going to factor in You've got to you can think right to do right, but there is a sense in which you can make your ways toward your thoughts battles too, those those can And good. And um Dave said meditate. Meditation is extremely important in the Christian life. To be able to meditate on the things of the Lord. Um meditation on who God is was kind of So um very good. Is something else around, Lisa? I'm kind of forgetting what the question was. Oh, if you're kinda spiritually And you're losing your appreciation for who you are in Christ. Um I I guess that's God to be a good time. You know, like something with prayer and really seek kind of you may be a very as well Sure has well. Yeah, I think all those are good things to to do. One of the things that um One of the things that just a practical exercise is to think about what your life would be without him. Just to think about what your life would be without Christ. If you can't imagine it Just look around unsafe people. I mean if you really get into the what there's some people that are unsafe it seemeth like they get it all together. So go to a funeral of somebody who's who just died who doesn't know the war and see the despair in those people's lives when they have a loved one that they are constantly they're trying to comfort themselves with the real with with some possible potential that they don't order but or that they're gonna be in heaven or something. But man, you want to see a stark difference between between the uh just the difference between a funeral of a saved person that the dying one funeral and a funeral of an unsaved person. Both their sadness involved most of the time of some kind or other. But you are talking about a world of difference Between the two. There is one that they they sorrow and they have no hope. And the other they sorrow but not as those who have no hope. And there can even be joy and rejoicing in a funeral for a saved person. I even think of an week in our in the funeral, we even laughed a little bit It was not it was uh we're gonna miss certain things, but there was even a uh a joy about it. And uh You don't you don't see that and then I mean I you don't see that. So these rubbing shoulders of unsaved people If you listen to them talk and listen to the despair that they have, the purpose can you imagine the purposelessness there if you don't know the Lord? There's no real purpose The hopelessness of not living in Christ. So I think sometimes just thinking about what it's like not to be in Christ helps us to appreciate what it is to be in Christ. What is the purpose of for God's grace? So he says here, what is the purpose for God's grace? Enabling here The Bible says here, 2 Corinthians 9, 8, and God is able to make all grace abound toward you, that you always having all sufficiency in all things, may abound to every good work. So this verse tells us the reason that God gives us grace, and we see the same thing in Ephesians 2:8-10, is for us to be able to abound in service to Him. There are some people I think that that wonder why they're not seeing God's grace in their life. And I think in some cases it's because they're not serving God. They're not using the grace to propel the service. They're not being a good steward of the grace that God gives them. And There is an ability for God to be able to give them more grace. The Bible says God resistet the proud, but gives grace to the humble. And so uh if if um you're not seeing God's grace in your life, one one possibility doesn't have to be one possibility is that there isn't a service. You're not, it's kind of like fuel Um you don't need more fuel in your car if you never go anywhere. You've got the fuel in your car, we won't take so much fuel, we have to You I mean trying to get seeing more fuel, wanting more from the gas station when you haven't gone anywhere, you're not gonna fill it up and it's gonna be two more dollars in there. Um That grace is something that is to be used for service to the Lord. Grace is God's supernatural enablement to do what only God can do. What good work was Paul energized to do by God's grace according to Ephesians 3, 7 through 8? And it says here in Ephesians 3:73 is read, whereas I was made a minister according to the gift of grace of God given unto me by the effectual working of this power And to me, who am less than the least of all things is the grace given, that I should preach among the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ. Um number three, uh that's page one sixteen. And the following verse in Galatians two twenty. God used the phrase yet not I to describe the supernatural ability to live as he did. What was Paul able to do that to do that the phrase yet not I describes? 1 Corinthians 15, 10 through 11. By the grace of God I am what I am, and his grace which was bestowed upon me was not in vain. But I labored more abundantly. than they all. Yet not I, but the grace of God which was with me. Therefore, whether it were I or they, we preach and we believe So to labor more abundantly will be the answer to that question. He then moves to the concept of the call, page 116 He says, aren't you glad you got saved? Think back to the day you accepted Christ. How many of you think back to that day? How do you remember? Thank you. I I I wonder. Um what did it take for you to become a Christian? Obviously salvation is from God. But it probably took a person to explain God's Word to you, to show you how to receive Christ's exchange. Now that you are saved, you have the privilege and responsibility to tell others the good news. Number four, even Jesus lived in dependence on the Holy Spirit. What did the Holy Spirit anoint him to do during his earthly ministry? Luke 4. 18 The Spirit of the Lord is upon me because He has anointed me to preach the gospel of the Lord, to heal the brokenhearted, to preach deliverance to the captives Recovering of sight to the blind is that a liberty then of the fruit is interesting that the Holy Spirit empowered Christ to preach the gospel. So I don't think it worked that way. Wasn't Christ God? So why did he operate from the power of the Holy Spirit in preaching the gospel? Okay. He was human as well. He had human frailty and human suffering. So that probably is true. Kim? I think true it was for a picture of what we were to expect. I think it's a set or set an example for us. I mean it was so important for us to learn to um to work under the power of the Holy Spirit that Christ set the example for us. Matthew 4. 19, and he said unto them, Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. Number six, what is the final command of the disciples? Do you remember what this command is called? Mark 16, 15, he said unto them, Go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. So there's that's the command. Um can anyone so question. Um can anyone be safe? Yes, answered yes. Yes, the Bible says God not only ancient theory, but all With unrepentance, Romans 10 13 through 15. Whosoever shall call following the Lord shall be saved. How beautiful are the feet of them that preach the gospel of peace. What word preacher, the word preacher does not indicate a professional, anyone who claims the gospel? What does God, how does God view the person who is preaching the gospel He says they are what they're beautiful. What is God saying when he says that the people that preach the gospel are beautiful? Have you ever thought about what beauty is? If you look at a flower, for instance, and it's a beautiful flower, or a sunset, or a painting, or something, what what is it that makes it beautiful? Yes. It attracts your attention. Yeah, it's enjoyable, right? And it's something that is pleasing. It brings pleasure. To look at a beautiful sunset brings pleasure. To look at a um at a a uh beautiful flower brings pleasure. So these things, the look at our book brings brings pleasure. So that's really what it's saying here. that God, when he sees his children going and telling other people about him, it brings God pleasure It pleases him. And um he sees it as beautiful. But I like that I like the picture there. It helps us, you know, we think, oh yes, I want to please God, and we talk about pleasing the Lord, and certainly we want to please the Lord, but when we think of I I think sometimes we talk about pleasing the Lord as sort of an impersonal type. We think of it impersonally. As though he's not a as though God is not a person. He is He is an entity that that it's sort of a shut on and off switch. You have an on switch, please him, an off switch, don't please him. Well, God enjoys He is a person. He does enjoy fact he has three person. He does enjoy things. And he is he finds it beautiful. He finds it attractive when his children preach the gospel. If you think of a if you think of a date a dated couple, um I if you look at so I worked at a college and well a large Christian college it was like six six thousand of us. It's kind of crazy to think of that many kids. But anyway. So there's six and and the when a girl is dating a guy, I mean, you could see it, you could see it. Um you can I I would get to know you I would get to know different people in college and I would get to know different uh I mean men ladies or girls stuff and they wouldn't have a boyfriend, and then they get a boyfriend, and suddenly they are always looking at their pest I mean beforehand, eh sit in this. You know, some days they're looking nice, other days they're you know like they dragged themselves out of bed five minutes ago. But man, they have live and suddenly everything is perfect all the time They're trying to make themselves attractive for this boyfriend. Well, there ought to be a sense in which we want to make ourselves attractive to the Lord to enjoyable to him. And we do that when we when we preach the gospel. Um Let's see. So the next thing he talks about is um uh bringing forth fruit, he says. Now let me just identify something here. When we talk about fruit in John 15 and other places in the New Testament, what is fruit? Let me talk about the worst fruit. Good. Fruit? Yes. I I think of the buy-in and you know, I think first hand buying you know. So basically the fruit is a product of like Good. Fruit are the results. They're the product. Good. And the results of a price-like life Okay, we sometimes think of somebody who who s uh who leads somebody to Christ. Okay, that person that person is fruit. has been led to Christ. It's probably true. But the very fact that we preach to them can be fruit. The good works, that can be fruit. The things that we're doing is the fruit. If it's a product of our relationship with the Lord, if it's coming and flowing from our fellowship with Him. So we want to make sure we have a good understanding of what of what fruit is. And there's all kinds of different different fruits that we can produce But of course, there's only one way to produce them, and that is to abide in Christ. And so Don 15, 4-5 say, abide in me not in you As the branch cannot bear fruit of self except as above the vine, no more can you except you abide in me. I am abiding you with branches He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same brings forth much fruit. So abiding in Christ is very important. Um and and by the way, the idea there is to remain in him um to fellowship with him, to depend upon him. In like one of what you're saying um Um we know s P some one and uh it says uh speaking of Saraj, and he shall be like a tree planted by the river that float that brings forth his fruit. And he sees it. leaf also shall not weather. So the leaf could be also the and uh I I heard the preaching before that the belief is uh what you say is basically our words are uh the lead the least of the yeah. Yeah so all that is is in is is free So the boldness here is the next next heading here. How did spending time with Jesus change the disciples' ministry after his ascension? Well actually, if you think of the disciples before Christ's ascension, they were pretty timid about things. Um I mean if you look at even when they came to Christ and wanted to take him for crucif to be crucified, what did Peter do? Well he denied Christ three times, right? At first he cut the guy's ear off, because he's not a good angel or something, I don't know. And then and then after that he he denied Christ three times because of fear, fear of man Are we ever tempted with the fear of man? The Bible says that the fear of man is a reproach and a snare. It really never identifies the fear of man as something that's healthy. The fear of God is healthy. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. The fear of man will ensnare us. Will the fear of man keep us from preaching the gospel? Well, it certainly will. There have been times where you've had a clear opportunity, and you shied away from the opportunity. Now let me just case this say I'm not here to try to give you a guilt trip about that because all of us have been there. Me, myself, and all of us have been out, have been in situations where we really could have I've given the gospel and we chose not and we chose not to and fear was the left was impacting in there. But But I think that we s are s we sort of set ourselves up for failure when we tend to struggle with the concept of the fear of man, or when we are when we fear man The Bible is very clear that it's near us. Spending time with Christ produces boldness. I was just reading Proverbs with my kids today. And um and the proverb is a proverb that says that the wicked man Pursues, I don't remember the exact words, but the wicked man pursues with no one as looking. Remember that proverb? But the righteous are bold as a lion. Why does a wicked man pursue when no one's looking? Uh because he he's doing something wrong, he's always waiting to one he's always wondering when something's gonna catch him. Because he's living in a wrong, he's living wrongly, so he's fearful of everything. The righteous it says our bold is a lying. Why? They have nothing to fear. It's not like they've got to look at their shoulder all the time. They're doing right. It's like the guy in the workplace who's just always faithfully doing right. He doesn't have to wonder when the bosses come around, because he's always just faithfully working. And when the boss comes around, he's a catchy working because he's always working. Where is the guy who's always looking over his shoulder all the time to see when the boss comes by and then he starts working? Well, when it comes to this concept of fear, being with Christ and fellowshipping with him and realizing your own provision in Christ and security in Christ and who you are in Christ And if you are living a life that is that is in fellowship with God and with Christ, then there's no means of fear. You're not doing anything wrong. You know the Lord's going to take care of you Um and and so uh there is a boldness that comes from that. Um this boldness became a trademark, he he says. Of Jesus' followers. Knowing Jesus intimately gives us the ability to show Him boldly to others. Shortly after this incident, the disciples were threatened never to speak at all nor teach the same of Teach in the name of Jesus again. Even though they were released under close scrutiny, they went immediately to where Jesus was to speak, reported the situation, and had powerful prayer meetings. Acts 4, 29 through 31. And now, Lord, behold, their threatening, and grant unto your servants that with all boldness they may speak your word. And when they prayed, the place was shaken, for they were assembled together, and they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and they spoke the word of God with boldness Holden says to speed God's word. And notice the result of their prayers. God often used miraculous events to those early days to demonstrate his pleasure, and in some cases displeasure of his people. Though we may not experience God shaking the ground when we pray, somebody has this. We can expect God to continue to give boldness to those who look to Him for it. So the boldness that he gives, according to Ephesians 6, is for utterance, so that we can, and he actually asks the Ephesians people to pray for him, that he would utter boldly and preach and speak the word boldly And that is something certainly that we um uh that we need as well. He he asks the Colossian uh church as well, the door of utterance would be open for him to speak the mystery of Christ for which I am called, I'm also in bonds, that I may make it manifest as I ought to speak Walking wisdom towardin or without time let your speech go as a grace, sees the salt that we don't have to answer every man. Let me just ask you a quick question about this. We know that the power, the boldness that we get comes from the Lord. And comes from walking with the Lord. And comes from community with ourselves. On a practical level though, why what would cause us, what would cause boldness to um to to overwhelm our fear so that we we we do speak what we need to speak Let me let me put the question out of a way. I'll use illustration. When I was a teenager and really studying scripture and wanting to consider um certain word the best thing how. I really was extremely nervous seeking from people. It was extremely, it was It's like everybody else, you know, this is one of the things that's very, very stressful and very I did not want I thought there was no way I'd have a refash that came up with And um and my first message that I preached was seven minutes. It's the wrong way from that. We got another pastor at the same issue. Oh really? Eric Aaron. Oh. So so um why what is the key, what do you suppose is the key for a guy Who wants to serve the Lord and wants to preach his word but is afraid of people or afraid of of public speaking. Jim? I'm going to do these strange software now. No, I think I think you you you gotta pretty much just you gotta take it off of you. You just gotta We do you realize that you're speaking for God or you just Yeah speaking to the people. Yeah, I uh yeah, we're certainly answerable, but It's just not nearly as entertaining as earth things, but but uh so what I'm about to say is not gonna have much profound impact anymore because Everybody's just thinking about everything else now. Um and but but really the issue is the really it it it has to do with Being so convinced that the message that you have has got to get to the people you're speaking to. You are just the urgency of the message overwhelms the fear of man So you're not even thinking about the people, you're not thinking about yourself anymore. You're not thinking about what they think of you anymore. You're not really occupied with that. You're occupied with getting that message out because you know how important it is. And if you're not over and that is really the key for a preacher, and you know the same thing is true, it's day to day, if we're going to give the gospel. If we're so preoccupied with the message that we've got to give them that can change their life It's going to overwhelm our, or it's going to overcome our fear of man. So a focus of the gospel is really key. He says Q or then the next heading is the power. Do a couple more mans you're making. What picture did Jesus use to show the abundant supply of power available to his service? It says uh uh it was uh out of his valley shall flow rivers uh of living water. Uh John Seven 38 through 39 says, He that believes on me, as the scripture has said, out of this valley shall flow rivers of living water. But this spoke he of the spirit, which they uh that believed on him should receive. So I think it's the flowing room's water warning. What did Jesus tell his disciples to do that demonstrated the necessity of the Holy Spirit's power and soul? He said, wait, remember when he told the disciples, wait for the power from the Holy Spirit on high. So wait for them to 24-49. I'm going to I think I'm going to move a little faster here to try to get through some of this and just give you some of the highlights. The focus is Jesus Christ and crucified. That's going to be the focus of our message. Um Paul, his abilities, he how did Paul characterize his abilities, emotions, became uh he was wicked with much weakness and fear and much trembling, so that's how Paul Going to find it if the Apostle Paul is somebody, guy that we can't relate to, but he had weak the spirit and not trembling What characterizes preaching? It was a demonstration of a spirit and a power. Your faith should stand in the power of God. Can you describe it? Okay, this is really a neat concept here. 2 Corinthians 2, 14 through 16, it talks about us being a saver or a fragrance of God, of Christ. Now, thanks be unto God, which always causes us to triumph in Christ and makes manifest the savor, the fragrance of his knowledge by us in every place. For we are unto God a sweet savor of Christ. That's what God sees as God's. You really think of yourself that way? That you smell good to God? And now what we just said before beautiful to him. And now it says we have a worse sweet Savior to God. And then it says in them that are saved and in them that perish So the one there is savor of death unto death, and the other the saver of life unto life. What's it saying there? It's saying that when we have the fragrance of Christ in our lives, there's going to be a difference that people see. And in some cases, it's going to draw them. There's going to be an attractiveness assuming. You've got a difference in your life, it's going to draw them to Christ. In other times, it's going to be um a uh That's the word I'm looking for. Repellent to them. Right? Have you ever experienced that before? You're witnessing somebody or you're just just trying to be a good witness to people, and there are some people that just seem to be And in some cases it's our order of personalities, but if it's not that And it actually is Christ and our and our and there's a difference in our lives. I mean, some people are still so guilty about their sin That when they see somebody that's just peace with themselves and peace with the Lord, it's repelling to them. So that concept is something, but it also Identifies the reality that there is, if we are walking the Lord and serving the Lord, there is a fragrance that we give off the people um that introduces them to Christ before we even say anyway. Um is a is a really interesting What is necessary before we can see the fragrance of Christ result uh in life to to some? We are not as many which corrupt the Word of God, but as the sincerity, but of God In the Son of God speak we cry in Christ. His point that Moskry was making here is that we we um We can give off the fragrance of Christ and it's going to attract some and repel others, but how do you know? Well you've got to preach Christ. It does take a verbal explanation of the gospel in order to see, in order to see whether or not your fragrance is giving off is It's repelling for or attractive. Who will suffer uh if we hide our our askful witness? The gospel is to be hid is hid to those that are lost. So it's going to be lost to someone. There's a lot of other things here, but I'm doing we are given that message of reconciliation. He calls us ambassadors for Christ. I mean, really, when you think about this, it's not as though he says, okay, you've got Christians here, and then some of the Christians are ambassadors for Christ. No, this is a general statement. All Christians are ambassadors for Christ. It isn't as though we can say to ourselves, well, those are the people that preach the gospel. I don't really do that. I just I live my life, I do my thing. They preach the gospel, I mean my thing. It's really not what we have here. We have that if you know Christ, you are his ambassador. Which has a loaded illustration actually There's great comfort in the fact that the Holy Spirit, when we preach the gospel, which is the power, the Bible says That he convicts of sin and of righteousness and judgment. The Bible says that he's not given us the spirit of fear, but love and power of the Son of mind. We have the motive of the gospel witness. There it says whosoever will fall upon the new will be saved or not one time. One day we should carry. We know that God wants all people to be saved, as his desire. What does God want us to expect when we give people the gospel? That they are he says that they are wipe already with harvest. The method for the gospel witness is the gospel and the Holy Spirit does convict of sin, righteousness, and judgment Galatians 6. 9 is one of my favorite verses when it comes to service for Christ. And let's not be weary and well-doing. You ever feel weary and well-doing? If you can't answer that affirmatively, you're probably not alive. Um everybody everybody at times feel feels weary and well doing. He says, Don't be weary and well doing, for in due season ye shall reap if ye faint not Are you ever tempted to faint? Well what is fainting in the scripture? Is there anything else fainting? You see this term fainting from time to time in the New Testament. What is fainting? Okay, that's the th that's that's our concept of thinking. But when it's talking about the New Testament, there is something, the illustration is there for sure. Yes. That's it. It's to lose heart. That's what it is. It is to lose heart. Anytime you see the word thing in the New Testament At least most of the times I've seen it. Unless the guy backs is because it's a pain. But when when in this case when you're like you shall lose you came out, it's saying, Don't lose heart Is it ever are we ever tempted to lose heart when we're serving the Lord? Yes, you know why? Because people are people. Right? I mean you work with them and you work with them and you work with them and you think you got somewhere and it's two steps forward and it's three steps backward. And it's it's it you know I mean you all are parents, many of you are parents anyway You know this fake, and you think you keep beating your head up against the wall, you think they're neck not listening. God says, stick with it, you'll reap if you think not, and even if you don't reap on this side of heaven, you will on the other side of heaven. And so taking God's promise there, we need to, it's important for us to just stay, stay faithful to the Lord. The clear presentation of the gospel is something that did you have did you know that Paul used his own personal testimony, Acts 22, 1 through 13, to share the gospel So knowing your own personal testimony, we want to give that app as something that is a good, effective tool. Alright, that's good. We are we went through the whole thing. We are done this now. And um Now we uh we need to go out and we need to use this for um uh the the figure before we bother say I let me just tell you this, I sort of feel like let me just tell you how I feel. Um I sort of feel like we had um this the exchange seminar and it was really good and everybody and people were pretty well motivated and everything. But I think the holidays hit. And everybody got distracted, which we all tried, including me. We all got kind of distracted by the holidays. Now we're distracted by the fact that we want to hibernate. We have this February, I I know a pastor that preached every February, preached The fifteen fatal phrases of February. And uh it was a very difficult exposition, you know, it wasn't really, but uh it was it was interesting And and so you know uh let's let's let's really think about how we can continue, even in February. Um I know I'm two days away or three days away, but Um to try to build relationships with Satan Gospel. Let's not lose the things that we learned and I exchange seminars. Very, very important for us uh to do that. I'm praying. I've been a I'm at a group of pastors today we pray for our churches and things and one of the things I just ask them to pray for is that we God would um increase our fervor to to reach people for Christ and to um to develop redemptive relationships So uh please please really think about that. I I'm um I I'm guilty myself. I did not talk to anybody about price. I mean Talk to Christians about crazy a lot, but I have not talked to you uh um for a little while now and um I need to I need to really think more about it. Um and and try to think about creative ways to to do that. So I really would encourage you to do that. No guild trips here, but encouragement. Yeah, they're not coming out either. I haven't seen my did everybody with it. Um so I guess it's probably it's too cold for them to I don't know. But um anyway. I don't see them. I think I've got a time where I can call Don't ask questions about it. Yeah. Um about the fruit in uh you know our ministry and work with the Lord The two things that uh you know we we learned after a long time uh fellowship with the Lord and you know living in Christian life But the the truth is not always visible. Yes. And uh it it our time and uh God's time in the truth is different. So if you want to just talk to the Lord and see the truth. But uh that's not that ten people. Yeah. Yeah. This time is it was a hard timing, for sure. But even prayer is fruit. I mean we have to sort of define what fruit is. Even even um Service Steve coming out and was told Wednesday night is fruit, can be fruit if you're doing it and through our reasoning. So um Anyway, so we understand that isn't important. But the results of our service that you shouldn't put in most of the project is way later than we expect. We want it now and God has lots of delays And normally those are delays are are there to teach us something. So alright, let's go ahead and uh have a word of prayer and uh thank you for your your attention. I didn't see anybody false to the sense That's too cold to ball too. Alright, let's pray. Lord, thank you so much for your word and thank you for everyone that is here tonight and for the people that could be here tonight. I pray, Lord, that you would help us to realize that we do need to serve you faithfully and to work hard for you, and that you did save us and give us grace for good works. And we know that it is not through our flesh that we perform good works, but it is through The power of the Spirit God in our lives is we know you. We want to, we are desiring to serve you and to please you and to be beautiful in your sight. and to be a sweet smelling savor to you and to all and to others whom you choose. So we pray, Lord, that you would help us to remember these things. and can motivate us in the middle of a of a of a week that is um easy to just be tired and um Even just I pray, Lord, that you would uh keep us encouraged and strengthened in you. And we pray these things in Christ's name.