Take your Bibles if you would turn to the book of Matthew this morning, Matthew chapter seven, and we'll also be looking at various portions of scripture throughout the New Testament. We'll be landing in First Corinthians And we'll be looking at several things in chapters 3 and 4 of that passage. We have been going through a series in the book of Acts And of course I am very much dedicated to to expository preaching through books of the Bible. And that and th those of you who know me know that that is definitely the case. But occasionally Occasionally, I think it's healthy to look at certain themes that are prominent themes through Scripture, particularly through the And several years ago, it's been quite a few now, I developed several different several messages that I thought, you know, these are just good messages to preach on an on an annual basis. They've really become a maybe a maybe not always an annual basis. Maybe it's now I I I looked at my records last time I preached this message was in 2016 actually. Um although I will say that this mess this particular message ha a third of its content has changed, so don't fall asleep on me. Those of you who heard it before in 2016 But we need to occasion the there are certain subjects that just seem to need to be addressed from time to time, and the subject of judgmentalism versus godly discernment is one of those subjects. And you say to yourself, well, are are we having a problem with this in our church? No, I I'm not seeing knowing, I'm not thinking of a particular problem with this, but I don't ever want it to become an issue in our church. Because the sin of judgmentalism can be something that creeps into the culture in such a way in a church that it can destroy unity. and love and fellowship among the brethren and sister in Christ. And so it is important for us to understand that we need to have a good balance biblically on this issue of judgmentalism versus discernment And so rather than looking at one particular passage and working our way through it, what we're going to do is actually look at a particular theme and see the whole mind of God on the matter in the New Testament, particularly. And I'll just make this note that in your study of the Bible, uh a regular diet of studying the Bible if if you will, vertically, where you're just going through one verse after another through a passage is extremely But occasionally it's very helpful to take a particular thr theme of the Bible and to trace it horizontally throughout the Bible to see how that particular theme is being used in a variety of different contexts. It will give you a much fuller meaning. Does anybody of you know what a strong concordance is? How many of you all know what a strong concordance is? Okay, good. I'm glad we have a church that still knows what that is. You can have an electronic version of that as well. I'm sure there are lots of Bible programs that do that. But we have sometimes gotten away from from just taking a word or a theme in Scripture and tracing it through either the New Testament or a portion of the New Testament or the whole Bible or the Old Testament. And so today we're going to look at this subject of judgmentalism and discernment, and we're going to see what God has to say about it in several different places. And I want to set it up this way. There are certain people that really struggle with the sin of judgmentalism. If we're going to picture it, can you picture like Ebenezer Scrooge, the guy who's cynical and is a skeptic, he jumps to conclusions and It's quick to judgment, a person who who is just tends to be always identifying the error everywhere and and uh and is cynical. I remember a pastor, one of my pastors growing up, and actually he was one of my mentors as well, and I was assistant pastor, he said to me, Jim, don't get cynical. And I thought to myself, well what what's the big why why would he tell me that? I mean he was in his in his uh he was toward the end of his ministry, and I know why he told me that. He told me that because you know when you're working, when you're seeing all kinds of problems and working with people and seeing all kinds of sin and issues, it's easy for easier, easy to become, to have the cynical, judgmental spirit. And I by God's grace really want to avoid that. I want us to avoid it as a church. On the other hand, you can also be sort of like naive. The other extreme is, you know, you've got judgmentalism on one hand, the other extreme is you're extremely naive. You kind of like a Pollyanna, or for you Star Wars people, a Jar Jar Binks, you know You know, just totally, totally naive, not really paying attention, not aware of his environment, not seeing what's going on around you, uh, gets easily uh fooled. Characterized by just a failure of discernment, that Old Testament Proverbs, simple person who believes every word and hears everything and believes everything he hurt hears. Just sort of a naive person who sort of believes everything. gets caught with the wind one way and gets caught with the wind the other way. You see, see, we we tend to be people of extremes. Either on one hand we're we're we're judgmental and we're condemning. Or on the other hand, we're naive and we lack discernment. And today, hopefully, what we can do as we look at God's Word is we're going to see how to have a biblical balance between these two things and to have, to learn to have gospel discernment without worldly judgmentalism. Let's first go to the Lord in prayer and ask his help with this. Father, as we come to you, we pray that you would help us. Give us the mind of Christ. Help us to see things as you would have us to see them, to have the right kind of thinking, the right kind of perspective. Help us to root out worldly thinking in this area of judgmentalism and to understand the root cause of it and to understand The desperate need that we have, on the other hand, to be biblically discerning people. And I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Paul in the gospel in the book of Romans, chapter two, is he is just in chapter one talked about The person who has been given over to a reprobate mind, the very sinful, immoral person. And he moves to the moralist in Romans chapter 2. And the moralist in short Romans chapter 2 is one who looks to his own morality to find favor with God. And the defining characteristic of someone who is looking to his own morality to find favor with God is this idea of judgmentalism. He says in Romans chapter 2, verse 1, Therefore you are inexcusable, O man. Whoever you are who judge. For in whatsoever you judge another, you condemn yourself. For you who are judged, practice the same things. He says in that passage that the thing that characterizes someone who is looking to their morality to find favor with God is that they will also be those who are judgmental. And they will actually condemn themselves by their own judgmentalism. So the question then becomes, what is judgmentalism? We must, if we're going to guard our minds against this, we are going to have to understand the nature of judgmentalism. You'll notice in Matthew chapter 7 it says very clearly here, there is this clear prohibition, judge not, that you be not judged. For with what judgment you judge, you will be judged. And with a measure you use, it will be measured back to you. There is this in this passage this clear Clear prohibition, don't judge. Well, what does it mean to judge? What is judgmentalism? What is it? Well, the word is used in different ways throughout the New Testament. For example, in Romans chapter 14, verse 5, it's used, the word esteem is used there. One man esteeming one day above another. It's the same word. And so it has to do with esteeming someone a certain way. It also, and by the way, let me just pause here. I would probably encourage you to take notes on this fact on this particular one. There are a lot of there there is a lot of information I'm going to be giving you. I don't usually encourage that necessarily I mean I actually always encourage it, but I don't usually say something about taking notes. But this one you may really want to do that There's lots to think about here. Number two, James chapter 4, verse 11, it is used with the idea of evil speaking, to speak evil of someone. And number three, in John chapter three, verse eighteen, it says, He that believeth is not condemned, but he that believeth not is condemned already. It's the idea of condemnation. It's the same word. And all three of those different ver passages I read to you, it's the same kind of thing. So it's the idea of esteeming someone a certain way Where we're speaking evil of them with a attitude of condemnation. And God says in his word, don't do that Do not condemn people. Do not have that kind of spirit. Why is it that we should avoid, and Luke 6, by the way, Luke 6 to verse 37 says this. Judge not and ye shall not be judged. Condemn not and ye shall not condemn. And then it says this, forgive and ye shall be forgiven. It's interesting that in the same breath as it says judgment, it also has the idea of forgiveness. And very candidly, some of the reasons that we have trouble forgiving. It's because we have a judgmental spirit. We will not let it go. And these two things are often linked. So, why should we avoid a judgmental spirit? Number one, Matthew 7:1 tells us this: when we judge, we run the risk of a harsher judgment toward ourselves. Whatever measure we judge someone, the Bible says in this passage, is the same measure with which we will be judged. Now it's interesting in the passage, it doesn't say whether God will judge us by the same measurement or well whether others will judge us by the same measurement. I suspect it's both. I suspect there is a sense in which when we judge others, that brings upon us the same measure of judgment just by the criteria with which we're judging others. And on the other hand, it may very well be that God is judging us by the same measure of judgment as well. Number two, when we judge, we are not following Christ's example. John chapter 12, verse 47 says, If any man hear my words and believe not, I judge him not. For I came not to judge the world, but to save the world. When Christ came the first time, his first advent, he came to seek and to save that which was lost. He did not come to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved. Now there will be a day when Christ comes back, and he will come as judge, as rightful judge of the world. But the first time he came, he came to save. And we ought to follow his example. The life that he lived was the life that we ought to emulate, and it ought to be one Of being careful not to judge. And number three, why should we not judge or why should we careful about this? We should not want to take God's rightful place. Romans chapter 14, verse 4, it says, Who art thou that judgest another man's servant? To his own master he standeth or falleth. Yea, he shall be holden up, for God is able to make him stand. It says, Why would you judge another man's servant? Well, brothers and sisters in Christ, who is the ma our master? Well, God is our master. We are his servant. So to judge another man's servant, he says, doesn't make sense. Romans 14:10. Later on in the passage, it says, For why dost thou judge thy brother? Or why dost thou set an at naught thy brother? For we shall all stand before the judgment seat of Christ So when we are thinking about people and thinking about judgment and those kind of things, what areas very specifically should we be careful about judging? Number one, scripture We see this. So what I'm doing here, just let me just pause and mention you say, well, where are you getting all these passages from? We're just taking this word and we're looking at all of how it works out in the New Testament, and we're categorizing it in ways that we can really understand this concept. Number one, how do we specifically avoid judging? Number one, we should avoid judging religious practices, diets, and days. And what I mean by that is this. When you see diets there, don't think that we're talking about, you know, Weight Watchers or something. You know, some people don't judge that either, I guess, but that's really not what we're referring to here. We're talking about religious diets or religious practices And he says there, be careful about judging religious practices. Be careful about that, it says. So we need to be careful when it comes to those kinds of things. Or putting one day above another. Those kinds of things. Different churches have different ways of doing things, and we need to be careful that we don't, of course, if it's against Scripture, it's against it. But there is, we ought to be careful about a certain level of judgmentalism when it comes to various practices in religious practices that we do not have a condemning spirit according to what Colossians 2 says there But also, we should avoid judging according to appearances. In John chapter 7, verse 24, it says, judge not according to appearance, but judge righteous judgment. And this is in the context of Christ. Who has just performed a miracle on the Sabbath day? The Pharisees come to him and say, you have broken the law of the Sabbath. The truth of the matter is Christ had not broken that law. Christ never broke any of the Mosaic law. He simply broke their what they believed to be their particular interpretation or application. Of the law. Christ knew the intent of the law, and he says to them, do not judge on appearance. They were jumping to the conclusion about this area. We need to be very careful, folks, about judging according to appearances. And number three, we should avoid judging motives. 1 Corinthians chapter 4 verse 5 says this. In fact, at this point I think you can take your Bibles, well, actually Uh just hold for now. We're going to be turning to 1 Corinthians in a few moments, but in 1 Corinthians chapter 4, verse 5 it says this. Therefore, judge nothing before the time until the Lord comes. In other words, there are certain things that God reserves for his judgment alone. Who will both bring to light the hidden things of darkness and reveal the counsels of the hearts, that is, the heart motives And each one's praise will come from God. Now, folks, what it says in this passage is that we are not to judge motives. Be very careful about that. In fact, out of those three things, I think that is the area that we most succumb to temptation. We very quickly see an action. We very quickly see a particular behavior, and we move to judgment. That person has that particular motive. Folks, we have a prohibition against it. Don't do that. And we're going to learn more about that and particularly how that route. In a few moments, we're going to really delve into that passage. But understand that these are the areas that we have to be very, very careful about that we don't have a judgmental spirit in these kinds of areas. Now, with that in mind, folks, it really brings us to this. You know, we've talked a lot about judgment and why how not to judge, why we shouldn't judge, and the importance of being careful about judging certain things. But by this point, you may be saying to yourself, well, what about discernment? I mean, where does that come in? What about being careful about certain things and being aware of things and identifying error? I mean, where does that all come in, folks? It really does need to come in here, doesn't it? We need to differentiate between right and wrong kinds of judgment. How do we do that? Well There is actually a very helpful way for us to do that. And what I have to do here is to use Greek in order to help us. There are three different Greek words, all with the same stem. That are really going to help us to be able to differentiate these things. The first, it's the Greek word krino And the first time, the first way this is used is is the idea of condemning judgment We find this, for example, in Matthew chapter 5, verse 40, it says, If any man will sue thee in the law and take away his coat, let him have his Cloak also. The word sue is actually judge in the law. It has to do with a courtroom kind of indictment. It's a condemning judgment. Matthew 7, our text that we've been looking at, also has this word. In Luke chapter 6, verse 37, which we also read, it has this word. It's this idea of condemning judgment That is one kind of judgment that God clearly says don't do. Now, there is an exception to this. When should we have this kind of condemning judgment? When it has to do with sin. So we're not to have this kind of condemning judgment toward someone individual a person, but we are to have this kind of condemning judgment toward a matter of clear, verifiable sin. And so when Scripture calls sin sin, we need to call sin sin, and we need to be definitive about it. We're talking today in Sunday school about sexual immorality. That is a clear, definable sin. Covetousness is a clear sin. Lying is a clear sin. These are things that are clear sin that they're that we ought to We ought to be very condemning, not in the sense of a person, but in the sense of saying, that is sin. Sin is sin. And we ought to be very declarative about that. So that that that's clear in 1 Corinthians, in fact, and we're going to be looking at 1 Corinthians quite a bit, and of course we've had an adult Sunday school class on this. I won't try to steal any thunder there But understand that in 1 Corinthians chapter 5, the issue there was a dispute among people in certain matters, and he says, you ought to be able to judge in those matters among yourselves. And so for for church leadership and spiritually mature Christians, when there's a dispute among brothers in Christ or sisters in Christ There does need to be someone that comes in and establishes that kind of dealing with matters of clear scriptural morality. But understand the context. The context is clear scriptural morality there. This is not questionable things. This is things that are clear in Scripture. So that is the one kind of judgment. The next one that will help us is the discerning kind of judgment. This is the word diacrino, has the same root word. But it has a preposition on it that it really has more to do now with a discerning kind of judgment. It's used 18 times in Scripture. In 1 Corinthians 6, verse 5, for example, it says, I speak to your shame. It is so that there is not a wise man among you. Who no not know one that is able to judge, and it is the word discernment. Now it's interesting that in 1 Corinthians 6 it uses the word judgment both ways. There needs to be someone to declare what's right and wrong But there also needs to be someone who is going to examine the matter, who's going to discern the matter. And so we have this word, this idea of discernment. God wants us to be discerning. It is something that is deliberate. And it's something that that that that is though it's something that you're weighing out back and forth, thinking over, sort of cogitating about James chapter 1 verse 6 says this, but let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. That word waver is the word diacreno here. So this, folks, is the kind of judgment that we ought to have. The discernment, weighing things out. Then there's a final word that really helps us as well, and that is the word, the idea of questioning judgment, or anachrino. Anochinocrino means that we are going to ask questions. And God not only wants and says we can do this, he invites us to do this. Folks, we ought to be people that really question things. We ought to be people that takes the word that take the Word of God and we sift everything through the truth of the Word of God. And we ought to ask questions. Questioning kind of judgment is a good kind of judgment. Acts chapter 17, verse 11 says this, these were more noble than those in Thessalonica. and that they received the word with all readiness of mind and search the scriptures daily whether those things were so that search the scriptures is this word In 1 Corinthians chapter 2, verse 14, it says, For the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness unto him, neither can he know them because they are spiritually discerned. That's this word. But he that is spiritual judges all things, yet he himself is judged of no man. So, folks, this ought to help us. When have I crossed the line into judgmentalism? It's fine to question. It's fine to think through those kinds of things. It's fine to weigh things out. And it's good to do that. But folks, when we come and we we uh we hit the gavelin down and we say that's their motive. That's their reason. That's what they're doing. When we do that, folks We ought to be very, very careful, and in fact, we are prohibited from doing that. Now, that ought to help us. So when we are going through life and we are thinking through things and we are questioning things and we are sifting through things which we ought to do, we ought to ask ourselves the question: Am I am I am I qu asking a question Or am I defining something as something that should not be defined in that way? Now, that brings us to this How can we gain freedom from judgmentalism? All of us, at some point or another in our lives, have this tendency toward judgmentalism. Can I tell you that I have this tendency myself? There is this tendency, and I think those who are, you know, how many of you ever filled out a vector analysis form for a job of a How many of you have ever done that before? Do you know what I'm talking about? Or some sort of analysis form? Okay, not that many. A few. Okay. But when I when I when I felt when I filled out those forms out You know, there's certain things, they'll say things like, characteristics that you are. And then another, and then they'll say characteristics that other people have said that you are. And I I never I never really enjoy filling these out. And they have tons and tons of characteristics. I'm like, yeah, I think somebody said that once or Uh yeah, I can kind of see that in myself, but there's one thing that that that for me uh it just stands out every time I see it, and it's the word analytical I don't have any question about the fact that I'm analytical. I mean it what people tell me I'm analytical, and I know I'm analytical. And for those who are analytical, There is potentially this tendency toward judgmentalism. Actually, even if you're not analytical, there could be this tendency, and you'll see why that's the case in a minute. Folks, we need to be very careful about this, but what we need to ask is how do we gain freedom from it? And in order to a gain freedom from it, we've got to understand the root cause of judgmentalism. And to do that, I'd like to invite you to take your Bibles and turn to 1 Corinthians chapter. four and three. We're going to be looking back and forth at three and four. In chapter four, verse five, we've already read the fact that God that God says, do not judge motives, that those kind of hidden things are clearly under God's jurisdiction, that God is the one that can know hearts, and you and I cannot. But in the context of all of this, let's ask this question. The Church of Corinth where it was having a particular problem. That led Paul to make this decree that you ought to be very careful when it comes to making these judgments. Judgments on motive And when we understand the problem in the Church of Corinth, and when we understand the individual heart problem, Then we will begin to be able to have a freedom from this judgmentalism that otherwise can be infectious in nature, Let's notice first of all the problem that's identified in 1 Corinthians chapter 3, verse 4. Now, this is not going to be a verse-by-verse exposition of these chapters. We don't have time for that. But I think I want to make some observations here that will be very, very helpful for us in pinpointing the heart problem of judgmentalism. And you'll notice in 1 Corinthians 3, verse 4, it says here, for one says, I am of Paul, and another, I am of Apollos. He says, Are you not carnal? Are you not fleshly? Now, in that verse, what is the common denominator between those two phrases? It's what word? It's the word I. The word I in the Greek is the word ego. It's where we get our word ego from So it's a it's a it's a you if you use the word if you're familiar with the word ego, that's that's directly from Greek. That's exactly where it comes from. And what Paul is saying here is that they are associating their ego, they're associating their I, their self. With a particular person. The problem in this that we see early on is the problem of self. Now the world has different ways of dealing with self. In fact, it's interesting that sociologists tend to agree that if there are problems in the world, the problem on one side or another has to do with this whole idea of ego. This whole idea of self. And Christians would agree with that too. I mean the problems that we deal with in our lives have to do with self. Can't we all agree on that? But the way that the world deals with this problem of self is very, very different than how God says to deal with this problem of self. Look at 1 Corinthians 3 verse 18. Paul warns them. He says, let no one deceive himself. If any among you seems to be wise in this age, let him become a fool that he may become wise. For the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God. For it is written, He catches the wise in their own craftiness. And again, the Lord knows the thoughts of the wise, that they are futile. Now you see embedded in this whole idea of worldly thinking that he says to them, don't be deceived by this, is another concept that intricately linked, and that is the concept, let's just put it plainly of pride. Of thinking that you are wise, of accumulating a certain kind of wisdom. And he warns them, don't do that. Be careful in this whole matter of self That you do not think of self in terms of worldly thinking. Now, how does this occur? It occurs one of two ways. Prior to the nineteen twenties or nineteen, uh I'm sorry, prior to the the twentieth century The traditional view that if there are problems in the world, they stem from too high a view of self. That if someone uh if someone causes a problem in society, that the problem is they have too high a view of themselves. And this was something that was a very traditional view for many, many, many, many years. Until the view changed. And they said, and and and somebody came up with the idea that, no, actually, the problem is not People have too inflated a view of themselves, the problem is that they don't have enough of a high view of self. We call this low self-esteem. You know that phrase And so, on the other hand, you have people that say, well, the problem with society is that we need to rehabilitate them because they have low self-esteem. That's the problem. They have low self-esteem. Well can I can I just tell you this? That both approaches to self are wrong. They're both worldly approaches. The problem, folks, is not that somebody thinks too high of themselves, and the problem is not that they think too low of themselves. That's not the problem. The problem is that they're not dealing with self in a biblical, gospel-centered way. And what we want to do is understand this. How does one deal with self in a biblical, gospel-centered way? In 1 Corinthians 4, verse 16, it will help us. He identifies the problem with self as one who is puffed up. Now some are puffed up as though I were not coming to you. The word puffed up is a perfect word, by the way, and some of you have other translations out there, and that's fine. The King James and the New King James both use the word puffed up. Others will use other trans uh other words like arrogant and those kinds of things. Folks, the word puffed up is a very good word. And I'll tell you why that's such an important way of such an important word. This word has the idea of to be inflated. It's the idea of being puffed up or inflated or swollen. It's similar to the word for bellow. And the idea here is that self, he says, some of you are puffed up, some of you are, he says, inflated The imagery is very descriptive. It's very vivid. It's the idea of an organ that has been so bloated with air. That it's been it's there there is pressure and there is problems with the organ because of it. And he says, this is some of you, this has happened to you. This has happened with your ego, if you will. This has happened with self. Now I am, folks, let me just pause and say this. I am not trying to be overly psycho psychological here. I'm trying, what I'm attempting to do here, in fact, if you know me, you'll know that I have real skepticism against any psychology. I'm not saying all psychology is wrong. I would not say that. And some of it is useful. But I'm skeptical. Because it comes from a very worldly philosophy. Now, with that in mind, then what we see here in this passage is this idea of self being puffed up or self being inflated. Now, what is it talking about? Let's take this and let's just make four observations about what what it means to have an inflated self. Number one This implies that self is empty. It's this air-filled organ. It's empty. That self intrinsically is empty. And there have been many that have observed, and I certainly would agree with this, that we are all born with our with ourselves being empty and needing, as it were, to be filled by God. We try to fill it with everything else, all kinds of other things. But the real problem is that we're not going to the real root of the problem, is we're not filling ourselves with God. And we're going to see more about what that means. a few moments. Number two, self is painful. The imagery here is of a distended or overinflated organ, and it often hurts. It is painful One person said this way, something is unbelievably wrong with it. It is always drawing attention to itself. It does so every single day. It is always making us think about how we look or how we are treated. People sometimes say their feelings are hurt. Our feelings can't be hurt. It is the ego that hurts My sense of self, my identity, my feelings are fine. It is my ego that hurts. Number three, self is busy. Self is busy. C. S. Lewis in his book, Mere Christianity, says this. Pride gets no pleasure out of having something, only out of having more of it than the next person. We say that people are proud of being rich or clever or good looking, but they are not. They are proud of being richer or cleverer or better looking than others If anyone else became equally rich or clever or good looking, there would be nothing to be proud about. Number four, self is fragile. Self is fragile. A inflated organ is something that is far more fragile. I hope I'm right we have a doctor here. I hope I'm right about this, Zach. Uh anyway. Oh good. He said I'm good. Okay, good. Okay. All right. You know when I get into legal terms I gotta care f I gotta be careful mechanics I'm I'm like okay, uh anyway. Um so good, I'm glad I'm on good foot. Self is fragile. Madonna says this. Now you probably never thought that Madonna would be quoted from the pulpit. She says this. My drive in life comes from fear of being mediocre. That is always pushing me. I push past one spell of it and discover myself as some as a special human being, but then I feel I am still mediocre and uninteresting unless I do something else Because even though I have become somebody, I still have to prove that I am somebody. My struggle has never ended, and I guess it never will. That's probably the last time I'll quote Madonna. We then see here folks verse 21. Would you notice in the passage it says we have this clear command, don't boast in men. So what does all of this have to do with judgmentalism and how how do we deal with this? I want you to notice, if you'll notice this passage, I'm hopefully you're you're sort of In their 1 Corinthians, and would you look over at 1 Corinthians chapter 4, and you're going to see here that the Apostle Paul says this, verse 16. For this reason, I have sent Timothy to you, who is my beloved and faithful son in the Lord Who will remind you of my ways in Christ as I teach everywhere in every church? Paul says in this passage, I want you to imitate me. We have a divine decree that the way to deal with self is to deal with it the same way that Paul dealt with it. And so what I want to do now is I want to give you three principles here that are going to help us with the remedy of the disease of judgment. Number one, we must think with the right pattern. In other words, folks, let me just put it this way. How do we deal with self in a gospel way? This is going to help us. We have to have the right pattern. We serve to please, not serve to determine value. Notice what it says in 1 Corinthians chapter 3. Verse uh twenty-one. Therefore let no one boast in men, for all things are yours, whether Paul or Apollos or Cephas or the world or life or death Or things present or things to come, all are yours, and you are what? Or whose? You are Christ's. And Christ is God's. Did you catch that, folks? The remedy. The way to deal with self correctly is to understand that if you know Christ as your Lord and Savior, you're in Christ. You're owned by him. He is, you are his, and your value does not come from your performance Your value does not come from your service and that there's this verdict, okay, you're valuable because of your service. We don't serve God for that reason. We serve God to please Him, not to gain a sense of value from Him. We already have that. The best illustration, because it's a biblical one, is a father toward His children. A right relationship that a father has toward his children is one of acceptance. The child does not have to perform in order to be accepted by the Father. The child is accepted by the Father and then wants to please the Father I hope that none of my kids ever think that I'm going to not accept them based upon their performance or accept them based upon it. No, they're my children. And they're my children, and I accept them because they're my children Do I want them to obey me? I certainly do. Do I want them to follow what I tell them to do? I certainly do. But I don't want them to do it in order to gain acceptance. I want them to do it in order to please me. And I want them ultimately to do it to please me so that they learn how to please God. Now, folks, it's the same with our relationship with the Lord. You and I must understand. That the pattern with which God wants us to serve is from the point of acceptance. We are accepted in the beloved because of the grace of God. And because of that grace, we then serve to please the one who has saved us. We just want to please him because he has given us all that he has given us. It is out of love for him, not trying to win his favor. Folks, if we don't have that right, we are going to have constant problems with self. Number two, we must have the right criteria. Would you notice what it says in 1 Corinthians chapter 4 Let a man so consider us as servants of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God. Moreover, it is required in stewards that a man be found faithful. is faithful stewardship. If you want to know what God's criteria, not to be accepted by Him, but to please Him, is simply to ask the question, Lord, Am I doing what you want me to do with what you have given me? Am I being a good steward with what you have given me? I'm not talking here merely about finances. And Reek preached a good message last week about being a really I mean it goes together, being a good stewardship with what God has given him. And yes, I did hear the message thanks to the online streaming. Folks, we need to be faithful stewards of what God gives us. That's his asking ourselves a question, okay, Lord, what have you provided? Okay, Lord, how can I be the best steward possible of my time and energy and resources? How can I be the best steward possible of what you have given me? Folks, that is the biblical criteria. And then finally, and and let me just pause and mention this. The real issue of why we tend to slide into judgmentalism. Is because we are so occupied with whether or not we are doing enough. And if I can just compare myself with somebody else, if I can just see I'm doing better than they are, then certainly I'm acceptable. If I can just, or the other possibility is I have I have what I feel is an intact sense of self, and I want to self-protect. So I'm going to judge everybody else and make sure that ever nobody else is going to deflate me because my self is intact and I'm self-protecting myself. Folks, both of those are a wrong view of self. What should we do? Number one, we must understand that we just need to live to please God, who's already accepted us. Number two, we need to follow in faithful stewardship. Lord, what have you given me and how can I be a good steward of what you've given me? Number three We must live in light of the fact that God is the ultimate judge. Would you notice what the text says in this passage? Verse 3, chapter 4. But with me, it is a very small thing that I judge, that I should be judged by you or by human court. In fact, I do not even judge myself. Verse 4. For I know nothing against myself, yet I am not justified by this, but he who justifies judges me is the Lord. Now what Paul is saying is this: He says, Everything in my life I know is going to be judged by the Lord. The Lord is ultimately the judge. And when we have that in right perspective, That he will judge the hidden things of the heart, for example, that it says in the following verse. When we understand that Then when others criticize us, then it's not going to be a big deal. In fact, it can even be something that we could see as helpful. Notice what he says here. He says, first of all, it's a minor thing to be judged by you. Now the word there, um It says it's a minor thing to be judged by you. That actually is the word diacreno. It says it's a minor thing to be examined by you. Why? Because I I've got this examination of God. I want to please him. I know that I'm going to stand before him one day. And so I it's it's minor that I am judged by you. Now he is not saying, I don't care if I'm judged by you. I don't care if you examine me. I don't care I'm That's not what he's saying here. This is not a self-righteous approach. He is simply saying that compared to God's examination of me, your examination is minor. That means that when somebody examines one of us and expresses their examination toward us and we have the right perspective, we can either take it as helpful. Or we can take it as not helpful. But we are not demoralized by it. Number two, he says this: the examination of self is minor compared to the judgment of God. And he then says this, that this is quite interesting. He says in verse verse 4, that the notion of self self-acquittal He says, I don't even judge myself. He says, I don't even claim to have the ability to judge myself correctly. And he says, by the way, that doesn't mean, and then he says, now, as far as I can tell, my conscience is fine, but I know not to that for that not to be self-deceiving either. So he says, even though my conscience is fine and I'm good, I don't want to at all say that I that that I'm deceived to think that I'm always right. Do you know what, if you want to sum all this, you know what the answer to all this, folks, is? He is not occupied with self at all You take a truly humble person. A truly humble person is not always putting themselves down. A truly humble person is not thinking of himself at all. The way to understand what Paul is saying here is to understand that we ought to not worry about whether our self is inflated or whether our self is deflated. We ought to be entirely all about Christ. That's why he can say, for example, in Galatians chapter 2, verse 20, I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ lives in me. The life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. Now folks, how does this all relate to judgmentalism? It relates in this way. There are essentially two reasons why we fall into judgmentalism. One reason is because we have an overinflated view of self. And because we have an over-inflated view of self, we are trying to make sure we or uh We are trying to maintain that. And as we maintain that view of self, then people are, we we have to sort of, in order to maintain it, we have to sort of compare ourselves with others and make sure that we're better than others. The other one is to we have a inflated or a deflated view of self and we need to inflate it, and so we're comparing ourselves with others and judging others and having a judgmental spirit so that we can inflate it. Either way, folks, the real problem here is self. So how do we conclude all this? Number one We've looked at a lot, right? There's a lot of information here, a lot of different things, but number one, let's just summarize it this way. We must resist the temptation to condemn a brother or sister in Christ. Folks, just don't do it. Do not condemn a brother or sister in Christ. Now that does not mean you don't have a discern. It doesn't mean that that if there's legitimate sin that that has doesn't be uh isn't dealt with But there is always that desire for restoration. There is always that desire that hope that people will turn. Folks that condemn people will end up cynical. Be careful about that. Number two, we must, however, learn to discern, to think, to question, to deliberate. But at the same time not pass judgment on people I'm talking about. In other words, we ought to discern matters and deliberate things and think through things and question things. And folks, it all ought to be sifted through the Word of God. And it's important for us to have that godly discernment. We ought not be the kind of person that's naive and just lets everything go and doesn't think about anything and I'm not going to judge and I'm not going to judge because If I judge, then I'm going to, you know, there's some people that that that, well, I'm not going to judge, and they're just naive. But number three And I think this will help us. The sin of judgmentalism should signal to us that there is a problem with self. In other words, folks, when you get into a place, and I and folks, we are all guilty of this. This is our flesh. When we get into a place where we are condemning of people, particularly of God's people. We are contemning of people. When you get into that place, we ought to take a step back and say, how am I dealing with this ego problem? How am I dealing with self? We must follow Paul's example. What's Paul's example? We're not to deal with, we're not to Factor in self at all. It all is to be about who Christ is and what he is doing in life. Not living for self, focused on self, worrying about self. It's all Christ. Now, that doesn't mean we don't have value. We find our value in Christ. We serve Christ. We live for Christ. We please Christ. Everything is for Christ. Let's pray together. Father, as we come to you this morning, we see your word and we see what it tells us about this issue of judgmentalism and disjustment. Sermon. And we understand that the gospel is the answer to this. But trying to deal with self apart from the gospel is going to be futile. But when we embrace Christ When we live for Christ, when we trust in Christ, when we live in light of who Christ is, we can say with the Apostle Paul, not I. I pray, Lord, that you would help us to identify judgmentalism in its early movements. That when we are tempted to identify a wrong motive in somebody else, or we are tempted to judge based upon a queer appearance, we're quick to judgment. I pray, Lord, that you would help us to realize that it is likely a problem. It is a problem with self. On the other hand, I pray, Lord, that you would help us to be very discerning. Help us to sift everything through your word. Help it to be the pillar and ground of truth in our lives. I pray, dear Father, that you would just give us a questioning heart in the right way, that we would continue to be aligned in your truth. May we not be condemning, but may we be discerning. I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.