Please take your Bibles and turn to the book of Acts this morning. Acts chapter one. We are I am really excited about uh this new series in a book of the Bible that is really full of of action. But it's really full of the sovereign work of God. As he set things up and began to orchestrate the apostles and they went out and spread the gospel and planted churches and did the work of the kingdom that Christ had called them to do. Let me ask you a question this morning. How many of you all are, you would say, I am, I am good with directions. Like I I am I'm I can get places pretty well. Not with your phone, like outs you know, not the GPS, the phone, you know. Like I am not directionally challenged. How many of you say I'm pretty good with that. I've got a good sense of direction, they call it. Why do you say I have a lousy sense of direction? I just really lo okay. You know, it's about I just want you to know I just scientific poll here, it's about fifty-fifty. Now maybe there's a reason for that. Anyway, um you guys can figure that out. Well in my family growing up, my dad had a very good sense of direction. And my mother did not. Um she had a b in fact a quite horrible sense of direction. Um she would in uh around here to get places, she would have to m she couldn't go with north, south, east, west, she'd have to memorize memorize when I'm with this This road at this time I would go toward Glen Burney or I would go toward Columbia or whatever it is that she was going toward and she would actually have to memorize where she was and where she went And I said, it's a lot easier if you just do it with you know north, south, east, west and you're here. And she said, I can't do it that way. She did have very good memory, so that worked out okay for her. Well, on different This is of course this is the days before you had phones and uh sm sm smartphones and GPSs. Some of you some of you all were not born before anyway. You don't know what it's like. There there was this foldable paper thing called a map. Okay? And how many of you all I'm curious, how many of you all still have maps in your car? Okay, four of you. No, actually there's more than I expected. Okay, there's probably about ten of you that still have maps in your car. Um well I remember going different places and I would do my grandparents it was the same way. I I went all the way down to they took us down to Disney World uh at one point too, my my sister and I. And um You know, if you're trying to go somewhere and you don't want to lose a lot of time, it's really good to have your navigator look at the map to show you where you're supposed to go. And um and I remember a couple of occasions, you know, either my grandmother or my mom and we're taking trips and she's looking at the map in the in the uh in the passenger seat And she takes the map and she she's reading it, she looks very confused, I remember particularly memory, and she turns the map the other direction You ever seen somebody do that before? They're like, well, we're going this way, we're going south, so I need to turn the door map upside down. You know, you really don't have to do that. But somebody who's a little directionally challenged, they may think that they have to turn the map all all the way around different different ways in order to try to figure out where uh where they're going And now today you just punch in the address and it'll take you where you want it to go and you don't have to do any of that. Everybody says, well, amen. Well the truth of the matter is, you know, sometimes we do that in our lives as Christians We we um we want God's map, if you will, his overall plan to fit our plan. And so we turn it around to fit what we want, rather than looking at the map the way it was intended and adjusting to it And there are a lot of times that as Christians we struggle with knowing how to live and what to do and what is our place in the world and where should we go and all of those things, and sometimes it is because We don't know where we are, we don't know where we've come from, and we don't know where we're going. It's like a map where you don't really know where you know remember back in the old days where you had to look at a map. How'd you figure out where you were Well you had to know where you were coming from, you had to know where you were going, and usually like if you're on a road, you're looking for exit numbers or you're looking for landmarks, something, so that you can pinpoint, and you know it is possible, young people, it's possible that you can know exactly where you are on one of those foldable maps, just by those kinds of things. But you know the reality is sometimes in our lives we don't take enough time to look at God's overall picture his overall plan. And so we have a hard time knowing where we fit And the book of Acts is going to help us. We're going to see, and we see even in this first chapter, chapter 1, we see that Jesus is giving instructions to the disciples for 40 days. To help them to understand his plan for the furtherance of his kingdom. And we note in that in this chapter as well that at the end of the passage we're looking at today, Christ is going to ascend. And there's an announcement from the disciple or from the angels, rather, that he is going to come back in the same manner as he ascended And so there are these two markers for us as Christians. The first coming of Christ, the death, resurrection of Christ, all of that and the ascension, and then the second coming of Christ. And we are in between the two. And for us to know God's overall plan for us, for his kingdom purposes We need to understand what God's plan is in between those two points, so that we can understand the church's role, for instance, our church, Bethel Baptist Church's role in between those two points. And our role as individuals in between those two points. Have you ever asked yourself the question, how do I know, how do I pinpoint whether or not I am in the center of God's will? Whether I'm really pleasing God and doing what God wants me to do with my life. The answer to that question really has to do first with understanding God's overall plan. So that we can pinpoint what God's plan is for us as individuals. And this book is going to help us do that. Even in this chapter, we're going to learn how to do that And before we do, let's go to the Lord in prayer and ask his help with this. Father, as we come to you this morning, I pray that you would help us to understand your plan As you have set forth really before the foundation of the world, and carried out your plan many times in ways that your people did not expect. Fulfilled prophecies in ways that you that your people were not expecting. And Lord, as we look at this crucial time where Christ spoke of the of the kingdom to the disciples for his forty days that he was here after he rose from the grave And the orders for the disciples as they would move forward and carry out what God had called them to do. I pray that you would give us wisdom to know how we fit into all of that. And that we would better understand our role as a believer, as a disciple of Christ, and our role as a Christian, and our role as a church. May you teach us these things. Lord, would you also show us yourself? Would you help us to see your sovereign hand over all of this? The amazing wisdom that you have in bringing all of this about. Lord, would you help us to understand these things so that we can stand in awe of your character, your working. And we can come into compliance with it as well. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, in order to understand the basic structure of this book, I just want to dip in and look at verse 8 of this chapter for just a few minutes. moments, you actually find it structured out in this verse that gives us sort of a general outline for the entire book. Chapter 1, verse 8 says, But ye shall receive power after that the Holy Ghost will come upon you. And ye shall be witnesses to me both in Jerusalem and in all Judea and in Samaria And under the uttermost part of the earth, and actually there is the way that it's structured in the Greek, Judea and Samaria actually go together in the same phrase And you actually find that this is broken down essentially this way in this chapter. Chapters 1 through 7, they are going to be witnesses in Jerusalem. In chapters 8 through 11, they're going to be witnesses in Judea and Samaria. And then in chapters 12 through 28, they, the disciples, are going to be witnesses to the ends of the earth. And that will help us to understand there is this these general movements in the book of Acts. But specifically we want to look today at this passage And begin to understand the overall purpose of the book of Acts. And it's interesting that when we look at this passage, we find that that's exactly what we see here. Reading this first 11 verses will tell us, at least by implication, the intention of the author Luke as he wrote this out. So let's look at the first three verses. Verse 1 says, The former treatise have I made, O Theophilus, of all that Jesus began both to do and to teach. Unto the day in which he was taken up, after that he through the Holy Ghost had given commandments unto the apostles whom he had chosen. To whom also he showed himself alive after his passion by many infallible proofs, being seen of them forty days and speaking of the things pertaining to the kingdom of God Luke begins by speaking directly to his original recipient, who was a man by the name of Theophilus. Luke also refers to his other writing that is absolutely associated with this writing. In fact, it's very likely that they were essentially two volumes of the same work. And that is the Gospel of Luke, who is also written to Theophilus. Theophilos was a man who was very well off. He had social respect and we see a lot of people suggest that he was probably Luke's sponsor To allow Luke, who was a physician by trade, to be able to have the time to write out these two great works, which were inspired by the Spirit of God, of course, the Gospel of Luke as well as this Acts, this uh the the Acts of the Apostles. It's interesting to note that I don't know if you know this or not, but Luke has writes more verses in his two two volumes. Than all of the verses that Paul wrote. Now Paul wrote more books, but Luke wrote more verses So in content, in total content, it's interesting to note that Luke wrote more. I don't know about words, I didn't get that detailed, but at least in verses. And so Luke is a very prolific writer. He's very detailed. And he's very precise in what he writes. Luke doesn't waste words. When Luke says something, he is very precise in how he says it and why he is saying what he is saying. And so that's the setting in which this book of Acts is written. And we see here, he says that the things that he wrote about are twofold, verse one. Both what Jesus began, and notice the word began, Luke began, the Gospel of Luke began to write about these things, and then Acts continues it But Luke begins both to do and to teach. And in if you just look through the book of Luke, you're going to find many Actions of Christ. But you're also going to find many teachings of Christ, many passages where Christ is going to teach through parables or through sermons or through some manner of that nature. And we're going to find the same thing in the book of Acts. The lot of the book of Acts is narrative, it is stories But there are plenty of places in the book of Acts that are teaching, and we find several sermons, several long sermons of the book of Acts. The Apostle Peter speaks the first sermon in the book of Acts, followed by Stephen, who preaches another sermon in the book of Acts. And so we see that this is a book that is going to have both Things that are done, actions, behavior, as well as teaching. But also, this actually alludes to a reality in our lives that we need to be cer a certain kind of Christian, not just in what we say But also what we do, and we're going to see this carried out as we continue in this book Christ did not just teach. Christ did. He lived the way he wanted to live that was consistent with what he taught. Folks, that's very important for us just by simple reminder for us to understand. We have got to learn that what we do needs to match what we say. A man by the name of Sir Henry Stanley went to see David Livingston, who was a African missionary of Central Africa. And he said this about David Livingston. If I and this was an unsaved man, this was not a man who knew the Lord. If I had been with him any longer, I would have been compelled to be a Christian And he never spoke to me about it at all. It's quite a compliment for for a Livingston and quite a quite a testimony for Livingston who lived out his faith, not just spoke. His faith and taught it. Verse 2 tells us, it says, unto the that day in which he was taken up, after that, after that he through the Holy Ghost had given commandments unto the apostles which he had chosen. These commandments that he gave during this forty days after his resurrection to the disciples were really orders. They were things that he wanted the disciples to carry out, things he wanted them to do. And it points out after that that through the Holy Ghost he did this. You're going to see the Spirit of God, the Holy Spirit, very prominent in this passage. as well as in the rest of the book of Acts, and we'll make further note about that later on as we go through the passage. And in verse 3 we see the content Of what he taught. First, it says he showed himself alive after his passion by many infallible proofs. Luke is going to point out that there were many witnesses, there are many, many clear proofs that he certainly did rise. From the grave. He was crucified. That was a proof in and of itself that he clear truly died the way that that happened. He was buried. He also met and ate and drank with the disciples And there were multiple appearances as a as recorded in 1 Corinthians 15 verses 5 through 8. And so you have this Many infallible proofs. Luke, this is the only time this phrase is used in the Bible, and Luke is saying it is unquestionable that Christ rose from the grave bodily. There is absolutely no question about it. But then he says this. Being seen of them forty days and speaking of the things pertaining to the kingdom of God. What was the content with which Christ spoke to these disciples? The content was about the kingdom. It's interesting that in the book of Acts you're going to see the kingdom of God, this phrase mentioned on several occasions. For example, in Acts 8, verse 12, it says the kingdom of God and in the name of Jesus Christ, that Philip preached these things to the people that were there in Samaria. Later on, if you just think in terms of just spacing, Acts chapter 15, it again says the apostles, the disciples are speaking, and it says, we must through many tribulations enter the kingdom of God. In Acts 19, verse 8, you see the same kind of thing that they are preaching and persuading concerning the things of the kingdom of God. And again in Acts chapter 20, verse 25, we have this preaching the kingdom of God. I'd like to take you to bot your Bibles and just flip over to the very last chapter of the book of Acts, Acts chapter 28, and I want you to see what he says. He mentions again in verse 23 of the kingdom of God, but the very final verses. of this book, we're going to see that the kingdom of God is mentioned again in the very back to the very final verse. Acts 28 verse 30 says, Then Paul dwelt two whole years in his own red house and received all who came to him. Verse thirty-one, preaching the kingdom of God and teaching the things which concern the Lord Jesus Christ with all confidence, no one forbidding him. Now what this does is it creates a literary device called an inclusio. It doesn't really matter what that means exactly, except to say that what Luke intentionally did was he began the very first part of his letter to Theophilus, this in the book of Acts. He began this with the kingdom and he ends with the kingdom. And the I and the point is simply this. The content of the Book of Acts is inseparably linked to God's work in the kingdom, the furtherance of the kingdom, the gospel of the kingdom And that is what they preached, that is what was lived out, and that is what was advanced Now the question then comes, what is the kingdom of God? We find this throughout, this word used throughout the book of The book of um uh all of the gospels, in fact. It is actually most prominent in the book of Luke out of all of the other gospels, Matthew being second. John doesn't mention it much at all So what is this kingdom of God? And I want to just suggest to you that the way that we understand it is to go back to the book of Luke and see And I I just want to say this that there are we can't cover everything in the book of Luke on the kingdom of God today by by any means. It is in nearly every chapter. If you just read through the book of Luke, you're going to find in nearly every chapter something about the kingdom of God. But I want to actually recover five aspects of the kingdom of God from the book of Luke. That I want us to be aware of. And you might want to write these down if you have the freedom to do that. I would encourage that. Because what we're going to see is the essence of the kingdom of God as Luke understands it. And then as we continue to progress through the book of Acts, we'll begin to see how God carries out what he says the kingdom is. And you'll see what I mean in a moment. Number one, God's kingdom includes an unfulfilled future reality. The very first time that the book that the word kingdom is used in the book of Luke Is in Luke chapter 1, verse 33, where it says, And he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and his kingdom there will be no end. Clearly, that is a reference to the kingdom of God, and the fact that Christ will rule and reign over the nation of Israel someday, directly mediating his kingdom And that will occur forever. But that is still yet to be fulfilled. There is this physical aspect of the kingdom that still needs to take place in God's prophetic calendar. The coming of Christ followed by the millennial reign of Christ. In Luke chapter 11, verse 2, it actually says as part of the Lord's Prayer When you pray, say, O Father in heaven, hallowed be your name, your kingdom come. That is actually a request for the kingdom of God to come. So that brings up a question. What is the kingdom? Let me ask you a question, and I have mentioned the kingdom many times before in various passages, various messages. What one word, when describing the kingdom, what one word would be helpful to use? Very good. I heard some of you say it. Rule. The word rule. When you think of the word kingdom, you ought to think immediately in its essence of the word rule. And no matter what it means, it means something about the rule of God. Obviously, when you think of a kingdom, you have a king and you have subjects, and the king is ruling over the subjects, and you have God's rule. So the kingdom of God and its Most basic and primary form is the rule of God. And sometimes in the Bible, the rule of God is a universal rule where it explains that God is kingdom, is ruler over all things. But there are specific uses of this word kingdom that Luke uses, and we see that God will physically mediate his kingdom. He will rule. Christ will rule someday. And Luke 21, 30 nine through thirty-one explains the same kind of thing, that there are certain events that will happen. And when those happen, you know that the second coming is close. And that is actually a reference to the things that are happening during the tribulation period. Number two, God's kingdom will advance through a narrow way. God's kingdom will advance through a narrow way. What I mean by that is that it is God's intention that the kingdom, his rule, will advance. I'm actually really very thankful for that, aren't you? That the Bible actually tells us that the intention of God is to advance his kingdom. In Luke chapter thirteen, verses eighteen through twenty-seven, we have a question. And the question is, what is the kingdom of God like? That's a good question, isn't it? Good place to turn to understand what the kingdom is. And what shall I compare it to? And Christ said to compare it to a mustard seed, which a man took and put in his garden, and it grew and became a large tree, and the birds of the air nested in its branches. He gives another illustration. What shall the kingdom be like? He says, It's like leaven, which the woman took and hid in three measures of meal till it was all leavened And he went through the cities and villages teaching and journeying through toward Jerusalem. Both of these illustrations that Christ gave as to what the kingdom of God is like Has to do with the fact that the kingdom is going to expand. God's intention, it may start with a mustard seed. Can we say a mustard seed of Christ and his twelve disciples? But it will eventually be a tree or leaven that starts with you ever made how many of you all like to make bread? Okay. Start with bread that's un uh you know dough, it's just this little little Thing of dough, and you put leaven in it, and you bake it, the whole thing expands. That's the idea here. Christ says that it will ex- that the kingdom will advance. It will expand. Who's going to expand God's kingdom? God's going to expand God's kingdom. Christ will expand his kingdom. And one of the questions that we ought to be asking ourselves as we go through this is how is God going to expand his kingdom? And we're going to find the answers to that in the book of Acts. We then find there's all kinds of things I can say, there's so many passages we can go to, we won't go to all of them And you're thankful for that, I'm sure. But um he says, for example, uh he gives an illustration of the kingdom of God He says a certain man gave a great supper. You remember that story? He gave a great supper, invited many, and many people had different excuses. I've got to go, um, I've got to go tend to a loved one, I've got to go get married, I've got to do all these different things, that excuses why they can't go to the supper. And Christ says, because they can't go in, he says, the master said to the servant, Go out into the highways and hedges and compel them to come in, that my house may be filled. Now what do you suppose he's talking about there? Jesus is foretelling the fact that the nation of Israel will not accept Christ as a whole That Christ will not be able to set up his kingdom on earth during his first coming. But that Christ is going to expand his reach To be on those people, and he will compel, he'll go into highways and byways and compel people to come in. But let us not also mention this as well. That although Christ will expand his kingdom, it will be through a minority of people, not a majority of people. The Bible is very clear about this, that it is a narrow way. It is not most people will go down a broad path that will lead to destruction So although the kingdom of God will expand, the kingdom of God will expand by a select few rather than a broad group of people. God says that this is a narrow way, and most will choose the broad way that leads to destruction rather than the narrow way that leads to life. Number three, God's kingdom is primary. His kingdom is primary. Luke 12, verse 31 says, but seek the kingdom of God, and these things shall be added to you. Luke 12, verse 32 says, Do not fear, little flock, for it is your father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. It is God's desire for you and I to pursue and to seek first the kingdom of God. God desires for this to be our primary pursuit, our focus, what we do, we want to see the furtherance of God's kingdom in our world. We want to be used for the furtherance of God's kingdom. And Christ clearly says this in several of the Gospels. In Matthew, he says, seek first the kingdom of God. In Luke, he says, seek the kingdom of God. And then number four, God's kingdom is not only external, but also internal. Now, this puts in a whole new dimension on the kingdom of God. What did we say the basics of the kingdom of God are? What is the essence of the kingdom of God? It is God's what? Okay, I heard three people. It is God's what? It's God's rule. And there is an external aspect to the kingdom and a future reality that has been unfulfilled yet, but there is this internal aspect to the kingdom of God. Where God desires for us to be ruled internally. Some Pharisees who were good on the outside but not on the inside came to Christ And they asked, when would the kingdom of God come? They asked Jesus this. And he answered them: the kingdom of God does not come with observation. Nor will they say, see here or see there. For indeed the kingdom of God is within you. There is this internal spiritual aspect to the kingdom. That God wants us to pay attention to now, even though the physical aspect of the kingdom has not yet come. Finally, we see that God's kingdom includes stewardship responsibility. God's kingdom includes stewardship responsibility. You all are probably familiar with the parable of the talents, where a master goes away, but before he does, he leaves people with a certain amount of money to invest. The same kind of parable is in Luke as well, Luke 19, 11 through 22. And the same kind of result happens there as well. Where those who are faithful with what God has given, or what the Master has given them, he says to the servants, Well done, good and faithful servant, because you were faithful in little I have I I have authority to g uh uh I will give you authority over ten cities. Now this gives us a little bit more of an indication than just well done that good for faithful servant. I'll give you I'll give you more um more than than what I gave you before, or reward. He actually says that the more that the that that when we are faithful with with the responsibilities that God gives us When we're faithful in small things, God gives us greater things. And there is a very clear, at least I think it's a clear indication of Scripture that our faithfulness in this life to what God gives us. Will determine our faithfulness, our responsibility, and what God gives us to be responsible for in the next life in His mediated kingdom. Does that mean that people we will all of course we will be ruling and reigning with Christ for a thousand years when Christ comes back? Does it mean that some people that are faithful in this life in the next life will have more responsibility than others and will have more authority given and more jurisdiction given in their leadership than others. That seems to be the indication And so there is this great motivation for us that we ought to be faithful with the provisions that God has given us So that God then can give us more in the future and reward us with greater responsibility to be used of Him in the future. Then we find Um there's actually a lot more things, but but if you keep those things in mind, you basically have a general idea of what Luke's idea of what the kingdom is. And all of these things we're going to see carried out in the Book of Acts. All these things are just statements. But we're going to put shoe lever to these statements. We're going to see specifically how this all works out in the book of Acts as we go along. Christ advance so Christ it is Christ's desire to advance his kingdom. That's what God Christ wants to do And he's going to do it through Holy Spirit-empowered witness. We see the word Holy Spirit used in this book. And we see the fact that he says, You shall be witnesses to me, both in Jerusalem and Judea and at the end of the earth. To really understand what Jesus is getting at in this passage, we need to understand something preliminarily. And that is that it was God's intention in the Old Testament for the nation of Israel To be a light to lighten the Gentiles. We find this in Isaiah 42, 6. It says, the Lord has called you righteousness, called you in righteousness. And will hold your hand and keep you and give you a covenant to his people as a light to the Gentiles. But you might want to write down this passage in Isaiah 49, 6. He says this Indeed, he says, It is too small a thing that you should be my servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob and to restore the and the preserved ones of Israel. I will also give you as a light to the Gentiles that you should be my salvation to the ends of the earth. Now where are we going to see that? We're going to see the same kind of phrasing in this book, in this chapter, where he says that you're going to go in Jerusalem and in Judea and in the uttermost parts of the of the earth to the ends of the earth. You see, it's interesting that the nation of Israel, they were supposed to be a light to lighten the Gentiles But they were not a very good light in the Old Testament in many cases. Christ, it says in Luke chapter 2, verse 32 is a light to bring revelation to the Gentiles and the glory of your people Israel. Christ is that light. He takes on the responsibility of the nation of Israel on his shoulders entirely as he comes And lives a perfect life and brings many people to himself and and uh and teaches many people. But Christ, when he's on this earth, doesn't go to the ends of the earth Christ doesn't expand the kingdom beyond that particular geographical region in Galatia or in Galilee and in and in Judea. So so why was why was what was going on there? What did Christ not fulfill what he said he was going to do? No, that's where the book of Acts comes in. And God, in his amazing wisdom, Christ is going to continue to be a light, to lighten the Gentiles. He's going to be a light that spreads out throughout the whole world, but it's going to be through a particular method. And that's what Christ is getting at when he explains what's happening to the disciples. Now what Christ then does is he says here And verse 4, and being assembled together with them, commanded them that they should not depart from Jerusalem, but wait for the promise of the Father, which saith he Ye have heard of me. For John truly baptized with water, but ye shall be baptized with the Holy Ghost not many days hence. He tells them that you need to wait in Jerusalem, disciples. You need to wait until you are going to be baptized with the Holy Spirit. Again, we see the Holy Spirit mentioned as an absolutely necessary role in the furtherance and the expansion of God's kingdom in this book of Acts. And he says specifically that these people are going to be baptized by the Holy Spirit. Now I want to say to you that there are many people that are greatly confused by this whole concept of the baptism of the Holy Spirit. How many have ever heard or read of books where this phrase is used, the baptism of the Holy Spirit Uh many of us at one time or another have heard this, and frankly, there are even been there has even been some good men and solid biblical teachers that of old that have really still not really understood this whole idea of baptism of the Holy Spirit. For example, A. W. Tozer, who was a very godly man, really didn't understand this. Didn't understand the difference between the the uh baptism of the Holy Spirit and the indwelling of the Holy Spirit and the sealing of the Holy Spirit and the filling of the Holy Sp And even men like uh David Martin Lloyd Jones, the same kind of thing where they really didn't understand how this this all worked together exactly And they would interchange these words, even though the Bible has very specific words for these different things. So what I want to do for because of the confusion is just ask the question, what is the baptism of the Holy Spirit? And I'll do this very quickly. Number one, it is not filling, sealing, or indwelling. But secondly, baptism of the Holy Spirit comes from From Luke chapter 3 verse 16, where John the Baptist says, I indeed baptize you with water. But one mightier than I is coming, whose sandal strap I am not worthy to loose, he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire. And so what who is the one that baptizes us with the Holy Spirit? The answer is Jesus Christ. He is the doer of the action. He is the one that does that. We then find in the book of Acts, chapter 1, verse 5, here, it says, with the Holy Spirit But the preposition therewith could also be translated in the Holy Spirit. And so we understand that the baptism, baptism by definition, means immerse. It's what the word baptism means. It means to immerse. And so what he's talking about here is the immersing of a person in the Holy Spirit. It's not a physical thing, it's a spiritual thing. But what really helps us to understand what the baptism of the Holy Spirit is, is 1 Corinthians 12, verse 13, where Paul says this. For by one spirit we were all baptized into one body, whether Jews or Greeks, whether slaves are free, and have all been made to drink into one spirit. So folks who are who is baptized in the Holy Spirit? The answer is all Christians Anyone who knows Christ as their Lord and Savior, as they accept Christ, are baptized, they are placed into the body of Christ. And so there shouldn't be confusion about this. Baptism of the Holy Spirit, from this passage, 1 Corinthians 12, it is very clear that all believers are placed into the body of Christ. And it's done by Christ, and it's done with or in the Holy Spirit. This is a summary statement, this is from a systematic theology Spirit baptism occurs when Jesus Christ, Lord of his church, from Pentecost on by the Spirit, places Christians into his body. The church at the moment a person puts faith in Christ as Savior and Lord. Now you may ask yourself the question, well, what happened on Pentecost? That was the baptism of the Holy Spirit. And what happened, there were tongues and all kinds of things going on there, and what happened later on in the book of Acts where it says that they were baptized by the Holy Spirit after they came to Christ? What about all that? Well that's why you've got to come back every Sunday. And you're going to learn more about that. But let me just essentially say to you that baptism of the Holy Spirit for us today is something that occurs when we come to Christ, when we are a believer in Christ. And we're baptized into the body of Christ. Now, what we then see is a response from the disciples in verse 6. They say When they therefore were come together, they asked him, saying, Lord, wilt thou at this time restore again the kingdom to Israel? And he said unto them, It is not for you to know the times or the seasons which the Father hath put in the uh uh in his own power. Can you imagine how exciting it would be To be with the resurrected Christ and to learn from him for 40 days. And he's telling you: this is going to happen, and this is going to happen, and this is how the kingdom is, and this is how I want to spread it. And all the we don't really know. Exactly what he said during those 40 times 40 days, except that it had to do something with the kingdom. But certainly it was an exciting thing, and the disciples desperately desired for Christ to rule over everything. And he desp they desperately desired that Christ would actually overthrow the Roman government and that they would rule as was prophesied in the Old Testament. He wanted them, they wanted him to do this. And they probably anticipated in Isaiah chapter 2 and Isaiah chapter 11, both of those passages talk about the fact that this was going to happen from Jerusalem. The Holy Spirit was going to be involved. And so the disciples began to put these things together. And they said, Oh, when we're baptized with the Holy Spirit, is that when you're finally going to set up your kingdom on earth? And what was Christ's response? Probably a little bit of a letdown. He says, it's not for you to know the time or the seasons. They fully expected this to happen sometime soon. But Christ said it is not for you to know. I want to make this application. He then says this, verse 8. But you shall receive power after that the Holy Ghost has come upon you. What he tells them immediately is what you need to be focused on is not when, but what Do you and I not do this in our lives as Christians? Do we not do this as people? Have you ever said to yourself, just think back actually to when you were a child? When would I learn to ride a bike? When will I go to school? When will I graduate from high school? When will I drive? When will I graduate from college? When will I get a job? When will I get a good job? When will I be promoted for my job? When will I uh get married? May I'm not doing chronic order obviously necessarily. When when will I retire? When will I die? No and no MNs on that. We're always looking when is this going to happen? When is this going to happen? When is this going to happen? We can live our whole lives wondering when is something going to happen. We're just like these disciples. And you know what God says? Don't focus on the when, focus on the what. Focus on what I have you to do. You know God is sovereign, he is providential, and he will bring about what he wants in his time. What God we get confused when we stop doing what God wants us to do, and we start asking the question, when? Keep doing what God wants you to do. And then God will bring about, He will show you what He wants you to do in His time and in His way. There is, this is such an important concept for us to understand and to grasp We need to it it is so important for us to just sometimes just to settle down and to say, Lord, it's just the next step is what I need. I've given this illustration before, and we're going to end on this illustration. I only finished half of my message. And you're gonna be glad I've been stopping here. You know, sometimes we want to know way ahead of what's gonna happen. And God only gives us the next step. This happens over and over again in our lives as Christians. And we still keep asking, are you not like this? I'm like this. I mean I'm just impatient I just want the next step. Like, Lord, I keep doing these next steps. When is it going to be the way? And God keeps saying, just do what I want you to do. Keep following me. Keep doing. And it will be what God wants it to be. And the truth of the matter is, it's like I I think it the sailing illustration is a great sailing, a great illustration It is very unusual for you to be able to get from point A to point B on a boat in a straight line on a sailboat. But one thing is true You will never get there if you don't go somewhere. Right? I mean you will never get there if you never put your sales up. You'll never get there if you don't move, if there's not movement of any kind. And what one thing is absolutely true in our lives as Christians We will never be where God wants us to be if we are not doing what God wants us to do. Now it's simple But how oftentimes do we contemplate the same thing in a different way? The disciples are wanting wanting to know when And God, Christ simply says, it is not for you to know. That is the sovereignty of Almighty God, the Father. He has the authority to know that. And what God wants us to do is to be content to live one step at a time. Maybe you're saying to yourself, you know, I I I I I get that way. Well, all of us do. God wants us to be singularly focused on being witnesses for Him, and we're going to learn more about what that means. I didn't plan on stopping here today. I want to learn more about what that means, to be a witness for Him. What God, I believe, will show us in the book of Acts is to learn how to stay focused on what He wants us to do. And we're going to see the focused apostles and the sovereign hand of God working as the apostles do what God wants them to do. And we're going to see the kingdom advance. Let me ask you a question this morning. Is that your desire? I mean honestly, that's really where it starts. Is your primary desire to see the advancement of the kingdom of God, to live for the furtherance of God's kingdom? We so often get caught up with living for our kingdom. We get caught up in doing making our way, doing our thing. Folks, God does not want us to build our kingdom. God wants us to build his kingdom. He wants us not to live for ourselves, he wants us to live for him. And part of what needs to happen is if we're going to glean all that God wants us to glean from this book of Acts It is going to begin with a desire to see God's kingdom advance, and a desire to be involved in the advancement of God's kingdom the way that He wants us to be involved. And I would just wonder if, just in your own heart, you would just say, you know, that is something I really need to get back to. I need to focus in on on living for the furtherance of God's kingdom rather than my own. When you and I do that We will then be able to be able to work out what is the will of God for our lives. And the book of Acts, I believe, will help us to do that. Will help our church in this way as well. Let's pray together Father, we come to you and we thank you for who you are. We thank you for your sovereign hand in this book. We thank you that you did do in your way carry out your plan and your wisdom. And I would imagine that there are folks here that are perhaps maybe are struggling with confusion of one kind or another with regard to your will. What do you want them to do? What is your plan for them? I pray, Lord, that we would focus on Number one, having the attitude and the desire to live for the furtherance of your kingdom, to seek first your kingdom and your righteousness. And all these things will then be added to us. Secondly, I pray, Lord, that you would help us. To stay focused on being witnesses for you the way you want us to. And we'll learn more about what that means in the future. But Father, may we may you and your spirit Which we desperately need. We didn't even talk about it that much. We desperately need your spirit to do what we cannot do for ourselves. To work the way you want us to work. to bring about a spiritual effect that otherwise would be empty action. And Lord, would you teach us as a church as we go through this Would you help us to understand your truth in this book so that we can continue to be on the right path when it comes to your building, your church, your way? And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.