Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety and now Pastor Sterling. Romans chapter ten, beginning at verse one, uh God's word reads as follows. Brethren, my heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel is that they may be saved. For I bear them witness that they have a zeal for God, but not according to knowledge For they, being ignorant of God's righteousness and seeking to establish their own righteousness, have not submitted to the righteousness of God. For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone who believes. For Moses writes about the righteousness which is of the law. The man who does those things shall live by them. But the righteousness of faith speaks in this way Do not say in your heart who will ascend into heaven, that is to bring Christ down from above, or Who will descend into the abyss, that is, to bring Christ up from the dead. But what does it say? The word is near you, in your mouth and in your heart, that is the word of faith which we preach. That if you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead. You will be saved. For with the heart one believes unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation. For the scripture says, Whoever believes on him will not be put to shame. For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek, for the same Lord over all is rich to all who call upon him. For whoever calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved. Would you pray with me? Father, we bless you and we thank you for the word. We thank you for the evening that we've had thus far and just the opportunity we have to come to the end of another year that you blessed us, you've carried us, you kept us, you protected us. God, you've been good to us. You fed us with manna from on high, week after week, day after day. You kept us, Lord, from the troubles of the world, and even when we strayed away, Lord, you still were there. We pause to say thank you, God And even on this evening, Lord, as we open up your word, it is my prayer that as I open up the scripture and preach this word of gospel truth tonight, that you would open up the eyes, ears, and understanding of those who are listening. If there's anybody who doesn't know you, Father, in the pardon of their sin, I pray that tonight will be the night before the clock strikes twelve, that they would say yes to you. And they would give their heart to you tonight. Spirit of the Living God, I pray that the body that is assembled here on this evening, those who are viewing by live stream, those who will view even at later times God, that they would hear your word and that the spirit in them would be drawn closer to you. Father, that you would renew broken fellowships, that you would cause Reconciliations to take place. But above all, God, I'm praying for the edification of your body. Let the saints of God be edified and your name be glorified. Lord, have your way. I just believe you have plans for this evening that are far beyond what we could even imagine. So have thine own way. And as I surrender to you tonight, God, use me. As a vessel in your hand to accomplish your holy and divine will now have your way, God, we surrender all to you. In Jesus' name Amen and amen. Well, here we are. We've made it. Amen. To the last day. Praise God of 2025. Amen, Jesus. I know that for a whole lot of us we really didn't think we was gonna make it, amen, especially after January twentieth, amen, but we made it Look at God, amen, through through all the crazy chaos that we've been through, amen. As a country, as a world, as individuals, in our families, amen. Not to mention stuff that's gone on in your families. Amen. I know I got a few people in the house tonight that says, God, thank you that I made it. Amen. Praise the name of the Lord. I think uh Minister Ryan said earlier I didn't kill nobody, I didn't slap nobody, I didn't cuss nobody out. Amen. I'm s I ain't get locked up, praise the Lord, all that stuff. God has been good. Amen. And we we ought to be thankful tonight that we've made it this far. Amen. And so this night, I'm sure, just like so many others, uh I mean this year literally 2025, like so many others, it's been full of of challenges and and struggle, uh, but at the same time there's been victories. Uh there's been celebrations. There's been miracles that God has performed. And I know we move through stuff so fast. We sometimes don't even take time just to enjoy the miracles that God has performed Amen. Some of you graduated this year, like myself. We made it through school and college and doing all that and got PhDs and MDs and DDs and all kind of letters after your name. And amen. That was a miracle. Amen. Praise the Lord. That God took you through and your children have been safe. Amen. God's just been keeping them and watching over them and just so many things the Lord has done. And so yes, that's definitely been a year that's full of challenge, but also full of celebration and full of victory. Uh straight out victory. And so Uh that that's kind of how every year kind of moves and flows. And even as we kind of now move on the accusp of a new year, uh we're right here on the occus of 2026. What typically happens, and I'm I don't believe t today is any different, is that we kind of approach the new year with this air of expectation and anxiety. It's like, okay, Lord, and and some of you are still, you know, you still write New Year resolutions, and some of you have given up on that. Because they never work. But some of you are very faithful, so you keep writing them anyway. So you're still losing ten pounds from fifty years ago. I'm gonna get it this year, Lord. I'm gonna do it, I'm gonna get it. Um so we got all kind of stuff like that that happens and as we kind of move forward toward the year We want the next year to be better. I've never met anybody who approached a new year that said, you know what, I want the next year to be worse than this one. Like this year was too good. I just want next year to be just worse. No, no, no. We always want it to be better. We always kind of look forward to this moving into the next season, the next year and we want it to be better. But the question I have that we have to answer is what am I willing to do different? That's going to impact 2026 to make it better. And especially as it relates to my relationship with God. You know, uh a lot of times we get to the end of the year and realize, you know what, I uh God, I was supposed to be in Bible study. I start off good, kind of like the gym. You know, we got that first couple weeks Then we got sore and we ain't never come back the whole rest of the time. The only thing about the gym is you paid dues there, you didn't even pay your tithes here and then you just Amen. I'm sorry, I'm not the comedian tonight, my bad. We we already had the comedian. So So we we go through all of this this challenge and we we want things to be different and we want it to be better. And yet we say, you know, I want my relationship with God. I want a better relationship with God. I want to get cl I want to get closer to God. I want to I want to worship more. I want to learn more about the Bible and scripture and things like that. All kinds of things like that. But if it's not happening That means I gotta do something different. I've got to change something in order to make that relationship with God better. And let me just give you a news flash It's not God. He's always there. It's us. The better is on us because God is waiting for us. To draw nearer to him that the relationship might might be closer, might be sweeter. But it's so it's really up to us. And God is saying, okay, what are you going to do I've done all the hard work. I've made all the provisions for you. And so if you want our relationship to improve, I'm waiting on you to come closer. And so the question I think that we have to ask ourselves if I really want a better relationship with God, I I have to be willing to do something different than I've been doing. Amen. And so I think the reality of life is, and not just of moving into the year, is that for some of you and next year will be just like last year And some of the challenges that you've had in previous years, you're going to have again because you're not doing anything different. Just here with me I know y'all came for this, you know, positive, everything's gonna be wonderful next year message, but that's not true. That's just in fact I'm always suspect when people get up and say that. Yeah, next year is always everything's gonna be no it's not. We you can this there's always gonna be death, there's always gonna be struggle, there's always gonna be challenges. We're always gonna have some of those things. So so I I don't want to paint this rosy picture like everything's gonna be perfect next year. He's gonna have some challenges next year because some of the challenges are gonna help you draw closer to God. Amen, somebody. Some of us prayed more in 2025 because we had more challenges. Amen Amen. Because you didn't know whether you were gonna have a job, because you didn't know who who was gonna get bombed or who was gonna get deported. Matter of fact, if you wasn't carrying your driver's license, birth certificate around, I don't care where you was born, you might have been a little suspect about where what was gonna happen to you. And so we were were laden with unexpectedness, and so we didn't know what to expect. What was gonna happen. And so I've got to position myself. Understanding all the challenges and stuff. I can't, you know, say it's all gonna be rosy and wonderful. It probably won't. There's gonna be some some trouble. It's gonna be some trouble. But it's okay. Because God is with you. God God's he's there. He's got you. So so don't don't panic. Um but we're gonna go through some things, but some of the things that we go through in 2026 that we went through in 2025 that we went through in 2024 that we went through in 2023 and 22 and 21 and 20 and 19 is Because we're not doing anything different It's because we're not willing to draw near to God. If you draw near to him, he'll draw near to you. So we've got to be willing to make that. That change. I'm gonna get you there. I need to talk through some stuff. I I'm trying to get us in the in the right m you know place so that I can un unload this text on you I hate to say it that way. I'm a preacher, really. I think I'm supposed to dump it on you. So we've got these these challenges, and and one of the challenges that I see for for us as a people as a nation, as as a culture, is that we have we've changed what it means to have a good relationship with God. Okay. I want to get close to God, but I'm gonna figure out my own way to do it. And so we we have become kind of a people who are not as interested. I'm trying to be careful with my words. Let me say we seem not as interested in knowing what God's way of getting closer to him is. But we've developed our own ways of getting closer to him. Um I've noticed something that I hear a lot now. I hear a lot of people talking about I'm spiritual. And y'all know me, I'm like, what? Like what does that mean I'm spiritual? So I mean, because I I mean theologically speaking, if you're not born again, you're you're spiritual, all right, but you're spiritually dead. Like you're dead. You're dead to God. You have no relationship. You have no divine connection to God if you are not born again. If you are born again, yes, you're spiritual, but it's not you, it's the spirit of Christ in you. And so we've come up with these terms and these phrases that make people, you know, like, oh, I'm I'm sp I'm a spirit I'm not I'm not a Christian, I'm not I'm not into the organized religion. But I'm but I'm spiritual. And so my question, yeah I'm kind of crazy sometimes. I when people say stuff like that to me, I'm like, well, is there any organization to your spirituality? And do you do do you do your spirituality on a regular basis? Because if you do it on a regular basis, that's called religion. And if there's any organization to it, that's organized religion. So you steal a part of organized religion. I'm preaching way better than y'all saying amen. See, it's crazy stuff that we say to convince ourselves that we're doing things right to get right with God. And we've abandoned God's provisions. Just seems like we don't really care about living a life that pleases God, but we're more concerned about living a life that pleases us. So here's what I want to do. Um in in light of this, this is where God has brought me, in light of my observations of what's happening around us and what we're dealing with. in our spiritual life and in our culture and our community and in our world, because we've moved so far away from the desire to please God. I think it's it's time for us to focus in on, and I want to use for a theme next year, pursuing righteous living. I want to use that as a theme. Pursuing righteous living. Um because I think we've drifted away from matter of fact, even as I'm saying I I just kind of get a sense some people don't even know what that really means Um because we've drifted away from the pursuit of living righteously. And so I'm gonna try to I'm gonna try to, you know, really Break it down as we keep going through these parts to make sure we understand it. So I want to use this passage in Romans chapter 10. to begin things tonight and talk to you from the idea begin by becoming righteous. Y'all still here? So you can't pursue living righteous until you become righteous. See, and this is this is part of the problem that's happening right now. So there are people that are attempting to live air quotes righteous, but they've never become righteous. And here I am preaching to a congregation of people that I've been pastoring for 25 years, and my guess is that some of you may not really know what righteousness means. What do you mean, Pastor, like become righteous? I'm glad you have the question. I'm gonna share with you tonight. Because righteousness means to be right with God. Y'all still here? It means to have a right relationship with God. That's what righteousness means. It means to be plum To be straight, to be in line with the principles and the character and the essence of the Spirit of God. It means to not waver or vary from what God has. As a desire for us to be in relationship with Him. That's what righteousness is. It is to be right with God, simply put. And to live righteously, it involves having an integrity to the righteousness. God and walking it out or living it out or performing it or acting in the righteous integrity that I have with God Y'all still hear? Let me let me fix it another way. If you're gonna live in a good marriage, you first have to be married. Now there are some people who are pretending to be married and they think we got a good thing. No, you don't, because you ain't married. There's that. And so but in but but so first I've got to be married, but in order for me, watch this, in order for me to live out a good marriage. I first have to be married, but I also, in order for it to be good, I have to live in the integrity of what marriage requires. I can't pursue a good marriage if I've thrown out all the rules and the priorities and the principles of what it means to be married. So I in other words like I can't say I'm I'm gonna I'm gonna pursue a great marriage but I'm still gonna be cheating I'm still gonna lie I'm still gonna treat you like a dog. That no, I the two don't match. You can't do the both. I can't pursue living righteous or righteous living if I've never become righteous myself. So true righteousness comes from faith in Christ through the grace of God that was imparted to us. And I'm going to get deeper in that in a little bit. As I look at this text in Romans chapter 10, what we find Paul here uh Initially doing, we find what I call the initial prayer for Israel's righteousness. The initial prayer for Israel's righteousness. Listen, listen to what Paul says. Paul says, Brethren, my heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel is that they may be saved. Now, can I help y'all with something? For a whole lot of us, our righteousness started with somebody praying that we get saved. Watch this. Not only did it start with somebody praying that we got saved, it started with someone desiring us to be saved. You know there's some people that prayed for you before before you knew who they were? Or maybe even you might not even know them now. But there's people who prayed for your salvation. Here's Paul praying for all the children of Israel that they be saved. They don't all know him, but he's praying for them. And I would say part of for us, if part of our living or pursuing righteous living should include praying for unsaved people. That might be something that you could incorporate on your list for 2026. Let me start praying for unsaved people. And guess what? And it doesn't have to be the people that you know. It doesn't have to be for the people in your neighborhood. It doesn't have to be the people on your job. Now, even though you should pray for all those people and the people in your house, you should pray for all of them as well. But there's some people that you may not know Who may not have access to the internet and all the accesses that we have to to the Bible and to sermons and to and to online videos and all that. They might not have all the access. We ought to be praying that that they get saved. Y'all stay here? It's something we can do on a regular basis. We can pray for the unsaved on a regular basis. Paul here in the text, he prays And everything begins here. He prays that all of Israel would get saved. When Paul says uh here in the text, he says, Uh my heart's desire, my prayer is for Israel that they may be saved. Watch this This word saved means to be in right relationship with God. Paul says, I'm praying that all of Israel becomes righteous. I'm praying that all of Israel that they're saved from the judgment that's coming. I'm praying that all of Israel gets in right relationship with God so that when the judgment comes, they will be right with God. So that when God begins to separate the The wheat from the tares, that Israel will be right with God. So that when fire starts to fall, that Israel will be right with God. I'm praying, Paul says And my desire for them is that they get right with God. Now, it sounds like a bizarre prayer. Especially since Israel is the keeper, have been the keepers of the law. They've been the apple of God's eye. They've been the attention of God's all conversation throughout the Old Testament. All you hear about is Israel. God's going through all these ins and outs and ups and downs of Israel. So why why would we pray that they are would be righteous, that they would be right with God? And the reason is because they're not Paul has come to the reality that Israel is lost. Y'all still here? Now, I'm gonna put a few digs in here because here's the thing. I'm going to encourage you, never make the assumption that everybody in church is saved. Okay, can I tell you how can I say that? Don't make that assumption. Don't make the assumption that everybody who comes to church is saved. Don't even make the assumption that everybody who serves in church is saved. Don't make the assumption that everybody who preaches from the pulpit is saved. Amen, somebody. I I have seen and I've noticed some sense scenarios where where churches have brought pastors in, they never ever asked them were they born again. You know what they do? They look at their degrees. They look at the education. Do you know you can get an education without ever being born again? And they bring them in. They've got an unsaved pastor preaching out of the pulpit who has never come into a personal relationship with Jesus. We should never make those assumptions. Paul doesn't make the assumption because God has had this long ongoing relationship, this long, long ongoing wooing of Israel that they are not lost. He knows it by now. He now he knows after the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ, after him coming into this personal relationship with the Lord, he now knows that Israel is lost and he says, I'm praying. For them. He's praying for their salvation. He's praying that they will come right with God. And the reason why he knows even the more so because Israel is leaning on the law. They're leaning heavily on the law. They're declaring their righteousness by the law that has no benefit to them. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website Facebook and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org. Or contact our church office at 301-627-9500. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church. church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent forty plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing You, their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-built conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Degree of Andy Podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts.