We could begin our reading of verse number one. And so what was happening here in the text is that Elijah has performed several miracles, and his popularity as a prophet has grown, and he has drawn and attracted So, in other words, don't just be generically asking for the stuff. Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Would you pray with me this morning? And into the light of your marvelous grace. And it seems such a a trite thing that I mean somebody loses a axe head in the water. of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. And he took it. He sits down with the voices behind the song. At your podcasts. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And so he cut off a stick, threw it in there, he made the iron float. Voices behind the song. An iron axe head fell into the water. God, that they would bring awesome glory and honor and praise to your most precious name. Declare your word. Said and done, it'll be not only enough for everybody, but there's gonna be some left over. Well, first and foremost, as we look into this text, I want to show you and I want to identify that miracles, first and foremost But a deeper look into this text will teach us some lessons that we can learn about God, and more specifically, we can learn about miracles. for all of them to live in and so therefore uh they finally uh uh muster up the courage if you will to come to elisha and say to elisha elisha what is Watch this. Flashes that's cool. The the in other words, if I can say it they w this way, that we need a building program here. And you know that we can uh put decorative things in and and so we can have an office set on the side and and and so that we can put uh build bigger closets for all of our stuff that we have. And no, no, it's not so we can have uh uh not more than we I know one car garage would have been okay, Elisha, but we need a three-car garage. Are at a place where they have a need and they have an idea as to how that need might be met. And Elisha says, I will go. They're cutting down the trees, and they need this to support the work of God and the will of God so that the prophets who are in training can have a space Who he'll enlarge your territory such that where you are just ain't enough to hold you anymore. That's what's happening literally in the text. This is my version. He loses it in the water, and therefore there is a need to have help from the man of God. That he does not have Lord Jesus, and he's trying to serve the Lord, and so it's going to cause him to have to come up with some resources that he does not have in order to pay back someone he borrowed the iron axe head from. And to be able to return to the person he has borrowed an iron axe head from, God sees fit, watch this, to perform a miracle on his behalf This answered my question. But we're not trying to get all the iron out of the Jordan River. And so he goes and gets Elijah. He doesn't just do random stuff. Axe head floats. Is going to cause the iron axe head to float. Be specific about what you need. In general. If you want God to perform a miracle and you want folk to pray for something to change in your life, it might be helpful for you to be specific about what it is you need. And so the man of God was able to go right there, throw the stick in right there, and the iron axe head floated up from right there. But miracles are performed to accomplish the work and the will of God, and they are performed specifically to the targeted need. Please visit our website at kettering ministries. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Where we may dwell. clear clarity of articulation, Lord, that everything that is done might honor you and bless you. Want to give you the definitions that I've dug up on miracles and miracles are defined, if you will, as surprising uh welcomed events that is not explicable by natural or scientific laws, therefore considered the work of God. I need a miracle in my life right now. Elijah instructs the sons of the prophet, go ahead and serve the food which we have, even though it doesn't look like it's going to be enough. Text again, we find Elijah once again performing a miracle on behalf of the prophets of God. Happen to support the will and the work of God. Some poor and humble students to be disciple by him. The interesting thing is that as you look at them, as you walk and watch through the text, you actually will discover that they're very humble in their approaches and they're they're okay with hanging out and living in humble means this this this house we we we you know we're not complaining or anything but but this house is is just too small and and so uh they have uh a resolution for the problem To say talk to some people who are live really living in poverty and ask them, has not the Lord made a way somehow? I know we've risen up to the point of being middle class and sophisticated now, but there was a time that we were in poverty and didn't even know we were in poverty because the Lord was still providing for us. Day by day, hour by hour, and moment by moment. and and and cut down some trees and we're gonna build a bigger place there so it'll be more suitable for us as as the the your the assembly of the numbers of the sons of prophets and and and and our dwelling the numbers have grown and and we need more space and so uh Stay here with me. and enough space to live in and to abide in because the number is growing. And the iron fell into the water, and he cried out and said, Alas, master, for it was borrowed. Here he is doing the will of God and the work of God. What's the big deal? For the purpose of building this house that is large enough to hold all the sons of the prophets and Elijah This iron axe head, first of all, it would have put this poor son of the prophet who already didn't have any money It would have put him further in debt. And secondly, the fact that this iron axe head has flown off the handle, it also means that the watch this it's going to slow down the process Stay here with me. Here we have a need for a miracle so that the work and the will of God can be continued. Kind of similar to when Jesus went to the tomb of Lazarus. in his miracle calling then all the dead that were in the grave would have come forth when God performs a miracle he's specific now understanding that helps me also how to petition God for what I need in the form of a miracle stick now watch this this this whole process of cutting a stick and throwing it in the water has has literally no logical uh connection to the fact that this iron And so he cut off a stick and he threw it in there. Tell me where it hurts. God. If you could do it, it wouldn't be a miracle. So he tells this son of the prophet, go pick it up for yourself. The son of the prophet could not raise the iron axe head up out of the Jordan River. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. I will go. Please let us go to the Jordan and let every man take a beam from there and let us make there a place Look forward this morning to your word that you might speak into our hearts, that you might say what you desire to say. Pray God that you would draw them to renew the broken fellowship, that you would restore a love they once had with you. Glorify yourself in this moment and in this preaching hour, God speak to your people as only you can. in it. improbable and extraordinary developments or accomplishments bringing welcome consequences. And in some cases, we may be standing in some dire or desperate situation, and we may even declare this morning as we're watching and listening and worshiping that God in line with all the others that he had thus far performed, saving the prophets and their families from physical want and financial disaster. the prophets in training. Particular miracle even recorded in Scripture. Uh please let us go to the Jordan and let every man take a beam from there, and let us make there a place where we may dwell. Sons of the prophet are poor and humble. The provisions of God. uh sons of the prophets poverty um they they they they have a a desire to have a more suitable place uh to to to dwell in. Flies into the water and apparently he cannot find it. But to help you understand this son of a prophet, he pleads with Elisha because the axe head is made of iron. Son of God, who is a son of the prophet, who is learning how to be a prophet, in order for him to remain out of debt Of the work of God, which is the will of God. But as I kept digging into this text, when I got to verse 6, it says, So the man of God says, Where did it fall? So he cut off a sticker and threw it in there and made the iron float. They specifically target the need. Watch this. Where the iron axe head fell in. And when he threw it there, specific to where the knee was, then the iron axe head floated to the top. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship Services, Sundays at 10 a. God performs a miracle and raises an iron axe head up out the middle of a flowing Jordan River. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlboro, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. On this morning, Ketteran, if you have your Bibles with you and you should, we want to invite your attention to 2 Kings chapter 6. The miracles that we oftentimes read of in Scripture seem so far away, but yet I want to declare to you this morning that miracles are ever present around us. By this time, as you follow his ministry, he has multiplied the oil for the widow who's About to die, he has cured the stew that was bitter and was declared by the sons of the prophet to have death And so uh the fact that Elisha tells them uh go and he agrees with them and and says to them go, and not only does Elisha say go, but another uh son of the prophet comes back and says, Well, will you go with us? In order to provide for the program, the program of building a new place for them to dwell in, this iron axe head flies off the handle Servant, where did the axe head fall? Exactly, point out where the iron axe had fell when Elisha got ready to throw in the stick to raise up the iron. Help me God. Pick it up in verse 7, the final verse here that we looked at this morning, it says, Therefore he said, pick it up for yourself. Well uh Ketter and family, I I want to this morning begin uh to preach a series of messages uh entitled Miracles. I must confess that as the Lord had led me to this particular passage, I myself initially even wondered, why was this Until it gets to the place where the place where they are living, which is Elisha's little humble house, uh it's just not enough space, it's not enough room As they're in the process cutting down trees, doing the work of God, which is the will of God, but one, as one was cutting down a tree, the iron axe head fell into the water. And in this particular period of time, iron was a very expensive product. He borrowed it in order to do the work and the will of God. Come forth. Where did the iron axe head fall? everybody doing everything for us. six two seven nine five zero zero please join us again as senior pastor Well, if I pray for you in general, you get general stuff happening. Because when God performs miracles, he performs them very specifically to the targeted need. You know, a lot of things we want as miracles that have nothing to do with the will and the work of God. for human reception. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. He has additionally fed a hundred that they did not think were it was possible and miraculously Now, but keep in mind, just because it's your need doesn't make it a miracle-performing opportunity, because it also needs to support the will and the work of God. This is why I say the miracles come along to support the work and the will of God. When the son of the prophet shows him exactly where it is, Elisha goes there to that place. The final point I want to make this morning as it relates to miracles: not only do they support the will and the work of God and are specifically targeted to the need, but thirdly, they supply opportunities. I praying, God, that you'll speak through me, Lord. And so he went with them, and when they came to the Jordan, they cut down trees. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Elijah, I need your help, man. Now I'm I know that there's scientific scientifically we want to be able to explain everything, but I did tell you that miracles are inexplicable through scientific law. Why not? When you need a miracle from God, it's helpful to be specific about what you need. So he answered, Go. Father in heaven, we bless you and thank you for your amazing grace. And as it is the will of God, and they begin to do the work of God, they get there and they're they're cutting down the trees. Uh but this is the interesting thing to me as I look into this text as I was walking uh meticulously through, what I discovered here is though these So on this morning, as I delve into this text, I want to talk to you from the subject matter, the axe head miracle. Why even perform a miracle here? Tell us where the need is so we can target it. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. He said, Lazarus, come forth. Elijah's like, okay, well, what do you want me to do? Poverty does not prevent the provisions of God from coming forward. Now, a lot of times folks say, Well, wait a minute, Pastor, you can't you can't say that. Now now now when they ask the question of Elijah and they say Elijah, you know this place is too small. God's word reads as follows. There is a specificity about the miracles that God performed. But watch this. Lord, help us here. And so he's expanding their place and and he's allowing them to go forward to build this uh this next place. So God does the part that you can do, and He affords you an opportunity to receive what He's just done. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. And he cried out and said, Alas Master, for it was borrowed. Father, I'm praying that you would turn someone around from their pursuit of sin and living unrighteously before you. Why not just let the axe head be in the water? Elisha's response helps us to understand that this project that they're on, this watch this, this building program that they're in the midst of, this is the will of God. But what what is a critical to this point that I'm making here that miracles are specifically targeted to the need is that he takes the stick and throws it in The text says, so the man of God said, Where did it fall? And then one said, Please consent to go with your servants. It would have indebted him into whomever he had borrowed it from. Elisha says to him, pick it up for yourself. We're only trying to retrieve the axe head that went in, that came off this borrowed axe that this servant of the Lord has a need of Be specific about what it is you need God to perform the miracle for. Sometimes you ask people for prayer requests, and people are going through stuff. Watch this. I'm praying that you would use me. Well, as I delve into this particular text this morning, we find that this miracle of Elisha is Because the the axe head that I had has fallen into the water. Now notice what Elisha does in the text. The miracle of the resurrection of Lazarus was specific. Stay here with me. Why perform a miracle to retrieve an axe head? I'm trying to help somebody this morning to understand that the Lord will and can provide even in the midst of our poverty and in the midst of these Well, at least tell me where it is. Well, in the text what God shows us about himself is that he'll do what you cannot do. And the sons of the prophet said to Elisha, See now the place where we dwell with you is too small for us. But if so help me, God, if we can target the issue, tell me where it is Now, this teaches us something else about miracles. I mean, they've got no means. In fact, I'll be honest with you, I even thought, why was it even necessary for this to be performed as a miracle in the first place It's into the Jordan River and he can't find it. And Elisha has agreed, and Elijah has gone with them, and everything is going well. Now they're working along the edges or around the Jordan River and this guy has his axe head fly off into the river. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. I'm praying that you would give my mind clarity of thought, my lips. So here it says, you know, the sons of the prophet say to Elijah, This place that we're living with you is too small. And the number of disciples of this prophet Elisha is growing in number. Tell the man of God where did it go in? That's a great question. And so, in order for watch this, the work of God to continue and the will of God to be fulfilled, and this Y'all see that in the text? Praise the Lord. I mean, you know, move on. That sometimes what God will do is he'll Stay here with me. They've got they've got no money. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome So Lord, now I surrender all into your hand. Because if Jesus had just said, come forth and been generic. Father, we need you on today, even as we stand and Elisha, he says to his One, he didn't know where it was. We thank you for being a kind and gracious God. They are an extraordinary event or manifesting divine intervention into human affairs And so Elijah, uh, he needs to know specifically where it is because when God performs miracles, Therefore he said, Pick it up for yourself. And just as Elijah declared it, it came to pass that that miracle was performed. We want miracles performed for our own will and for our own selfish ambitions. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web And so God needs to know through Elijah, if I can say it this way, where did the iron axe head fall? That's a great question. And as you keep on doing the work of God and the will of God, he'll make a way for you to expand And he showed him the place You have been listening to the Radio Broadcast Ministry. org or contact our church office at 301 And I know you can't tell everybody everything, but If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Not only are do miracles come to support the work and the will of God, but miracles So the man of God said, Where did it fall? In Jesus' precious and wonderful name I pray. We we we got a plan. It's because it was necessary to support the work and the will of God. But as one was cutting down a tree And in the process of doing the work and the will of God in cutting down trees. Elijah says And he answered They're not wealthy and and running over. He threw it in right there where the iron axe head fell in. I mean, it's gone. That Lord, you might raise someone this day from the deadness of sin. And why are you running to Elijah? So now he's got to come up with some resources He cuts the See, some of the reasons why not that God doesn't know, but but but but you and I need to learn when you need something from the Lord. And Elisha uh agrees with them and he says, Go And he goes into a panic and he runs to Elisha, the prophet himself, and tells Elijah He didn't know where to go get it from. Spirit of the Lord, I'm praying that in all that I stand and say and all that comes through these lips of clay. Jesus went to the tomb, he didn't just say So stop being so generic, stop being so protective. And so this iron head, watch this, it is very expensive, and it doesn't belong to this son of the prophet. As you listen to that story play itself out, you might be thinking, well, wait a minute, hold on. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. Where did it fall? Let me say that again. God does, listen, God does the part that you can't do. We can can we go down to the Jordan and No, they don't have that kind of mentality. And he reached out his hand I like that. Wait for it to wash ashore or you you just lost it. So they need some trees. Because losing this In this case, they are the disciples, they are the sons of the prophets. Lord have mercy Now I know that sometimes we're looking for miracles not for the work or will of God, but for our own purposes. Where is it? Lord have mercy. He just knew the general area that it was in, and he couldn't get it up. So he reached out his hand and took it. You serve the food, and when it's m. Why don't you do something about it? And the son of the prophet said it went in right here Y'all got to hear this this morning And he showed him the place And so verse verse 5 says, and as they were cutting down trees, Now he's bringing you their stories. And now, Pastor Sterling Poverty does not prevent at the Legacy Center. And so when you need a miracle, Lord Jesus I'm not sure what it is, but so often we become accustomed to Now just to give us uh some clarity uh Every piece of iron in the Jordan River would have rose to the top. And he showed him the place. And so We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together The One Degree of Andy podcast. Amen and amen Where did it fall in? So there's no scientific law why him throwing a stick in And So he answered, Go Now he's bringing you their stories. They literally And all of a sudden, while he's cutting down trees, I mean, like, what's going on here If you need a miracle from God, be specific about what it is you need. The One Degree of Andy podcast. I'm Andy Christman. Miracles are highly I mean, it just seems such an insignificant thing I mean, just just just pray for me Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. God does what he couldn't do. What is the need? So now here in this I'm Andy Christman in his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. That's what makes it a miracle. Why Because if he didn't Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get. Stay here.