Uh were we all guilty of sin, but we deserve death, and as a result of that, uh God, through his son, provided for us eternal life. And finally, we know for clarity that as a result of our justification, we also have hope. I thought you said we were having all this joyous time. That perseverance creating fear and anxiety, that perseverance, or rather that that that that tribulation is producing patience and character and hope. Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Uh there Paul makes clear that there are as a result of the our justification, that is our being declared forensically clean before God We've got peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we also have access by faith into his grace, which we stand. of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Voices behind the song. Be in the midst. To that one that's struggling this morning, who's disenfranchised, who's disconnected, who've walked away from the fellowship, God, who are out of fellowship with you. um methodical uh exposition of how it is one might come from sin to salvation. So even though the wages of sin were death, the gift of God came to us in the form of eternal life. As a result of that, we inherited, if you will, at least three benefits. How do you uh speak into their lives uh uh as a means to encourage those who are traveling through life and dealing with Well, I've turned to this particular passage. The judicial system has utilized fingerprints prior to DNA becoming so popular. Fingers, but no two people, not even uh identical twins, have uh the same fingerprints. And I'd say it's possible because his fingerprints are on it. He might do something in the midst of my problem and and then watch this. flesh we can still glory in our tribulations when we look like Paul looked and find out that his grace is still sufficient through a week and when you look back over the week you see the fingerprints of God's grace on your life and his grace was sufficient It was sufficient grace that showed up, but it was awful perfect strength that showed up because I didn't have any strength, and I know it wasn't me that made it through. That got me up that next day because I didn't have strength. in the strength that was given to me even when I was weak. Walking with me through the fire, I realize it's God's fingerprints that I'm gonna come out with on me and not the smoke from the fire. Hope. See, the unbeliever looks at you and looks at me and looks at the believer and says, How can you have hope when things are going so wrong? Oh Jesus, as I look at the the matter, as I evaluate the circumstance, I see that my hope is based on the fingerprints of God being in it Now, hope does not disappoint. And I know for some folks you're praying for loved ones and you're praying for friends to finally get it together, and you're praying that they might finally come to Christ. Die, yep, perhaps with good man someone might even dare to die, but God demonstrated his own love for us And when we, according to Romans 6:23, all of us deserve to die because the wages, the payment for our sin was death. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. If you have your Bibles with you on this morning and you should, I want to invite your attention to Romans chapter 5. Through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we also have access by faith into this grace in which we stand, and rejoice in hope of the glory of God. Dare to die. Much more than having now been justified by his blood, we shall be saved from the wrath through him. shall be. God to renew the broken fellowship. Keep my mind, allow me to think clearly, allow me to speak clearly. Um it it it gives us a clear pathway, if you will, so that we might know without a shadow of a doubt that we all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. uh by our works, but rather by the gift uh that God provides through his son. with God relationship. And so those three things are very clear in the text, and we've looked at those and so but in light of all of these benefits that we possess, in light of all of this uh uh uh graciousness that God uh pours upon the redeemed uh life's pain and struggle and sufferings and shame and turmoils and uncertainties and anxieties and tribulations. And the the message I want to uh I want to entitle this message this morning, uh The Fingerprints of God are on it. sanctified, justified person of God, I would say to them and I would remind them that the fingerprints of God are all on it Not only to identify the perpetrators of crime, but they've also utilized fingerprints to identify whether or not the presence of someone had ever been on the scene. Uh fingerprinting as much as it is uh uh unique to each and every individual, I also discovered that when they do the fingerprinting process, the the latent fingerprintess, they would actually do fingerprints, but if they do only one fingerprint, it's only 98. And so, what I want to say to you this morning is that when we look at our situations and our circumstances, as we walk through this life as justified, born-again, sanctified children of the living God, I want you to know that God's fingerprints are all on it. One who could speak clearly to this matter. thorn from me. given us enough to make it through another day. Efficient for you, and you know it wasn't because of you, but you know it was because of the grace of God that you made it through another week. It was God. Gave me enough strength to get up for another day. We we go through all kinds of tribulations, we go all kinds of struggles and and we look back and and and I need us to understand that the fingers prints of God are on our tribulation for even when we're thrown into the fiery furnace of life and and and we're we feel like we're gonna burn up because the fire has been turned up hotter, seven times hotter than it's supposed to be. Bitter and to cause you to become fearful and to cause you to become afraid and filled with anxiety. Us who are children of the living God, what happens to us who are justified by faith? And right here in the middle of Romans, Paul answers the question, and the answer is because the fingerprints of God are on our hope. It does not disappoint because it is a result of the love of God that's been poured out into our hearts The hope that we have is not a result of something that we've conjured up. Due time for everyone who's a born-again child of God justified by the faith in God, in due time it came. Go to our website at Kettering Ministries. When? Or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III. And not only that, but we also glory in tribulations, knowing that tribulation produces perseverance and perseverance character and character hope. Now, hope does not disappoint because the love of God has been poured out in our hearts by the Holy Spirit, who has rather was given to us. For if when we were enemies, we were reconciled to God through the death of his son, much more having been reconciled, we shall be saved by his life. Have your way, Jesus. are decl being declared forensically clean before God afforded us uh uh first and foremost peace with God and then as a result of our peace uh justified saints of God. All of our fingerprints are unique. In other words, if I pull your fingerprints out of somebody's bedroom, it doesn't mean you were there when the crime happened, but it does mean you were there. And so uh we've utilized this in the criminal justice system to help us to identify these uh these various things. But if they get four hour prints or more, now you're up to 99. Beyond the shadow of doubt, the way and the reason why I made it through this week and I didn't lose my mind, I didn't go kirk off on somebody, is because of the grace of God But Paul says then that same passage in 2 Corinthians chapter 12 verse 9, he says, he says, when I was weak, then your perfect strength showed up. When I didn't have any strength left, when I was ready to give up, when I was waving the white flag, when I was ready to throw in the towel, it was sufficient. Because the fingerprints of God are in my tribulation. God on the perpetrators who desired to destroy me, and I see God moving to destroy them instead of destroying me. Not only that, but we glory in tribulations, knowing, watch this, that tribulation produces perseverance. The fingerprints of God are not only on our tribulations, but I would also suggest, as we look further in the text, it says Stay here with me. Love has been poured in our hearts by the Holy Spirit. Survive our hope that we shall overcome. The hope you have is not because you see things looking good. When God poured hope in your heart, watch this, when he poured love in your heart, it transformed your eternal destiny from hell to heaven When we were still without strength, if I can read on, verse 6, it says, for when we were still without strength, in due time, Christ died God was at his death demonstrating to us that he loved us. It's it's there. God provided hope for us by demonstrating his love for us by dying on a cross for us that we might have hope. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Sundays at 10 a. or virtually via our website, Facebook and YouTube. Down with the voices behind the song. Whoa, in hope, that's the high side of our relationship, but also we're rejoicing and we have the ability to rejoice in our tribulations and glory in our tribulations. Lord help me here. Just the opposite. When God Lord helped me when He poured His love into your heart, it transitioned your whole disposition because now everything has changed. For the ungodly. six two seven nine five zero zero please join us again as senior pastor And so they say if they've got four fingerprints or more, 99. Y'all still here with me? It's God. Lord have mercy. Verse 5. How can we have hope in COVID? For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever should believe on him should not perish but have everlasting life. My God. We could do because salvation is by grace through faith, not of works, lest anyone should boast. The Apostle Paul writes these words beginning at verse one of chapter five. For when we were still without strength in due time, Christ died for the ungodly. But we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received the reconciliation. is identified as the most exhaustive of the books of the Bible that give the most clear and uh position today that someone might be encouraged in your word. That's the means by which I would encourage someone who's going through all of life's mess. I would also say that the hope that we have, his fingerprints are on our hope. He poured that into your hearts. We had no ability to redeem ourselves. Paul says to the born-again justified Christian that we are standing and rejoicing Mine and instead of yours. That that due time is the is the is the divine time of God. But when we were hopeless, the text says, when we were still without strength in due time. Don't stop praying. Christ died for the ungodly. Then having now been justified by his blood. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Father, someone just needs to know that you're with them, that you've got them, that you're covering them, that all shall be well. His fingerprints are all over it and another reason I know that is his fingerprints that are on it instead of Amen. And I want you to hear this this morning that his fingerprints are on our tribulation. Well, here's another reason why and how you can see the fingerprints of God on your situation. In our passage that we have here in front of us this morning, Romans chapter five, Romans being the book uh that uh kind of uh It was God. All over it. Stay here, stay here. When we were sinners who uh according to Romans 323, all of us were, and Not when we were good men, not when we were just men, but when we were still sinners, Christ died for us. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Sufficient grace keeps showing up in the middle of our pain. He died. I I ask God to take this tribulation away from me. Now hope does not disappoint because the love of God has been poured out in our hearts by the Holy Spirit, who was given to us. For when we were still with our strength at due time, he died for us and he gives this example scarcely for a righteous man, one would That you might speak clearly through these lips of clay, words, God, of life that might draw someone out of darkness and into the marvelous light. His fingerprints are all over. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. He goes on he says hope does not disappoint. Why doesn't it disappoint? But God demonstrates his own love towards us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. We have learned and we've been taught over probably our lifetime, we've heard it said, that no two people have the same fingerprints. That relationship of peace with God gave us access by grace into the presence of God. When we had no strength, when we had no capability, we had no hope. Don't don't give up because even in your own life, nope, they they kept praying for you. Spirit of the Lord, I pray for that one who's discouraged on today, the one who's weary and worn and ready to throw in the towel. As I delve into this text, he first of all tells us that uh that that that we've been justified by faith. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. We're able to glory in our tribulations when we realize that what I'm going through, God has his hands on. His fingerprints are all on it. As I looked at uh another of Paul's letters in 2 Corinthians, the Apostle Paul The Apostle Paul, when he had a thorn in his flesh, he says, I went to the Lord on three occasions, and I asked God to remove this It's because of him. And so when we were still at our strength, we had nothing. And amen. God led me here, and I I'd say to them what I would say as a means of my title for this message on today I thought you, I thought you said we were we had peace. How can we have hope with cancer? m. All of them are distinguished by lines and movements and rises and falls and ridges on our And so even in that I see that the fingerprints of God are on it. And we'll give you glory. The objective of the tribulation in many occasions is to take you down and to cause you to become He poured it through the Holy Spirit in and onto those who are the justified, as he talks about in this text. at the Legacy Center. And it won't disappoint, for it comes from the love of God, and his fingerprints of love are all over the hope we have. We had no ability to buy, purchase, or acquire a ticket to heaven on our own. What do you say to someone who's uh in a time as this uh to encourage them? Why did he die? Because as we read through that text here in uh verse number three of chapter five in Romans, it says Would you pray with me, Father? When I look back over the week, it was his amazing grace that kept showing up. I hope that we shall be delivered. God gave me enough strength, he and his strength was perfect. Christ coming into the world through forty-two generations and being born of a virgin and living thirty-three years, and at that appointed time after the thirty in the midst of the thirty-three years, at and at the due time. His his it's this proof in the pudding that he is the one who brings me through. The hope that we have is not in vain, it's not empty hope. This is what the Lord said to me. I want you to uh walk with me through here just a little bit. I wanted to stay in the bed. How can we have hope when there's death and disaster and pain and persecution? Lord, help me, God. And it's because as we go through life and as we see evidences of the fingerprints of God org or contact our church office at 301 He died so that our hope might have his fingerprints all over it. Lord, I'm praying most of all that you would get glory and honor and praise out of all that is said out of these lips of clay. For Paul goes on to say, when I'm at my weakest, then am I strong. This right there in the text. The hope you have is because God has poured love in your heart. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship services. In heaven, we bless you on this morning. Praise the Lord. We'll give you honor. I thought we had I thought you said we we had uh you know all these benefits and all this stuff. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland Allow your word, God, to be clear in the hearing of your people in such a way that they would know that they have heard the very oracle of God I asked God to take this pain away from me. Sufficient grace keeps showing up in the middle of our mess. Even when we're going through that, I see the fingerprints of One day, then another day, then another day, and before you know it, you've made it through We had nothing at all. And then I was thinking through this thing, and I thought, you know what? 9% accuracy that it was you that was there. That's a great question. Everybody, we've been taught, has this has a different set of fingerprints, and as a result of that 9% accuracy. And I'll say to you, in the same way that Paul uh had to deal with this issue of the throwing the I hope that that tribulation and judgment won't take us out, won't destroy us. They've used fingerprints to identify the perpetrators of crimes. I wanted to turn on my head. And our hope that we that we shall All this the this Christian, this saint, this No, the hope we have is because God's You have been listening to the Radio Broadcast Ministry. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome Verse three says, Not only that, but we glory in tribulations. What happens to us is instead of that There was no hope because we had no capability of escaping the judgment of God that was yet We we he he no no means to redeem ourselves. That's a great question. For additional information For a copy of this sermon on CD And that as a result, not only uh Lord have mercy. When we were in a position when there was no hope for us and nothing we could do, guess what He died for us. And we'll give you praise. And then perseverance character or patience character and then character They they kept hope alive for you. For scarcely for a righteous man will one die, yet perhaps for a good man someone would even But instead of that happening, instead of that negative thing happening to you, Paul says, What happens to us that are born again? Thank you for your Holy Spirit. It used to be a time when they actually said it was 100%, but now they've given at least some grace Because as you go through tribulation, watch this. Therefore, having been justified by faith, we have peace with God. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. It's not hope just in hope. So speak a word, God, in the midst of our sermonic ex One is that we have peace with God, our justification. Someone may say to you or say to me, they may say, Well, how how can we have hope in the midst of such tribulational times? In this particular passage this morning 6% accurate. I wanted to put my face to the wall. It was perfect strength. Lord have mercy. We have hope I ask God that this part of life might be removed from me. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. And he says Not only that. Y'all still here with me? Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. Thank you for the grace. Sufficient grace keeps showing up when we don And I realize it's his fingerprints that are on this hot fire situation. And my answer to the unbeliever is because When we were in that condition, and according to Ephesians 289, there was nothing So my hope has his fingerprints on it org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date I I wish I had a witness or somebody who could say with certainty that I know that We were hopeless. It's right there in the text. And I also learned in the process of my research of fingerprinting that I realize God's fingerprints are all on my tribulation. I like that And in How can we have hope? His fingerprints came and he died. When God poured Lord love in your heart, it transformed you from sinner to saint. In Jesus' name I pray. And then in hoping, no, it's it's hope that has a basis And so when I look back over that, I see his fingerprints Thank you for your love. What how do you In the book of Romans. But God Instead of you growing bitter, you grow better. I'm not making this part up. Much more What do you say to a person who's going through all of that Wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute, Pastor Now he's bringing you their stories. And now, Pastor Sterling. Yeah, we have all that, but we also have tribulation I love it. God, I'm praying you speak a word that would draw them back into fellowship with you and cause them. I know that it wasn't me When there was no hope, now you have hope because of His love. The One Degree of Andy podcast. I want you to know in due time Now he's bringing you their stories. Thank you for keeping us, God. have food to put on the table when we don't know whether or not we're gonna make it through a week sufficient grace keep Our hope is a valid hope because God has poured his love on us. I love it. Father, speak a word It helps us to understand that salvation is not I love it. The One Degree of Andy podcast. I ask God that I might be able to just have peace and not pain. He says, for in due time Amen. God guide my tongue and I'm Andy Christman. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Thank you for your word. And God, watch this And not only that. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. And how is that possible? Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast. And amen. I realize it's God's fingerprints that's walking. And even now, God, I'm praying that your spirit will. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. I ask God that I might What happens to us? He says