Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, stay tuned for the conclusion of last week's message. If there was nobody else on the shelf, he would have still died just for you. Because you mean that much to him. And if he loves you like that and he redeems you like that, you have no need to worry about the stuff of that you're walking through, the hell that you're going through, this is just temporary. I'm coming out of this. I created you, I I redeemed you. Uh verse two. I I'm I'm I'm trying to move along. Um verse two he says uh uh for when you pass through the water I will be with you. And through the fire, or rather rivers, they shall not overflow you. Can I stop there? He says to them, as you go through these things that you're going through, I am with you. I know we've looked at this before in many occasions, but I think it's important to know that God keeps reminding us that I'm with you. For in in all the circumstances in your life that feel like waters or rivers or over how do I say overwhelming scenarios things that would overflow you Lord help me Um uh he says in all of those things I'm with you. Anybody ever go through this Period of spell or season when it just seemed like everything is just happening, happening, happening, happening, and you feel like a river of stuff is just overflowing you Lord have mercy. He says, in those times when you feel overwhelmed, I'm with you. That's good news because if I'm by myself, I'm left to the rough uh rapids, if I can say it that way. I'm I'm left to the rough waters of the rapids to Pounce me around and beat me around and throw me around as they will. But the fact that the I am is with me lord help me here uh it reminds me that he is the one who spoke water into existence in the first place. And I'm reminded that he's the one who stood out on the rough sea And spoke to the rough sea and said to the sea, peace be still. And if he is the God Who controls the water, Lord help me here, he can show up saying, I've got no reason to fear though waters rise up in my life and though rivers are pushing me along and pushing me along that I've got no reason to fear because I'm here. Lord have mercy. I'm your life jacket. I'm your boat. I'm your escape vessel. I'm the means by which you're gonna weather this storm and it's good news to know you're not by yourself. You're not left up to the circumstances of your mess. You're not left up to the doctor's report. You're not left Lord help me here to whatever the lawyers say. No, I'm with you. I'll be your lawyer. I'll be your doctor. I'll be your battle at. If you gotta fight, just pull out the name of Jesus. Well help me out. I wasn't planning on going here. But if I've got to go somewhere and the war is raging and the water is flowing, I'm so glad. I can call on him. His name is Jesus. And when I call on the name of Jesus, y'all don't know nothing about this. He'll quiet the storm. He'll cause the water to He'll take the flood down. He'll allow you to stand in the middle of the sea and say, I am with him. Help me, Lord. I'm so glad. He is. With us I'm with you, I'm with you, I got you. If I can say that I got you, I got you in this storm. I got you when it feels overwhelming. I got you. Jesus says, I'm with you. I'm with you. And watch this. He says here in the text Verse 2, when you pass through the waters, and when you he says, I'll be with you. And through the rivers, they're not going to overflow you. When you walk through the fire. This is a different kind of situation. One situation is overwhelming, the other situation is consuming. Y'all still here with me in the text? When you walk through the fire, when you're going through consuming situations, that's consuming your time, consuming your energy. Consuming all your rest. You can't sleep at night. Lord have mercy. It's just consuming. When you go through those consuming times, Lord help me here. Uh uh don't worry about a thing. You shall not Be burned. Lord. You won't be burnt up, nor shall the flames scorch you. Lord. I I've taken the the strength out of the flames and the fact that I'm with you, Lord help me here, will protect you from that Scenario that seems to be consuming. I'll keep the consuming fires at bay. Lord help me here. And I'm trying to think my way through this thing even right now because I've already taken us to a text where he was in the midst of a fiery furnace. And in the middle of the fiery furnace, the fact that he was with Shadak, Meshach, and Nabednego altered the whole situation of their condemnation. And so when Help me, Jesus. When you're with him, even when you're in the fire, you don't have to worry about being burned. I feel like preaching now. When I God To the end of my journey before I get to the place where I'm gonna wear my crown. The Bible says in First Corinthians chapter 3, every man's work is gonna have to be tried. Yet as through the fire. And so I'm glad to know that when God takes me through the fire, I'm with him. And the fire won't burn me. And so when I get to the other side. Though some of my works might get burnt up, I won't get burnt up because I'm in him and he's in me. And because I'm with him, the fire can't touch me. Lord help me here. And I'm trying to help somebody. to see no matter what fire situation you're going through if he's with you everything's gonna be alright I want to tell you, I want to tell you, listen to me. Everything is going to be all right. Pastor, you you you you speaking out of turn. No. I want you to know something. If you're walking with Jesus, everything. It's gonna be all right. Lord have mercy. Pastor, I don't know about that. I I've been walking with the Lord a long time, and I've seen some bad situations. I want you to know something, even in the bad situations, I serve a God. Who will make the bad good and make the sad glad. I serve a God when it's all said and done, He gets the glory, and everything will be alright. I know mama might not stay down here. and live till she 180. But I guarantee you everything is gonna be alright. I know that marriage might not last forever, but I guarantee you everything things gonna be alright. I know your money might be funny and they might have to repossess something that you have but I guarantee you everything is gonna be alright. I try to help somebody because you made it up in your mind that I'm going to be destroyed. I'm going to get ruined. I'm getting overwhelmed. I'm being consumed. But I stop out and let you know if he is. is with you everything everything everything is gonna be alright it's gonna be alright everything is gonna be alright Listen, listen, listen. He says, he says to us, look, we don't have to fear the flames. Because I created you, because I redeemed you. And because I'm with you. He's the last thing and I'm out your way. He said you don't have to be afraid of the flames because I love you. My God, my God. He says here Latapart verse 4, verse 3. He says, look, he tells you who he is. I'm the Lord. I'm the holy one of Israel. I'm I like that. Um, just in case you didn't know who was with you. There it is right there in the text. Um I'm not gonna go back to it, but it's there in the text. That's good news to know who you got with you. When you've been ready to be consumed, you got the Holy One of Israel, the Savior. He's with you. He says, Look, I gave Egypt for your ransom. And Ethiopia and Seba in your place. Since you were precious in my sight, you have been honored, and I have loved you. Um, can I fix this up? I know I need to walk this theologically down so that y'all can get it. But watch this. He says, look, what I did is uh Judah was I gave up Ethiopia, Seba, and Egypt. I traded them in for you. I let them get destroyed so I can redeem you I exchange other folks. Whoa, Lord, help me here. I'll let some other folk go down to protect you. See, because I love you so much, I don't lie Letting other people go down, but I love you too much to let you go down And so I'll let other people be lost in order to keep you standing. I wish I had somebody that understood. When you when you love somebody, Lord have mercy, and you put The love of on one hand and you you put you you Lord some love just don't compare to nothing else I mean, I got a whole lot of people in my life. I know a whole lot of people. I love a whole lot of people, but but when I put my wife up on the pedestal when I look at my wife and then I start looking at all the other folks no I'm gonna give all them other folks for her because don't nobody compare It's got some beautiful people in the world. There's some smart people in the world. There's some fine women in the world. There's some sexy women in the world. But don't none of them compare to my Carolyn. Lord help me here. Lord have mercy. And I'm trying to help somebody. When God looks at you, don't nobody compare to his love he has. for you and so he'll let the other ones go just to cover you he'll let the other ones lose just so you can win he'll let the other ones suffer just so you don't have to suffer and And even if you suffer, he's with you all the way. All the way. He says, look, I love you. You're special. I I I I got a special thing for you. Somebody ought to be excited about that. God got a special thing for you. You make him feel happy. Lord have mercy. When he sees you, he gets joy inside his heart. He loves you so much. He says, you're special to me. I Lord have mercy, help me, God. I I love you and so I've honored you and I've given you the best Because I love you so much. I gave you my life because I love you so much. You've been honored, and I have loved you Therefore I will give men for you and people for your life. I don't Lord, I'm trying to help us here to kind of comprehend How much God has your back and how come you don't have to be afraid when the enemy says, I'm gonna do this or I'm gonna do that. You don't have to worry about that when you've got the presence of God and The power of God and the love of God on your side. He says, I love you so much that I'll give men for your life and people for your life. Then he comes back in the last verse. He says, Look, fear not. Here he goes again, for I am with you. And watch this. I will bring your descendants From the east. Judah was probably worried because when they went into captivity, everybody didn't make it into Babylon Some got scattered in various parts of the world. But the Lord said, Judah, don't worry about that. Because I'm going to get your descendants. I'm going to get your cousins. I'm going to get your brothers I'm going to get your sisters, no matter where they were scattered, and I'll make sure that I'm going to bring them back when I bring you back. Not only am I going to get them and bring them back, but I'm going to bring you back. Lord, help me here. I'm trying to fix this thing up. I want you to see something that when God says he's gonna do something, he's gonna do what he said he's gonna do. And when he told Israel, rather Judah specifically Judah, I'm going to get your descendants and I'm going to bring them back. What he was telling them is that this bondage ain't forever. He was telling them that your judgment Is over. He was letting them know that the payment has been made, and the price has been paid, and the time has expired, and you don't have to worry about. your problem because I'm prophetically speaking to you that I'm gonna bring you out of Babylon I'm gonna bring you back to the land That I promised you, I'm gonna restore you, Israel, to the place that I promised I was gonna give you. Well, Pastor, what does that have to do with me? I don't see Stop by to let you know it doesn't matter what mess you found yourself in, what Babylonian scenario might be plaguing your life, but I want you to know this thing is almost Over. Oh Lord, it's almost over. I've got a plan that I'm going to work in your life and I'm going to bring you out of it. And I don't know how many of your descendants were. Affected by this mess. I don't know if it was your children who had to watch this mess go on. I don't know if it was your parents that had to go through hell with you, but I'm bringing them out too. I'm bringing everything Everybody when I come I'm bringing them out and I know you might be thinking will it happen in this life? My hope ain't in this life. My hope is in eternity. My hope is in the promise of God because he said it. I believe it. And even if I didn't believe it, that settles it. Because he's bringing us all out of his. Can I help us here? In case you haven't seen the picture yet, let me take you to the text of 2 Thessalonians. The day will come when the trumpet of God will sound and the Dead in Christ will get up first, and then those who are alive and remain shall be caught up to meet the Lord in the air. He said. In the gospel of John, I'm going to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place, I'm going to come again and receive you unto myself. That where I am, there you may be also. I'm coming to bring you out. I'm coming to take you home. I'm coming to bless your life. I'm coming just like I said I Wood, you mean too much to me to let you stay in this mess. So he's got a plane We don't have to face the flames. Don't have to be afraid of the flames. We can face the flames while we're walking through hell. And it don't matter if I've got to walk through this earthly hell. for another 50 years it will not compare to the glory that shall be revealed when I get home when I get home when I get home I Say amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. When I've been there. years I've only just begun to sing God's praise and Bobby I'm with you we shall wear a crown we shall wear a robe When the troubles of this world is over, I shall see him face to face. Hallelujah. Hallelujah. Hallelujah. Hallelujah. Hallelujah Hallelujah Bless your name, God. Bless your name, God. You coming out of this. You coming out of this thing Yeah I'm coming out yes look what Devil, you're a liar. I'm coming out I'm coming out. Lord. I'm coming out. That shine ain't that. Lord God, in the name of Jesus. We approach your throne with enthusiasm and excitement to say thank you, God Thank you, God. Hallelujah. For what you've done in this place. And now, God, while our hearts have been prepared and the message of truth has been delivered, draw Men, women, boys, and girls drawn to the Savior's side, that they may come out of The very grips that sin have on their life. When they're sinners, they should fear the flame because that's their judgment But since we, once we're redeemed, we have no need to fear anymore. So God, perhaps somebody needs to escape the flames today. Draw them, Heavenly Father, out. In the power of your name. We present this opportunity today. Have your way, God. In Jesus' name. Amen. And amen. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. For a copy of This sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together and we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 8 a. m. or 11 a. m. at our new edifice called the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway. Upper Marlboro, Maryland. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301-627-9500. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence.