Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. Well, good morning again and praise God. God. I want to thank Brother Josh and our praise team as well as our music department for blessing us this morning and getting us ready in the worship of the Lord and just lifting our spirits and getting us prepared. For the Word of God, on this morning, if you have your Bibles with you and you should, I want to invite your attention to Psalm 34. Psalm 34, as we bring to a close our series of messages. on today on reprioritizing our lives. Psalm 34, beginning in verse 1 is where text will begin. And so if you once you find it, let us know you're there by saying Amen. So Psalm 34, uh beginning at verse 1, the word of the Lord reads as follows, I will bless the Lord at all times. His praise shall continually be in my mouth. My soul shall make its boast in the Lord, the humble shall hear of it and be glad. O magnify the Lord with me, and let us exalt his name together. Amen. Would you pray with me this morning? Spirit of the Lord, we thank you for your word this morning. We thank you for the worship that we've experienced thus far. Heavenly Father, I come to you this morning. I'm just in need of your strength, your grace, your power, your provisions, Lord God, that I might speak clearly the word of God. Let my mind be clear, my lips Be clear in all that I say and all that I do, shall it bring glory and honor to your holy and adorable name. Father, even as I preach this morning, I pray that if any don't know you As Lord and Savior of their life, that they don't have a personal, intimate relationship with you, God, that today would be the day that they would ask, What must I do to be saved? they would invite you into their heart that you might be their savior and lord. Spirit of the Lord, I pray for those who have drifted in their fellowship From you, God, and I know during these pandemic times that seems easier for some, but I pray, God, the Word of God will draw them back into fellowship with you, will draw them back into union with you, would draw them back into a walking, strong relationship with you. Spirit of the Lord, I pray for those who are in need of just encouragement today. Let your word be an encouragement to the hearts of the saints, God. Let it be edification. to the believer today, Lord God. Let it do what you set it forward to do. And ultimately, God, I know that your will is that your name would be glorified in all that is done and saved. So Lord, use me as a vessel in your hand to accomplish your will. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. And amen. Well, praise God. Well, we've been on this journey now for six weeks. This is our sixth week in in the this particular series of messages. We started uh the series in uh 2 Kings chapter 20 Spoke to you from the subject matter. You shall not die. We move from there on week two. Also in Second Kings. uh in chapter 20 verses 4 through 10. We spoke there from the subject matter, priority of proof, as Hezekiah had been told by Isaiah. He was going to be a fifteen more years. Hezekiah said, Well, I need some proof. And so we shared with you there where when proof is your priority, what we need to do. From there we moved to Genesis chapter 11. We looked at the uh the nations that were uh uh building the tower of babble together spoke there with you from the subject of the problem with priority me when me Is the priority, which is the case in Babylon. They became the priority above and beyond God. We demonstrated there with you the problem with putting me as a priority And then in the fourth week, we were in Joshua chapter 24. We spoke to you there from the subject matter, set your priority on serving God. As Joshua had determined in his heart and in his mind as he was giving his final farewell to the people, the encouragement to them, the reminder to them. Of all the things that God had done. And as a result, Joshua says, As for me and my house, we're going to serve the Lord. And we spoke there to encourage you to set your priority on serving God. Last week, when we were together, we were in Malachi chapter 3, very familiar passage of scripture. There in Malachi chapter 3, we spoke on the subject matter: reprioritizing your giving life. reprioritizing your giving life. And as we listened to Malachi last week, we heard uh him uh through or heard God speak through him A call to return. God called the people to return to me. You've gone away from me. You've gone away from my statutes and my laws. And he says, return to me Uh and then he there was secondly a called curse on the people for the Lord uh said to them as a result of their going away from him there was a curse that had been placed on them. And then finally there was a called challenge to reprioritize Their giving. And then we challenged you as well last week to reprioritize your giving to try the Lord in these things. Try them now and see if He won't do what He said He would do. Open up the windows of heaven Pour you out such blessing that you would not have room enough to receive. And so on today, we want to pick up here in this final uh segment of our uh series of messages And this song kind of brings us full circle all the way around as we close this series of messages of reprioritizing our lives. And today We look at this psalm and we see that this psalm was written by David. It was written by David at a time when he had escaped Abimelech. Now Abimelech is a title for the king of the Philistines. or the Philistine king. The specific king that was king at that particular time was Akish. He was king of Gath. And so David writes this song after uh running into him and if I can kind of paint the picture so you can get it get it kind of get it really understand what was going on um Here's David. He's a faithful man of God. He's been faithful to God. And every time David turns around, Saul is chasing him down, trying to kill him. Everywhere he goes, Saul is chasing him, chasing him, chasing him, trying to kill him, trying to kill him. So David decides, I'm gonna I'm gonna leave, you know. Our country, I'm gonna leave out of Jerusalem today. I'm getting out of town. And he decides he's gonna go into Philistia. Well, as he goes into Philistia, he runs into The king. He runs into the Philistine king who also will kill him as a result. Because remember, David is the one that killed the Philistine giant, uh Goliath. And so he will also kill him. Uh but David fakes crazy and and God comes through and God delivers him, and as a result of his deliverance and his escape from this king and Philistia, as well as from the From Saul, who's chasing him to kill him as well, even though he's faithful. David writes this song as a result of all that he's gone through and all that God has done for him. So today I kind of feel like Many of us have been faithful to God. Many of us have been doing what God has called us to do. We've been walking in faithfulness and And even though we've been faithful, we still find ourselves running into joblessness, running into financial hardships, running into depression, running into uh loneliness and grief and weariness and heartache and headache and harassments and and and one thing after another after another after another it just seems like Uh, you know, it's just it's no end to it. I mean there's no no church gathering, no, no, no, no getting together and having fellowship with your family, your friends, your loved ones No going to the funerals of your friends and loved ones when you have these homegoing services. You can't even go there. You can't do that. You know, you can't fellowship with folks. You can't get together, even with folks you normally get together with. I mean, it it's like, I mean, no vacation. I mean, it just seems like the weight and the the burden of it seems unending and intolerable. And and we're it's almost like we're being chased down day by day from one thing or another, even as David was being chased down by Saul, and it's like the pressures of Life and the pressures of the daily grind are just chasing us down, and we still find ourselves running into trouble, running into all these other issues, even though we've been faithful to God And I want to suggest today that as a result of that, I want to just kind of suggest that maybe we should just set our priority on praise. Okay, uh set our priority on praise. That's that's the subject matter I want to talk to you from today. Set your priority on praise. Alright, y'all still here with me Alright, listen. David begins this song with an outward commitment to praise. Listen, listen, walk with me, walk with me. He begins this psalm with an outward commitment to praise. David says, I will stop right there. David says, I will, I will, I not I might, not I think so, not I'm on plan on it. No, David says, I will. It is a commitment, it is a firm Commitment. David says, I I will, I will set my priority on praise. I I I and listen, if if you or I, if we're going to set our priority on praise, we have to have An I will type of commitment. Are y'all still here? You can't have a I might or I feel like I when if I feel like it can't be that. It has to be An I will type of commitment. A I will type of determination. David begins the psalm with I will. It is a determination. I will is forceful. I will is is regardless of. I will is in spite of. I will is relentless. I will has no exceptions. I will Cannot be held back by life or death or trouble or good or bad. I will says it's going to happen regardless. David has an I will type of determination, and he says, I will bless. Y'all still here with me? I will bless the Lord. This word blessed comes from the Hebrew word barak. It is the word that gives the understanding of kneeling down while lifting up. In other words, David says, I will barak the Lord. I am determined. I am committed to Watch this, kneeling down, that means to to take my humble place. Lord have mercy. And and at the same time, while I'm putting my myself in a humble position, I'm going to lift up the Lord. I will bless the Lord. Watch this. Here's why this is so important. And I'm getting excited about this even as I'm I'm digging into it further. As I'm looking at it this morning, I'm thinking, you know what? Many a times we were going through trial and trouble and situations Instead of us bowing down, instead of us barocking God and kneeling down and bowing down and humbling ourselves and putting ourselves in the position that we really rightfully belong and exalting God to the place that He rightfully belongs. Oftentimes when trouble hits, we put ourselves up first and we want to exalt ourselves and our trouble above God. But David says, no, no, no, no, no. Doesn't matter what I'm going through I will, I am determined to humble myself and lift him up. I will bless the Lord. I will barock the Lord. And watch this at all times. Lord, help us here. I will bless the Lord. I will humble myself. I will get in my position and lift him up at all times. All times, that's in the sunshine, in the rain, in the heartache, in the pain, in sickness and in health, in prosperity, and pop And poverty. I will do it all the time when I'm when I'm in trouble and when I'm when I'm doing well, when I'm tried, and when I'm tested, when I'm up, when I'm down And when there's peace when it's pandemic It doesn't matter at all times, David says, I am determined, I will bless the Lord. I'm telling you, you got we we in these days and times, you got to have an I will determination About blessing God. You've got to have an I will determination that I'm going to get in my position and I'm going to humble myself and I'm going to lift him up. And David says, I will bless the Lord at all times. All times. It doesn't matter what's going on. David has determined in his heart And if we're going to set our priority on praise, we've got to determine in our heart at all times, regardless of what's going on, we will bless the Lord. We will baroque the Lord. We will humble ourselves and lift up the Lord at all times. Listen to this, he doesn't stop there. He says his praise This word praise is the is the Hebrew word tehilah. It's the hymn of God, it's the laudation of God, it's the exaltation of God, it's his the boasting of God. He says his praise, his boast. His exaltation, his hymn shall continuously be in my mouth. Lord have mercy. I love this because if if I'm being chased by Saul and Saul is trying to kill me or or I'm I'm I'm falling down cliffs and I'm I'm barely eating and I got my soldiers with me and I got all this trouble going on and then I run into the king of of the Philistines and he wants to kill me and I gotta go through all of that. And and and still have praise in my lips? Yes, David says, I'm gonna praise the Lord at all times, and his hymn, his laudation, his his exaltation will continually be in my mouth. Can I talk to somebody this morning? The praise of God can't be in your mouth if the praise of God isn't first in your heart. You've got to set yourself, you've got to make a commitment that I'm going to praise God in my heart, and if it's in your heart, it'll come out of your mouth. Y'all still hear it? So when you set your priority on praise, his tahila, his hymn, his praise will continually be in your mouth regardless of what's going on. We need an outward commitment, even as David has in this song. We need, we need it. I'm telling you, this morning, this this particular time, we need an outward commitment to praise the Lord. It doesn't stop there. I love this. Keeps digging in because he moves from an outward commitment to praise to an inward commitment to praise. That's in verse number two. In verse number two, he starts off: he says, My soul Now watch this. My soul expresses the commitment of the inner man. He says, my soul shall make its boast in the Lord. Oh yeah. My soul. My soul is my mind, my will, my emotion. The inner man, watch this, is committed To boast, to brag, to lift up the Lord. I shall make the boasting of the Lord a priority in my inner man. My mind, I'm thinking about how I can boast in the Lord. My will, I'm setting my will to do boasting and bragging in the Lord My my emotion, I'm feeling. Oh my God. I'm letting my mind remind me of how good God has been to me. And my emotions joined in the celebration of boasting in the Lord. And even in my emotions, I can celebrate and I can exalt the Lord because I've made an inward commitment. My soul is committed To boasting in the Lord, Lord, help us here. And he says, not to myself. I'm not committed to boasting of myself, what I did and what I accomplished or what I overcame. No My inward man, my soul, my mind, my will, my emotions is committed to boasting in the Lord. Whoo, Lord help me. Jesus, I don't know what you're going through this morning, but I hope you're getting a little bit lifted up this morning. If you got an outward commitment to praise the Lord, if you've got an I will commitment to praise the Lord And move from there to an inward one where your soul is determined to boast in the Lord. He says, there's there's there's not only watch this, there's not only benefit to you and me He says in verse number two, he says, My soul shall make its boast in the Lord. He says, The humble shall hear of it and be glad The humble. That's the afflicted. That's the destitute. That's the worn out. That's the worn down. That's the depressed. Lord, help us here. Watch this. There's benefit in me and you having an outward commitment to praising the Lord and an inward commitment to praising the Lord. Because when my when I've committed inwardly To praise the Lord when my soul is determined to make its boast in the Lord, to brag in the Lord, to exalt the Lord, when I've got that kind of commitment, watch this Folks around me, those who are destitute, those who are broken down, those who are depressed, those who don't have no hope, they get Excited, and they become glad in my rejoicing. They become glad in our praise. Let me help you here, Lord. Help us here. Watch this. In our praise, we can help other people. Because guess what? God inhabits the praises of his people. And God is joining in when we praise. And watch this. And when the presence of God joins in when we praise, if there's those that are around in the midst of our praise who are who are watch this, who are sad, who are depressed Who are lonely. Watch this. The presence of the Lord joins the presence around them. And the presence of the Lord can lift them up as we are lifting him up. Oh my God. So the the humble hear of it and they're they're glad. Listen, listen, the depressed, the the broken down, the the the afflicted, those that are a destitute, they they'll hear of the praise of God. Because sometimes watch this when you're in those places, when you're in a place of depression, when you're in a place of being destitute, when you're in a place of being broken down and hurting and and and and and and and grieving and all going through all of that. Sometimes it's difficult to generate that that that sense of of praise But then when you start seeing others and you hear others praising God, exalting God, worshiping God, giving God all that He's due, sometimes it'll remind you in the middle of your pain, you know what? I've got something to be glad about. Lord have mercy. And so as we exalt the Lord and as we lift him up and as we are committed, watch this. There's an outward commitment here in the text. I will bless the Lord. And I'm going to bless him at all times, David said. But there's an inward commitment to bless the Lord. My soul, my mind, my will, my emotions is committed To blessing the Lord, to lifting him up and making his boast in the Lord. And as a result. The humble, the destitute, the downtrodden, they shall be glad. My God. Then finally, watch this. He says, because see, when we set our priority on praise, we've got to have an outward commitment to praise. But we also need an inward commitment to praise. And so that our soul can praise and boast in the Lord and exalt the Lord all the time. But watch this. Then finally in the text, there's an invitation. To commit to join the praise. Ha! Thank you, Jesus. He says, oh, magnify the Lord with me. Ha! Oh, can I get some help this morning? Can I get somebody in your living room? Can I get somebody in your bedroom to magnify the Lord with me? Oh, magnify the Lord with me, he says, and let us exalt his name together. Whoo! David invites us in to join him in worship, to join him in praise, to join him in exalting the name of the Lord. And I want to invite you this morning Because I don't know where you are this morning, but I feel like I just need to set some priority of praise in my life this morning. And I want to invite you to come on in I mean, hey, you make an outward commitment, make an inward commitment, but now I'm asking you to join and commit. Watch this to giving praise to God. Let us Exalt his name together. He says, Oh, magnify. I like that word. I love that. The whole idea of and watch this. And here's the here's the crazy part about it. God is already so big That you can't go around him. He's already so high and so tall that you can't go over him. He's already so low that you can't go under him. There's no way around God. He's everywhere at the same time. But David says, as big as God is Oh Lord help me. As awesome as God is, He says, Let us magnify. Magnify means to make Him great, blow him up. Lord have mercy. In other words, He's already big, but let's make Him bigger Let's exalt his name. Let's lift him up together. Let us exalt his name together. Let us raise the name of the Lord up together. Whoo, Lord have mercy. I know, I know we we're not a church together. He said, Pastor, how are we gonna do this together? We're not a church together. Um, we we're not we're not assembling in the building together. I know about that, but guess what? It doesn't stop us It doesn't stop you from shouting in your bedroom and running around your kitchen and jumping up and down in your living room and exalting God and raising your hands and giving holy high fives to people that are in the house with you. It doesn't stop you from Going if you're watching on Facebook doesn't stop you from sending up hearts and and sending up you know hand claps and and sending up you know uh praises unto God. It doesn't stop you From joining in and leaving messages on the email and at the church and calling and saying, Hey, God is great and exalting God and lifting up God together It doesn't stop you from calling a friend or a neighbor or a loved one and saying, hey, God is great and God is good, and let me praise God. And I'm inviting you to join me in praising God. It doesn't stop us from texting one another and saying Praise the name of the Lord, He is good and worthy to be praised. I'm glad this morning for all that God has done for me doesn't stop us From pulling each other in. I mean, every time we want to connect any other time, doesn't stop you from having a Zoom meeting and saying, hey, we're just gonna have a Zoom meeting this morning and we're gonna praise the Lord together. Because guess what? As we praise the Lord together, we're helping each other out. We're not only lifting up him, but we're lifting up each other. And David says, Look, I'm inviting you to join me In praise and join me. He says, Oh, magnify the Lord with me and let us exalt his name together. You might be saying, Pastor Why why why why? I'm asking you asking me to magnify the Lord with you. Why? For what? Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministries of Kettering Baptist Church. Under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web Please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org and remember to reference the title and broadcast date. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 8 a. m. or 11 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlboro, Maryland. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. dot org or contact our church office at three oh one six two seven nine five zero zero Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. She sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your. Your podcasts