Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. We'll begin our reading in Mark chapter 9 at verse 31. The word of the Lord reads as follows: For he taught his disciples and said to them, The Son of Man is being betrayed into the hands of men, and they will kill him. And after he is killed, he will rise the third day. But they did not understand this saying and were afraid to ask him. Then he came to Capernaum, and when he was in the house, he asked them, What was it That you were disputing among yourselves on the road. But they kept silent, for on the road they had disputed among themselves who would be the greatest. And he sat down and called the twelve and said to them, If anyone desires to be first, he shall be last of all. and servant of all. Then he took a little child and he set him in the midst of them and he had Taking him in his arms, and he said to them, Whoever receives one of these little children in my name receives me, and whoever receives me receives not me, but him who sent me. Would you pray with me this morning? Father, we need you on today that you might clearly lay out this scripture, speak to our hearts, help us, God, in understanding and growing in the wisdom and knowledge of you Lord, if there's anybody that does not know you as Lord and Savior of their life, it is my prayer, God, that as we lift you up, as we exalt your name, as we sh Lift up your word even today that you would draw men, women, boys, and girls who don't know you to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. Father, I'm praying that if there are others who are here, maybe they're already saved, maybe they're listening by a live stream and they They're just at a place, God, where they need clarity. They need a word. They need instruction. God, I pray that you would provide that through your word on today. Speak clearly, Heavenly Father, to each and every One of your servants, God, I am in need of you, for I know not what it is and how it is you want to declare what you declare. And I just pray that you would use me as an instrument in your hand to accomplish your will Father, glorify yourself in this time. We will give your name all the glory and the honor and the praise. For we need you now. Speak, Jesus. In the name of our Savior, Jesus the Christ, we pray. Amen. And amen. Kether and I want to continue to preach on this series that uh we began a few weeks back. uh as we've been talking about the strange plans of God. We started our journey in Joshua chapter three. We spoke there from crossing the flood waters. We moved from Joshua three to Joshua four and five, and we spoke there from the subject matter, the stones of victory. And after there we were in a Joshua chapter 6 spoke from the idea of bringing down the Jericho's walls. And then last week when we together, we were in 2 Kings chapter 5. Then we spoke from the idea there, God's help for wholeness. As I look and examine this text on this morning, Jesus is here with his disciples and they're passing through Galilee en route to Capernaum and while they're on the way there Jesus has been uh well he had already been teaching them and he had taught that he was he had been teaching that he was About to be betrayed and he was going to be killed and he raised rise again the third day. They didn't know what he was talking about. But while they were on their way to Capernaum, the disciples are having a discussion More like an argument amongst themselves as to who is going to be the greatest among them when they get to the kingdom of God. Here is God telling them, I'm getting ready to prepare the way for the kingdom, and they are arguing about who can be the greatest in the kingdom. I want to talk this morning from the subject matter, God's pathway to greatness. What is the pathway? What is the plan that God has for you and I to be great? Because his disciples no doubt had their own plans, and in fact they were arguing along the way. As I looked in this text, the first thing I want to point to is the dispute that happens on the road. It's right there in verse 33. He came to Capernaum, and when he was in the house, he asked them, What was it that You disputed among yourselves on the road. They were on the road, traveling in progression to the place where he's getting ready to lay his life down and die for the sins of the whole world. But while they're on the road, they're arguing amongst themselves. And so Jesus is aware of the argument. So he asks the question, what is it that you were Discussing. What is it that you were arguing about while we were on the road? And the reason why I think this is a good question, not just for the disciples, but it's a good question for you and I because The question is for you and I, what what is it that you have been worrying about as you travel down the road to the end of these times that we live in? Because just in case you haven't noticed, things are getting rough. We're closely progressing to what the Lord has already told us is coming. Just like the disciples, he told them, I'm getting ready to go, I'm going to be betrayed, they're going to kill me, and then on the third day I'm going to rise again. The text says they didn't understand what he was saying. The Lord says, I'm coming back one day. I'm going to prepare a place for you, but I'm coming again to receive you unto myself. And we don't understand what he meant by that. We hadn't fully comprehended what he meant by that. When is he coming back? And so in the in the meantime, while we're on the road. He already told us I'm coming back. But while we're on the road, we're bothering ourselves with other stuff that don't even matter. What were you disputing among yourselves, Jesus asks? Them and the Bible says they kept silent. And I asked myself in this context of the passage: why would they not respond to Jesus? One, they might not have realized that he had heard them or he that he knew that they what they were talking about. Did you say something about me just now? And you get quiet because you got caught because you didn't know that they knew That they could hear you. Perhaps they are quiet because of the question Of what were you disputing about brought conviction to their spirit that caused them to realize that here we are arguing about something that doesn't even matter. Maybe they were realizing that this pursuit of greatness that they were pursuing was small-minded. And shallow thinking and not according to the plan of God. were more likely being justified by the things they had done Or seen or experience. None of these things that they would raise are in accordance with God's pathway to greatness. So Jesus brings them all together because they don't have nothing to say when he confronts them. They all got kept silent. And so verse 35 says, So he sat down and called up all of them together. Come here, y'all. Come here, let me let me talk to y'all And what he now begins to do, he begins to discuss this discussion about desires of greatness. And he said he says, okay, I need to talk to y'all. I need to um explain this to you. He says, if anyone desires to be first He shall be last of all. Now, let me say this for every educated person in the room. That does not make sense. That's that's strange. Um because from infancy on we have been trained and taught In terms of competition. If you want to be first, you better push to the top. You gotta work harder and stronger and longer and blah blah blah blah blah blah blah. No one besides Jesus has probably ever told you if you want to be first, go get at the bottom of the line. This is just strange. But it's coming from the Lord, and so we know that there's merit in it and there's truth in it. But he says to them, if anyone wants to be first, that is the greatest. You want to be the greatest in the kingdom. He shall be last of all. And this is the strange work and plan of God. Because it it really literally does not make sense If I want to be first, get it at the end of the line, yep. But he doesn't stop there because that's just the first part of it, is humility and smallness and But then he says this, and servant of all, the pathway to greatness according to God Is humility and service to all. The text did not say humility and service to those you like. To those who look like you, to those who are of your ethnic background. your economic background, your social background. No, none of that's in the text. It says servant to all. That includes people I don't like, people who are nasty, people who stab me in the back People who did me wrong, people who are racist, people who are sexist, that includes everybody. Everybody is included in the category of those I am required to be a servant to. The pathway to greatness is it's not a rush to the top so I can be served. Greatness is an assignment at the bottom to serve. The reason why church life Has not changed very much at all as it relates to those who are doing the majority of the work in the church. is because we don't want to aspire to the greatness that God is describing. You gotta be willing to be a servant at the bottom for all. You gotta be that sacrificial one who is willing to mirror Christ by making of himself or herself no reputation. I'm just gonna be honest with you. In church life, people like titles. Here's just my observation. A lot of times when people get titles, they stop serving. A lot of folks serve to get the title, and after they get the title, you don't get no service out of them. Because now they got elevated. Now they somebody. If Jesus Who is God can come into this world, pick up a little baby, and tend to the knees of a child. Who are we? When do we become so great that we can't give attention to the little child? If he Being God does not need the royal diadem that he took off in order to wrap himself up in mortal flesh. To come not to be served, but to serve. Who are we that we're above serving one another For the kingdom of God. Let I remind you, the reason he saved you and left you here was not so you can get glory. It was so that you can make disciples for the kingdom of God. We have a biblical mandated responsibility called the Great commission to make disciples of the Lord to teach them to know the word of God and to know who He is to make Christ known to this lost Dying in dark world, and we're to be busy about that till he comes. But we've gotten sidetracked, and we're walking along the road arguing about who's the greatest in this kingdom. Thirdly, there is here a demonstration with the child. Picks up there in verse 36. Then he took the little child and set him in the midst of them. And when he had taken him in his arms, he said to them, Whoever receives one of these little children in my name receives me. And whoever receives me receives not me, but him who sent me Now, I'm trying to comprehend, Lord, what are you trying to say in the middle of such a powerful conversation to these disciples? You just shared with them the prerequisite of greatness is humility, becoming lease. If you wanted to be first and great, then you need to get to be last and you need to serve all. He gave that as the qualifications, but then he comes back with this illustration. And in the illustration, he picks up a little child in his arms, and the Bible says he sets with the child in the middle of the disciple. Now the child represents in human culture, the insignificant one. Now, for those of you that are past 40 years old You probably heard this when you was growing up. Children should be seen and not heard. For the Jewish culture, a child did not have merit And so when Jesus brings this child in the midst, he's using him as an illustration of one who is not lofty, who is not honored, who is not respected. He's insignificant. You want to be great? Be insignificant like this child. Then he says something interesting. And he who receives this child. Which means the child is on assignment from God. And The child who's on assignment from God is the born-again believer who's been saved by the blood of the Lamb. What's the assignment? My assignment is to go into all the world and preach the gospel. My assignment is to go into all the world. And make disciples. My assignment is to make Christ known. My assignment is to be an ambassador of the kingdom of God because I am not a citizen of this world. So I'm an ambassador. As a child of God, you're an ambassador of another kingdom. So you're here to be a display. Of the kingdom of God, to represent the kingdom of God, to make known the king of the kingdom The reason why he didn't just save you and take you on the glory, but he left you here on assignment. So we're here on assignment as little children. And whoever receives The message of my kingdom through one of these little ones is receiving me. But then he comes back and he says something very interesting. He says, but not me. But him who sent me. So in other words, the Bible says this way: the only way I can get to the Father is I've got to come through the Son. And the son, because of grace and not need of necessity, chose to use you and me as vessels. Little children, little insignificant children, to be mouthpieces for the kingdom of heaven And whoever receives the little child, in essence, is receiving me because they're my agent. And when you receive me, which is the message that they bring of the kingdom of God, you receive my father. Who sent me? Pastor, where are you going with this? That if you want to be great in the kingdom, you've got to get at work making the kingdom known. Because your assignment is the Great Commission. Now, here it is. I'm going to say it this way. There's one assignment we have. Which incorporates reflecting the glory of God. We got one assignment. Our assignment is the Great Commission as the church. Because I feel like the church has lost its way. We've drifted from our purpose. And individually, many of us can probably testify we have lost our way as well. As a matter of fact, if I ask you How many people this week told anybody that Jesus was the way, the truth, and the life? Not many hands would go up I guarantee you, don't raise your hand. Very few hands will go up. Which tells me that we've lost our focus. Now if I ask how many people have checked their bank account to see if your paycheck came in on a certain day and time, everybody hands would go up because that was your focus. Yes sir. We we keep focused on that. We put energy behind that. Matter of fact, you we counting down the days till retirement. I got 17 more weeks and and 35 minutes and all we count down. We focused on all of that. But the one reason That Christ left you here after saving you from eternal destruction. We've walked away from the purpose and given our energy to something else Here's the question. Am I ever gonna be great in the kingdom if I don't fulfill the assignment of the kingdom? How can I get to God's kingdom and expect that I'm going to be great in his kingdom if he gave me one thing to do? And I walked away from it and did other stuff in another world that didn't even matter. And when I get to the end, it doesn't even count. Can I say it simply? Only what you do for Christ. Will last. You want to be great in God's kingdom? We got to do it a strange way. We got to do it by humbling ourselves. We got to do it by being last. We got to do it by being obedient to serve other people. And listen, when you take the time to witness to somebody on the train, In the 7-Eleven, in the grocery store, wherever you might be, when you take the time to share, you actually are being a servant of the kingdom. That's service to the kingdom. Because you are a mouthpiece of the kingdom. Pastor, I don't really know how to do all that. I don't know how to share the gospel. I don't know how to what let me let me ask you this. Can you at least tell people what happened in your own life? How God has blessed your own life. How God took you out of sin. How he snatched you from. a destitute place and lifted you up and turned you around and set your feet on solid ground. Can you at least do that Can I at least point people to say the glory that you see is not mine, it's his. I was having a conversation with a young lady this past week. And she is uh a nurse. And she was sharing with me that the weight that um nursing was on her and and you know in her situation they weren't really getting paid a lot and And she was, she was feeling like, you know what, nobody really cares about what we do. Nobody cares about the sacrifices that we make. And I just feel she she was really down. She fell she was really down on herself and she's like, I just feel like what I'm doing is worthless So I had to share with her, I said, listen, you've been called to a great service. And you're a servant of God. When you show up, everybody's not going to appreciate your service. But know this: that the fact that God saved you And equipped you and called you to this ministry called nursing. When people are at their worst, when you show up, you are showing them God. When you're gentle and you're nurturing, you are touching them for God. You become the hand. For God. You become the ministry, the warmth of God. You become the presence of God. And in the same way as He used this illustration of the children, when they receive the love of God God that comes through you and me as servants of the most high God they receive him because they can't know him until we open our mouths and say who he is. They can't see him sometimes until we live that out in front of them so they can see what it looks like. What a child of God looks like. What does God look like? I'm gonna show you in the form of this nurse who comes and gently wipes sweat off of you, who gives you a bath when nobody else will and nobody else can and you can't help yourself. And they come in they so gently and lovingly and and and patiently deal with you and then they leave with a smile. That's a ministry that people can't appreciate all the time. But I wanted her to know you might never get your rewards down here. But as a servant of the Most High God, you are great in his kingdom. God's plan or pathway to greatness is indeed strange. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship Services, Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlboro, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301 six two seven nine five zero zero please join us again as senior pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. On Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.