Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling the Third Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now Pastor Sterling. Beginning at verse 5 says, Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and lean not on your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct your paths. Do not be wise in your own eyes. Fear the Lord and depart from evil, and it will be health to your flesh and strength to your bones. Would you pray with me this morning, Father? We bless you. Because of you, we live and move and have our being. Because of you, God. We're able to be here even on this occasion to hear your word, to preach your word. Spirit of the Lord, we invite your presence into this place and into this occasion of preaching. That your will might be done, that your way might be accomplished. God, that someone who doesn't know you might come to know you today. That someone, Lord, who's walked away and drifted in their fellowship, that they might Be provoked this morning, God, to reconnect and uh redraw the fellowship that they once had with you. Father, I pray that you would edify this body, that we would leave Having become more understanding of your word and not only of the knowledge of it, but the application of it as well Lord, I'm praying that you would use me as a vessel in your hand to accomplish your will. Lord, do what you desire in this place. And God, as I yield myself as a vessel unto you, I believe, God, that you have plans for each and every person that is under the sound of my voice. So God, manifest yourself and do it today. We bless you in advance for what you're going to do. I thank you, God, for the strength. I thank you for the grace. I thank you, Lord God, for all that you will provide. Now help me, Jesus. to be your vessel in your precious name I pray and I thank you. Amen and amen. Bless the Lord, bless his holy and adorable name. Catherine, the the Proverbs are uh actually known as wisdom literature. Uh as we have the Proverbs uh collected in the canon of scripture, it's uh a collection of uh y typically short uh wisdom statements uh that provide the reader and the hearer wisdom as to how we ought to live. Amen. And In fact, I would probably suggest to you that a daily diet of Proverbs would be greatly beneficial to your life. What I mean by that is that if every day you spend some time in Proverbs, you'll learn something or have something reaffirmed in your life every day. of the wisdom of how to live this life in Christ Jesus. Are y'all still here? This uh time of year is a time of year when we take time to celebrate the academic, typically the academic accomplishments as we have and are doing on today. achievements of those who've uh invested in learning and education and and school and some have done so that they might uh get a job. And get out of mama and daddy's house. Amen. Some of you, mom and daddy, put you in school so that you can get a job and get out of their house. Amen, somebody. And others, you did it to refine skill sets and education that you already had. Uh you have acquired Um those skills and knowledge, information that satisfied someone's standard, and they awarded you and celebrated you as with some measure of certification or degree confirmment or acknowledgement that you've achieved a certain level of of education and information and so this is that time of year when when uh the celebrations happen and uh the parties happen and the award ceremonies happen uh to award uh those who have gone through some level of achievement. Um one of the things that as I th walk through this text on today is I wanted to try to talk to uh some um intellectual beings. And so therefore, whether you were here in the Legacy Center or whether you were viewing Via live stream, you are included in my target audience on this morning because I want to talk to intelligent beings. I want to try to take three things out of this passage here in Proverbs chapter three to Speak to you from the subject matter wisdom for life. As I have been meditating on this particular passage and thinking my way through it. The more I delved in and the more I backed off, the more I looked and the more I didn't look It seemed to me an all-encompassing passage that would help us, and y'all need to hear this, that would help us, all of us who are intelligent beings. To be able to live this life with wisdom. There are An array of other things that could be included in the text and they would be relevant and they would be helpful and perhaps even beneficial, but I think these are These are a good, concise three things that would help you and me to live a better life. And to walk through this life and all of its challenges with wisdom So I want to talk from this idea, wisdom for life. The proverb begins Uh earlier actually and this these are c culminations so it's not as clear as you may see it written out in your biblical text, but You see, it ent it's introduced, my son, do not forget my law, but let your heart keep my commandments, and for the length of your days will be long in peace. They will add to your life. This wisdom is being shared in such a way that I want you to get it. I want you to hold on to this. This is we we in all of your getting, get wisdom, get understanding. All the wisdom you get, get understanding, understand it. And I want you to understand here, these are some critical things with the proverb says here, beginning in verse 5, he says, first of all, trust in the Lord with all your heart. Trust in the Lord with all your heart. If I were to ask one today, how many of you trust the Lord? My guess is that close to ninety five or more percent would probably without hesitation, without hesitation. Raise your hand and say, Yes, I trust the Lord. My trust is in the Lord. And I believe I might get 100% of people say that I trust the Lord, but you probably heard me say this before today that Trusting the Lord is more than just an oral response to a question. Because here's the thing, and this is heavy duty. This is heavy duty. Write this down. God is always presenting you with circumstances that are asking you the question: do you trust me? That's heavy right there. That's heavy. Can I meddle just a little bit? The situation that you are wrestling with right now. The problem that you're having difficulty with right now is God asking you, do you trust me? The reason why it becomes more complicated for us is because we don't trust him. Y'all here with me? So when the question is asked, do you trust him? It is more than just, oh yeah, I trust him. That's the quick oral response. There's more depth to this. The statement in the proverb that says, Trust in the Lord with all your heart. The word trust in the Hebrew here gives the uh understanding and the encompassment of faith and belief. I believe and I have vested faith in it. This word that we have here, trust, is uh occurs 154 times in the Old Testament. And every opportunity and occasion, it gives the understanding of taking refuge in the Lord. Leaning on with confidence, being secure in the Lord. The text suggests that we trust in the Lord, uh that is to lean to take refuge, to uh to be uh have a heart Uh and in all of our heart, not part of it, all of our heart, leaning and having refuge in burying our confidence in the Lord. This is easy, but it's hard. All of my confidence needs to be in him. Everything I trust needs to be in him. All of my My trust needs to be in him. Trust in the Lord with all of your heart. That is, uh, with all of your mind, with all of your emotion, and with all of your will. Let everything about you rest in confidence in lean on the Lord. The Lord needs to be everything. He needs to be You're all in all. He says here, but trust in the Lord with all your heart. It's a reminder to some, but it's an instruction to us all that human intellect. Without a foundation of trusting God is futile. Lord help me, Jesus In other words, you can have all the education you want. You can have seventeen PhDs in every school, in every Ivy League academy in the world. You can be an Ivy League scholar You can be the smartest person in the world. Second to Solomon, you can be, you can have all of that, a bag of chips and some changed degrees on every wall, past You can have wallpaper made out of degrees and steel without trusting God is worthless Y'all hearing what I'm saying? It's worthless. It is futile to live this life without trusting God. You have to trust him. He he has to be the means by which you which you pour your confidence in in every aspect. of this life. He has to be your leaning post. I I love that. When you were growing up, you probably heard old folks say that. And you what is a leaning post? It's what you it's your dependency. Is when you can't hold yourself up. You need something to lean on. Lord help me, God. Your confidence needs to be such that when you acknowledge I don't have enough I know I can lean on him. My stability is in him. My faith is in him. uh the solid foundation of your life. He has to be uh our confidence and our our stable uh destination of hope. In other words, if you've got any hope at all, it has to be in him. I'm trying to pound this this thing as deeply as I possibly can, but the proverb says that the Lord um ought to be the hope that we have, he he ought to be our all in all. So w our trust has to be in him. uh to the extreme that we lean not on our own understanding. The reason why I began by making sure I was talking to intelligent people was because of this portion of the text. Trust in the Lord with all your heart And lean not on your own intellect. Y'all still here with me? I know you're smart. I already know this is a smart group of people. You're intelligent being, you are lofty in your academic pursuits. And even if you don't have a degree on the wall, you've got life experiences that circle everybody else in the room. You smart. Y'all, you highly intelligent people. And as a result of your high levels of intelligence, stay stay with me, you have and I have a tendency to lean on that. Somebody ought to say amen. When a problem pops up, help me God to make this relevant. When a problem pops up. You and I, as intelligent beings, we call upon the intellectual abilities that we have stored in our mind. And we go back to whatever time period that would help us intellectually to solve and resolve the problem That's in front of us. And so we lean on what we've learned. Help me, God. And if I had some honest folk in the room, they'd say amen. We have a tendency to lean on our own understanding. On what we know about the matter. We look at a situation and we say, you know what, I've seen this before. And so my my intellectual experience w uh will will lead me to make this decision. Because I've been here before, been there, done that, got a t-shirt to prove it. Am I right? This is what we do. And so we intellectually work our way through life based on our own life experiences and our own education and academic knowledge. But the text says don't lean on that. Pastor, what I go to school for then. Don't lean on your own understanding. Pastor, why? Because your own understanding will fail you. Can you can I talk to somebody for real? For real? You are smart and you're intelligent, but the truth be told. I wish somebody would be honest with me this morning. Y'all need to wake up for a moment. I'm not gonna be before you long. But if the truth be told, we've done some dumb things. With all of our smarts, with all of our intelligence, we've done some dumb stuff. So, because we were leaning on our own understanding. The text says, don't lean on your own understanding. Trust in the Lord with all your heart. And lean not on your own understanding. Your own understanding is limited. I don't care what you know, what you experience, is lim is still limited. You're living in a world and you're gonna face a world and you are facing a world that has situations, circumstances, and stuff going on that you don't even know what's happening. You you're looking at it and you think you know, but you don't really know. You don't know what's going on behind the scene You can't see the spiritual warfare behind it. You don't see what God's trying to do in it. Sometimes we're praying, God, take me out of this. And God said, No, if I take you out, you won't be where I need you to be And you're saying, but but but this is that's your understanding. My understanding says get me out of this pain. But God's wisdom, God's leadership, trusting God Lord help me. Trusting God says, God, even though I'm in this situation, I'm uncomfortable in it. I don't like it. I wish I could get out of it. It's painful. It's It's it's hard. God, I really want to get out, but I'm trusting you. Because you know more than I know. Again, we're intelligent beings. But next week, Wednesday, can anybody tell me what's going to happen next week, Wednesday? Our wisdom is not sufficient enough to tell us what's gonna happen. Matter of fact, I I pushed it all the way to Wednesday this evening. Do you really know what's gonna happen? I mean, you have plans. I'm not talking about your plans. I'm talking about in the in the grand scheme of the world we live in, none of us has enough wisdom. To make decisions regarding that. But God knows it, and He will He will cause things to happen now that will prepare you for then. Lord help me God. That's why you don't want to lean on your own understanding. You want to trust the Lord, trust in the Lord with all your heart, with everything. Then he comes back, secondly, after telling us to trust in the Lord with all our heart. He comes back and he says, and acknowledge him, acknowledge the Lord in all your ways. Verse number six, in all your ways acknowledge him and he shall direct your paths. In all your ways. Acknowledge him in all that you do, acknowledge him in all that your going out and all of your coming's in and all of your decisions and all of your Ups and downs, acknowledge him. In everything, in all your ways, every way that's a way for you, acknowledge him. Include him, consult with him uh in everything, in every decision that you have to make, in every action that you have to take in life. Some of us have already developed a pattern of life and it's gonna be hard to move you out of your pattern. And so, but I'm a help, I'm trying to help you here. If I can encourage you to change your pattern, to acknowledge God in everything. Lord help me. It'll change the smoothness of your life, Lord Jesus. It'll change the trajectory of what you have to deal with and how you have to deal with it. And if I can really talk to my young people, my young people, because you're trying to figure out this life, if you while you're trying to figure it out, I would encourage you, highly encourage you according to this proverb, that you would acknowledge him in everything. in every test you take, in every paper you write, in every encounter that you have, in every conversation with people that are trying to convince you to move to the right or move to the left. In every experience that you have in life. For those of you who who've already passed all that stage, in every decision that you make, in every relationship You come to in every person that you meet. Because everybody that comes to you and talking about they love you don't necessarily love you. You better consult with God, who really loves you, so He can direct and make your pathway smooth. Lord help me God. I wish I had some witnesses in the house that said they didn't acknowledge the Lord and their way was rough There's some things that we've done in our life, and if we had only consulted with God, if we had only acknowledged God, if we had only put God in the center of it, we would not have had to have such a tough time. This the proverb says, put him in the center. In all your ways acknowledge him. Think about that with me for a moment. Think about the benefits of having the sovereign creator of the whole world. Who is omnipotent, that means all-powerful, he's omniscient, that means he knows everything, having him as your consultant for life. Can you think about the benefits of that? Think about having God who created everything, who makes everything happen, who has power over the sun, the stars, the moon, the rain, everything. Think about having Him on your consult team. To help you navigate your way through this life. And and and all you have to do is acknowledge him. You gotta consult with him. He has information we don't have that nobody else that we consult can consult with does have. You you can develop a good team of folk around you who have Information about this and information about that and insights about this and education in that. But it doesn't matter what team you build around you, none of those teams are going to surpass having God on your team. So put him on the team and put him as the key player of the team because we're going to consult him with everything. You're going to look smart when God is on your team. Even if you don't have a degree. Most of us sitting here today are s at best second, maybe third generation college people That means before that, your parents, grandparents, folk didn't go to college, but yet they had wisdom that was far surpassing. I said, well where they get it from? They they checked with God. They had a little talk with Jesus. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at kettering ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301 six two seven nine five zero zero please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.