Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And because of the blood of Jesus, we have an obligation, Lord Jesus. And the author here says, look, we now have an opportunity to boldly enter into the holiest places of God because of the blood of Jesus. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together, and we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 8 a. Go to our website at Kettering Ministries. And having boldness to enter the holiest by the blood of Jesus, by a new and living way which He consecrated for us through the veil of His flesh. And along with the advancements of technology, people are abandoning the idea and the concept or the sense that we even need And some of the reasons why people say I ain't going to church no more is because I'm concerned that the pastor down there ain't right You have been listening to the Radio Broadcast Ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III Voices behind the song. And attune myself to the Spirit of God. And then there are some that go even deeper to say, I am, and we are the church. Man. It lets us know that even in the old worship that they came, when they came and they offered blood of bulls and lambs and goats and Just read this verse for you. And turtle doves and all that. And so there still was under the old law, if you will, a shortcoming and inadequacy of the worship that they had, and it did not allow them to come before God with confidence and boldness. He would be lined up in the parking lot, pulling animals behind you, waiting for the priest to slaughter them at the door And you never could come into the house of God. That's all because of the blood of Jesus. Wondering whether or not you were going to get struck dead by passing under the thresholds of the door. They would give it to the priest would slaughter him and bring the blood in and into the holy place, and then they'd give it to the high priest. You got the audacity to bust into the presence of God anytime you want to. I mean, I got to give my offering to somebody else, and somebody else gets the privilege of going into the presence of God for me. And as we're walking through the two torn pieces of his flesh, the only way I can get into the presence of God, his blood is flowing all over me And it's pouring down on me as I walk through his torn body as a veil, in the same way that the high priest had to walk through the veil to get into the holy presence of God. But it's the body and the blood of Jesus, and because of the body and the blood of Jesus, and because watch this when I walk through that torn body and I'm poured on by the blood of the Lamb When I get into the presence of God, God sees perfection. He doesn't see my shortcomings. Amen, Jesus, and the walls. Because he's the high priest that's handling the business of the church. If the choir member don't act right, we got a high priest over the whole house of God. Ever you get your podcasts Whose name ain't Sterling. Lord have mercy. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III of those and let them hear you speaking directly to them, to their hearts, those that are lost, I pray that you would speak a word of life that would draw them to the place of surrendering their hearts and lives to the salvation that is available to them. Catherine on this morning I want to invite your attention to Hebrews chapter 10. are worthy of it all. And so I need to break some things down for my spiritual people. And I I hear what you're saying, Pastor. It ought to be something inherent in us that drives us to the place where we want to worship God. That the law could not satisfy the righteous requirement of God. To offer and come to worship with the blood of bulls and goats, none of it could ever take away sin Help me here, Lord Jesus. Help me Jesus because of the blood of Jesus that was shed on Calvary's cross. And Lord Jesus, the blood opened up the way for us to get into the face of God and have no shame in our game. He would fall dead in the holy presence of God. and bells attached to the tassels of his robe so that when he went into the Holy of Holies, if he had made a mistake, Lord have mercy And he'd fall dead. Sitting in the the bathroom, you're busting in the presence of God. To be able to boldly come into his presence. To even enter into the presence of God. But I'm trying to help us to understand here, we've got an obligation to the blood of Jesus to come to church, to want to worship on a regular basis. To enter into his presence. The presence of God, whether you're walking into the sanctuary or you're walking into your worship experience with God, we ought to almost visualize the torn body of Jesus In other words, we ought to see the right half of his body torn on our right side, and the left half of his body torn on our left side. from an evil conscience and our bodies wash with pure water. I've got a high priest, his name is Jesus. Called the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Of Andy. And so just in case you was staying away from church because you got issues with the people in the church, we got a high priest over our church. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence. In this place that every saint may be edified and that the body of Christ may be built up in you. A series of messages dealing with a subject that I believe is becoming more and more pertinent to the body of Christ. Uh this attitude, uh this spirit, this trend, if you will, seems to be just kind of moving about, and as I kind of sit and watch what's happening and It is this growing sense of isolation in our culture that is driven by the selfishness of men. Because, as I said, it just seems like that people are falling away, and they seem like there's no sense that they have a need of the church or a need to even come together to worship God collectively at all. Believe it or not, there is an attitude that is sweeping our nation that we too can have our independent Bible study devotional lessons We can watch or participate, or our participation in radio or TV or internet services qualifies us to be at church. The assembling of ourselves together as is the pattern of some. As they come together, that gathering is what we call church. When I use the word inherent, what I mean is the ingrained and essential part of our character that causes us to attend church. To the blood of Jesus. Do you realize that in the Old Testament and before the blood of Jesus was shed, they would bring the blood of the bulls and the goats and the lambs. For by one offering, he perfected forever those who are being sanctified. Now, if his sacrifice of his blood doesn't make you want to go to worship him, something wrong with you You think about this. And perfected us all. Because they had offered the bulls and goats and lamb, none of that blood would satisfy. And his blood, Lord have mercy, is what perfected you. Through the veil that is his flesh. And you get to the, and the high priest says, we're not taking offerings today. But because of the blood of Jesus at 2 o'clock in the morning, 3 o'clock in the morning. Because the blood has done for you what nobody and nothing else could do. Lord have mercy. Four o'clock in the morning. Make your petitions known unto God and find rest and peace for your soul. Was the provider of taking the sins of of the people to God. And I don't like the idea that they be out in front of the church smoking and I seen them at the liquor store and they just a bunch of hypocrites. Because he gave his life for you. Of the sheep. And having a high priest over the house of God, let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith. Amen. these words to life in the hearing of those who are listening, whether here in the sanctuary, through the radio broadcast or via live stream, God speak into the hearts. Not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, as is the manner of some, but exhorting one another, and so much the more as you see the day approaching. To either believe or to act in the attitude that it is okay to abandon the church. The church. The need for expediency. the the ecclesia that is the the gathering of those together called Christians A holy God who gave his life so that we could have a right to the tree of life. That we shouldn't be forsaking that assembly. And in fact, every year they had to keep coming back and offering blood sacrifices again and again. That I can now go myself. What we ought to sense, we ought to have a sense of, we ought we ought to we ought to have an awareness of is when we walk into Of Jesus, that I've got privilege to get into the presence of God, to go into the presence of God. You go back home with your head hanging down saying, it's just a shame. As much as I can help you understand something, that the Old Testament guy, this high priest, he was the one that went into the holies of holies once a year on behalf of the people. Well, let me help you with that idea because this text that we're digging into today, the author says to us that we ought not to forsake Collective body of believers known as the Universal Church. The universal church on this occasion. To want to attend church. Because of the person and the work of Jesus Christ on our behalf that causes us to want to go to church There ought to be something in you as a child of the living God that causes you and provokes you to want to get to the presence of God and collectively with other believers worship the living God. To the blood of Jesus. That should help us in this idea of our inherent obligation to attend church. But now, verse 19 says, but now we have, brethren, we have an opportunity to boldly approach the throne of God, entering into the holiness by the blood of Jesus. You never would be able to boldly come into the doors of the house of God. Is that blood that has made the way, and that blood that has sanctified us? You run to the church, knock on the door, and the priest is asleep. To the blood of Jesus is what I'm trying to help us to say. He says, and having a high priest over the house of God, let us draw near with a true heart, in full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled Lord have mercy. Over the church of God. Having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water. A trend or an attitude or more specifically a spirit that is sweeping our nation to cause the believer In thy name I pray with thanksgiving and expectation. To uh inherent obligation to attend church, to go to church regularly, uh, because we have an obligation to the blood of Jesus, but also we have an obligation to the high priesthood of Jesus. For he who promised is faithful. Free through the blood of the Lamb. That is abandoning the assembling of ourselves together, as is the pattern of the text says, of some. His name is Jesus. He sits down with the voices behind the song. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Nobody and nothing can perfect you except the blood of Jesus For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Would you pray with me, please? I've got watch this. It says verse number 19. Lord Jesus, I feel a sense of obligation to worship him corporately. The series I want to begin preaching and dealing with is from the question: Do we need the church? And the others outside would know he was dead because they would hear him hit the floor and they would hear the bells shaking. Now, Lord, I surrender as a vessel. None of it could ever take away sin. Over the house of God. What he did, he perfected by offering his blood one time We want everything fast, quick, fast, in a hurry. Lord help me here, Jesus. I'm trying to help us understand that the blood of Jesus has paid a price for us that no one else could pay, that no other animal could play, no other blood could pay. Lord have mercy. So so what I do, I've got to be I'm being held accountable to the one who's over top of the whole church of God. No, he sees me perfect before him. I'm worried about the leadership of the church, but the text says, help me, Lord, we have a high priest. I I ain't God go to church. You look at yourself in the mirror. And so he goes on in verse number 20, he says, for by a new and living way, which he consecrated for us. God says, I'm the high priest. In other words, there ought to be in you, every born-again child of God, there ought to be an inherent desire. And and let me say it like this: can you imagine if you had to get into the presence of God and it was two o'clock in the morning, something going on in your life, and you just got to get to God. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. And since I can go myself, I ought to want to go myself and get into the presence of God. Lord, have mercy. To continue our journey, tune in next week for the second half of today's message. I've got a shepherd over me. Father in heaven, we need you once again that the power of your presence may manifest itself through the preaching of the gospel. That matter what time of day, you can boldly come into the presence of God This author here in Hebrews shares with us, I believe, some great strong proofs, if you will, some great strong evidences, some great strong insights for us. You couldn't come into the presence of God. It is that blood that was offered on Calvary on our behalf that not only set us apart, but it made it possible for us For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations, you won't hear anywhere else. Father, I pray that you would speak to those who are privy to hear this word, God, in such a way that if they have drifted in their fellowship, that they will be drawn back into fellowship with you. Don't forsake coming together. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. I've continuously seen and see this attitude that people have about separating from one another as opposed to coming together. Therefore, brethren, having boldness to enter the holiest by the blood of Jesus, we have an obligation. org or contact our church office at 301-627-9500. So I want to talk today from this text, from the subject matter, the inherent obligation to attend church. We have an obligation, y'all, to the blood. Because if he hadn't done everything exactly right, the holiness of God would consume his life I'm talking about the gathering, the ecclesia, the gathering of believers together in one place for the purpose of worshiping I can't even imagine as a Christian today if I could never have entered into the Shekana presence of God. It ain't the pastor. He shed his blood for you. In the early part of chapter 10, the author has already, if you go all the way back, chapter 10, verses 1 through 4, he already has let us know And so even then, men, when they came to worship, came to worship in fear and in shame before God because of their sin. Let me let me see if I can move us along here. How do I get into the presence of God? But this man, after he had offered one sacrifice for sin forever, sat down at the right hand of God. I know you think you don't see perfection, but when you're covered in the blood, God sees perfection. If I don't act right, he's gonna take care of me. Church, if you will, in the context of what I'm dealing with is the ecclesia. No. And let us consider one another in order to stir up love and good works. You ain't God go. It's his, Lord, is his blood that gives me privilege In your hand accomplish through me, God, what you desire to accomplish in this place. And I know people say, well, Pastor, uh, I ain't going down there because deacons ain't right. Don't forsake going to church. We have an obligation to the blood of Jesus to want to go to church. I know people say, well, you you the pastor, you the shepherd of the sheep. Because at the same time, while I'm trying to shepherd you, I'm a sheep myself He doesn't see my flaws. Amen and amen. No, you came in with your chest stuck out. So watch this. Now, in addition to the ecclesia, I do realize that the church is also known by the Can I paint a picture for you for just a moment? We want the convenience. Now, let me dig a little deeper because I need you to understand when I'm talking about church what I'm talking about. He was the one that only one that could go in and get in the presence of God. He's right. That's a great question. You just be hopeful that the blood that was offered on your behalf was good enough to allow you to have some kind of relationship with God. We'll begin our reading in verse 19. In your closet, in your house, you busting in the presence of God. That is, every single one of us who is born again is part of the universal church. Jesus is the high priest. In other words, in all that they did under the law Pastor ain't the high priest. So as a result of that, I feel an obligation, and we ought to feel an obligation to the blood. So you got to go back home with your issue. It opened up the way so that you and I could get into the presence of God without having to give our offering to somebody else. Now the second thing he says here is we have an obligation We ain't got to worry about Lord, have mercy. Are y'all still here with me? But you ought to want to go. The high priest, because he's the only one that can go in the presence of God before the blood of Jesus Don't forsake attending church because we have an obligation And so he says, do not forsake the assembling of yourselves together. Not only does he say we have an obligation to the blood of Jesus, but if you pick up a verse number 21 Because the blood did for us what nobody else could do. I can't get to God except I go through that priest that sleep. Well, it was because of the torn body. We have this sense of entitlement that it should be all about me. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Verse 10 says, it was his blood that sanctified us, set us apart as holy, and gave us right and privilege. That's a great question. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. And Heavenly Father, I pray that your name in the process will get all the glory and all the honor and all of the praise for you, God. Anywhere you want to. He doesn't see my failures. But I'm not talking about the I am church, and I'm not talking about And so I want to talk about our inherent obligation. You and I can boldly, I mean when you came in the house this morning, you didn't come tiptoe and Every year, because the blood they offered last year didn't cover them this year. Let me read some more for you. No, we have a high priest that's over the house of God. And so the church here on today, this Hebrew passage says to us. If it wasn't for the blood of Jesus You came in strutten. No, I want to go myself. If you don't feel a sense, watch this. They ain't the high priest For additional information, Lord Jesus. Let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering Carrying on this morning, I want to begin And everybody's gonna be accountable to him. Praise the Lord And the high priest would have a rope tied around his waist. m. Amen The word of the Lord reads as follows, therefore, brethren If the deacon don't act right, he'll take care of him. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. or 11 a. Lord, have mercy. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. And now, Pastor Sterling. Lord have mercy. We owe it. I was sharing this morning in my imagination when I was reading this text. And so, but but now we have a problem with people going to church Help me. No, I'm the under-shepherd. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. And this ought to be an encouragement to somebody. m. And we're walking through the middle of these two torn pieces of flesh. Here in chapter 10, verse 12 says this: it says, but this man at our new edifice. Um, Jesus. Driving on the beltway, you bust it in the presence of God. You came in boldly because you came to worship the living God. Now he's bringing you their stories. Because if it had not been for the blood of Jesus I yield, I yield, shall they hear and see you, and not me. But not only get in the presence of God by myself, but I ought to want to get in the presence of God with other folk. But now look at you I mean Heavenly Father, bring Lord, have mercy. The One Degree of Andy podcast. He was the one that was the Well, I owe it to the blood. We don't have to worry about whether he's doing the right thing. Lord have mercy. You ain't shame in your game, but you come in boldly There ought to be a character piece in us. You ain't gotta worry about whether or not he's right or not. First of all, because let me Because I know I have some spiritual folk in the house. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. Now he's bringing you their stories. We have a high priest over the house of God. I'm Andy Christman. There seems to be We've got an obligation. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Whew The veil now is not a curtain. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. And it never took away sin. Oh, yeah, he's doing the right thing. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. And so there. I'm Andy Christman in his new podcast, One Degree. It just kind of put a covering on sin. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever. He's right. But now. Because they still had sin. God, speak a word.