Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. Well, it's another exciting day to know Jesus and to be in his presence. And we're excited on this day, especially to be able to Uh extend very special wishes to all of our mothers on today. Amen. Praise the name of the Lord. We're grateful for all of you. Bless the name of the Lord. For those that are in present as well as those are listening via live stream, if you have your Bibles with you and you should, I want to invite your attention on this morning to Genesis 1:27 by saying amen. The word of the Lord on this morning reads as follows. So God created man in his own image. In the image of God, he created him, male and female. He created them. Then God blessed them and said to them, Be fruitful And multiply, fill the earth, subdue it, have dominion over the fish of the sea, over the birds of the air, and over every living thing that moves On the earth. Chapter 2, verse 21. And the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall on Adam. and he slept, and he took one of his ribs, and closed up the flesh in its place, and then the rib which the Lord God had taken from man he made into a woman. And he brought her to the man. Chapter 3, verse 20. And Adam called his wife's name Eve. Because she was the mother of all living. Would you pray with me this morning? Father in heaven, we honor you, we bless you, we thank you. For this day, we thank you for your word. We thank you for the worship we've experienced already. We're praying even now, God, that your presence would move in our midst That you would speak in an extraordinary way. That all that is done and all that is said will bring glory and honor to your name. Father, I'm praying for those that are lost on today that they may come to know you In the pardon of their sin, those that have drifted in their fellowship, God, that they will renew the broken fellowship. They would return to you and restore the broken relationship. I'm praying, Heavenly Father, that you would speak a word in our midst that would encourage someone, Lord God, who is discouraged, a word that would edify this body of believers. I'm praying, Heavenly Father, that you would speak clearly in the midst. of your people on today that we will know we have heard from God. Have your way now, Lord, and we will forever give your name all the honor and all the glory and all the praise. It's in Jesus' name I pray And I surrender myself a vessel to be used. In Jesus' name. This miracle that I want to talk about on this morning is the motherhood miracle. Amen, somebody The miracle of motherhood is, if I can say, has made it possible for each and every one of us to be here on this day. Without the miracle of motherhood, we would not exist in the format in which God had designed it to take place and had and we wouldn't even It's that kind of miracle that I talked about that we take for granted, but at the same time, it's in front of us and we're looking at it all the time and don't even realize it's a miracle So let me let me just say it this way. When you look at your mother on this morning, when you look at the mothers on this morning, you're looking at a miracle. Amen, somebody And just in case you you wanted to try to make this whole thing about you, the fact that you are here is a miracle from God as well. Amen. But it's a miracle that has happened through the miracle of motherhood. This idea of the motherhood miracle. First and foremost, I want to just look at the miracle of the mother's creation because I I'm a firm believer that in in the whole Uh creation of the mother. I think that's the best place to start. The best place to start is how did God create her in the first place? And I think the the creation of the mother is is something that we can gain great insight about. So when we talk about this miracle of motherhood and we start here uh in her creation. We look at these verses that we've read. We look at Genesis 2 21 for example and 22 that I read in your hearing and God Who is a miracle worker? Watch this. He watched he's already performed a miracle in taking dirt and making it into man. Y'all still hear? And then he just then he took dirt. He took dirt, shaped the dirt, formed the dirt, blew breath into the dirt, the dirt became A living being. That was a miracle, just in case y'all didn't know. That was a miracle right there. Dirt became human. Y'all still hear? And and here then comes the next portion of that. If you're familiar with scripture, uh Adam is naming all the creatures, he's wise, he's articulate, he's capable and all that good stuff He in in the logical sense Adam is capable of doing it by himself, but God says it ain't good for you to be alone. Lord help us right here. Um God says even though you are smart, you're articulate, you're strong, you're all that You're a bag of chips, but you ain't no change. You need some help. Amen, somebody. And so what God does is he performs another transformative miracle by taking the man, putting him to sleep Performing a miraculous surgery. This is the first surgery in the Bible. God performs surgery on the man by putting him to sleep, putting him under anesthesia Reaching into his rib cage, removing by the transformative hand of God a rib from the man Y'all still here? And while the man is still in recovery, because the Bible says he closed the flesh up In its place. Y'all still hear? For all my surgeons in the house. He he stitched him up with a magnificent stitch that could not be seen later on. Y'all still here? And while he was in recovery, God takes a rib. Stay here with me. And the Bible says he he turned the rib into a woman. Let me read it for you because y'all think it I'm just Making this up. There is right there in the text, verse 22. Then the rib which the Lord God had taken from the man, he made into a woman. And then he brought the woman to the man. Y'all stay here? I know oftentimes you read this and you hear the preaching of this, and it's about marriage and all that good stuff, and all that's in there, but this that's not where I'm going this morning. I'm talking about the miracle. Of the mother being created. Y'all still hear? And so watch this. He the the fact of her creation is a miracle in that Watch this. God takes dirt, dust, makes a man out of it, blows into it. Now he's a he's a human being. That's a miracle. So then God takes him, puts him to sleep, breaks off a rib, closes the rib up, takes the rib. All he has is a rib, and he takes the rib. And makes the rib into a woman, and this rib is gonna become a mother. Y'all still here? All right, all right. And so watch this. So so this miracle creating mother, it wasn't just a random creation. Watch this. Her creation wasn't just random. God was very specific in the creation of the woman. In that he uses a rib to create her. Watch this. She was created from the rib to be a helpmate to the man. Stay here with me Because she has purpose when he created her. She has purpose. The woman has purpose. The mother has purpose. Stay here with me. Even if you don't get to the mother stage, the woman had purpose. Stay here with me. She was created In the text, I'm just taking it out the Bible. I'm not making it up. I'm not trying to no out of the text, the text says she was made to be a helpmate to the man. I know y'all might not like it, but I did not write it. It was already here when I got here. She was created with Purpose to be a helpmate to the man because even though the man was strong and articulate and wise and all that good stuff, God said he can't handle this by himself. I'm gonna make him some help God doesn't provide help if you don't need it. Help me somebody. And so therefore, when God made man, man needed help and man couldn't do what God had made him to do by himself. Come here, help me somebody, and he could not do it with another man. So therefore Before God made him a woman, because in order to make her into a mother, she had to be a woman. Y'all still not with me this morning. God has intentionality about everything he does, even though we want to do it our way. She's got purpose. She was created to be help to the man, a helpmate to the man. She was not only created to be a helpmate to the man, she was created to be a wife to the man. A wife to the man. I I I really didn't come to preach about that this morning. But it's in the text. God made a woman to be the helpmate and the wife to the man. Just to hear But but that's the that's not the end because the in the in the to in totality what God is after is being able to fulfill a blessing he put on the woman and the man in the first place. It's right there in the text. It's in the First chapter uh uh of one twenty twenty-seven and twenty-eight that I read, it says, let me see if I can read that because I want to make sure y'all know I'm not I'm not making stuff up for today's culture. I'm reading what God has intended for every culture. God created in his own image. Lord God. Uh he created the man, male and female. He created them and then God blessed them and said to them, Be fruitful and multiply. Fill the earth, subdue it, and have dominion over all the fish of the sea, all the birds of the air, and over every living thing that moves on the earth. That was God's plan. God did that. I didn't do that. God did that. And so he created this woman to be a helpmate to the man, a wife to the man, but he also created her to be a reflection of himself. Y'all still here with me? God created this this mother to be a reflection of his own image. It's in there, I just read it. She was created to reflect. To reflect him, to be in his image and in his likeness. He created the woman who is a mother to be in his image and his likeness. Watch this. First she's a woman, but then she's a mother in that she's blessed to multiply. Okay. Um and so the the the mother, the the woman who is will be a mother Because a man couldn't be a mother. It's in the text. She was created from a reib. Stay here with me. From the man. God was intentional even about that. He did not take her and make her from a bone from his head. That she would have dominion over him, nor did he create her out of a bone from the foot, that he would walk all over her. No, he created her. See, God's very intentional. He created her from a rib. Watch this. One that she would be by his side. Stay here with me. And and and watch this. And in the formation of her from the rear, she has in her DNA the protective instinct. To be protection over that which is most vital and vulnerable. Stay here with me, Lord. Help me, Jesus And so therefore, can I say this and not get in trouble? Mothers have a greater sense of protectiveness To protect that which is vulnerable, Lord help me here, and and that which can't help itself So mothers have a greater sense of protection over their children, and we even know it growing up, and that's why when we get in trouble, we don't call for daddy, we call for mama. Can I get a witness in the house? When trouble hits, we don't say daddy. No, we say ma. Because we know mama is gonna protect us Am I right about it? And so in God's creation of her, he was so intentional about all of that that she was created to be that protective person that that To have the DNA of a rea mentality and and to be and to be strong. Because oftentimes it's the mother who stays when trouble comes. There's a whole lot of folk that can testify daddy left. But mama stayed. Mama stayed with six kids, seven kids, ten kids, twelve kids. And no job. Who really has the strength? She was created with that protective nature She had purpose in her creation. God was intentional about it. In her creation of being created from a rib and being uh having these results, I looked at that and I thought, you know what, perhaps this is why w mothers handle so many things so well. It's amazing to me. Um now, and in the grand scope of things for those resentful mothers Can I talk to somebody? Who resent the fact that, wow, I got to do this and this and this and this. You were created for it. God gave you the resilience for it. I'm sorry, that didn't go over too well But you were not created from dust. You were created from a rib that was made from the dust. Y'all still here? That's a miracle. The whole thing of her creation is a miracle from God. So so let me look let me look at another another portion of this. I want to look now at the that's the miracle of the mother's creation. I want to look at the miracle of the mother's ability to conceive Now I know that you know as we look at things and we assess things we we just kind of assume you know what you know conception is easy, you know, being that that's this is some easy thing. It's It seems easy, automatic, maybe even, um, you know, a mother's ability to conceive, but a mother's ability, a woman's ability to conceive and become a mother is a miracle It literally is a miracle for for watch this. Let me dig into my little science book a little bit. In order for a mother to conceive a baby, a child Okay. There's a whole lot of things that have to happen at the right time. Y'all still here? Anybody pass this class? I mean, there's a window of ovulation And and it has to happen in that window of time. And the temperatures have to be right. Y'all know this? Did y'all pass this class? I got some doctors in the house, they can tell me you the the temperature has to be right. Not only does the temperature have to be right, watch this. Everything has to be working At the same time and in the proper way. Because watch this, I learned some stuff. I had to go back, I did some more study. I found out some stuff. This might be a little bit over the top, but It's this is this is life, it's is real, it's the you know, it it okay, I yeah. The sperm has to swim up And reach the ovulated egg at the right time, at the right temperature, and he has to be the strongest because the egg will reject the weak. Um there's a million trillion things that can go wrong In the process of getting there. And even after the egg meets the sperm meets the egg and they get together and all that stuff, the all of that Fertilized egg has to find a home in a suitable place in the womb. Attached to the womb, grow. Over the nine months, then this human being has to now evacuate the premises. I'm talking about a miracle. This is a miracle. And and come out and live. This this Uh this this thing is a miracle. The fact that she can even conceive it is a miracle because there's so many obstacles But Genesis chapter 1, 28 lets me know how the miracle happens. God blessed them y'all see that so the miracle of conception is possible because god Intervenes in the humanity of man and allows for a blessing to be on the man and the woman, but for the purpose, watch this Of conceiving and being fruitful and multiplying, because without the blessing of God, you will not be fruitful and you will not multiply. So watch this. So if God doesn't bless, multiplication can't take place. I'm sorry, I'm looking while I keep floating back to this. And so therefore, since God didn't bless the union of two women. I know y'all love each other. God is love and all that. But when you say God is love, you also have to understand what love is. Love is true, pure, and righteous. And God blessed them so that they could multiply So conception is possible. The miracle of conception is possible because of the blessing of God. Now, can I talk to somebody else? Because somebody else says, Well, I was never able to concede. All it so so what are you trying to say, Pastor? What I'm trying to say is that blessing is not on your life, but it doesn't mean you're not blessed Because the blessing on your life might be to be a mother without conceiving. The blessing on your life might be adoption. The blessing on your life might be caring for somebody else's. child who couldn't take care of them. The blessing on your life might be different, but you are no less blessed. Okay. Um so her ability to conceive is is a miracle. Biologically, all these things have to happen. And God, this is another thing about God. God made it, makes everything happen so that it can happen Can I go back to my biology for a moment? In the ovulation period for the female, there is a uh an additional uh I'm gonna call it, I'm making up this word, glyceral fluid. That flows at a higher rate during ovulation to facilitate the swimming of the sperm to the aid. So I'm trying to help somebody. God makes things happen so that they can happen. So the miracle can happen. I know y'all gonna Google this when y'all get home. I did my research. It's for real. And I I because we got children present, I don't want to go into all the other things that God makes happen to make it happen. Just a whole lot of stuff that God makes happen to make it happen. Amen. Praise the Lord. I think that's why God made it fun so it could happen So that they could be fruitful and multiply. It's a miracle, that's all I'm trying to say But it's in the text. I'm not making it up. I'm good because I'm in the Bible. I'm in the Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the Radio Broadcast Ministry. of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. For a copy of this sermon on CD Or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship services. Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland or virtually via our website, Facebook and YouTube. For additional information Go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301 six two seven nine five zero zero please join us again as senior pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. He says Down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.