You carved the wood statue, you built the house. The man says it was that woman that you gave me. What tree? Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Male and female who creates them, verse 28. Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. One Degree of Andy. Voices behind the song. To God. When God created everything, he says, let them have dominion over the fish of the sea that belong to me. of the highest level for God. With the s the stewardship of God. That's the friend of the child. And it would raise us, and we didn't even need rain. How it's supposed to be, but it also shows us the error. Stewardship. D wherever you get your podcasts where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. I want to invite your attention to Genesis chapter 1, verse 1. Be fruitful and multiply and feel the earth and subdue it and have dominion over all the fish of the sea and over the birds of the air and over every living thing that moves on the earth. And we will give your name all the glory and all the honor and all the praise for you alone, God, are worthy of it all. what uh we have created and so we're gonna allow man to be our representative to take care of what we have created. Over the cattle that belong to me, over all the earth that belongs to me, and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth that belongs to me. that yields seed, which is on the face of the earth, and every tree whose fruit yields seed, and to you it shall be for food. And into your care. In verse 29, God said, I've given you everything. What he had made before he entrusted into the hands of man, he says, the condition that I'm giving it to you is very good. Man, in essence, acted like he understood the instructions. Their friend said, Well, let's go eat some of the fruit of the stewardship that you have. Do you realize even to this point it had not even rained on earth? But they messed it up. What do you mean, Pastor? What if God started auditing? And so when we realized we was naked, we just said, well, we since we had the fig tree, because we was eating that fig tree, God, we was eating at the fig tree. Trees that bore fruit, and man had opportunities to eat of all kinds of fruit. Praise the Lord. And so he said, I heard your voice in the garden and I was afraid because I was naked and I hid myself. Have you eaten from the tree of which I commanded you that you should not eat? said to the woman, What is this that you have done? Lord, draw those who are drifting back into the fellowship that they might re-establish their relationships with you. Stewardship literally means to manage the property of somebody else. someone else's property, I think it is important to begin by establishing who owns the property. God already owned the nothingness, and in the nothingness, God existed himself. Guess what? The psalmist is trying to help us to understand and see that God owns everything and everybody. What this text is literally saying is let man have representative rule over everything that belongs to me. But they were merely being entrusted with it. He has responsibility over every living thing that moves on the earth. Matter of fact, even when you go rent a car, they look it over, but then they say you look it over. In very good conditions, but in giving man the stewardship, God also gives him some responsibilities and some conditions of managing his property. God said to Adam, Adam, you could eat from every tree in the garden, but of the tree which of knowledge and evil you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat of it, you will surely die. They died. Are you chasing everybody else's story and not building your own for the kingdom of God? This is my imagination, okay? I looked at Eve and she was naked. So I was hiding, Lord, over here. Wasn't me. For the sin of the one. So what my parents would do is they'd line all six of us up and everybody's gonna get a whooping. We all are suffering because of the sin of Adam. Eve says with a serpent, serpent looked around, he had nobody to blame. I don't care how small it is, I don't care how insignificant you might think it is, when God takes order, He orders everything He knows everything he's put in your care. Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. And the earth. Uh in the image of God he created him, and male and female he created them. To you that might encourage us to live for you. Spirit of the Lord, I stand in need of you that you might speak clearly through me. Today's text actually at the beginning helps us with this subject matter of stewardship and understanding and comprehending what that should have and was designed to be. And that they have any responsibility of stewardship at all. Before you could grab the toy, before you can you know wrestle the keys away, before before there were any tangible things to argue about ownership of when there was nothing to own Out of the nothingness because he is an ex-nahilo God, which means he exists out of nothing. And created heaven and earth. And I'm giving it to you in very good condition. But I have one criteria that I need you to grab hold of, and that is see all these trees you can eat from all those trees. Violating the stewardship that God had given him, we would not have been in sin. That was was given to you in very good condition. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship Services, Sundays at 10 a. six two seven nine five zero zero please join us again as Senior Pastor And let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. Catherine, this morning I want to begin preaching through a series of messages entitled Standards of the Steward. approach this subject matter that we go to the beginning, Genesis, because it is there in the beginnings. And in Genesis, where everything started, where I believe we can discover the answers to a large number of our problems. And to deal with the basics first, and in establishing the basics, if stewardship is the management of As he had declared he was going to do. You thought you owned something. But if you're not the owner, then you're managing somebody else's property. So I assess it because I'm the steward of it. By God's standard, everything He entrusted man with, it was in the standard of perfection. Tree of knowledge and evil. it. Like they have the freedom to choose whether or not they can eat what belongs to God that God said don't eat. you. I heard you. Notice in the text. You gave me that woman, she made me mess up. But God turns to the woman and says to the woman, What is this thing that you've done? Who's her leader? Chapter 3, verse 9. Would you pray with me this morning? Our struggles, our challenges that we face from day to day. A good place in establishing some standards of the steward. In different ways, but I think it is critically important to begin at the beginning And so God created man and he created the woman in his own likeness In the beginning, God created heaven and earth in the beginning. Secondly, God entrusted us to steward his property He says to him, he says, now I'm going to give it to you, but there's some some qualifications you need to understand. God shows up in the cool of the day, and God comes walking, looking for Adam to have a walk and a talk with him, like they had had so many times before, but on this day, Adam didn't show up. God shows up in the cool of the day, and he's looking around, and he says, Adam, where are you? I I was I was afraid to come because I was naked. See, it's not that God didn't know. This is just my imagination. In fact, I think that for a large number of people, they are completely unaware that this even happened. As I look at this, I think that we're not in the place where God started it out to be. Verse 26 says, let us make man in our own image according to our own likeness. And here's the interesting thing. So here's God. With an expectation of coming back to get it without first examining the condition of it before we let it go. Very good. God will hold us accountable for what he placed us as stewards over. Because he had violated the stewardship of God's creation. For this audit, Adam comes up with this lame story. But he's trying just like us to pretend that he's doing such a good job in trusting and taking care of what God has given him. So then God says to the woman, which is to me a little bit, it's a little strange that even God even bothers to address the woman, because if I was God, I would just slap the man and say, Shh, shut up, man up and take responsibility, you lying. God won't notice. One fruit is missing. To continue our journey, tune in next week for the second half of today's message. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. He was friendly at first. If today was a surprise audit that God showed up to audit all that he had entrusted into your care, where are you? But it's the kind of story that we give God to. Was missing from one tree in the middle of the garden. Out of all the millions of trees, God, what tree are you talking about? Everything he's gonna hold us accountable for. Psalm 24 says that the earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof, and they who dwell in it He sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. But here's something I noticed. That means the man and the woman are he is too. Well here's a good simple answer because it's not yours. Are you spending all your time on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, trying to figure out what everybody else is doing? No, that was him. And remember to reference the title or broadcast date. What does he entrust? This is us too. He's created all this stuff. You have the responsibility to steward everything I've created. The man. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor We just decided to take some fig leaves and cover up the places where we felt like we were naked. Guess what? It was in very good condition. Verse 26. Father, we need you on this morning that you might speak in the midst of our time a word that is clear, a word that helps us to grow in our understanding and our faithfulness. And the children are showing off with the property that God has trusted them with. What are you spending my money on? I did, I did, I heard you, and I was gonna come, but there was this nakedness thing that it just it it just kind of showed up. You can't get around anything belonging to him. He blessed them and he said to them, Be fruitful and multiply, fill the earth and subdue it So in the evening and the morning was the sixth day. Not only did they mess that up, they messed up our eternity with God. When God comes out, where are you Adam? No, he did it. This is why I love going back to Genesis, because Genesis shows us everything about us. We've got it. Because now that man is in sin, now that man has violated his stewardship, he is not taking responsibility That was good theology for me to help to understand this because guess what? But God, speak a word that may draw someone out of the darkness and into the marvelous light. She said, the man I take responsibility, why should I? You don't own anything. He says, look, we're going to create when we put it in the in under the control of man, but watch this. But in their death, they realize they're naked. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. That tree I don't want you to eat from. Everything had every fruit. He has entrusted your spouse, your children, your money, your homes, your car, your stuff. We was talking. No, she did it. And the woman said, The serpent deceived me and I ate. It's God is forcing him to acknowledge the error in his stewardship Adam's sin got pastors all. It's in good condition. He notices that one fruit off of millions of trees. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Out of all the trees that were in the garden, and I can only imagine there were millions and millions of He knows everything he's entrusted into your stewardship. He went off to be the steward over God's property. I was in the figs. Literally, what he's saying, God, it's your fault that I messed up. And God says, Adam, where are you? The one tree I told you not to eat from. But everything you made it out of is God's. And she looked at me and she said, oh, Adam, you naked too. Then God said, Let us make man in our image according to our likeness. I believe when we go back to the beginning, we can kind of it helps us to get clarity on the places from where we may have drifted from. Because it's not your money, it's his money. Then the Lord called to Adam and said to him, Where are you? And I would suggest that that means is he is. I noticed that one fruit was missing off of the tree It's the blame game. That you might allow my mind to be clear, my lips to speak clearly that which you have laid on my heart to say. Look at these other verses, because it's breaking it down. By the time we get over to chapter 3, verse 9, man has already messed up. And when God created man and God created woman, just like he created heaven and he created earth. Now watch this. God owns everything. We don't get to slide nothing past God Verse 31, God saw everything that he had made, and indeed the condition of it was Well, you know, I was gonna come. So he's really blaming God for messing up the stewardship of his property. So watch this. Before sin, animals didn't even eat people. My parents' solution was called the good suffer for the bad. So watch this. And God said, man, I'm trusting you to steward what belongs to me. What if today was an audit of your stewardship? God begins to issue out judgments for failed We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. That's a great question. And the friend says, Why don't we take and eat of that tree right there? In Jesus' name I pray. We was gonna get some figs because we like figs. We all are now engulfed in sin, born in sin, shaped in iniquity because Adam messed up This foundation will help us to get to But before they give it to me, they already checked it to see what the condition was. She also does not take responsibility because guess what? The word of the Lord reads as follows: In the beginning, God created the heavens. So God made everything. So so the Lord is going to hold you accountable for this. There was no need for rain. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together Before then, they did not realize their nakedness. One fruit is missing from the tree. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Not only does he give it to him. Everybody ought to be paying attention to this. Watch this. The man said, The woman whom you gave to be with me, she gave to me of the tree of and I ate, and the Lord And God says, see, I'm giving you every herb. Now I don't know if about y'all, but I walk all the way around the car because I don't want to pay for nothing that somebody else messed up. But we heard you and we heard you was coming. org or contact our church office at 301 But I want you to take care of everything else that I've given you in very good condition. If it hadn't been for Adam If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Over the birds of the air that belong to me. Wasn't me, wasn't me. And the Lord spoke to the serpent in verse 14 and on. Everything belongs to God. What are you doing with the time that I give you? And so she says it's that serpent. The good are suffering for the bad After he created man in his image, verse 27. And in giving man the stewardship, he also assesses the condition of what he has entrusted into man's care. Everything belongs to him. By the time we got to chapter 3, verse 1, we see the serpent showing up. In this text this morning, I want to talk from the subject matter, the baseline of stewardship So I want you to understand that everything belongs to God. And he's gonna hold us accountable for every single solitary thing that he has given us to take care of. That's a great question. We didn't have to worry about the line and the and the bear and all that. They go through this whole blame game thing. Amen. I'm praying, Lord, that you would speak a word in such a way that every person listening would know they've heard from you. In other words, if you own it, then you get to manage it the way you want to. This is where everybody gets a little sad. All this is yours. Adam and Eve were in the perfect place that the dew would come down in the in the morning and Shows us the beginning. Then God blessed them and said to them So even the things that you made, I know you made that skirt, you made that dress, you sold that tie out together, you did what you but you made it. We eat from the fig tree every day. Pay attention to this, y'all. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. And this God who exists out of nothing spoke into the nothingness Lord help us here. And he said, Who told you that you were naked? Father, I pray that you will provoke us and move us closer to righteousness. Now they didn't own it Now, human logic says It was in the standard of holiness. And so we were plunged into sin because he violated the stewardship that he was entrusted with. Watch this: one piece of fruit Because when I was auditing my property, None of us entrust someone else with something. God says, where are you at a um uh well um And I like the way God responds. This that's a lame story. Adam messed all of us up by violating the stewardship that God had given him. My parents had a they had a solution for that wasn't me thing. I want to kind of lean into this stewardship theme. In the beginning, before there were possessable things to argue about. He owns it all. And we don't. Lord have mercy. Now they already knew God said, You can't eat of that one, but they're pretending like it's theirs. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass: the One Degree of Andy podcast. Now And when he assessed She has now learned from her leader how to deflect. They're trying to pretend like it's their property. m. God shows up. But there's a a tree in the midst of the garden. And then guess what happens? Because if it had not been for that woman that you gave me, I would have been a good steward. What that tells me is that you can't slide nothing past God Now he's bringing you their stories. And now, Pastor Sterling. It's not that God didn't know where Adam was, but God needed Adam to acknowledge where he was. at the Legacy Center. And he goes on. So so in other words, everybody suffered. And we was gonna eat we was gonna be eating some figs The One Degree of Andy podcast. Everything belongs. Let them have dominion. He says, who told you that? It was in the standard of Let man steward We could have gone camping and didn't have to worry about the snake or nothing. How come I can't just do what I want with Now, I think it's important as we He got everything. Watch this. Speak now. And they take it, they eat of it. I'm Andy Christman. A surprise audit happens. Now he's bringing you their stories. Everything's all everything I created. So God does, in essence, the same thing. And Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. If you have your Bibles with you on this morning and you should. So God created man in his own image and I mean, all of a sudden. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. And guess what? I'm Andy Christman in his new podcast. I'm I'm putting it under Listen now to One Degree of Andy.