Where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor Buchus Sterling III Tell me what your nothing but is. And Jeremiah, I've called you to be a prophet to the nations. I can't use what I got to do what you calling me to do. Then they come back in. And the vessels are filling up, and the vessels are filling up, and the vessels are filling up. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together and we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 8 a. Stop by to let you know God specializes in using nothing but y'all remember Moses when he was leading the children of Israel and Lord have mercy. Voices behind the song. They've come out of Egypt and they're on their way to the promised land. Israelites and they get to the Red Sea and they've got the Red Sea in front of them and they got mountains on either side. You're out here facing Goliath, and it seems like an unwinnable situation. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And I need us to grab a hold of this because God does some awesome things with our nothing but. And five smooth stones, David. You gotta identify what it is. Pour the oil and so she takes her nothing but and she starts pouring the oil and the vessels fill up Pour it out and pour it out and pour it out and pour it out. And the Bible says she got to the last one. For any kind of income in the future, and I'm getting ready to lose them. You you you grew up on nothing but it was five, six, seven, eleven, twelve children in the house, and y'all ain't have nothing but three bedrooms. Lord help me today. Government cheese, but look at God. Start looking around at how God has filled vessels in your life. Nothing but but herein lies our problem when we get all these blessings we don't go back to God and say God how do I use what you bless me with this woman She goes back to the Elijah and says, Elijah, I did what you told me. The debt, and I'm blessing you with money enough so that you have enough to live off of. Of the blood of Jesus. Nothing but a jar of oil. Father, in your name we bless you. of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. With us in Kingdom Building. I want y'all to borrow some empty vessels. I don't have no job. Lord help us today. Because the neighbors are nosy neighbors. And they say, if you pour that oil into this one vessel, you're not even gonna fill up that vessel. And he says, now that you close the door, you and your sons close the door. Pour the oil into all the vessels. And she keeps pouring and she keeps pouring and she keeps pouring and she keeps pouring and the vessels keep filling up and all she got is nothing but all she got is her nothing but but she's pouring her You pour out that wisdom you got. Pour out that serving ministry. room and somebody slept on a sofa and two or three was in this bed. You started off nothing but $2. Sit in the back of my car. Now I know he sees me, so I'm doing everything I can do to avoid him hitting me. life to Jesus. And I'll make you whole again. Upper Marlboro, Maryland. She says, I've got nothing but a jar or what's your nothing but for your situation. If you've got nothing but and faith in God, that's all you need. Lord help us today. From all over the all over to all your neighbors. And when you have come in, you shall shut the door behind you and your sons, then poured into all those vessels. I need you to exercise some nothing but faith. And what I like about the text is Elijah says to this woman, don't just borrow a few, because the number of vessels that she gets. I believe if he had just said, just go borrow some vessels, maybe she would have came back with two vessels. To grow beyond what it normally would be. Beyond what you have. Is bigger than this number of vessels. I ain't got nothing but a jar of oil. Because first of all, all I've got, I got nothing but a jar of oil. Pastor, why are we closing the door? It's gonna say what you doing? Because that one pint fits inside of that vessel. with this one pint of oil. into all the vessels that I've collected. Because after you identify your nothing but and pour out your nothing but, the last thing you need to do is live on your nothing but. If you promise not to be critical. Here's our problem. Now, when I was reading this text, I'm thinking to myself, I try to put myself in her position, and I'm thinking, what we're gonna do with all this? God, what shall I do after you bless my nothing but? debt when I start blessing you when you move from a GS3 to a GS7 to a GS9 pay off the debt he didn't say go get in more debt he said pay off And I had no way to protect myself. Whole again. And you won't have nothing but the blood. was paid my debt that I owed to God. Your nothing but because God can take your nothing but multiply it all around you You'll see he's done more with that little than you could have done with a lot. You're living as apples right now today. With your nothing but. If we just pour out our nothing but and trust you by faith to take care of all of our need, we can live off the rest. Thank you, God. They got nothing but a jacked up life. Father in heaven, draw that man, that woman, that boy, that girl, that they will trust you with their nothing but and place their faith in you so that you, God, can bless them. That they might live and live abundantly according to your blessings. Remind them, Lord, that you know their situation, you hear their cries, and that you're waiting for them. And he's gonna take my two sons. When it wasn't a wasn't a crime to put more than one person in the bedroom. Y'all here with me? To exercise faith in you. office at 301-627-9500. And set the full ones aside. I need you to borrow some vessels. And now she and her sons have gathered these vessels because all of this takes faith. It takes faith to go tell your sons, go borrow vessels from the neighbors. To take care of everything you need. He's got a way of multiplying your nothing but some of you grew up in shacks, some of you grew up on welfare, and you ain't have nothing but a welfare check, nothing but some I guarantee you you and your sons can live off the rest. Used to be a time we have nothing but that old station wagon. Praise the Lord. And on my way, driving down the road, I see a deer coming at me at my car from the side. On that name. Verse 7, she came to the told the man of God, and he said, go sell the oil. Y'all still here with me? Sometimes you're going to identify that you don't have nothing but the name of Jesus. Pastor, how you how you gonna say that? You know, I'm treating him like a another driver. But the blood of Jesus. Thank you for reminding us that you have greater expectations, greater blessings to come our way. is connected to how much faith she has in what God can do. But not just a few. That watch this, it'll keep pouring until all the need is met. And pay your debt. This is the problem we have. Lord help us pour out the oil and so you put tooth in one room and you put somebody slept in the bedroom You grew up on nothing but. He keeps on coming. Because you'll live on the blood, you'll live because of the blood. Because the blood is more than enough for me. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. And you ain't have nothing but and and so your parents said we got all these children, but we ain't got all we got is two bedrooms, and God said, Pour out And so we go buy another car. Watch this. Take care of everything you have need of. But you and your sons live the rest of your lives off of the rest of what God has done with your nothing but Can I be honest with you? Let me help you here. So she goes back to the man of God and says, watch this. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. This is my this is my luxury vote. Y'all missed that one. When my wife and I got married, moved all the way to North Dakota. And right now, today I'm living on the rest because I poured out my nothing but. I ain't got no money. And now we got all these vessels in the house. But then after he identifies what it is, he tells her to take your nothing but and pour it out. You're gonna get in some situations, some circumstances, and you have no way to help yourself. I got washed in the blood. Maybe somebody here today has never trusted you as Lord and Savior of their life. And Moses says, and that says, God, I ain't got nothing but this rod in my hand. Nothing but the blood of Jesus. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. And what I want you to imagine with me for just a moment, I want you to step in with me into the life of this woman, this certain woman. Now it takes faith, Lord, for this woman to start pouring this oil because she intellectually knows that ain't no way in the world I'm gonna fill up all these vessels Pour out whatever it is God has given to you. I poured out that name. From the waters. All I got is a high school education. It's a big buck with a rack on his head. They've got nothing but a busted family, bad marriages, divorces, legacy of abuse. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. But it takes faith. Use your slingshot and use your five smooth stones. Y'all do know that. Pastor, all I got is this voice of mine. And I say I'm I'm pouring this oil into all these vessels. Our problem is we don't go ask God, what shall I do with the blessing you just gave me? Got a seven-passenger vehicle and you the only one in it. Amen. And the body of believers says amen. Because there's some nosy people out there. I just lost my husband. Don't borrow vessels that have anything in it. I need another, I need another, I need another. Because it happened to me this week. And so every now and then you need somebody to tell you that God's getting ready to do something that's bigger than you thought he could do And so, uh, sons, I need y'all to go get some more vessels. Look how He's multiplied. And the man of God said, start pouring your oil in the vessels. All I got is two fish and five loaves of bread. My grandmother prayed the blood on me. They talking about taking my house. And our God is so great that He doesn't just meet the need, He exceeds the need. Jeremiah, what you got? When you use your nothing but, God will fill up enough vessels. 50 an hour. Let your nothing but pay your debts and live off to rest. Go to all your neighbors. You and your sons live on the rest. All I had, I didn't have nothing but the name of Jesus. And the neighbors know that her she was married to a prophet and her husband died. God, I hear you saying, bring me your nothing but. Cause you Lord can take care of their nothing but And God says, Oh yeah, Jeremiah, you use that tongue of youth and you go and you gonna speak to the nations with what you got. And so they've borrowed these vessels, but this ain't enough vessels because my my God And she said, son, bring me another vessel. And now I got God, you didn't work the miracle. Yeah y'all still missed it. It takes a lot of faith for her to go do this and send her sons out to her neighbors. And so she starts doing what the man of God said do. He said, first of all, after she poured all this oil out in all these vessels, I'm gonna let y'all peek inside the house. Look at God, and you need to Lord help me here. Watch this, Lord, help us here. And watch this. Pastor, all I got, all I got, Pastor, is this little paycheck where you pour out that paycheck Father in heaven, thank you for the blood of Jesus. They get so far down the road, and then the Egyptians change their minds and they decide we're gonna go after them after all, and they're coming up behind the And so academically, I don't know what you're trying to do. Watch this. I'm already grieving the loss of my husband, and they're getting ready to take my two sons. He lifted me. So Elijah says, Sell the oil. And I'm going to tell you, you better start pouring out the blood. All I got is a 10th grade education. That God has blessed you in multiple ways And so he says, okay, look, we got to first of all identify what our nothing but is. So I open the door and let you look in. I know y'all young folk don't know nothing about this, but in in the olden days I know he sees me. I ain't got nothing, Lord. They talk about taking my kids. Sell the oil. So he has blessed this woman now with more than enough. I just want to encourage you today. So she poured out all that oil and then watch what she does. All I got is this little job. Everybody piled up in the back. And what I want you to do is I want you to borrow empty vessels. So you and your sons go and borrow some vessels. What can wash away my sin? I was in debt, sinking to rise no more. I need you to borrow some empty vessels and go to all the neighbors and get as many empty vessels as you can. Lord, help me here. Well, you start pouring that voice out to the glory of God. We have nothing but our luggage and some love. But look at God. Because the one we got is three years old. Then he says, pour the oil. I was on my way home from church late at night. And he's coming at me. That's a great question. If you don't pour the oil, you just got nothing but a jar of oil. What do I do with what you just blessed me with? You're nothing but. And dead acts anybody sitting the back. And I said, Jesus David, what do you got, David? Now what do I do with it? When children could sleep in the same bed. Elijah said, go to your neighbors and borrow empty vessels. And Elijah says, Once you have gathered all the vessels, I need you to close the door. Pour it out. Amen. That's gonna mess up the blessing when I start doing what God said do. But what he does, he provokes her faith I'm living by the blood. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. All I got is a youthful tongue. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. He'll pour it out in such a way. As a child of God Oh Lord, help us. Now safe, safe, safe am I? And I'm gonna bring victory out of just what you have. Well start using what you got. And so they go out, they borrow vessels from the neighbors. Look at the many vessels that God has filled up in your life because you had faith in Him. I'm gonna live on the rest because he took care of my debt. They talk about you taking everything I got. I I need you to get not just a few, and as we have these vessels, I want you to spread them out because we're gonna pour the oil. I got a few folk in the house that know In other words, sometimes, every now and then, you need somebody to help you push your expectation of God. Stay here with me. I can testify, it's a miracle. Praise the Lord. And Moses kind of looks up toward God and said, God, what am I going to do? Oh, how is this gonna meet my need? Now you got a retirement pension. And God says, Well, raise up the rod, Moses, and open up the sea with what you got. And they they'll say, let me see that. My lights on, everything, driving a white car. Jeremiah, I knew you before you knew yourself. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Said, I ain't got nothing but a slingshot And every now and then, I'm gonna try to help somebody. When I move you from 250 an hour to 350 an hour, pay off the I'm trying to be kind. Father, thank you in advance for what you're going to do. And Larry said, Ain't no more vessels. Our problem is God starts blessing, we sell the oil, and then we go get in more debt. Lord have mercy. And I say. My mother and father prayed the blood on me. You looked at it and you've degraded it and you've demised it and you've minimized it, and you said, I've got nothing but, but I Pour it out. Lord have mercy. First thing you do when I bless you, pay off the debt. org or contact our church I'm gonna pour out this little job Lord have mercy. Don't don't minimize You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership I'm trying to help somebody because every now and then your circumstance is going to be above your ability to get out of it. It you was a time that's all we had was nothing but Watch this. No, don't Pay off the debt. Bring me your jacked up life. And I got all these containers, I got all these vessels filled up with oil. m. And so I called But I didn't have no way to stop him from coming. Because That's why you gotta close the door. Lord have mercy. Lord have mercy. Watch this God said The reason why I'm still here today is because or 11 a. I got nothing but a lawnmower. That's the only possible potential I have And so here, here I'm trying to help somebody right about here. And I Now I got a whole lot of vessels up here. Let me let me make it plain for you. That ain't in style no more. Now you got SUVs and ain't nobody riding in them Nothing but the blood of Jesus. And you know she owes everybody Well pour out the fish and pour out the loaves of bread. Pour it out. But God, what am I gonna do with the blessing you just blessed me with? You got money in the bank, cars in the garage. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. And now, stay tuned for the conclusion of last week's message This is the next few verses. Do not gather just a few. All I got is a preaching ministry. That's your nothing but m. And they say that's just one pint. Now watch this. Maybe I didn't hit you there. Watch this. at our new edifice called the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway. Watch this. Now he's bringing you their stories. I've got nothing but this lawnmower. Well, take the lawnmower and start cutting somebody's grass But God I'm faithful to the blood. Bring me your nothing but, and I'll make you brand new. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. Help me, Lord Every now and then you need to And all you're gonna have is nothing but the name of Jesus. And then when they go out and borrow vessels from the neighbors, The One Degree of Andy podcast. Watch this. So I'm thinking to myself, I know he sees me. Nothing but faith in God. I knew you were in the moon. Some of you can some of you can relate to this. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. I love it. And if I left the door open, some smart, intelligent person. I know you see me. And God says And the Bible said, then the oil ceased. Live off the rest. All I need is your nothing but First thing he says, and pay off the debt. But the captain of the sea heard my despair. He says, uh Then he said to her, Go borrow vessels from everywhere. Watch this. But Elijah says. If you pay off the debt And even now, as you're speaking to hearts, Pour out that preaching ministry I'm covered in the blood when I gave my Matter of fact, we need two cars Maybe as a child of God, you'll have nothing. I'm Andy Christman. Lord, help me right here David Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Not just to live tomorrow. Nothing but the blood. Look at God. But he doesn't stop coming. It ain't gonna do you no good staying with the little boy. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. What can make me The bill collector is coming. I love the blood. Nothing but in the all the vessels He's got a way of working with your The first thing the blood did. We thank you in advance for uniting Look at the job that you have. Just keep