Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. The word of the Lord from Ruth chapter 2 reads as follows. There was a relative of Naomi's husband, a man of great wealth of the family of Elimelech. His name was Boaz. So Ruth the Moabite has said to Naomi, please let me go to the field and glean heads of grain after him in whose sight I may find favor. And she said to her, Go, my daughter. Then she left, and she went, and she gleaned in the fields after the reapers, and she happened to come to the part of the field that belonged to Boaz. who was of the family of Elimelech. Now behold, Boaz came from Bethlehem and said to the reapers, The Lord be with you, and they answered him, The Lord bless you. And then Boaz said to his servant, who was in charge of the reapers, Whose young woman is this? And so the servant who was in charge of the reapers answered and said, It is the young Moabite woman who came back with Naomi from the country of Moab. And she said, Please let me glean and gather after the reapers among the sheaves. So she came and has continued from morning until now, though she rested a little while in the house. Then Boaz said to Ruth Well you will listen, my daughter, you will you not? Do not go and glean in another field, nor go from here. But stay close to my young women. Let your eyes be on the field which they reap, and go after them. Have I not commanded the young men to not touch you? when they are thirsty, go to the vessel and drink from what the young men have drawn. And so she fell on her face and bowed down to the ground, and said to him, Why have I found favor in your eyes? And uh that you should have uh take notice of me, since I am a foreigner. Boaz answered and said to her, It has uh been fully reported to me All that you have done for your mother in law since the death of your husband and how you have left your father and your mother and your land of your birth and have come to the people whom you did not know before. The Lord repay your work, and a full reward be given to you by the Lord God of Israel, and under whose wings you have come for refuge. Then she said, Let me find favor in your sight, my lord, for you have comforted me and have spoken kindly to your maid servant, though I am not like one of your maidservants Now Boaz said to her, At mealtime, come here and eat of the bread, and dip your piece of bread into the vinegar, so she sat beside the reapers and uh he passed her parched grain to her, and she ate and was full or rather satisfied, and kept back some. And when he she arose up to glean, Boaz commanded his young men, saying, Let her glean even among the sheaves And do not reproach her. Let grain fall from the bundles purposefully for her. Leave it that she may glean, and do not rebuke her. So she gleaned in the field until the evening, and she beat out what she had gleaned and it was about an ephod of barley and she took it up and she went into the city to her mother in law and her mother in law saw what she had gleaned so she brought out and gave it to her what she had kept back after. She had been satisfied. Then her mother-in-law said to her, Where have you gleaned today, and where did you work? Blessed be the one who took notice of you So she told her mother in law whom she had worked and said, The man's name with whom I work today is Boaz, and Naomi said to her daughter in law, Blessed be he of who of the Lord, who has not forsaken his kindness. uh to the living and to the dead. And Naomi said to her, This man is a relation of ours, one of our close relatives. Ruth the Moabiter said, He also said to me, You shall stay close by my young men until they have finished all the harvest. And Naomi said to Ruth, her daughter-in-law, is it good that my daughter that you go out with his young women? And uh the people do not meet you in another field. So she stayed close by the young women of Boaz to glean until the end of the barley harvest and the wheat harvest, and she dwelt with her mother in law. Amen. I know that's a lot of reading, but I think we need to hold the story. Pray with me, please. Father in heaven, we honor you on this morning. We bless you in advance for what you are about to do. I pray, Heavenly Father, that you would have your way in this place. I pray that if there's anyone who hears this word today that doesn't know you as savior of their life, that this will be the day. God, that they will come into a personal and intimate relationship with you. That they would accept the gift that you provide for them. Spirit of the Lord, I pray for this body of believers that have come with all manner of Trial and tribulation, and some have come saying, I just need a word from God. Lord, speak a word in their midst today that they might be edified and that they might be encouraged. I pray, God, above and beyond everything else. That your name gets all the glory and all the honor and all the praise for you alone are worthy of it all. I stand here this morning, God, as a vessel, as an instrument in your hand, and I'm praying that you would accomplish your will. Give me clarity of thought and speech I just want to be used by you, God. Have your way. It's in Jesus' name I pray with thanksgiving and expectation. And the people of God said together, Amen. We've been preaching through the series of Ruth, uh just walking through Ruth and so this morning as we find ourselves now in chapter two Ruth, as we said, is is the one who has been clinging to her mother in law, and she goes back to the house of bread. They enter into uh Judah and Jerusalem. They go back into the city where they were, where where where Naomi had grown up, where she was supposed to be, where God had marched them in into the promised land where they had uh vineyards that they did not plant and houses that they did not build and a place where God had blessed them, but yet a famine had come because of their disobedience. But now They walk back into this land, and the people who are there in the land are excited to see Naomi and they're rejoicing in my version of the story. They're high-fiving one another and they want to hug on her. And and Naomi's not having it. She's not having none of it because Naomi is is bitter about things. She said, I went out full, but I've come back empty. Why are you still calling me Naomi? In fact, Naomi even suggests that you change my name tomorrow because I'm bitter. And here is Ruth dealing with a bitter mother-in-law. No food, no place to call her own. She's in a strange land. Imagine for a moment just being in her position. She's got to deal with figuring out a way to bring food in the house and and to bring uh some comfort to a grieving mother-in-law who's lost two sons and a husband. To a mother-in-law who feels like God has done something wrong to her. And so she's she's coming back in the land, and the only way she can figure out that she can provide some measure of food for herself and her mother-in-law is to to go and to pick up scraps from the field. The biblical term that is used in scripture is gleaning And it's it's not stealing, that's that's two different things. But here she is in this place where she has no money, she has no job, she has no skills, she has no connections in the land. She can't call Brumman and say, Can you get the can I get the hook up She doesn't have any of that. She's in a strange land, a foreign place, where she's got to figure out a way to deal with the circumstances that she finds herself in. Think this just like life Sometimes we find ourselves in life in places and spaces that we don't know what to do. And we've got no hookup partner, we've got nobody that can get us out of what we've gotten ourselves into. It's kind of like humanity when uh when we've gotten ourselves into sin and and there was no way out, but we needed a savior. Lord help me God. And so she she has nothing other to do than to go and follow those who are reaping in the field and whatever they leave behind. She picks up the scraps that are left behind and she's trying to gather enough scraps so she can feed herself and her mother-in-law. And I want you to imagine yourself in that place where you're just eating the leftovers that have been left behind in a field. But God has fixed it such that the law in Israel was that they were not to completely harvest the field, but they were supposed to whatever drop just leave it behind for the poor. And here is Naomi poor and destitute and dealing with a grieving and bitter mother-in-law. I need to say that, but because this is not her mother. This is her mother-in-law. And her husband's not alive anymore. Stay here with me. I know everybody that I'm talking to has wonderful mother-in-laws And you wouldn't have a problem doing this. But that's not everybody's case. But she does what's necessary, goes into this field to reap from what she can. And what I love about what Naomi, rather Ruth chooses to do, there's an option here in her poor position. She could go into the CVS with a big bag and start clearing off the shelves. I'm just trying to make it relevant to the day. That's called stealing. She doesn't steal. She goes into the field to reap and to glean what's left over. I want to talk to you this morning from the subject matter finding favor in the field. I believe Ruth teaches us a few valuable lessons about finding favor in the field. As I open up this text, there's this relative of Naomi, the text introduces Boaz right off the bat, but then we get into the the nitty-gritty of the story, Ruth the Moabite is says as they get back to the house of bread, as they get back to Naomi's hometown. Ruth says she gets permission from her mother-in-law to go out. She says, please let me go to the field and glean heads of grain after him. in whose sight I may find favor, whoever that may be, and whose sight I may find favor in. She she said to her, Go, my daughter. Let me start this out by saying if you're gonna find favor in the field, you're only gonna find favor in the field when you work hard in the field. I know I'm gonna step on your feet in just a minute. I'm tiptoeing to you. You cannot find favor in the field if you don't go to the field. If you stay home with your Your legs crossed and the remote control in your hand. If you stay home and you are scanning your social media sites If you stay home and you're sleeping all day and you got the the windows closed, the curtains drawn and the lights off And you stay home all day and you're miserable and you're sad and you're grieving, you will never find favor in the field if you don't go to the field. I need this to resonate. I needed to sink down into your your spirit because I need someone to hear that you can't find favor where you are. You need to go where favor is Help me, Lord. You won't find food on your kitchen table if you don't go out and get it. Help me, God. There won't be money in the bank. Lord help me, Jesus, if you don't go out and earn it. Lord help me. I know there's a whole lot of folk that just waiting for somebody to send me a job or send me some money or send No, no, no. You need to little help me say this right. You you need to get up and go out to the field. Amen, somebody, where Where there's reaping and there's gleaning to be had. Lord God have mercy. Let me alter this to uh a modern day scenario for you. If I'm hungry and I'm home and I have no food to eat and I've I've got no means and I've got Got no methodology in order to feed myself and no way to feed my mother-in-law who's grieving and all of that. I can't just sit at home with her and hold her hand and expect but somehow food's gonna come. No, I've got to go outside and even if I go by the store, if they maybe they left something out in the back of the store. Maybe I've got to jump in the dumpster and get something out the dumpster to eat so that I can have some food. I I know that's repulsive to some folks, but that's because you've never been hungry before. You had a twinge of hunger, but you didn't have it where your, as my brother likes to say, where your stomach and your back were having fellowship with one another. No, you can't receive the favor if you don't go to the field. So Ruth asks her mother-in-law, can I go to the field? Because there's nothing here in the house for us to eat. And the only way we're going to do better than where we are is we've got to I've got to move from here and I've got to go out into the field. I'm preaching way better than y'all saying. Amen. And let me say this when folk go out in the field and they find favor in the field Don't be hating on them because they went out and worked hard for it. Ruth was hustling. She was getting it in. She she went out to the field. Verse 3 says she left and she went and she gleaned in the field after field. Um she gleaned one field in the field and then after she went after those reapers and then she happened to come upon another part of the field that belonged to Boas. She was moving from field to field. Obviously the first fields that she hit didn't have enough. It wasn't really She wasn't really acquiring more, so she moved from one field to another field. And listen, in order for you to find favor, you got to find the right field. Lord help me God. Because some fields that you glean in ain't much there. Help me. Um, Lord, there's not enough left there to feed you. Lord God help me. Um some fields that you might find yourself gleaning in, somebody's already been there and picked it clean. Some fields that you're gleaning in don't have anything that's that's substantive in order to sustain you in life. Some fields that you've been gleaning in, in fact, are toxic to your body. They're toxic to your spiritual life. They're toxic to your eternity. Some fields that you've been gleaning in, you need to move from because there's nothing there to help you to move from where you are to where you need to be. There's no blessing in some fields. Can I talk to y'all this morning? There's some friends you're hanging out with, there's some people you're connected to, there's some places that you go. Those are fields that you've been hanging out in and gleaning in, but there's nothing there. There's substance That's going to help you to move from death to eternity. There's nothing there that's going to help you to be strengthened as a child of God. In fact, it's toxic, it's it's destroying you, it's breaking you down. You're laboring without any reward. So you need to move to a field where you can gain some benefit. You gotta work hard to do this. Ruth is working hard to find the right field and she moves from field to field until she comes across the field of Boaz. Now I know the whole um ideology about Boaz, and I know the women are getting excited even hearing his name. Lord have mercy. Boaz is like the the the biblical uh version of some of our modern day hunks. Amen. He's he's the Denzel Washington of the Old Testament Lord help me somebody. But I need to tell you, Boaz is really a representative. He's a typology of Christ. He he's the field you need to be in. He's whose field you need to be in. Bo Boaz is a typology, and if we walk through this, I'm gonna open this up so you can see and understand that Boaz is is a foreshadow of a Christ to come. He's he's the one that, um how can I say this? He's the one that's going to provide for our need when we're hungry, starving, and just about to die. Lord have mercy. He's the only one that can protect us and provide for us and tell everybody around us, don't touch him. My my my so so boaz is gonna represent a Christ. Ruth is searching and diligently working and laboring in the field and has she's come across the field of Boaz and when she's in the field of Boaz she's working working working working working and then Boaz comes along um back from wherever he was and he he sees her in the field And he asked his supervisors, who who's whose woman is this? Um I'm just this is just my assumption because I read more than just chapter two. I read the whole story. My assumption is that when Boaz saw Ruth, there was something about Ruth that excited Boaz. There was something called love that began to stir in Boaz because he saw Ruth and he wanted to know who she belonged to. He started asking questions about her. Men don't be asking questions about women unless they interested He wants to know who she is, and so his supervisor says, S is the woman who came with Naomi from Moab. And here is what I've seen about her in the field. She's been working and laboring since this morning And she took a little break and then she got right back at it. She she has been diligently and persistently working and gleaning in the field to get for herself and for Naomi what They need to survive. And Boaz takes notice of that. And so he says to Ruth. Verse 8, Boaz said to Ruth, You will listen, my daughter, will you not? Do not glean in another field nor go from here, but stay close to my young women. That sounds a little bit little romantic, right? Don't go nowhere else. I'm I got you, baby. You just stay right here. I don't want nobody else to see you. I'm gonna take care of you. And he says to her, I got you, in essence. And let me say if you're gonna find favor in the field on your job or in your business or wherever I think it's important as we see here in this text that you work hard at it. Naomi finds favor, in essence, with Boaz because of the testimony that comes out of her labor in the field. She's been working hard since the morning. She hasn't stopped working. She's been doing whatever was necessary so she can feed herself and her mother-in-law. Um, I think sometimes if we can just be honest, the problem with a lot of us is that we don't work hard. Amen. Let me take a drink of water because I know this is gonna be hard. No, I think the problem sometimes is we're not finding favor, we're not finding the promotion, we're not finding the escalation, we're not finding the blessing. in the scenario because we're not working hard at it. And we want this this is the just the culture. This I'm not talking about ketting. This is just the culture. The culture is we want the paycheck but we don't want to do the work. Amen. Yeah, when payday comes, our hands out. Give me the where's my money? Where's my money? And but there's no evaluation as to what you did all week. And so we want the pay, but we don't want we don't want to work hard for it. And we want to do the minimal. This is I it ain't it hasn't always been this way, but the America is shifting. We we just want to do the minimum. Just the minimum. Matter of fact, everywhere you go, that's all you getting is the minimum. And that's why everywhere you go, customer service is terrible. And everywhere you go, whatever they do for you, almost everywhere you go. I shouldn't say everywhere. Almost everywhere you go, you gotta get it done more than once. Amen. You gotta call for a manager. And oftentimes you're talking to the manager So where's the manager? I am the manager. You s you you 16, you the manager? I I'm not I'm I'm sure I'm not the only one to have this experience. I already know everything I do, I gotta you gotta do it twice. You gotta call three times, and nobody ain't answering the phone nowhere. It's got some voicemail that never answers the question, and you can't you push zero a hundred times. Amen. Zero Give me an operator. Get me somebody. Nobody working. Everybody wanna get paid. This is where we are. You want the promotion, you need to work hard for it. Naomi works hard in the field and the blessing comes because of her labor. She works hard for what she's doing. So first of all, you finding favor in the field is when you work hard in the field. Secondly, finding favor in the field happens when you keep your eyes on the field. Boaz tells Ruth about coming to work in his field. He told her, You know, come come on in the field. You don't have to worry about going nowhere. Stay close to my women. Verse 9: He says, Let your eyes be on the field in which they reap. Go after them. And I've commanded the young men not to touch you. And and when you are thirsty, go to the vessels and drink from what the young men have drawn. I love this. So Bo has says, look, you just stay close to the women, but watch this, but keep your eyes on the field. Favor is found in the field when you keep your eyes on the field that God has you in to harvest. Lord help me. This is something that's affecting a whole lot of folks. We have wondering eyes. Lord God, God puts us in a place where we're blessed and He's prospering us, but our eyes are wandering to other places. We've got one Wandering eyes. We we're never satisfied with what God has already blessed us with. But if you're going to find favor in the field, you have to keep your eyes on the field that God has put you in. Lord help me God. I know that the field over there looks a little better, but I'm gonna tell you some of the fields that you look at it might look like The grass is greener on the other side, but you'll get there only to find out it's artificial turf. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he said Down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations, you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.