Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. I want to invite your attention to Exodus chapter 14. We'll begin our reading in verse number 10. The word of the Lord reads as follows. And when Pharaoh drew near, the children of Israel lifted their eyes, and behold, the Egyptians marched after them. So they were very afraid, and the children of Israel cried out to the Lord. And then they said to Moses, Because there were no graves in Egypt, you have taken us away to die in the wilderness. Why have you so dealt with us to bring us out of Egypt? Is this not what we Told you in Egypt, saying, Let us alone that we may serve the Egyptians, for it would have been better for us to serve the Egyptians than that we should die in the wilderness. And Moses said to the people, do not be afraid, stand still and see the salvation of the Lord, which he will accomplish for you today. For the Egyptians whom you see today, you shall see again no more forever. The Lord will fight for you, and you will hold your peace. And the Lord said to Moses, why do you cry out to me? Tell the children of Israel, go forward. Pray with me, please. Father, we bless you. We thank you for this morning's opportunity to stand and declare your word. We are grateful, Lord, because you have intentionality in mind and eternity in mind for those who are listening. You have a word is specifically for them. You've crafted it. You've organized it. You've prepared it. And now I stand as a vessel, Lord, to deliver your word. Use me, Lord, in a way that would honor you, that would glorify you. I pray, God, that the word that comes forward would save someone who's lost in their sin, that would reclaim someone who's drifted in their fellowship. That would edify someone who's seeking to know you and to grow in you. God, I pray most of all in all that is said and that is done that you get the glory and the honor and the praise. For you alone, Lord, are worthy of it and deserving. But I need you, God. I need your strength. I need your power. I need you to clearly articulate through my lips of clay. I need my mind to be clear So that I can speak what thus saith the Lord. And as we sit in this place and as we listen and tune in from various points and places of destination. Father, I'm praying that the power of your spirit would manifest itself so that it would be a one-on-one conversation. So we would know we've heard from you. Have your own way, Lord God, in the name of Jesus, I pray with thanksgiving and expectation. The people of God said together, Amen. Ketter and we began last week a series of messages entitled, Do You Trust Me? Last week we were in Genesis chapter 12. We were looking at the calling of Abram. Abram, who was a heathen who had made it all the way to Haran, but he was supposed to be going to Canaan, but the Lord calls him out of Haran. Calls him out of his comfortability, calls him out of his luxury of life, out of his financial uh boom town, if I will, calls him out of his father's house and says, Abram, get up and leave And go to this place, then I'm going to tell you where it is when you get there. This morning in my text, we find ourselves looking at Israel who has been in captivity for 430 years. What God does is He sends a stuttering and a stammering murderer named Moses to go to Pharaoh to tell Pharaoh to let my people go because it's time for them to come out of your hands. What the Lord does is he sends Moses on this impossible journey from Moses, an unqualified person. God says, you go to him and talk to him on my behalf and tell him I see it. Let my people go. And so it is at the very power and at the very hand of God that God moves through a series of miraculous events. to defeat every God that Egypt had, to prove to Egypt and all of its leaders that there is no God like the God of Israel. And so as a result of that, God moves on their heart and he pushes them to a place where they begin to let the children of Israel go. Now, here's the problem. As they are on their way out, as they're leaving, as they're departing Egypt, God starts to harden Pharaoh's heart. And Pharaoh has a what did I just do moment Who's gonna do the work? Who's gonna build my buildings? Who's gonna solidify my legacy in the form of stones? But if if I let all these people go? And then Pharaoh says, get the chariots, get the horses We're going after Israel. Because here's another thing. They didn't just let Israel go. They let Israel go with all their money. God told Israel to go around to the Egyptians and ask the Egyptians, can you give me some gold and some silver? But it lets you know that it's God that's working this thing out. And Israel left out of Egypt with all the gold and silver of Egypt. And then the tension in the text builds when Israel gets to the Red Sea. They didn't have any guns or or or chariots. They didn't have horses. They were on foot and they were they were walking in the presence of God help me Jesus and the enemy was pursuing them and there was a barricade in front of them and the question is will you trust me When your back is against the wall and your enemies are pursuing you. That's the subject I want to talk from this morning. Do you trust me when your back is against the wall and your enemies are pursuing you? In this text, as in life, what they saw affected how they trusted. For you and me, we struggle with the same thing. What our eyes see affect how we trust God. So in the first movement of this text, uh what I what I what I see is what they saw created doubt. Of God's protective power. Look at look at verse verse 10. It says, and When Pharaoh drew near, he and his chariots and his horsemen are coming after the Israelites, and when they when he drew near, when he got close to the children, They got close. The children of Israel, watch this, lifted their eyes, and behold, the Egyptians marched after them. And so they were very afraid. And then they started crying out to the Lord. Some of us just need to turn off The TV. Some of you need to just stop looking at social media because what you are seeing is affecting how you're trusting. We we've got young people today who are committing suicide because they turn on a social media page. And somebody who they might not even know is saying something negative about them, even though God says, I am who I said God is I am, and yet They don't believe God. They rather believe what they saw on social media. What they see on social media has become their truth. God said I'll never leave you, I'll never forsake you. God says I'll supply all your needs. But social media said, wait a minute, they're getting ready to fire you. What they saw impacted how they believed because they were fine until they saw the Egyptians coming. And then they became very afraid. They feared that the God who delivered them from 430 years of bondage by miraculous movements. Has somehow lost his ability to protect them as they were leaving. But it all happened because of what they saw. And then verse 11 says, and then they said to Moses, they start complaining, and they said, Because there were not enough graves in Egypt, you've taken us away to die in the wilderness. This was the beginning of Pastor Moses' dealing with a hard head, stiff neck, complaining group of people. And so they start complaining about their deliverance. Why did you bring us out of Egypt? It gets sarcastic. There wasn't enough graves in Egypt. You brought us all the way out here to kill us in the wilderness. I'll say this: be careful what you speak in your fear. Because it might become your destiny. Because for these who said these words, they end up dying in the wilderness. God's going to get them to the promised land, but because they still don't have faith, they end up actually end up being sent back out. And they wander in the wilderness until all of them die. Just like they prophesied right here. This is another caution for you. Um don't let your what you see cause you to be gun grateful for what God's already done. God has delivered them. And they they're on their way. And he's delivered them with the resources of Egypt. And all of a sudden, because they look up and see the Egyptians coming, all of a sudden they have become now Ungrateful for the deliverance because they're focusing on the failure that they anticipate will happen because what they saw caused them to doubt God's ability to protect them. What they saw created a doubt of God's protective power, but what they saw also created a doubt of God's delivering plan. Do you realize that God had a plan for Israel's deliverance? Israel was not fully aware of the plan, but listen to verse 12. Verse 12 says, is this not what Is not the word that we that we told you in Egypt, saying, let us alone that we may serve the Egyptians, for it would have been better for us. to serve the Egyptians than we should die in the wilderness. They they start to um to talk negatively About God and his plan. And so they, in essence, say, God, your plan was to bring us out here to die. That wasn't the plan of God. Sometimes what we see causes us to doubt whatever the plan of God is. Watch this, because we don't know the whole plan. What the Lord says in verse 17, he says, when I brought Israel out, I didn't take them by the way of the Canaanites Because I knew if I took them that way, they would see war, change their mind about being delivered and go back to Egypt. I need you to understand something. Sometimes God doesn't take you the easy way. Sometimes his plan is to take you the hard way so you don't turn back. He has taken them to the Red Sea. Now, for the intelligent and sophisticated and the smart people in the crowd, they're saying to themselves right about now, didn't God know there was a Red Sea here? Why would he march us all the way right to the edge of a Red Sea? God, you are messed up. You don't know the plan of God. You don't know what God is up to. You don't know why God is taking somebody a different direction. We don't possess the wisdom of God. But here the children of Israel, they're out here and they didn't they they talking about they talking about Moses they they they going they going crazy It would have been better for us to stay in Egypt and it would have been better for us to just keep on serving the Egyptians. What they're really saying is it would have been better if we had not been put in a position where we had to trust God. I'd rather be in a position where I don't have to trust God and I know that I'm at least gonna get some Some some little bit of little bit of food and I'ma have a whip on my back. And I'm gonna have to be under the taskmaster and I'm gonna have to make brick without straw. At least I know that But when you take me out into this wilderness and I don't know where I'm going and I don't know why God is doing what he's doing, and I see the Egyptians are coming, and there's a red sea in front of me. This is the picture of doom, unless I trust God. And so so they they now now they're questioning God's delivering plan, because something must be wrong with his plan that he would lead us to the sea and have these enemies pursuing us. And God is saying, Do you trust me? When your back is against the wall and your enemies are still coming. I I know it's coming to the end of your rope and I know that it seems like there's no window that's opening for you and nothing's happening your way. I know that the doctor said this is all we can do and the medicine's not working and this is not happening and it's getting worse Verse 13, they pick up and says, and Moses said to the people, do not be afraid. Stand still and see the salvation of the Lord. Which he will accomplish for you today. Verse 14, the Lord will fight for you. What they saw created doubt of God's protective power. What they saw created doubt of God's delivering plan. But what they needed Was to stand still and see the salvation of the Lord. Do not be afraid. I know it seems like it's an impossible situation, but God is with you The God of impossibilities is leading you and guiding you. Don't worry about who's behind you because God is behind you. He's a shelter in the storm. He's covering your backside. As the children of Israel, they were moving forward The Bible says that God moved from the front from the leadership position and he came around back and he became a fire in the back of them. And and watch this, and it was a fire to the Egyptians, and it was light. To the Israelites. While the enemy was in darkness, the Israelites were experiencing the light of God. He says, Don't be afraid. I got you. I already saw this situation coming before we got here. As a matter of fact, I led you here. And if I led you here, I can keep you here. I can protect you here. Because whatever I plan to do, I finish my plans. I know the Egyptians are coming up behind you, but stand still. Trust me. To stand still. And trust me. He not only tells them to sit to stand still, he says, and be silent. And the enemy that you see today is going to be gone tomorrow. He says the Lord's going to fight for you and you shall hold your peace. Your silence is evidence that I trust God to handle it. God will fight for you. Whatever struggle battle that you're in, God will fight the battle for you. Whoever it is that's on the other side, God will fight for you. He will win the battle because he brought you to this place not to destroy you, not to kill you, not to embarrass you. No, he came so he can show how awesome he is. God brought you to the place so he can show off his glory and he can help increase your faith in him. Pledge your feet, close your mouth. Open your eyes to see the salvation of the Lord. And when it's done, nobody will be able to take the credit but God. We're trying to figure out this and we're trying to figure out that. We've got all these statistical prognosis and And we got all these mechanisms and and stuff and algorithms, but what I learned is that you can't figure out God You can say yeah it's gonna rain in the spring and it's gonna be hot in the summer, but we serve a God. He'll make it hot in the winter time. He'll make it rain when it's not supposed to rain. He'll cause those that vegetables and those fruits that you depended on that you knew were coming not to come at all you've been vested It you put your money on it, you've determined that I put my faith in the system, but the system will let you down. You put 30 years on your job And you thought your job was going to honor you, but you can't put your faith in man. You've got to learn how to trust in God. I don't care what it is, because every now and then life will put you in the world. You in a spot where your back is up against the wall and the enemy is still coming. Sickness is still coming. Disease is still coming. Problems are still coming. Hatred is still coming. And you've got to be able to say, Lord, I'm standing. I'm not gonna move. I trust you, God. I remember you went to Calvary. Gave your life for me. Somebody said he's dead. He'll never live again. But the devil is a liar. Three days later, you got up with all power in your hand. Your plan was fulfilled, and here we are, the Gentiles who had no right, no privilege, no entrance into the kingdom of God God, but God through His love and His compassion for us opened up the doors and now we are called The righteousness of God. Look at God working out a plane. Look at God. Would it look like The enemy had won the battle. I don't care what you're going through. I don't care what the situation is. Trust me God stand still see the salvation of the Lord because what he's getting ready to do has not yet been done in your lifetime or mine, but God who is faithful He won't fail you. He won't let you down. He's not gonna leave you, and he won't forsake you. He'll open up the Red Sea So you can cross over on dry land. Hallelujah, God. Bless you, Jesus. Thank you, Lord. Somebody needs you Somebody's crying out, I need, yes, I need you, Lord. I need you. Help them, God. Come by and help them, Lord. Help their unbelief their eyes are playing tricks on them because they got their eyes on the enemy Turn their eyes towards you this morning. Turn their eyes on the prize. Turn their eyes to the God who works miracle after miracle. If you don't believe what I'm saying this morning, how did you wake up this morning? Wasn't your alarm clock? Wasn't because you was righteous Wasn't because you did everything right this week. No, you woke up by the miracle of God that you were able to breathe out air and breathe in air And not choke yourself to death. God has been working every day in your life to take care of you. And don't you dare believe Based on what you see, that the enemy can conspire and stir up that somehow God can deliver you, God can't help you, God can't keep you. I'm a living witness. Yes, he can't God's gonna fight for you. You just stand still. God turned to Moses And said, I hear everybody crying and complaining. Tell them be quiet. He says to them in that latter verse, he says, tell them and go forward. I stopped by to say to you, Kettering, go forward. Wait a minute, Lord. How am I gonna go forward when there's a Red Sea in front of me? The Red Sea ain't your problem, that's my problem. Your problem is moving forward. So he says, stop crying, stop complaining, stop panicking. I haven't lost my throne to anybody. I'm still God There's nothing happening in your life or in your world that caught me by surprise. And this ain't the first time that it happened. And it probably won't be the last. But I'm still God. You just move forward. Follow the presence of God. And Israel, they followed the presence of God from their back against the wall situation. And they walked right through the Red Sea, got to the other side, and then when they looked back at their enemies, whom God had hardened their hearts even more. caused them to run down into the sea, not even realizing that it was a trap from God And God waited until they got all in the sea. And then he let the walls of water just come on over them. There's nothing too hard for him, but will you trust him when your back is against the wall and your enemies? are still pursuing you. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. Under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship services Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org. Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. On Andy Christman, in his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.