Where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. I want to tell you, I want to tell you, listen to me. I try to help somebody because you made it up in your mind that I'm going to be destroyed. Listen, listen, listen. And so I'll let other people be lost in order to keep you standing. And even if you suffer, he's with you all the way. But since we, once we're redeemed, we have no need to fear anymore. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together and we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 8 a. If I can say that I got you, I got you in this storm. It's gonna be all right. To the end of my journey before I get to the place where I'm gonna wear my crown. Judah, I'm going to get your descendants and I'm going to bring them back. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Voices behind the song. Lord help me here to whatever the lawyers say. With us I'm with you, I'm with you, I got you. to see no matter what fire situation you're going through if he's with you everything's gonna be alright is with you everything everything everything is gonna be alright it's gonna be alright everything is gonna be alright That I promised you, I'm gonna restore you, Israel, to the place that I promised I was gonna give you. Stop by to let you know it doesn't matter what mess you found yourself in, what Babylonian scenario might be plaguing your life, but I want you to know this thing is almost Everybody when I come I'm bringing them out and I know you might be thinking will it happen in this life? Dead in Christ will get up first, and then those who are alive and remain shall be caught up to meet the Lord in the air. Upper Marlboro, Maryland. And now, stay tuned for the conclusion of last week's message. that you're walking through, the hell that you're going through, this is just temporary. Period of spell or season when it just seemed like everything is just happening, happening, happening, happening, and you feel like a river of stuff is just overflowing you That's good news because if I'm by myself, I'm left to the rough uh rapids, if I can say it that way. me lord help me here uh it reminds me that he is the one who spoke water into existence pushing me along that I've got no reason to fear because I'm here. things gonna be alright. He's the last thing and I'm out your way. The love of on one hand and you you put you you Lord some love just don't compare to nothing else I Lord have mercy, help me, God. Therefore I will give men for you and people for your life. How much God has your back and how come you don't have to be afraid when the enemy says, I'm gonna do this or I'm gonna do that. Here he goes again, for I am with you. I'm going to get your sisters, no matter where they were scattered, and I'll make sure that I'm going to bring them back when I bring you back. Affected by this mess. Wood, you mean too much to me to let you stay in this mess. I'm coming out. This sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. I will be with you. Pounce me around and beat me around and throw me around as they will. in the first place. And spoke to the rough sea and said to the sea, peace be still. vessel. Verse 2, when you pass through the waters, and when you he says, I'll be with you. Consuming all your rest. Be burned. Scenario that seems to be consuming. Though some of my works might get burnt up, I won't get burnt up because I'm in him and he's in me. When you've been ready to be consumed, you got the Holy One of Israel, the Savior. I mean, I got a whole lot of people in my life. Because I love you so much. pedestal when I look at my wife and then I start looking at all the other folks no I'm gonna give all them other folks for her because don't nobody compare The power of God and the love of God on your side. Some got scattered in various parts of the world. says he's gonna do something, he's gonna do what he said he's gonna do. your problem because I'm prophetically speaking to you that I'm gonna bring you out of Babylon I'm gonna bring you back to the land Over. My hope is in the promise of God because he said it. That where I am, there you may be also. Say amen. Men, women, boys, and girls drawn to the Savior's side, that they may come out of In the power of your name. office at 301-627-9500. Jesus. out of the flames and the fact that I'm with you, Lord help me here, will protect you from that I'm trying to think my way through this thing even right now because I've already taken us to a text where he was in the midst of a fiery furnace. And in the middle of the fiery furnace, the fact that he was with Shadak, Meshach, and Nabednego altered the whole situation of their condemnation. In the gospel of John, I'm going to prepare a place for you. I know we've looked at this before in many occasions, but I think it's important to know that God keeps reminding us that I'm with you. Who controls the water, Lord help me here, he can show up saying, I've got no reason to fear though waters rise up in my life and though rivers are pushing me along and I can call on him. Um, can I fix this up? Is over. Lord have mercy. and live till she 180. I like that. And Ethiopia and Seba in your place. Letting other people go down, but I love you too much to let you go down From the east. years I've only just begun to sing God's praise and Bobby I'm with you we shall wear a crown we shall wear a robe This is a different kind of situation. Who will make the bad good and make the sad glad. Help me, Jesus. He says here Latapart verse 4, verse 3. Ethiopia, Seba, and Egypt. Lord help me here. for you and so he'll let the other ones go just to cover you he'll let the other ones lose just so you can win he'll let the other ones suffer just so you don't have to suffer and Not only am I going to get them and bring them back, but I'm going to bring you back. When the troubles of this world is over, I shall see him face to face. When they're sinners, they should fear the flame because that's their judgment Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Y'all still here with me in the text? Can I help us here? You make him feel happy. for another 50 years it will not compare to the glory that shall be revealed when I get home when I get home when I get home I Can I stop there? waters or rivers or over how do I say overwhelming scenarios things that would overflow you Lord help me Because I'm going to get your descendants. Yeah I'm coming out yes look what For in in all the circumstances in your life that feel like I'm the means by which you're gonna weather this storm and it's good news to know you're not by yourself. Yet as through the fire. You coming out of this. We approach your throne with enthusiasm and excitement to say thank you, God And now, God, while our hearts have been prepared and the message of truth has been delivered, draw Um uh he says in all of those things I'm with you. Oh Lord, it's almost over. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Well help me out. He'll take the flood down. I I I I got a special thing for you. We don't have to face the flames. Bless your name, God. The very grips that sin have on their life. Amen. I created you, I I redeemed you. Lord. He says, he says to us, look, we don't have to fear the flames. I exchange other folks. Um, just in case you didn't know who was with you. See, because I love you so much, I don't lie And I'm reminded that he's the one who stood out on the rough sea Lord have mercy. He was letting them know that the payment has been made, and the price has been paid, and the time has expired, and you don't have to worry about. And if he loves you like that and he redeems you like that, you have no need to worry about the stuff of And through the fire, or rather rivers, they shall not overflow you. You can't sleep at night. I know your money might be funny and they might have to repossess something that you have but I guarantee you everything is gonna be alright. I don't know if it was your children who had to watch this mess go on. Amen. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. You won't be burnt up, nor shall the flames scorch you. Devil, you're a liar. When you're with him, even when you're in the fire, you don't have to worry about being burned. I know I need to walk this theologically down so that y'all can get it. He says, in those times when you feel overwhelmed, I'm with you. I wasn't planning on going here. In case you haven't seen the picture yet, let me take you to the text of 2 Thessalonians. Thank you, God. I got you when it feels overwhelming. He said you don't have to be afraid of the flames because I love you. Judah was probably worried because when they went into captivity, everybody didn't make it into Babylon I gave you my life because I love you so much. I I love you and so I've honored you and I've given you the best Pastor, I don't know about that. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Hallelujah Hallelujah He says to them, as you go through these things that you're going through, I am with you. And amen. But I guarantee you everything is gonna be alright. His name is Jesus. It's got some beautiful people in the world. And so I'm glad to know that when God takes me through the fire, I'm with him. Lord have mercy. Lord have mercy. Lord. He'll allow you to stand in the middle of the sea and say, I am with him. Lord have mercy. No, I'm with you. What he was telling them is that this bondage ain't forever. When you walk through the fire, when you're going through consuming situations, that's consuming your time, consuming your energy. Don't have to be afraid of the flames. Amen. One situation is overwhelming, the other situation is consuming. We present this opportunity today. Everything is going to be all right. But if I've got to go somewhere and the war is raging and the water is flowing, I'm so glad. I got you. I'll keep the consuming fires at bay. He says, I love you so much that I'll give men for your life and people for your life. Praise the Lord. Uh verse two. There it is right there in the text. I've got a plan that I'm going to work in your life and I'm going to bring you out of it. I'm coming to bring you out. I'm coming out. It's just consuming. I know a whole lot of people. When he sees you, he gets joy inside his heart. I I've been walking with the Lord a long time, and I've seen some bad situations. Since you were precious in my sight, you have been honored, and I have loved you. And I'm trying to help somebody. I'm going to get your cousins. Jesus says, I'm with you. I serve a God when it's all said and done, He gets the glory, and everything will be alright. I traded them in for you. I don't Lord, I'm trying to help us here to kind of comprehend But the Lord said, Judah, don't worry about that. That's a great question. Somebody ought to be excited about that. If there was nobody else on the shelf, he would have still died just for you. Whoa, Lord, help me here. And watch this. Amen. Lord, help me here. Bless your name, God. You coming out of this thing I I'm I'm I'm trying to move along. I'm coming out of this. Lord have mercy. And when I call on the name of Jesus, y'all don't know nothing about this. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III. There's some smart people in the world. He's with you. But the fact that the I am is with I'll be your lawyer. But watch this. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Um I'm not gonna go back to it, but it's there in the text. I wish I had somebody that understood. So God, perhaps somebody needs to escape the flames today. Have your way, God. We can face the flames while we're walking through hell. And when he told Israel, rather Judah specifically I believe it. He says, look, he tells you who he is. I'm with you. When you go through those consuming times, Lord help me here. I love a whole lot of people, but but when I put my wife up on the I'm your life jacket. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. I'm coming out Hallelujah. I'm trying to fix this thing up. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. And if he is the God Pastor, you you you you speaking out of turn. I'm going to get ruined. He says, Look, I gave Egypt for your ransom. He says, look, what I did is uh Judah was I gave up Amen. I'm going to get your brothers I will bring your descendants God got a special thing for you. org or contact our church All the way. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. When God looks at you, don't nobody compare to his love he has. Um verse two he says uh uh for when you pass through the water And watch this. And through the rivers, they're not going to overflow you. Lord. I'll let some other folk go down to protect you. There's some fine women in the world. You've been honored, and I have loved you I don't know if it was your parents that had to go through hell with you, but I'm bringing them out too. And if I go and prepare a place, I'm going to come again and receive you unto myself. I'm coming to take you home. Anybody ever go through this The Bible says in First Corinthians chapter 3, every man's work is gonna have to be tried. I'll be your doctor. Because I created you, because I redeemed you. m. So he's got a plane And even if I didn't believe it, that settles it. You're not left up to the circumstances of your mess. or 11 a. I I've taken the the strength I'm your boat. My God, my God. Amen. I'm I'm left to the rough waters of the rapids to Well, Pastor, what does that have to do with me? I'm the Lord. You don't have to worry about that when you've got the presence of God and He was telling them that your judgment Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. That's good news to know who you got with you. m. I'm getting overwhelmed. I want you to see something that when God In Jesus' name. Lord God, in the name of Jesus. He says here in the text I know that marriage might not last forever, but I guarantee you everything Lord help me here. And because I'm with him, the fire can't touch me. My hope ain't in this life. Hallelujah. at our new edifice called the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway. I'm the holy one of Israel. When you when you love somebody, Lord have mercy, and you put No. He says, look, I love you. Now he's bringing you their stories. For what you've done in this place. There's some sexy women in the world. I'll be your battle at. I let them get destroyed so I can redeem you I'm your escape I want you to know something. The day will come when the trumpet of God will sound and the The One Degree of Andy podcast. He loves you so much. Amen. I want you to know something, even in the bad situations, I serve a God. I'm coming to bless your life. Hallelujah. And the fire won't burn me. I feel like preaching now. I'm being consumed. I'm Then he comes back in the last verse. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. Because you mean that much to him. And When you walk through the fire. Uh uh don't worry about a thing. I'm Andy Christman. And it don't matter if I've got to walk through this earthly hell. Draw them, Heavenly Father, out. Help me, Lord. And because I'm with you. And I don't know how many of your descendants were. He'll quiet the storm. If you're walking with Jesus, everything. But don't none of them compare to my Carolyn. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. If you gotta fight, just pull out the name of Amen. You're not left up to the doctor's report. You're special. I don't see Because he's bringing us all out of his. Hallelujah. He says, you're special to me. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. My hope is in eternity. But I stop out and let you know if he is. When I God He says, Look, fear not. I'm so glad. Lord help me here. When I've been there. And so when I get to the other side. I'm coming just like I said I I know mama might not stay down here. You shall not He'll cause the water to Hallelujah. And I'm trying to help somebody. You're not left And so when I'm bringing everything That shine ain't that. He said. For a copy of He is.