Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message. in its entirety. And now Pastor Sterling. I want to invite your attention to Genesis chapter 22. We'll begin our reading at verse 1. And the word of the Lord reads as follows. Now it came to pass after these things that God tested Abraham and said to him, Abraham, and he said, Here I am. And then he said, take your son, your only son Isaac, whom you love, and go to the land of Moriah and offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains of which I shall tell you. So Abraham rose early in the morning and saddled his donkey, and took two of his young men with him, and Isaac his son, and he split wood for the burnt offering, and he arose and he went to the place of which God had told him Then on the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes and he saw the place afar off. And Abraham said to his young men, Stay here with the donkey. The lad and I will go yonder and worship, and we will come back to you. So Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering, and he laid it on Isaac his son, and he took the fire in his hand and a knife And the two of them went together. But Isaac spoke to Abraham, his father, and said, My father, and he said, Here I am, my son. And then he said, Look, the fire and the wood, but where is the lamb for the burnt offering? And Abraham said, My son, God will provide for himself the lamb for a burnt offering. So the two of them went together, and then they came to the place which God had told him. And Abraham built an altar there, and he placed the wood in its order, and he bound Isaac his son, and he laid him on the altar upon the wood. And Abraham stretched out his hand and he took the knife to slay his son. But the angel of the Lord called to him from heaven, saying, Abraham, Abraham. So he said, Here I am And he said, Do not lay your hand on the lad or do anything to him, for now I know that you fear God. Since you have not withheld your son, your only son, from me. Then Abraham lifted up his eyes and he looked, and there behind him was a ram caught in the thicket by its horns. Pray with me please. Father, we bless you and we thank you for today. We thank you for this word that we have in front of us. Even now, Heavenly Father, I pray that you would just move in the midst of these your people, those who are assembled here in person as well as those who are tuning in and will tune in online. We pray, eternal God, that your word will move forward with power and authority. That it would move someone, God, who is not in the personal intimate relationship with you. To surrender their heart and their life to you today. It is my prayer, God, that in the process of preaching this word, that you would encourage someone's heart who came in low and downtrodden. That you will lift up their whole heavy their heavy spirit, God, and give them courage, that they might continue to trust in you for that which seems impossible. Spirit of the living God, it's my prayer and all that is said and all that is done that you would get the glory and the honor and the praise. Father, even as I stand here on today, I stand in need of you So use me, God, as a vessel in your hand, accomplish your will. Allow my mind to be clear, and my voice and my lips to move with articulation, such that your word would come out as the very oracle of God. Have your way, God. And we'll give you all the glory and all the honor and all the praise. It is in Jesus' name that I pray with expectation. The people of God said together, Amen. I sent out a a request for any of the sermons that I had preached previously over the twenty-five years I have been here. uh as a senior pastor and I was going to attempt to repreach some of those or re re-look at those uh some of those uh messages. I did get quite a number of of sermons uh requested and The Lord laid on my heart to really just deal with this particular one today. I'm just calling it kind of a flashback. So I'm going to take you guys today back to 2009 When I preached this message before, this text was presented Under the sermon title Seven Hindrances to Living in Expectation of the Miraculous Interestingly enough, we still struggle with living in expectation of the miraculous Pastor, what are you talking about? What I'm referring to is that there are things in our lives that we figured out in our wisdom that it's perhaps beyond the ability Of God to do. And you say, well, no, no, Pastor, I know God can do it, but are you living like He's going to do it? See, there's a difference in knowing He's able to do it And living with expectation of him actually doing it. There are some things in our lives that we've kind of put on the back burner. Because we really don't live expecting God to do it. I'm going to suggest that this morning you came here with some weights on your shoulders and some issues in your life. that you need God to do and you need a miracle to happen. And so I I I wanna to delve into this and and now we were looking actually in uh Bible study this past week, Joshua chapter ten. And we were talking about this this instance where the children of Israel are at war with these five kings, the king of Jerusalem and Hebron and uh Jarmath. And Lakish and uh Eglon. And the Bible says that the sun stood still, and the moon stood still all day Until Israel had revenge on its enemies. And one of the things I was sharing is that many many people would read that passage and they would try to explain it away as some kind of astrological uh A normal thing that had happened. They they don't want to take it at face value. And what I want us to understand is that we serve a God who is able to do miraculous things. We need to stop trying to explain away the miracles of God. Wait, and watch this. If God can stop the sun in its place. For 24 hours. So that Israel can get done beating up on their enemies. And tell me if God can do that. What what is it that he can't do in your little life? In my little life? What miracle is impossible for him? And so I want to delve into this text and kind of open up for us these seven hindrances that I believe keep us from living in expectation of the miraculous In this text that I've read and you're hearing in verse number one, the Lord calls him to offer his son, his only son, Isaac. Now God says, take that son, the only son, the one you love, because he had another son. And most of us would have took that son. But God made it very specific. No, take the one son that you love, and I want you to take him and offer him as a burnt offering. But the text says the Lord was testing him. Abraham didn't know it was a test. But Abraham Heard the instructions of God and he followed the directions of God. Here's the number one thing that I think that is a hindrance to us living in the expectation of the miraculous, and that is following directions. God said, take your son, your only son, verse 2, your only son, whom you love, go to the land of Moriah and offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains, of which I shall tell you. In order to follow the directions, we gotta hear the directions. So we we gotta hear what God is saying. And then after God has said it, let me tell you this. Oftentimes when God gives us directions, we don't Think that they make sense. Now this doesn't make sense in light of the fact that God had told Abram I'm going to give you the sun, and of your seed, there's going to be a multiplication as the very sand of the seed through the seed. And now God says to Abram, Abram, take that seed And I want you to take him and sacrifice him on this mountain, but not just any sacrifice. I want you to offer him as a burnt offering. Abram follows the directions, even though it doesn't make sense. Verse 3. Abraham rose early in the morning. Following the directions of God, saddled up his donkey, took two of his young men with him, and Isaac his son And he split the wood and for the burnt offering, and he arose and he went to the place that God had told him. And then on the third day Abraham lifted his eyes and saw the place afar off. Now I need to tell you this. When you're following the directions, follow them all the way to the end. Watch this. Abraham, who is now about 115 years old, and he's been walking three days To get to the mountain to offer his son as a sacrifice. But watch this. But when he gets three days into his journey, he looks up, and the end of his journey is still far off I'm trying to talk to somebody because sometimes God gives us instructions and we start obeying them, but after we've been in it for a while, the miracle hasn't happened, and we give up on the miracle because it's far off. It's still too far off. It's still taking too long. And we turn around and go back home. But Abraham is 115 years old, walking for three days. You and I can't do that. And the end of his journey is still afar off, and yet he keeps on going to Completely obey the instructions that were given. You gotta learn how to follow directions. That's what I'm trying to say. That's number one. Number two Friends and and followers. Listen to verse five. Abraham said to his young men, Stay here with the young donkey, the lad and I will go yonder and worship, and we will come back to you. Let me say this about friends and followers. I'll throw the followers in there too. Notice Abraham doesn't take them with him. Abraham knows something about friends and followers that we need to understand. Friends and followers will mess up your faith. They will not allow you to live expecting miracles to happen. See, some friends don't want to see you succeed. I know they're your friends, but you don't know how deeply the friendship is. See, some people hang with you so they can restrain you. They don't want to see you do well. They can't imagine you doing better than they are doing. When God has given you direction and instruction to walk in the miraculous, they're going to speak into your life to limit you from achieving what God wants for you because they don't see it happening for themselves. There are some friends and some followers who cannot and have not heard from God. So taking them with you and they haven't heard from God is only gonna hinder the process. So we've got one following directions, two, friends and followers, three is family. Verse number six. So Abraham took the wood. And the burnt offering, he laid it on his son Isaac, and he took the fire in his hand. He went on up with the knife. He got everything he needs. And listen to listen to Isaac. This is his son, family. This family talking to him. But Isaac spoke to Abraham, his father, and said, My father We got fire. We got wood. But where's the where's the lamb? Now, I want you to imagine yourself Walking in expectation of the miraculous. And you've gotten this far. You cut off the followers and friends, your following directions, and now your family. Your son, your only son, the one you love. Looks up at you with those innocent eyes and says, Dad, what are we gonna do? How do you turn to him and say you you are the offering? We're not going to do it because we love him, right? So now family is is an interrupt To us in living in the expectation because we love our family, because we trust our family, because we don't want to disappoint our family. And so sometimes family is the means by which it prohibits us. From living in expectation of the miraculous. Now in the text, I think the issue of family here is multiple fold because I think there's a reason why God told Abraham to go three days plus journey away from Sarah to make this sacrifice. Can you imagine Abraham going to Sarah in the morning and saying, babe? I'm gonna take the son that we waited for all this time, the one that you gave birth to at the age of 90, and one we waited for for 25 years. I'm about to take him and I'm gonna offer him as a burnt offering upon the all God told me to tell you Sarah would have probably knocked him in the head. And then when Abram is there with Isaac alone family, and Isaac is looking up with this enduring look and asking about the sacrifice, who's the sacrifice Abraham could have pulled back and said, Yeah, well, we don't have one. And I love what he says. He says, son God will provide for himself. The sacrifice is for God. We don't have it. All I need to do is walk in obedience and expectation of what God's going to do. Now Abraham is walking in expectation of the miraculous because he knows if I offer up Isaac, in order for the fulfillment of the promise that God has already given me about this child, is ever going to happen, there has to be a miracle that takes place. He's walking in the expectation of the miraculous, but for you and I, oftentimes, it's following directions, friends and followers, family, or maybe even faith. Number four In the area of faith, Isaac doesn't see the offering. But Abraham, not seeing the offering, knows that God Will provide for himself. Abraham has faith. Faith is the substance of things hoped for and the evidence of things not seen. And Abraham says, God is going to provide, even though we don't see it. This faith statement that he makes forces God to do the miraculous. Abraham says, I'm doing what I can do Well, I'm following the instructions of God. However, when I've exhausted what my responsibilities are, it's up to you, God, to do the rest. Some of the things that we're dealing with today, you've done what you can do. It's up to God to do the rest. It's your responsibility, God, to bring this thing across the finish line. So He has put God in the position that God now has to do. The miracle. Because the only way we coming out of this is a miracle. It's our inability to have that kind of faith. That hinders us from living in expectation of the miraculous. What is it in your life that you think Is holding God up from working the miracle. Obviously, it could be his will. How many people wake up every day and expect God to do a miracle? Every day I expect to see something miraculous from God. A few, but not all of us. And why? The fact that you're still breathing is a miracle from God Now I know it's a miracle that we have we take for granted, but it's miraculous that God allows you to breathe. I've covered you know following directions, friends and followers, I've covered family, I've covered faith. Now let me deal with number five. Number five is familiarity Abraham is taking Isaac. Verse 7. Isaac raises this question, you know, I see the fire and I see the wood. But whereas the lamb, and the reason why he raises that is because Isaac is familiar with the process of burnt offerings. His familiarity causes him to not expect anything different. The reason why sometimes we don't live in expectation of God performing a miracle is because we're locked into living in the usual. We're familiar with this. And so Our mind won't allow our faith to reach out and say God is able to break the familiarity and God is able to do the unusual because He's a miracle-working God. It's possible for God to do the impossible things. And so He's able to do those impossible things outside of our familiarity. One of the things that make it a miracle for us that is not familiar It's not normal. If you look up the definition of miracle, we we we usually define it with with terms like uh things that happen outside the ordinary, things that happen outside the normal sphere of of physical or human understanding, intellect, and and and possibility. That's God. That's the God we serve. We serve a God who's outside of all that. He's a miraculous God. He's a God who exists in and of himself. He just exists. He's a God who's from the eons of nowhere began to speak into the eternities and the eternities began to become into place. The worlds were formed by his word. And we serve a God who can do anything. He can turn the day into night, the night into day. He can do anything. He wants to do. There's no limit to our God's ability. And as Christians and people of faith We ought to be move beyond the familiar to expect the unfamiliar. Number six, fear, verse twelve. It says And he says to him, Do not lay a hand on your on the lad or do anything to him, for now I know that you fear, that is to reverence, God, since you have not withheld from me Your only son. Fear in two aspects affects our ability to live in the expectation of God. One, we don't fear God in the sense of rev revere that type of fear. We don't have the we don't have the appropriate reverence for God. And watch this. Our reverence for God is limited to what we believe He can do and who He is. I'm only going to respect Him to what I believe He is, who He is. And so if I believe God is just, you know, maybe half a step above a human Then I'm just gonna give him a little bit of reverence. But if I believe God is who he says he is and who the Bible says he is, Then I need to be almost on my face every day, 24 hours a day, giving him honor and glory and praise and thanking him, watch this, that he gave his life to save me. I ought to be excited about the fact that God invited me into this relationship with him and to call me his own. If I have a reverence for him for who he really is, no matter what I face in life, I'm just willing to automatically turn it over and say, God's gonna work that out. I don't know how, I don't know what, but I know he's going to work it out because he's a miracle-working God. Final point. Focusing on the provisions of God. Verse 13, Abram lifted his eyes and looked, and there behind him was a ram caught in a thicket. By its horns. Abraham, when he went, he took the ram, he offered it as a burnt offering instead of his son. Now, here's what I want you to see in this text. Up until now, Abraham is focused on Doing what the instructions say it. His focus is the offering is Isaac. But when the Lord speaks and changes the directions, Now he has to change his focus. But all along, the ram was already in the bush. He wasn't focused on what God had already provided. God has already made provisions for the miracle to happen in your life. You're not focused on the provisions, your focus is too much on the problem and not on the provider If you just focus on the provisions of God, God has already given you more than you need God has already provided what's necessary for the miracle to take place if you stop holding your head down in depression and looking at the failures and the faults and the impossibilities. But look up to God. Look up To him who is the author and finisher of your faith. Look to the hills from where your help comes, because all your help comes to the Lord. Look to the cross where Jesus died and gave his life for you. Look up Focus on the provisions of God. And when you focus on the provisions of God, you can live expecting God to do miraculous stuff. Probably for every one of you here, God has miraculously positioned you where you are right now. If we live with the expectation, we allow God to be God. We've got to learn, Ketterin, to live in expectation of the miraculous. And watch this. And when we live in expectation of the miraculous, it will ease and calm our fear. These seven things can become hindrances to you, and I'm going to rehearse them in your hearing one more time. But I want you to put these seven things aside: failure to follow directions, friends and followers, family, faith, familiarity, fear, and focusing on provisions. Lay those aside and trust God. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III. where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in kingdom building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 10 a. m. At the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website Facebook and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries dot org or contact our church office at three zero one six two seven nine five zero zero Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the Spirit of excellence. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman in his new podcast. One Degree of Andy. He sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass: the One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree. Friavandy wherever you get your podcasts