Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. Jeremiah chapter 29, verse 1. The word of the Lord reads as follows. Now these are the words of the letter. That Jeremiah the prophet sent from Jerusalem to the remainder of the elders who were carried away captive to the priest, the prophets, and all the people whom Nebuchadnezzar carried away captive from Jerusalem to Babylon. This happened after Jeconiah, the Queen Mother, the eunuchs, the princes of Judah, and Jerusalem, the craftsmen and the smiths, had departed from Jerusalem. The letter was sent by the hand of Elisha, uh the son of Sheph and uh, Gemariah, the son of Hilkiah, whom Zedekiah, king of Judah. had sent to Babylon to Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, saying, Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, to all who were carried away captive, whom I have caused to be carried away from Jerusalem to Babylon. Build houses and dwell in them, plant gardens and eat their fruit, take wives and beget sons and daughters, and take wives for your sons, and give your daughters husbands, so that they may bear sons and daughters, that you may increase there and not deep diminish. And seek the peace Of the city where I have caused you to be carried away captive, and pray to the Lord for it, for in its peace you will have peace. For thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, do not let your prophets and your diviners who are in your midst deceive you, nor listen to the dreams which you have caused yourself to dream. For they prophesy falsely to you, in my name I have not sent them, says the Lord. For thus says the Lord, After seventy years are completed at Babylon, I will visit you and perform my good word towards you. and cause you to return to this place. For I know the thoughts that I think towards you, says the Lord, the th uh thoughts of peace and not of evil, to give you a future and a hope. And then you will call upon me, and go and pray to me, and I will listen to you. And you will seek me and find me, and when you search for me with all of your heart, I will be found by you, says the Lord. And I will bring you back from your captivity. I will gather you from all the nations and from all the places where I have driven you, says the Lord of hosts. Bring you to the place from which I have caused you to be carried away captive. Will you pray with me on this morning? Father, we thank you for the word of God. We thank you because We know that you have spoken to us, and it is clear on this morning that you have a word for each and every one of us. And it's my prayer, God, on this morning that as your word goes forward, that you would remove every barrier that we might have thrown up, or that the enemy may cast in front of us that might keep us from hearing from you on today. Father, I pray that the Word of God as it goes forward would Also reach someone in their state of lostness and cause them to realize that they need a savior. And free and powerful, but it can transform their eternal destiny. Save someone by the saving of your grace. Father, redeem someone and redraw someone to your saving side. Someone perhaps has drifted in their fellowship. And it is my prayer on this morning, God, that you would have your way by drawing them back to a place that is near and dear to you. Spirit of the Lord edify this body, but more importantly, above everything else that transpires, it's my prayer that you glorify yourself, for I want your name to get all the glory and all the honor and all the praise I'm a weak vessel, God, in need of your help and your strength. So use me, God, to accomplish your will in this place. And we together will all give your name the glory. The honor and the praise. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. This text that I've read and you're hearing on this morning tells the story of the southern tribes of Israel, also known as Judah. Uh who uh despite many warnings, prophetic warnings and prophets that have come to them to tell them that you need to Correct your ways, turn back from your evil and your wickedness, and live for God. Despite the fact that they've watched their brothers in the north, the ten northern tribes, Israel, uh, by name Uh they've watched them be carried away and disseminated and they watched Assyria attack them and disseminate them and disperse them abroad and take some into Assyria And then disperse others into other regions of conquered territories of Assyria. They've watched that and they they saw what God said he was going to do, and they saw God do what he said he was going to do. But yet when God sends the prophets to them. They ignore the word of God. They decide to do what they want to do. And they continue to act a fool against God. And they continue to have prophets, even amongst them, rise up and say, God's not gonna hurt you, God won't do that to you, you're special to God. And so they continue to act in disobedience towards God and Then God raises up Babylon, a foreign nation, a a heathen nation, if you will. He raises them up that he that they might become a strong conquering power, and that they might indeed be used as an instrument in the hand of God to chasten his people. How many people know that God does chasten those he loves? And he raises up Babylon to chasten Israel, uh that is Judah specifically. And to drag them out of the promised land, and to take them into captivity, and to there uh punish them for the sins that they have committed, the rebellion of heart that they've committed against him. Wow. His whole passion and his whole desire is to draw them back to himself. God wants Israel to come back to him. And so God uses all of this for that purpose. And as I was reading through this story, I had to I had the question that popped in my mind as I was trying to discover, God, how do you want me to present this to your people? Well here's a question that came to me. Have you ever been in a place in your life done something wrong? Maybe I should stop right there. And I'm assuming the answer from everyone is yes. That would be me. But have you ever done something wrong and you begin to see and to experience the consequences of your wrongdoing? And as you were experiencing the consequence of your wrongdoing, and as you began to see the hand of God moving against you for what you know you shouldn't have done, Have you ever been in that place where I mean I don't know what it was. Maybe maybe you maybe you were lying or maybe you were Uh maybe it was a marriage that went bad or maybe maybe it was you were cheating or stealing something or stuff. I don't know. Maybe it was an affair that you had. But but whatever it was, God began to move and to bring consequences on your situation. And in those times, our tendency is to resist. The judgment of God that's coming on us. And in fact, it sounds good to us, and we even encourage ourselves, you know what? As we resist the judgment of God, we we don't want to deal with the consequences for long. Amen, somebody. I mean, it's okay for a little while, but I don't really want this to go on too long. I know I don't have no witnesses in the house. Even as I'm speaking about this, it reminds me of how growing up When we would get in trouble and we would do things that were wrong, we used to get what are called whoopings. We didn't get spankings. We got whoopings. Because as the belt or the whatever it was that was coming at you, it made this sound. And you was getting whooped. I mean, I know I might have one or two people that were corrected that way. Today it's called child abuse, but back then it was just called a whooping. There were two choices that we had as children growing up. We had the choice that we could get the whooping from my father, or we can get it from my mother. Now, my father didn't whoop long, but he whooped strong. Amen. He might hit you three times, but it was so hard that it resonated for a while. But my mother, she would whoop us on and on and on and on and she would talk to you while she was And you're thinking, don't let this last too long. Dad, why don't you come? You know, you don't, you know, when you're being corrected, you just don't want it to last long And even, you know, as a child, or perhaps you can relate to this for those of you who didn't get whoopings and you had, you know, corner time and time out, you didn't want to you didn't want to stay in the corner too long. Amen. You didn't want your time out to let all your punishments, you know, your you know punishments. You just don't want it to be long. You just I mean Lord can can can't can't but and we sometimes we even want to negotiate, you know, the children want to negotiate with the parents Well, I know you said a month, but can it can it be two weeks? We don't want the punishment to go on long, and so Israel is in that space. And Israel has prophets that come to them and say, this won't God he's mad at you right now, but it it'll be okay. It won't be that long. And so they're thinking and they're believing their prophets, and the Lord sends a message through Jeremiah that says, don't listen to your prophets. This is going to take a while. And I want to talk to you from this subject this morning, which is literally The message that God sends to the captives through Jeremiah, I want to speak to you from the subject matter. This might take a while But it is coming. In fact, if you could just say that with me, because I think we might meet we might need to hear that in our so we need to sometimes you when you say something yourself, it means a little bit more to you. So if you can just say that with me, this might take a while. But it is coming. Okay, I I just need you to have kind of get it into your spirit because some of us are dealing with consequences today of our wrongdoing and we want it to be over. But we need to hear that this might take a while, but it's coming. Y'all still here with me? In this text of Jeremiah. It begins and I kind of want to begin with first of all the cause of their captivity. And perhaps it may be in line with your own or what you're dealing with. And so if I can just flip you back a couple of chapters to chapter 25. I just want to read a couple verses there. In chapter 25 of Jeremiah Uh begin around verse 4. I'll just read a few verses here. This is the cause. This is what happened. This is how they got to where they are, that they're being dragged and have been dragged away into captivity by Babylon. And the Lord has sent to you all his servants, the prophets, rising early and sending them, but you have not listened nor inclined your ear to hear. One of the things I like about God is he doesn't just punish you randomly. He sends you warnings before you get into your mess. Israel was warned by the prophets and they were rising up early sending them but but you didn't listen. You didn't incline your ear They said, Repent now, every one of you, of his evil way and his evil doings, and dwell in the land that the Lord has given to you and your fathers forever and ever Do not go after their gods and serve them and worship them, and do not provoke me to anger with the works of your hands, and I will not harm you. Yet you have not listened to me, says the Lord, that you might provoke me to anger with the works of your hands to your own hurt. This is how they got in this place where they they are. They wouldn't listen to God. They didn't the God sent them warnings and gave them instruction. And remember this. They're already in the promised land. They're in a good place. God is taking care of them. They're eating from vineyards they didn't plant They're benefiting from the blessings of God that they didn't labor for. They're living in houses they didn't build. God has brought them into a land that is flowing with milk and honey, and in the midst of them being in the land of milk and honey Being in a place where God has favored them enormously. They won't listen to God. Who brought them there? Who's provided the blessing for them? Sound familiar? Listen to verse 11. And this whole land shall be a desolation. This is the consequences. And an astonishment. And these nations shall serve the king of Babylon for how long? Seventy years. This might take a while, but it's coming. Israel is now only focused on getting out of the consequences of their wrong. They did not listen to God. They they rebelled and they they they they they were disobedient and they ignored the plans of God and the word of God and and they rose up their own prophets to to say to them the things that they wanted to hear. And they listened to those who said the things that they wanted to hear. And listen to me here. We always love it when somebody tells us we can do what we want and ignore God. Because part of our old nature is to do what we want to do. We do not want to obey God, and so as long as someone or something, or perhaps we ourselves can convince ourselves. That's what I'm doing is really not God's business. I I can do this. Matter of fact, I'm not so far off from what God said to do. And we believe it and we walk in it, but there's consequences to our disobedience. That's where Israel is, that's where Judah is. And they they've now been carried off into captivity. And the cause, first of all, is their disobedience. They're in this place because they wouldn't do what God said do. And I don't know who I'm talking to this morning, but let me say this to you: partial obedience is not obedience. You can't go part of the way and say, well, I I halfway did it. No. When disobedience is disobedience. You either do everything he said or you're in disobedience. And I know that oftentimes God is calling us to things and He's provoked us to things and He's pushing us to things and we don't want to go. We don't want to do. Your disobedience has consequences. Do y'all still here with me? Y'all kind of quiet. I didn't know everybody was in this place. All right, so here it is. They're dealing with this disobedience. They're the consequences are coming. And and here's the thing I want to say to you. When you were doing what you were doing that was against God, you knew better. Israel knew better. It wasn't like Oh, well, we didn't know. Um why is Babylon coming to take us captivity? Um why what what do we do? No, they knew God warned them, God told them, God Rem sent prophet after prophet to them to say to them, this is going to happen to you. Here are the consequences that are coming to you if you don't stop your evil ways. They're gonna come and get your car if you don't pay your payment. And they keep sending you warnings. It's 30 days now. It's 45 days now. You getting text messages. Don't be surprised when you walk outside and the car's gone. Are y'all hearing what I'm saying? Because you say it in your mind doesn't change the reality. If God said this is what's gonna happen, I read to you, the prophets told them 70 years Don't be surprised now that you're in captivity, that you're gonna be here for a while. You're dealing with the consequences of your behavior. Listen to verse 4, what he says back to chapter 29. In verse 4, thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, to all who were carried away captive whom I have caused to be carried away from Jerusalem to Babylon. You want to know who to blame? First of all, blame yourself for being obedient. You want to know if God's hand is in it? Yes, God's hand is in it. God says, I'm the one that carried you away I'm the one who've moved you into this place of captivity. I'm the one who've moved you in here as a consequence of your disobedience. You're where you are, you're struggling in your spot Because I had you in a good place. I you were in the promised land, but that wasn't good enough for you. You didn't honor the blessing that I had on your life. It wasn't enough for you. You had to go and get more, do more. Disobey and do it your way. But now you've got to deal with the consequences. And I'm the one who's made sure you were carried out of your good place into this difficult place I'm the one who's carried you out of the place where you used to be able to pay your bills and now you don't have enough money. I'm the one Who moves you out of the comforts of having a family and children to now you're in an apartment by yourself and your family is gone? I'm the one because I was warning you all along the way But you didn't you didn't hear me. Instead of listening to God, you wanted to listen to your prophets that you rose up. And so now you're you're the cause of their captivity is their disobedience And the hand of their captivity is at the hand of God. God says, I'm the one who brought you into this land. Now As I moved through this text, I saw this cause of their captivity, but there's craziness in their captivity. And I'll say there's craziness in your captivity too. The situation that you're in, there's some crazy things happening in the midst of your captivity. There's some crazy things in this text that are happening in the midst of their captivity. Listen to what the Lord says. He says, over these next few verses, God's What we're really seeing is we're seeing God's grace actually being poured out in the midst of his judgment. And I think that's crazy when God says, I'm going to spank you, but yet in the middle of him spanking you, he's also comforting you. I love it. We serve an unusual God who loves us and he corrects us because he loves us. Sometimes when we're being corrected, we feel like God doesn't love us. And sometimes the reason why people walk away from God when they're being corrected for disobeying God is because they're blaming God for the correction. Watch this. No, the correction is your fault. The only one you have to blame is you, but watch this. But God is correcting you not to destroy you, but He's correcting you so you can grow stronger and come back to Him. So when you come back to him, next time you'll listen to him. Amen. Somebody. I know I got one or two witnesses that went awry and God whooped them, and they came back, and they said, I ain't never going back out there no more. I had my feel of that. I'm never picking up that kind of bottle again. That is not happening no way, no how. I'm done with that. I put that down for good. Anybody? Amen. That's what God wants. Matter of fact, the reason why some are in church this morning and watching church this morning is because you've been through some things that reminded you that this is a better place to be. Amen. Than waking up on the side of the road. This is a better place to be than than to be having a hangover. This is a better place to be Then had to be struggling on my own. And so I figured out something that God has spanked me to a place that I realize I need Him. And so I make sure I'm with Him. Y'all still here? Listen to how he how it plays itself out. God says to them, verse 5, build houses and dwell in them. Wait a minute, wait, wait, wait. I thought we were being punished. Yeah, yeah, yeah, you're being punished. This is chastisement. This is correction. But I want you to build houses and dwell in them, plant gardens and eat their fruit. Wait a minute. You know you're not gonna put us in captivity and make us starve to death? No. You're not gonna put us in captivity and make us sleep outside? No. We don't have to deal with the elements, God. We don't have to you know hide up under the tree. No. I want you to build houses. Which means God's gonna provide the resources for the houses to be built. Y'all need to hear this. I know you're focused on the text. Let me transfer it to you. While you're in the middle of your struggle, while you're in the middle of your chastisement, God is still comforting. God is still sustaining because he could have wiped you completely out, but he's extending grace while he's punishing because he wants you, he doesn't again, he's not trying to destroy you, he's trying to lovingly move you back. to the place where he loved you and you loved him and you could enjoy the full benefit of his promises in the promised land. Y'all still hear? And so he he says, I want you to build houses and I want you to to live in them. I want you to to to plant gardens So you can have something to eat, and I want you to eat the fruit of the gardens, which means God is going to assure that the gardens that they plant produce fruit. This is awesome. Wait, wait, I'm in punishment, God. I'm being corrected, God, and you're still gonna make sure I have food to eat? You're gonna make sure that the vine produces fruit for me. While I'm being chastised? Yes, I want you to build houses. I want you to plant vineyards and I and gardens and I want you to eat their fruit. But listen to this. I want you to take wives and begot sons and daughters and take wives for your sons. And your daughters to husbands. So in other words, this is generations. I want you to be blessed, but I'm going to bless your sons and your daughters so that That means you're gonna be here a while. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he said Down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations, you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.