The blood has covered them, and because the blood has covered them, there is no more death because the wages of sin was death because Jesus paid the price. Because I don't want to see you go there. It's a hospital for sinners. I say this to you by the word of the Lord that we who are alive and remain until the coming of the Lord will by no means precede those who are asleep. who had given their life to the Lord, who had served the Lord, who had been faithful to God, who had perhaps been killed or crucified or who had been who had who had been But when if you don't understand and you don't comprehend that those who have trusted Jesus as personal Lord and Savior of their life have had all their sin forgiven because the blood of Jesus washed all the sin away, and because all the sin was washed away. Of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Voices behind the song. uh share the gospel with them and he writes to kind of reestablish reiterate many of those things that he had already spoken to them but he also writes to them to address an issue that had risen abunk amongst them in the church and that was the issue of what happens to folk when they die. If he had used that in a as a declaration, it would have symbolized that there was no expectation of anything beyond that last breath Taken out of this life by those who did not want the gospel to go forward. I don't want you to be losing sleep over this matter. Help me God. So for the folk that think there's gonna be a party in hell and a party in a lake of fire, ain't no partying like that kind of party. And then we who are alive and remain will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and thus we shall always be with the Lord. We're going to be caught up. He don't care whether you're 15 years old, 50 years old, or 105 years old. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling the Third Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And I need you, God, to speak through my lips of clay. For the Lord himself will descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the Archangel, with the trumpet of God, and the dead in Christ will rise first. And God, we will give your name all the glory and all the honor and all the praise. to encourage them in the many things that he had already taught them. And so what he does here in the text is he very meticulously weaves together the understanding and the idea that this loved one that you're concerned about who is in Christ Jesus Forward who have fallen asleep. Who have fallen asleep. in a derogatory way. He says, I don't want you to be. has no expectation of getting better. Out. If they have no knowledge of it, if they're ignorant of it, then they're going through sorrow at a level and in a depth that they don't have to be going through it. who Jesus is and what happens to those who rest in him. Is sleeping in them informs my sorrow that weeping may endure for a night. And his name is Jesus, and he's coming back again. I've trusted Jesus Christ as my personal Lord and Savior of my life. What do you mean an eternal body? He paid for all of our sin and all we have to do is accept a gift of eternal life that He has provided. We're forgiven of our sin, but we're growing in grace to be like him. because we need the medicine of the gospel. He says, for those who have fallen asleep, we say this to you by the word of the Lord. To be resurrected from the dead. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. Down with the voices behind the song. And now, Pastor Sterling. The word of the Lord reads like this, but I do not want you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning those who have fallen asleep, lest you sorrow as others who have no hope. For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so, God will bring with him those who sleep in him. I pray, eternal God, that this word would be a word that would draw someone who's drifted in their fellowship back to you. And I pray you draw them back to yourself. There were those who had come to Christ, they had given their life to Christ, and had served the Lord, and and yet through the persecutions of those that were against We need some clarity on the matter. Falling asleep. Lest you sorrow as others who have no hope. Has consequences to your future days that you face as you grieve. Lord help me Jesus. There's no more death. Our sorrow is informed by our knowledge of Jesus' death, burial, and resurrection. Help me, God. But don't think you've taken up residence because my hope is now in the resurrection of Jesus Christ In other words, sorrow, you ain't gonna stay here. And I know that my loved one believed, even as the text says, if we believe that he died, was buried, and rose again, even so. We're waiting for him to come back again. And he's coming back for his own, but when he comes back, there's judgment that has to happen. and is miserable and is burning up stuff will be cast into the lake of fire, which means the lake of fire is hotter than hail. Because you rejected a free opportunity to spend eternity with him in heaven. And so what he what he did, he provided the forgiveness of sin for us all. We are watch this. It's right here in the text. Will by no means precede those who have fallen asleep. He comes and then those who are alive and remain who are born again will be caught up to meet the Lord in the air. With the Lord. But help me, Holy Ghost, you will not be late to that appointment. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Sundays at 10 a. or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. say to you by the word of the Lord that we who are alive and remain until the coming of the Lord will by no means precede those who are asleep. Now, I think it's a moment, a teaching moment to point out here in the text, because he says it repetitively, those who have fallen asleep. In other words, your emotional pain, your your your struggle within of their loss and your your the void that has been created will be a void that has no hope or expectation of anything ever getting better. If I'm ignorant about those who have fallen asleep, if I don't know what happened to those who trusted Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior of their life, if I don't know what happened to them, then the sorrow that I feel Which tells me something about people who don't know the process of life and transition and new life. Regarding those who have fallen asleep is the first movement here in the text. In other words, if we have the knowledge of his death, burial, and resurrection and rose again, even so God will bring with him those who sleep. In him. In other words, sorrow can't stay here forever because sorrow is informed that this is a temporary thing. And and watch this: the fact that he's gonna bring them back when he comes informs another group of people that need to hear this message. Amen, somebody. I don't want you to be ignorant concerning them because if you are, you will mourn or you will sorrow as those who have no hope. Whether someone is born again or not, when they die, when they decease, when they breathe their last breath, when they fall asleep, all of us to some degree who have a relationship with that person will have sorrow. Help me, Jesus. But but this gives me joy and it gives me a right and a and a reason to celebrate as opposed to be sad and sorrowful and it causes sorrow to have an exit strategy. But to the unbeliever, you need to know something that this whole world ain't gonna be here forever. Here, but we know he's coming back. Do not pass gold. But you can't get yourself together to go to heaven. That's not we make up all kind of stuff that ain't in the Bible. And Jesus is the firstborn and the first to be resurrected from the dead. With them in the clouds, to meet the Lord in the air, and thus we shall always be with the Lord. In this epistle, this letter from the Apostle Paul to the saints in Thessalonica, he writes to them from Corinth. Because when someone falls asleep, we kind of expect that they will wake up. They will wake up again. That's powerful. Amen somebody. And what Paul says here in the text, if you're unaware, if you're ignorant about those who have known the Lord, who have served the Lord, and if you're ignorant about them, then your sorrow will be hopeless. I close the door. And it keeps going and going and going. And this is important, this is critical, because we we make up a whole lot of things that the word don't say. For those that were confused and they were worried about what's happened to those who've gone on before us, Paul says, I don't want you to be ignorant, I want you to be knowledgeable, but I also want you to understand the promises regarding those who have fallen asleep. He he he he lays us this out for us. Would you pray with me for a moment? Now the closer I am to you, the more likely I am to have a deeper level of sorrow. When I have no hope, sorrow just keeps going down and down and down. You will sorrow, you will have pain like those. It tells me something about those who don't have a comprehension or who are dealing with um the sorrow for those who have passed away or have fallen asleep because And sorrow arrests your heart. So my sorrow becomes informed by my knowledge of the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. Then we have confidence that they are first of all with God. Our loved one is going to be with him and he's going to bring them back when he comes. And then you will be resurrected from the dead, from your deadness and from that spot, and given an eternal body that will be cast into the lake of fire, which really wasn't made for you. It was made for Satan and his demons. Because you know we always want to be first. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. I ain't trying to scare you. You smart enough, you intelligent enough, you got a AA, a BA, a D A a D D or something. And he says to them, and he uses, interestingly enough, uh in his terminology as he refers to those who have known the Lord, he uses the term fallen asleep. Lord help me God. Death alone creates sorrow, and sorrow, biblically speaking, is just emotional pain. Y'all still here? But if I'm not even aiming, I'm on my own. That's not in the Bible. Because sorrow will feed sorrow. And if I stand before Him and the question is posed to me, why should I let you into my heaven? That's for the believer. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. What's the promise here? Falling asleep. It says, For for this we say to you by the word of the Lord, that we are that we who are alive and remain until the coming of the Lord. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. He's using it as an essence to say, I just want you to be informed wisely. I don't want you to be ignorant. If they don't comprehend and you don't understand that when you're in Christ Jesus there is no death in him. In other words, sorrow says, sorrow says, I want to hang around forever, but my knowledge of Jesus' death, burial, and resurrection, and the fact that my loved one So here's what I what I deduct from that is if we if we have the knowledge of those who have fallen asleep, watch this. We are sinners who are saved by the grace of God. I don't want to talk to nobody. If someone who doesn't understand that the born-again child of God is going to live not again here in this realm, but they're just closed their eyes on this side and woke up on the other side. So the Apostle Paul writes this letter of Thessalonica to Thessalonica and to those here in this text to say to them and to clarify for them this issue of what literally happened. So while I'm preaching, if you happen to fall asleep, my expectation is that we will not have to carry you out of here, but rather you will wake up after I'm done. Do not collect $200. It's a body that will burn every day, 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and it will never be consumed. We'll be snatched up out of this fleshly bodies and we will be caught up to meet the Lord in the air. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. And he says, brethren, which means he's talking to the believer. I'm just trying to tell you what the word. And so because they're in him, they're going to rise with him. The Apostle Paul here in verse 13 begins by saying, But I do not want you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning those who have fallen asleep. And so we come to church because we sick. We come to church because we need somebody to sing glory. Father, we bless you on today. If you're ignorant of those who have fallen asleep, you will have sorrow that is hopeless. That's what we're looking for. Because it wasn't made for you. m. He gives us this understanding that they're gonna rise first. Now the reason why he uses that terminology because when someone falls asleep, there is a great expectation that they will get up again. But if you don't understand that, if you go comprehend that, if you're ignorant of that, you look at the casket and you look at the shell where that person used to live. But while we're waiting, we're working. I want you to understand. Can I use my imagination for a moment? at the Legacy Center. Because we don't really connect with them and we we ain't really gonna miss them. And in fact, what will happen three months from now, I'll be worse off than I was when they passed. I want to share a a word from First Thessalonians on today, uh chapter four, beginning at verse thirteen. I don't want you to be unknowledgeable. So the text moves on, and this is my last point. So there's a promise even here for us that that if we are still alive and we remain when the Lord comes Pastor, why is that important? Amen. The promise is that those who are asleep will rise first. That's just not in the Bible. And and watch this. He had been amongst them and and founded there and and and grown there with them and he had This is the word. We call it the rapture event. I want you to understand that. I don't want to see nobody. And when he comes back after life is judgment. And listen to this. Paul says, I'm telling you what the word of God says. We thank you for this opportunity and occasion to declare your word. Why do they get to rise first? But then the Apostle Paul shifts and he talks about the knowledge regarding those who have fallen asleep. Speak a word, eternal God, that would change and transform lives for eternity. For the Lord Himself will descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of an archangel, and with the trumpet of God, and the dead will in Christ will rise first. Praise the Lord. If we have that knowledge, if we if we have that, he says, um, he says, for if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so, God will bring with him those who sleep. But you will, because you rejected a free gift of everlasting life. Spirit of the Lord, and all that is done and all that is said, I stand in need of you. But Paul says, I I don't want you to be ignorant. Jesus died on the cross so that we all could have everlasting life. And so he uh draws out this text to help us to understand that. I don't want you to uh we use this word ignorance and and we kind of use it almost in a a derogatory way, but the apostle Paul's not really using it You you boom, right to hell. Because I know that Jesus died, was buried, and rose again. He covers us with his grace. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship services Amen, Jesus. God didn't say that. It's important, first of all, to the believer, because that's what we're waiting for When we fail, his grace catches us and covers us. And sorrow when it feeds sorrow brings on depression. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. In Jesus' name I pray with thanksgiving and expectation. I don't want you to be like those who have no hope. Because he's coming back. In other words, I'm going to lay this promise out to you, not because it's something I want to happen, but it's because what the Lord said will happen. We're waiting for that event that we get caught up to meet the Lord in the air. If I'm living my own life, I'm trying to do this thing myself. God calls when he calls. I I don't because see what what he what he draws out here in the text is that ignorance of those who have fallen asleep And when I should be improving, I'm still getting worse. You get the phone call and and it's and sorrow and and no hope is there. Because you rationalized and you thought your way through and you thought you could make it on your own, you will be cast into the lake of fire with an eternal body. I repented of my sin and I placed my faith in him. And you're not gonna live perfect after you become a Christian. Paul says, I want you to understand something. I don't want you to be ignorant. We come to church because we need to get better. That's a great question. But if he used the word they died You have been listening to the Radio Broadcast Ministry. When he gets up for this last opportunity, they're in him, so they rise with the first. There will be a trapdoor that's you've been standing on that will be removed and you will slide straight down. Concerning those who have, again, fallen asleep, those who have a personal, intimate relationship with the Lord. Hallelujah. The reason they get to rise first because they're in Jesus Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome I'm done. We're serving, we're working, we're we're greeting, we're preaching, we're singing, You will go straight to hell. That's a great question. Are y'all still here with me? According to Colossians chapter 1, he's the first For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. And as we as we watch this, grow in grace to be more like him, even as tr Christians. There's going to be a reunion in the sky Okay? And you will be there in torment until the final day of judgment, at which time hell, which is hot. We're not hypocrites. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. We have no guarantee when or how long we have left So I already talked about the ignorance regarding those who have fallen asleep and the knowledge regarding those who have fallen asleep. Well well well Pastor, why why do they get to rise first? That God is coming back We come to church because we need somebody to stand up and sing the Lord's Prayer. And I pray that this word, God, would be life everlasting to someone who's lost and don't know you. Okay? If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. I don't want you to be unknowledgeable. Lord help me, Jesus. You you got at least a high school graduation, something that will tell you that you know what, if I can get myself together, let's go ahead and do that. I want you to have a solid biblical theology about what happened to those who died in Christ, who have gone on, who have passed Help me, Jesus. But we do have some measure of sorrow. Because the text says that God will bring him, bring with him those who are sleep in Jesus I want clarity to be in your mind. I'm sorry messing up your angelic stuff. We bring this to you by the word of God. And because I know of the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ, and I know that my loved one is sleeping in him. But joy is coming in the morning. And you will feel all of the fire all of the time. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. It's right here in the text. If I can comprehend if I can say this like I feel it Therefore, comfort one another with these words. That they would realize, God, they've been away from you and the relationship with you too long. It will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. I know everybody's like, yo, church Christians are hypocrites. Ignorance And so when I'm done with this life, I've got to stand before him and give account for what I did in this life. I'm on my own. Like like mama became an angel. But if we possess the knowledge of Jesus, if we know that we know that we know, Lord help me We come to church. If I'm ignorant of those, Paul says, if you're ignorant of those who have fallen asleep He never asked you to be perfect. The church is not a museum for saints. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. For this we Now there are some folk that when they pass away our sorrow is very brief. And when he calls you, you got to leave here. And Paul says, if you're ignorant about those who have fallen asleep There's a king that's above every other king. And sometimes it comes in the rapture, but sometimes it comes before the rapture. And when it brings on depression, I turn the lights. I trusted him as my savior and Lord, and I'm covered in his blood. I don't want you to be stressing out and That's the promise from God. If I don't have an answer that sounds something like this As a child of God, we're perfect because of Him, not because of us. And I I I do want to s speak just for a moment on today from the subject matter concerning those I have to deal with my own consequences Amen. You'll have sorrow like those who have no hope. They've only fallen asleep. In verse 14, he says, For if we believe that Jesus died, Now he's bringing you their stories. He didn't say you got to get yourself together first. Where we're doing ministry while we're waiting on him In other words, you can't hang around here forever. I'm just walking y'all through the scripture. The One Degree of Andy podcast. No, we're not hypocrites. Then we who are alive and remain shall be caught up together. And and oh my God, it's so sad. Now he's bringing you their stories. Those who are asleep in Jesus will be resurrected first. And amen. And I know some of y'all are late to every appointment We we come to church because we're sick and we need that medicine that only God can give. The message is he's coming back again. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Paul says, comfort one another with these words. So they rise first with him. There's a name that's above every other name. I'm trying to help y'all I'm Andy Christman. The last thing I want to talk about here is the promise regarding those who have fallen asleep. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. They've fallen asleep If you could get yourself together, you would have done that already. On Andy Christman, in his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he said We'll let you stay for a night. org In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. And sometimes God said it's just your time. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast. If your answer don't sound something like that. And then org.