As a disciple, we can't walk around blind thinking that we're going to get positions and titles and stuff according to the world. Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. And to give his life a ransom for many. They have. And then third and finally, as we looked at the payment for the laborers, and as we walked carefully through the payment of the laborers, we saw some things that manifest themselves. The voices behind the song. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. Voices behind the song. That you would draw someone who is in darkness into the light, that they might see their need for you. To you that they might experience everlasting and eternal life as a result of your word. Jesus spoke through this parable that he shared with them. uh explanation of that that's going to come. They think that they should be entitled to have preferred seats in the kingdom of God and that they should be equal. You're gonna sit on 12 thrones with me. In verse 22, let me read this for you. Sons, are you able to drink the cup that I am about to drink and be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with? And our ambitions and our desires are driving our lives. And people that follow you on your job and those kind of things. And their blind response leads to their blinders being removed. These disciples are looking at Jesus and they only been with him for two years. Even as you are equal with God and sit on the right hand of God, we can be equal to you and sit on your right hand. But the blinders need to be removed. So we'll be in authority over everybody else. In the kingdom of God, it brings chaos. Stepped out of order, stepped out of line, thinking that they were better than the others, and they wanted a position better than the others. Verse 26, it shall not be so among you, but whoever desires to become great among you, let him be your servant. They want to be great because they want to be acknowledged. Come up with all the the ways in which things ought to be done. That's how they pursue being in this preferred position. Unfolds this this way because the idea that John and James, what they really literally wanted, they wanted to sit in these high seats and be uh ruling over people and have people serving them. And and they they want to make sure, don't forget my name on the program, don't forget to list me, don't forget to put me. To be a bond servant of God, to be a slave of God, who is a slave of God to serve the people. To the kingdom of God and the work of God. Spots. Please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III To sit on my right hand and on my left hand is not mine to give, but it is for those for whom it is prepared by my Father. And the third day he will rise again. And said to them, Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be betrayed to the chief priests. And he said to her, What do you wish? to a point of repentance, a point of reconciliation where they would reunite with you and reconcile their broken differences that they And the honor and the praise I am your surrendered vessel. verse. Death. What are you mumbling about? They're blinded by all of that. When Jesus called them, they were with their dads on the boat in Galilee. To hang out with them, and now all of a sudden they think they're equal with him. because their mother was not present when Jesus said, this is how I'm going to lay out things in the future. And so here they come like a couple of chunks behind their mama and letting their mother ax the request. Even though she asked the question, he responds to the sons, because the you here in the text is plural. Watch this in verse 22. That question is a question to open up their eyes. with they say yes we are able and a lot of people in their blindness even people that you disciple in in the church and people that you lead To the grave and be raised again on the third day with all power in your hand. They think they're entitled to them. There's this rumbling going on amongst the 12 disciples that are supposed to be following Jesus. And those who are great exercise authority over them. to to to jockey for and and watch this and the fact that they did it has upset the other ten so now all of them are in this whole argument about That's the way they act, but that's not how it works in the kingdom of God. Now, right there I just said a mouthful. If you want to be great in the kingdom of God, roll up your sleeves, shut your mouth, and get to work. I love it. Watch this. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. Under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. And to the scribes, and they will condemn him to death, and deliver him to the Gentiles to mock and to scourge and crucify. But Jesus answered and said, You do not know what you ask. And be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with. And now, Pastor Sterling. And when the ten heard it, they were greatly displeased with the two brothers. You know that rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and those who are great exercise authority over them. For this experience and opportunity of privilege that we have to stand and declare your holy word. Amen. in this series of messages opening blinded eyes. Payments that were made. Jesus explains that the chosen will be sitting on these thrones and they will judge kingdoms with him. Which will ultimately prove that their eyes are blind to the whole situation that's going on in front of them. Well, we need to make our move on our position for the throne. The King of Kings and Lord of Lords, who's been sitting on his throne since eternity past, he's the one that spoke worlds, kingdoms, and galaxies into existence. Thinking that they deserve to be where they should not be. We're likely to ask for things, not realizing the price that it costs to have it, nor the sacrifice it's going to involve in keeping it, or what is going to be involved in getting there when we're blind. And leadership, children and money, power and position. Do what I'm about to do. And yes, you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit as I am, but you can't be baptized with the baptism that I'm about to be baptized with. Into hell. They thought they could, but they were blind. Their blindness is to get a leg up on the other ten. Jesus steps in the center of this whole issue of their blindness. Position and title and authority and all that. Because throughout the world, church people have this issue of wanting to be great. It's not a matter of your secular experience. Get your hands dirty. When the work is to be done, they're absent. Wow, what do you mean by that? God is pulling blinders off their eyes because they thought they had it. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 10 a. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. Yet it shall not be so among you. Let him be your slave. Verse number 20 says, the mother of Zebedee's sons came to him with her sons, kneeling down and asking something from him. With Christ himself. And to have the audacity to even make the request. And he's left father, angels, and thrones and dominions in heaven. A question to help them to shed light on how blind they literally are and to expose to them just a glimpse of what it takes to be equal to Him And Jesus responds to these blind disciples, he says, You will indeed drink my cup. To take on the sins of the world. to being a servant that will serve the people. God's word reads as follows. And when he answers in verse 22, he told her you don't even know what you're asking for. You're going to go through death, but you can't drink from the cup because you're not able as a disciple. And I've got an assignment here that only I can do. turns the script and flips it around and says that's not how the kingdom of God works. In the kingdom of God, we will have it made. You don't have to go begging for seats in the positions that that are in the kingdom. Serve with your eyes towards God. And Jesus says, if you want to be first, because they're all in this argument about first and preferred positions and titles and all that, he says, look, hold on six two seven nine five zero zero please join us again as senior pastor In your kingdom. The ten other disciples hear what's going on. of this world. And then, and then you'll be first. In this story, what we're going to discover is that these disciples' eyes are blinded. They're blinded by their desire to reign and rule over somebody, to be in front of somebody, to have position, to have title, to have preference. People are blinded by their sinful ambitions, blinded by their desires for power and position, blinded by their desires to be equal when they haven't even put in the work or the time Not how the kingdom of God works. Jesus says, if you want to be great, it's not a matter of your academic resume I know I'm talking to somebody this morning. And he says, not only that, but he says, but whoever desires to become great among you, let him be your servant. Who he's gonna put where and what that position will be. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Spirit of the Lord, encourage the body of believers and those who have assembled around the Word of God, encourage and edify such as you desire. Today we find here some disciples who are asking for preferred seats in the kingdom of God. They don't want to do anything. You want to be first? Let him be your slave. The Bible says promotion does not come from east or west, but all promotion comes from God. James and John, the sons of Zebedee, what happens is their mother comes and she brings her sons with them to present this request before Jesus. Do you know, or rather you do know, that the rulers of the Gentiles, that is, the heathens, those who don't know God, they lord it over, they lord their leadership, they lord their positions over them. Well, let's say it like this. Be a servant. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Perhaps coupled together, those things provoke this conversation that we have in our text and bring us to the point of the text that we have where these two brothers they decide that They said we are able. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. I'm about to go into the depths of Hades and release the captives from captivity. And trust God. When we began this journey, we were given Matthew chapter 20 as well, and we again speaking I love it. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. What do you want? But the Father who has already prepared those positions, he'll assign whoever's gonna sit in those. We saw the complaint by the laborers. They think they're able to do what Christ does and to be equal with Him. Their mother wasn't there when they heard that, so they obviously went and told their mom, Oh, Jesus said we're gonna sit on thrones again. So when we pick up in verse number 24, and when the ten heard it, they were greatly displeased with the two brothers. Roll up your sleeves. We are part of another kingdom. Now Jesus going up to Jerusalem took the twelve disciples aside, and on the road He says, you don't even know what you're asking for. You cannot redeem mankind from all of its sin. Commit your life to being the slave. They're desires even to be equal with Jesus. Now, when Jesus responds to them, because this request is interesting, this request that she puts before them is a blind request. Hmm. You're not able to shed blood that will wash away all sin. They want to be great because they want to make sure they get the credit. He said the laborers, the price that they were to be paid was agreed upon. And she said to him, Grant that these two sons of mine may sit one on your right hand and the other on the left hand. They don't want to serve. Commit yourself. Just as the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve. Perhaps that along with the fact that Jesus shares with his disciples his soon coming In their blind ambitions and in their arrogance, they believe they can do what you do. Humble yourself and be willing to serve other people. Use me, Lord, as you please. We spoke from the idea of blind laborers' eyes now open. We want to invite your attention on this morning to Matthew chapter 20. This whole thing is messed up and going on because chaos is now breaking out. Matter of fact, ministry leaders, you probably know. Commit yourself in essence in the kingdom of God, commit your life If you want to be great in the kingdom of God, let me let me read this for you. Okay. But listen, blindness creates confusion. They're nowhere to be found. We uh we can do what you do. Then the mother of Zebedee's sons came to him, with her sons kneeling down and asking something from him. But whoever desires to become great among you, let him be your servant. Wait, wait, wait, wait a minute. And he was trying to open up their eyes to get them to see: you don't have the power that I have. Jump in the mud with the workers. Because watch this. Jesus answers and said, You do not know what you ask. And chaos is breaking out amongst the disciples right here. We're going to get ahead of them so that we can get the best seats in the kingdom. They want to be in the preferred positions, in the preferred seats. Because far, far too often the people that want to be great, they don't want to serve. Would you pray with me this morning, eternal and everlasting God? Speaking of his crucifixion that he's already spoken of in the earlier verses, are you able to do that? Here's how they want to be great. And the blindness that they have, their blindness is for preferred seats. And he tries to help them to see this, to open up their eyes. That's how they want to be great. You want to be first, be a slave. If you want promotion, realize He's the one who has already decided. And she said to him, Grant that these two sons of mine may sit one on your right hand and the other on the left in your kingdom. And then there was the choice of the sovereign owner regarding the payment, and concludes by helping them to understand that the first will be last, the last. And in verse 25, Jesus called them to himself. That's what they're really literally asking for. We're oftentimes likely to ask and desire and have responses and think we can handle stuff that we can't even handle. No, the kingdom of God says if you want to be great serve And they said to him, We are able. Somebody should have smacked them right about there. Have thine own way in Jesus' name. No, they want to be served. Not so in the kingdom of God. And our kingdom doesn't operate the way this world's kingdom operates. A slave has to trust his master to take care of all his needs. It's a blind request. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. Are you able to drink the cup that I am about to drink? Oh no, you can't do what I'm getting ready to do. Right there, I just, if we could just remove the blinders off church people for a moment. Commit yourself, even as Paul calls and declares himself. In other words, take the position at the bottom and serve. Spirit of God, draw those who have drifted in their fellowship with you. But oftentimes in life, they're not thinking about all the things that are involved in getting it or keeping it. Yeah, can you drink of the cup that I'm about to drink with? You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. That's a great question. And so I want to talk to you on this morning from the subject matter, blind disciples. Their blind request leads to a blind response. And even as we operate in this world, keep in mind They want to be great because they want their name on the program They want to be great because they want to be the one in the position. And Jesus lets them know. He's taken off his royal diadem, walked through 42 generations to come into a sinful world They want these prepared seats in the kingdom of God They thought they knew what it took. You want to be first? That's a great question. They won't say they want to be great, but that's how they pursue their greatness. Ministry leaders, you you know, those are people that that that that in your ministry Jesus says: if you want to be great in the kingdom, you want preferred seats in the kingdom, serve. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome That they might come asking God, what must I do to be saved? But Christ, who is It's not a matter of who you know and how much money you have. And they've been following Jesus now for a couple of years. I want to put and they want to be there for showtime, but they don't want to be there for work time Father, I pray that as I preach on this day, that you would open up blinded eyes That's what's on their mind. And then I thought about this. You do not know what you asked. Are you able to drink the cup that I am about to drink? Get in there. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web Thank you for the word of God. This request just really reveals how blind they really are. That's what they're pushing for. And now Jesus has to step in and settle all the mess. And I have a further problem with the request. Not so with you, he says org or contact our church office at 301 If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. You cannot go in But Jesus called them to himself and said, They think that they should have an equal seat in the kingdom with him. Lord have mercy. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. And he said to her, What do you wish? You really think that you're able? They think they've earned it. And in essence, the idea, the reason why Jesus understood. You can't do that because you don't have that type of anointing on your life. He says, this is not how it's gonna work No, I don't want to be great, Pastor. You can't You want to be great? They thought if I could just convince him to surrender two preferred seats. Here's how I even further know that he's not talking to the mother When the kingdom comes And how do I know that they did that? He says, Wait, come over here, guys. That's what James and John are trying But these two You're not going to drink the cup, you're going to indeed drink my cup, which means you're going to drink of the suffering. You can't drink the cup that I'm about to drink of Now you got the 12 disciples who are greatly displeased with the other two. But Jesus says to them, That's the way the Gentiles do. Everybody seems to want the position, but nobody wants to do the work. We can be equal. They want to be great because they want to be the one called in And he said to them, You will indeed drink my cup and be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with. Thank you. The first thing we have in the text as we walk our way through it is the blind request of the disciples. There as we looked we saw that Jesus know who the question was really coming from. He said to her, what do you want? That's their thought, that's their mindset, that's how blind they are And when blind requests come for superiority over others, Are willing to commit yourself, commit your ways, commit your time, commit your energy, to commit everything. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. Amen. And then secondly, there was a promise that they would be paid what was right. They think they're entitled to it. We'll begin our reading today at verse 17. Because they watch what you do and they say, oh, I can do that. This is the reverse of what the society tells us. And so when you serve Oh, yes, we're able. You want to be first? Twelve thrones, and he gives them this understanding, this They conspired to use her to go before them that perhaps they might gain favor with Jesus. You're not who I am. That's what he said. Because they're blind. Lord, have your way in this time, and we will give you the glory. And whoever desires to be first among you Commit yourself to be a slave of the people. We can be sitting on your right hand That they may surrender their hearts and lives Serve. They weren't man enough to go ask themselves, they put their mother in front of them. It's a blind response. Draw them, God. And as having the best seats, everyone else will be subordinate to us. m. To give that is not mine's to give. Come on, come here. Now he's bringing you their stories. at the Legacy Center. You want to be first? Jesus says, not so with you. Take the position that you're committed to serving all the time. Now he's bringing you their stories. We saw the calling of the laborers for the payment. And after a couple of years now That's their answer. And she gives her request. plays. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And whoever desires to be first among you Be a slave. The One Degree of Andy podcast. No, no, no. I'm about to be immersed. Watch this. They want to be great because they want to be the one making the decisions. The One Degree of Andy podcast. They just stopped a couple of years ago fishing. Jesus asks Yes, I'm man in the flesh, but I'm God Come here. Become a slave. And he asked the question, not to the mother, but to the son. This is the reverse of what the world tells us. It's a blind response. When we're blinded To be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with? You know that I'm Andy Christman. On Andy Christman, in his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a Here is the blind response. The blind request Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Eyes now open. But Jesus Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. We saw the comparison of their laborers. You know, stuff like certain jobs, homes. Lord, have mercy. That's not you. They want to be great in the way that they are the ones that That's because we are not. Then he comes back. But