He knows that when you take that, you're going to be like him. But if I've been reconciled to God, it means I have peace with God. He didn't ask us about no membership. of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Voices behind the song. Father, I pray that above and beyond all that transpires, that this body of believers and all who will listen will be edified, and that your name, God, would be glorified. We thank you for the opportunity we have, Lord, to open up your scripture and to lean in on you to hear a word from you today. So Lord, have your way in this time and let the Spirit of God move in this place in such a way that when we're done, that lives will be changed And in the moment that they took and either ate of the fruit, they spiritually died. is born in sin, shaped in iniquity, born with no spiritual connection to God, born dead to God. And so as we look into the the text this morning, what Jesus does as he's as he's are as he's talking to the Jews, he's he's helping them to understand who he really is. And get rid of him because he's disrupted their system of religion. So, verse 7, we're going to see that he is the way to reconciliation. Verse 18, he says, all things are of God who has reconciled us to himself through his son, Jesus Christ. That you've been reconciled to God, I've got news for you. And so I've got to come through the way. For you and me right now. my leading post. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. The word of the Lord reads as follows. For I am in need of you even as I stand here this morning, God, this weak and broken vessel, in need of you that you might use me to speak the very oracle of God If any one enters by me, he will be saved, and will go in and out and find pasture. And to make clear the message that you have for each and every person. That I might be saved. Are you sure? That allows them to walk through minefields and not be concerned because surety breeds confidence. If you're not sure about where you are and who you are and whose you are, this world will cause you to lose your mind. And so I want to first of all do an evaluation on our reconciliation. uh Satan Lucifer and he he he he raises this m suspicion about God. Eat of this? Let me tell you something about our enemy. If we're going to be sure about life, if we're going to be sure about things, we need to evaluate: have I been reconnected? How how do I get reconnected to God? I have a right to live in a chaotic scenario. who he is. the the the the entrance way and all that and they don't understand him and so he comes back and circles back another time he says well let me explain it another way he I'm I'm gonna use this illustration but And when he comes down to earth, he interrupts the religion of the people who are supposed to be worshiping him. But if I had only died and I stayed there, I would not be away. I am the door. Before me, all others who who claim to be are thieves and robbers. So death doesn't have power over you. So then he comes back and he says, not only am I the way, I'm the truth. Well, what are they stealing? And so they're thieves and robbers of the soul. It'll be an eternal body. That is being thrown into a lake of fire. And you get to experience the feeling of the flame and the fire on you 24 hours a day, seven days a week, every day for eternity. But Jesus says, but I'm the way. He'll be saved from that judgment. If your reconciliation has come through membership in somebody's church, if your reconciliation is coming through some baptism in Jesus says, I am the way and the truth. Guess what? This is what God's witness was of his son. He who does not believe God has made him, that is God, a liar, because he has not believed the testimony that God has given of his son. Who believe in the name of the Son of God, that you may know, most assuredly, no. And the life. If I come up any other way, I'm a thief and a robber. So, what happens when trouble hits and things go wrong and things aren't like I want them to be? We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. So when I'm standing before the professor, when I'm standing before the teacher, and I I present my case and say, Have you been reconciled to God? And so I want to encourage anyone who's listening to my voice today, who did not have, if you don't have the son, I'm not talking about this he didn't say nothing, no about religion, he didn't say nothing about church membership. If you've never invited the sun into your heart, into your life, I want you to make sure you do that today. down with the voices behind the song. And now, Pastor Sterling. back and they need to reconnect to you today. I have come that they may have life and that they may have it more abundantly. And we'll know that we've heard from God. It unravels the confidence that they have in daily life, the walk that they have, the talk that they have, the challenges they encounter. In fact, as life throws us curveballs with all kind of unexpected results, results from Tests that we take at the doctor, results from exams that we take in the classroom, results from elections that we are stewing over, results from all kinds of things Because I believe when a person is sure, it it allows them to live balanced in their life. Adam, I'm giving you all of this, all of this garden, all these fruits, and all these vegetables. But he says there's this one tree that I that's in the midst of the garden that I don't want you to eat from, and the day that you eat from this tree, you will surely die. But when they took of the fruit and disobeyed God, the Spirit of God in them died in essence or was removed from them because of their disobedience, and so their Their connection, their spiritual connection to God was cut off. And so, for thousands of years, man was separated from God, and every man born into the world because of the blood line that was passed on and passed on and passed on, every one of us uh uh trying to help you to understand it a different way and so when we pick up in verse seven it it begins by Jesus uh saying to them in essence I am the way I am the door. In Luke chapter 9, verse 22, he's been traveling and he says, let me tell you something. And be rejected by the elders and the chief priests and the scribes and be killed and raised again the third day. That that that's a that's a New Testament biblical era time way of saying shown off. What Luke helps us to understand is, I've traveled the way so that I can be the way. And so in Adam all died. Can make it back to God. That Jesus is the way. But what they really want to do is they they're not trying to save you. Because for everyone whose name is not found written in the Lamb's Book of Life, everyone who has not been reconciled to God, they will be cast into the lake of fire. That is burning hot enough to burn up hell. And if I've if I've come and I believe I'm reconciled to God some other way besides coming through the door which is Jesus who is the way, then I'm I'm I need to help you to understand something. Verse 10. The father raises the dead and gives life to them, even so the son Gives life to whom he will. I'm the life giver. There's nothing alive apart from himself that is alive without him Then the witness of God is greater. Terry, he didn't ask you whether you speak in tongues, he didn't ask you if you run up and down the church, he didn't ask you none of that. If you look at chapter 1 John 5 verse 9, it says this: if we receive the witness of men, and we do, because when our friends call us and tell us something, we believe what they say. And this, verse 11, is the testimony that God has given us eternal life. He says, he who has the Son has what? Have I invited him into my heart that he might dwell in me and live in me? to God by this text on this morning, because this text on this morning helps me to know that Jesus is the way to my reconciliation. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Sundays at 10 a. or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. And say, I think so. Because his testimony said, in his son was life, and he who has the son has life. On this morning, I realized that we are living in a time that the three words, are you sure? We are unstable in a whole lot of ways. This morning I want to talk from the subject matter an evaluation of reconciliation. So he says to Adam and Eve, and Eve in this case, he's talking directly here, he says God God he's keeping something back from you in essence, and he For us. Some some water. And that you may have it more abundantly. And this life is where? Now that I've been reconciled to God, I've got a connection to God, and when I pray, God hears me. All who ever came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not hear them. are unraveling the confidence of those who are born again. The serpent comes along who is beguiling and and cunning and he is in essence the representation of the spirit of He he's the way. Jesus, what are you saving us from? He's the only one who was hung up for your hang-ups. Because when he died on the cross, he died for all your sins to pay the cost for it all. It not only unravels the immediate confidence in the area of their surety about their salvation, it unravels the confidence that they have in the Savior that they have. But the enemy says, well, you know, he knows you're gonna be like him, and then he's holding something back from you, so you and you're not gonna surely die. I'm the door to reconciliation. God's testimony is: I want you to know that you have eternal life. He's the great I am. He can't do, and because he loves me so much, he's doing and working out things on my behalf and in my benefit. Jesus is the way of reconciliation. I think the the first pillar of this is I need to be sure that I've been reconciled to God. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. They don't understand him. So the question is, have I been reconciled to God at all? For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. If I want to live again to God, I've got to come through Him. He's he's everything I need him to be. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. And he's he's put, as he were, put deaf to silence. If anyone enters by me, he will be saved and will go in and out and have pasture. Father, there may be others who are drifting in their fellowship. I'm the way for you to get back connected to God. They're trying to steal your opportunity to be reconciled to God. Latter part. He didn't ask us about no associations, affiliations. We are evaluating this morning one component of this relationship so that we can have some stability in this world and stop being torn asunder by everything that happens. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. I give life. Cause us to search with deep retrospect, with great anxiety, with great tension, because in some cases the answer is, I hope I'm sure. He's he's gone through some explanations of who he is and and and you know, him being the the sheepfold of the the Matter of fact, God knows that the day that you take of that fruit, you won't die. But the eternal body that you receive will be thrown into the lake of fire. m. He's made the way by going through the way and returning from the way so that we I'm the door to salvation. If your reconciliation is coming by some deeds that you done, by some actions that you performed, by some membership that you joined, if that's the means by which you think He's the way. He's the way. You need the spirit of God to be back in you. Because what was holding us from being reconnected to God was sin. at the Legacy Center. Thank you in advance for what you're going to do. There's no reason for a born-again child of God who's been reconciled to God to be afraid of death. This is what God testified about his son. I'm trying to help us solidify an evaluation of our reconciliation. It says, I have come, the thief came to steal, kill, and destroy, but I have come that you may have life. Well, guess what? I want to invite your attention to John chapter 10. Then Jesus said to them again, most assuredly I say to you, I am the door of the sheep. I have a right to have no peace in my life and in my heart. He's the wheel in the middle of the wheel. No, I can say, no, I I yeah, I'm definitely, I've been reconciled to God. I'm saving you from the wrath that is yet to come for everyone whose name is not found written in the Lamb's book of life, who has not been reconciled to God. Jesus, because he's God, can give life. And so what I had to do, I had to die and travel the way of death. And I'm praying, God, that reconciliation even in the form of uh fellowship might happen on today. Our enemy always promises you what you already have, but he couches it in a way that makes you feel jealous that you don't have it. His way. It's in his son. We were already created like him. In verse number eight, he says, All who ever came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not hear them. If anyone comes by me, he will, not might, be saved. Watch this. Would y'all agree with that? He's the truth. He's my all and my all. Lord, we do stand in need of you on today. Isn't that interesting? And I'm the truth. If you were separated from God by sin, and you died like Adam and Eve to God through sin. It's no multiple ways. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship services And so what I want to do for the next few weeks is I want to preach from a series of messages entitled, Are You Sure? I can't get to the Father except I come through the Son Because hell's going to get thrown into the lake of fire, too. You cannot be reconciled to God except you come through Jesus, who is the truth. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. They've come to know you, but they have not stayed in fellowship with you. They're trying to steal you from God who loves you and gave his life for you. And he died, and he what did it sue? I believe by faith that you'll do it. And so I think as we examine reconciliation, we can be sure I came to reconcile you to God. He paid for it all. Have I accepted him? Jesus says, Most assuredly, I say to you, I am the door of the sheep. But your body is eternal, so it never burns up That's a great question. I would be no more than another person who passed through the way of death, but I never returned. I'm the truth. And they realized that they were naked and they hid, as it were, from God. The spirit that was taken out of man when they disobeyed God, it is now capable it that it can be restored to man because of what Jesus did on Calvary. He's not a made-up fictitious story. Pastor, what are you talking about, reconciliation? Has life. Because when God created Adam and Eve, what he did was he scooped up dirt, shaped them, formed them, and they were not living beings until he blew his spirit into them. He didn't ask you about your degrees. I've got somebody I can talk to. It's unraveling those, probably rightly so, who are churchy and in the building called church, but not part of the church. You're not going to surely die. God said, let us make man in our own image, and after our own likeness, they were already like him. That that the that that that God has to come down to earth He doesn't stop there. He says, He who believes in the Son of God has the witness in himself That means life is in Jesus. But I am the truth. Which he has testified of his son Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome And I have the son because I've I've invited him into my heart. That's a great question. That means I'm one with God. I have a right to be shaken every time something happens that I can't control because I thought I was in control. He asked you, do you have the son? For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. Did God say that you couldn't Because if I have not been reconciled to God, I have a right to have a life full of anxiety. It's one way. I have confidence when I pray, God hears me. Then then you you are not saved from the judgment that is to come. You got dominion over the animals, you can have all these things and They're thieves and robbers. There's nothing too hard for him. He's my battle axe. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. Praise the Lord. The apostle Paul says it this way in 2 Corinthians chapter 5 I want you to have an assurance of your reconciliation that you are reconciled to God. Someone may be lost, Lord, and they need a savior. So now you're in a lake of fire. Do I have the Son If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. But I am the truth. Do I have the Son? All others besides me, all others. Because, let me go back. The people of God said together, Amen. How do I know that I've been reconciled to God and that I have eternal life? We'll begin our reading at verse 7. He says, I am not only the way and the truth, I am also the life And that you may continue to believe in the name of the Son of God because he is the way, the truth. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. You're going to be like God. I've got to come get life from the giver of life. And got up on the third day with all power, ascended to the throne of glory, and sat back down on the throne of God, and he's making intercession. How do you know that? So the only way you're going to be saved is you got to come by who? So now you have a body that is eternal He didn't ask you about how long you Would you pray with me this morning? And God, I pray that your Holy Spirit will be in our midst to move and to direct and to speak. And so I don't think I'm the way. The Son of Man must suffer many things. I've been reconnected to Him Have I really been reconciled to God? That's why he says, I am the life. I am the door. The thief does not come except to steal, and to kill, and to destroy But He paid the price for sin. Verse 9. He's the life giver. So what happens literally when they take of the fruit, she takes of it, she eats it, she passes to her husband Adam, who is with her. I'm the only way. He's my. You have been listening to the Radio Broadcast Ministry. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. So here in this this this text, what Jesus does as he's laying out to them and sh declaring to them And as the door of the sheep, I am the door to reconciliation. Because what I sense is that They claim to be on your side. This is not just something to pacify humanity and make them feel comfortable about their sin. It gives them a level of confidence. His name is God, he's the Prince of Peace, the everlasting Father. There's nothing impossible. In other words, the wages of sin was death. I came because I am the life giver. I can test my reconciliation. Well, let me take you back to Genesis. I know that by the testimony of God Himself. We are not connected to God when we're born. Lord help me, God, so that I could take the sting out of death. Reconciliation is to be reconnected to God. Listen, watch this. Have I accepted the Son as my own? Verse 10. I am the door. I am the door. And when I cry out to him, he hears me. Father, we bless you and thank you for this word. And I pray, God, that the preaching of the gospel will cause them to come and ask, What must I do? He is the life. They've slid in Now he's bringing you their stories. Everyone at that judgment time will receive a new body. He says, the thief comes to steal, kill, and destroy. Nothing Well, that's kind of narrow. He took every sin stinger from death. These things I've written to you Now the Jews they got problems with him and they're ready to stone him, they're ready to they're ready to take him out and The One Degree of Andy podcast. Now he's bringing you their stories. And so I know that I know that I know I've been reconciled to God. I don't have to sit there in anxiety and sweat And if anyone enters by me. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Because no one else who had passed through the way of death had ever come back. Nothing to be afraid of, because he is the way. Yes, it is. Most assuredly, I am the way. I'm Andy Christman. And in Genesis, when God said to Adam We're separated. They tried to hide from the one who created them. Are y'all still here with me? So why am I stressing Got to come by him. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. On Andy Christman, in his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down Most assuredly. org Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. And that this life He's the door to my reconciliation. John chapter 5 Because he's the way. No, he is the truth. He says if you have the sun. org.