There's a blind man on the side of the road who cries out amongst all the other people who are talking and all the other noise that's going on, and Jesus stands still. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Chapter ten, verse forty six, the word reads as follows. Um I find myself um here in this passage this morning uh because as uh Jesus was moving You gotta envision this that Jesus is walking on his way, he's moving, he's going out of Jericho, he's on his way down the road, and he's got his disciples, his twelve uh disciples are are immediately with him and beyond them there are multitudes of people, thousands of people that are are walking behind him. Voices behind the song. And throwing aside his garments, he rose and came to Jesus. We want to know we've heard from you. That it's not too likely that you're going to just be walking quietly. And and he's he's doing all of this at the same time while he's walking the road and leading on to his next stage and step of ministry that he might Bartimaeus, who can't see anything, who is trusting other people to feed him, has faith enough to connect all this together and cry out to Jesus and call Jesus, Jesus of Nazareth, son of David. He doesn't say can I get a happy meal? I can pray to him in the school. And then you had to walk miles to get to the temple. I'm trying to help us to understand no matter what circumstance you're going through, no matter what situation has happens to be troubling you, he has stood still to accommodate your situation. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling the Third Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. Amen. That today would be the day, God, that they would ask, What must I do to be saved? And so Jesus stood still and commanded him to be called. In the preaching of this gospel, I pray you would cause those who've drifted in their fellowship and in their relationship to come back to you, Lord, and restore the broken fellowship. That you would encourage us in this life journey of living for you, God, that you would encourage the discouraged. uh along the way in this text with a multitude of people following him, uh his disciples with him. But on this particular occasion it kinda jumped out at me, caught my attention and caused me to kinda go back and because it just seemed kinda strangely unique. What happens strangely in this text is that this blind man is sitting on the side of the road and he's crying out to Jesus, have mercy on me. Assignment from God. This is Jesus, the King of Kings, the Lord of Lords, the creator of the ends of the earth. He's manifesting and he's he's creating and he's he's still making sure that the moons don't run into each other and that the stars are that the ones that fall, he's counting them and keeping track of them fulfill that was w written in the scripture because he's got to fulfill the prophecy while he's here for the time that he's here and in the middle of all that he stands still Lord God help me Jesus. That you are able. that and you might say, well, Pastor, how how do you know that Bartimaeus has um great faith? It says he was blind Bartimaeus, son of Timaeus, sat by the road begging. Yeah, it takes a whole lot of faith to believe that I can ask other people for what I need, and they're going to, out of the kindness of their heart, provide enough for me to sustain myself and eat every day. It takes a whole lot of faith to not be able to see and to sit on the side of a road and beg I'm not I'm not walking away from this check that I'm getting every week. is going to feed me every day and make sure that I have sufficiency for all of my needs. Now watch this. Watch this, from being Nazarene to being son of David, that is, of a royal lion and of a holy priesthood, Bartimaeus by faith has believed that Jesus is the one who is to come. And stuff like that. It was a family trip planned. So that you can offer a goat, a lamb, or some kind of sacrifice for your sin. Have mercy on me. That we might be delivered from our sickness, from our disease, from our sin sick position. That your name gets the glory and the honor and the praise as we have opportunity on this day to come into your presence, God. Talk to your children and help them along this journey through the preaching of the gospel. He went out of Jericho with his disciples and a great multitude. I thought that was interesting because there are other blind people in scripture, but they are not called blind this and blind that. Bartimaeus is called blind as if blind was not what he was, but that blind was part of his character. Lord help me God. Bartimaeus' cries are not cries of desperation. He has faith such that in his cry, his faith says, I believe God Now I'm sure you read over that a million times and it didn't say faith to you, but it said faith to me. You don't believe what I'm saying? Can I talk to us for real? In the sense that Bartimaeus is asking for mercy on him. Now we could all expect somebody to have mercy on us if we were blind and we were saying, I just want you to feed me, but Bartimaeus doesn't want food. Are y'all still here with me? He's reaching in with his faith to the one who can do something about his situation. And then they called the blind man and said to him, be of good cheer, rise. Man, shut up. Just because my worship makes you uncomfortable. Jesus can't be still walking saying yeah tell him catch up are y'all hearing what I'm saying this is practical stuff if you call a blind person to you you can't be going And didn't know where to go or how to go, if it wasn't for God standing still, we would still be lost. The Bible says he was nailed to a cross, but he could have had 10,000 legions come and help him to get off the cross Given so that we can get to God. Or find an animal to sacrifice. So he can accommodate my blindness and your blindness so that we could get to him and have access to him at any given time. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. Sundays at 10 a. or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Down with the voices behind the song. And immediately he received his sight and followed Jesus on the road Several months ago I was reading through this passage and something jumped out at me that um it's been there all the time. Lord help me, Jesus. I wish I could help somebody right here. Have mercy on me. And that causes Jesus to stand still. Bartimaeus, the son of Timaeus, sat by the road begging. There is someone crying out from the side of the road But I just think that it is unique that the bus and through the busyness of life and through the busyness of ministry and through the busyness of all that Jesus had to do, the cries of this one Barnabatis on the side of the road. But as I was digging into this, verse 46 says, Now they came to Jericho, and as they went out of Jericho with his disciples. Blind has been attached to his name in the text and perhaps in the life that he lived in front of people because it was somehow a part of the character of who he was. And the future while he's sitting in the dark on the side of the road. Lord help me. To cause him to stand still. So he cries out and he cries out from the side of the road and Bartimaeus, he's got this faith. To roll down your window. Bartimaeus doesn't have a sign because he can't see. Great faith. Now, keep in mind as Bartimaeus is crying on the side of the road, and this is just like this is like people, Bartimaeus is crying out in faith on the side of the road, you don't know what other folks are doing. Them coming to your voice. But I'm thankful on this morning that Jesus stood still for me on Calvary That I may receive my sight. responds this way. And I thank God we've got more than one sense because even though he couldn't see, the text said he heard. A Nazarite, Jesus of Nazareth, then that's a prophecy. We would not be able to get to him today. I don't know if you've ever had a circumstance in your life or an occasion in your life when you were going through something and and Jesus stood still for you. Stood still. I believe that's that's probably the first reason he stands still is that he might acknowledge to Bartimaeus, I heard you. Bartimaeus is able to see the light and the hope It takes a whole lot of faith to be in that spot. For people to have mercy enough and compassion enough to provide him with what he would need so that he could sustain his life. Other people's discomfort is not gonna cause you to stop crying out for what you know you need. Jesus stood still to accommodate you and me. To talk to him no more. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Can you imagine God standing still from all that He has to do to respond to your cry on the side of the road when Jesus The son of Timaeus sat by the road. You gotta you gotta see this with me. Verse 49 says, So Jesus stood still and commanded him to be called. But he stood there and he would not come down. He heard that he was coming. He is the one that God had spoken of through the prophets of old that was coming into the world to redeem the world and to reconnect us to God. Captures Jesus to the point that he he stands still The text calls him blind Bartimaeus. Have mercy on me. To himself by standing still. Would you pray with me on this morning? And there's something that the thing that caught my attention in this text was when Jesus, verse 49, it says, so Jesus stood still. How is it that Bartimaeus is able to cause Jesus such a response? Can you imagine for a moment that i I I I I I'm in in my mind I'm trying to grab hold of this, that So Bartimaeus is connecting the fact that he was born in Bethlehem, but yet he's called a Nazarene. He's got to be at certain places at certain times because everything that God does has a specific timing to it. And so I dug into this story, this scripture, to find out what it was that was going on. Y'all y'all seen that right? Jesus is accommodating Bartimaeus's blindness. No you need to you need to stand still. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. In fact, I believe this is the only occasion. I I believe, Jesus, that you are the one who's able, watch this, who's able to have mercy on my situation. Jesus stands still to acknowledge Bartimaeus' cries because his cries are cries of faith. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. It's perhaps that Bartimaeus has a character that is blind in faith towards God And the deeper I dug into the text, I I've I've come to the conclusion, and I want to make the suggestion that it perhaps truly was. We could cry out to the God of our salvation in such a way that we could gather his attention Stop working. But a mass won't stop. I'm trying to get us there. And so as he sits on the side of the road and he's begging, it says, and he when he heard that Jesus of Nazareth was coming, he began to cry out and say, Jesus, listen to this, son of David. Can I get some coke? Shut up. Typically, when someone loses one uh uh sense, the others become heightened, and so even though he couldn't see Jesus I can pray to him in my office. Jesus doesn't just stand still to accommodate Bartimaeus You had to journey through ups and downs and rocks and pillars and patients and go through all these dangerous places to get to the house of God. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations, you won't hear anywhere else. In other words, I realize I'm I'm sitting in darkness, but the he who is the light of the world is on the way. You like me have pulled up uh at the stop sign and folk are there begging? The fact that Bartimaeus is able to connect Jesus with So, Lord, I surrender myself a vessel in your hand to accomplish your will. m. Then many warned him to be quiet, but he cried out all the more, Son of David, have mercy on me. Lord help me God. Now wait a minute. I believe that first of all, Jesus stood still to acknowledge Bartimaeus' cries. His faith causes Jesus to stand still. at the Legacy Center. No, now I can go boldly to the throne of grace and find sweet relief. One to trust them enough that I can roll down my window. Can I get some soda? Father, we are in need of you that you might give clarity to this text this morning, that you might speak a word in our midst. I'm trying to help you see this. It wasn't like there was a temple on every corner. Here's a man who who can't see the light of day, but he's sitting on the side of the road. Every now and then in life we have tendencies to sit in darkness. Do this to Jesus. And then Jesus said to him, Go your way. He's accommodating my blindness. He was able to see the other side of his dark situation only because he heard that light was coming. Go sit on the side of the road and say the Lord will provide. Can we just talk? He cries out even the louder, and Jesus stands still and says, Bring him to me. Jesus is on his way. And so when our sin was forgiven, we could no longer have to find a priest. Just because my reaching to God makes you uncomfortable. I can pray to him wherever I am. No, can you give me something from Levi? There's probably a noisy crowd. That thing is guaranteed. They they they were standing there on the corner in the cold and the rain and whatever the situation was and they were expecting you. He's asking for mercy on him from the only person that can provide the type of mercy for the situation he finds himself in. Secondly, I believe Jesus stood still to accommodate Bartimaeus' blindness. Lord help me, Jesus. Now they came to Jericho as he went out of Jericho with his disciples, and a great multitude, blind So he's with his disciples and a great multitude. He was able to see light when his eyes were closed And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services Woo! So Jesus answered and said to him, What do you want me to do for you? Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. He's he's a busy man. And so, and I want to talk this morning from the subject matter when Jesus stood still. It ain't like liquor stores. Um many of us, as if if we were sitting on the side of the road and we were blind, we wouldn't know who to have, we wouldn't know who to expect to have mercy on us. And then they called the blind man, saying to him, Be of good cheer. And and watch this. While he's walking the earth, while he's doing ministry in the earth, he's still God and he's controlling and he's That's a great question. Bartimaeus is blind and he's sitting on the side of the road and he's begging. He's accommodating me. That they would surrender their heart and their life over to you. Uh it's spoken of in Matthew chapter 2. But I'm glad that he gave himself once and for all. And he is calling you. Jesus ain't gonna give you no money. Because even though they can't see you, they can hear you. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome They are cries of dedication. He was accommodating you and me so that our sin could be forgiven I can talk to him anytime. No, I'm not gonna be expecting that somebody out of the kindness of their heart It takes a whole lot of faith to beg. Can you give me can you go to Chick-fil-A? Y'all catching this? It wasn't a temple on every corner you can go to. That's a great question. He's been healing the sick and raising the dead, and he's been moving. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. Even in Old Testament law, they they could only go to the temple to offer sacrifices certain times a year. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. And when he heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth, he began to cry out and say, Jesus, son of David Um first of all, and and I'm just digging it right from the text. And they're standing on the side of the road. Oh my God. It's in Jesus' name I pray with thanksgiving and expectation. Your faith has made you well. Now this story is recorded in the other gospels, but I believe this is the only occasion that I could find and discover where Jesus My, my, my, my, my I can pray to him while I'm in my car. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. They're not called cripple this and cripple that, but And so he's moving and he's on his way. And Father, in the process, I pray that in all that is said and all that is done. Look at what the text says. Hand you out some of my hard-earned money. But along the way, as he's walking, and as this there's this noisy crowd, and there's these multitude of people, and his twelve disciples are with him. I need to point out the obvious here, but it's it's there's something in the obvious that's not as obvious. Shut up, shut up, shut up. Can I talk to us for real, for real? Give me some of them coupons or something. And they got signs that says homeless need help. Because when we were blind If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Speak now, God, as only you can. I'm not gonna stop reaching out to my God if I know He can do something about where I find myself. But if we had a blind Barter May's character. Boy, got quiet in here online. Because if Bartimaeus is blind, Bartimaeus has connected him. Are y'all still here? So they can so you could accommodate Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. I can get to him. Pastor, how you know that? Father, in the name of Jesus. Um this it was prophesied of him that he would be called a Nazarene. No, you had to find your way And you know that when you got thousands of people walking together down the road and you've got twelve disciples walking with you down the road And if he hadn't stood still on that cross in Calvary And he's got thousands of people following him. It says, blind Bartimaeus. He doesn't ask for that. He's on It is my prayer, God, in the process of preaching, that if any don't know you as Lord and Savior of their life, I don't know. But listen, but when you have faith I can go boldly to his throne and I can talk to him. He has allowed me and you access. And now Pastor Sterling. Now he's bringing you their stories. Because when he asked him, What can I do for you? We would still be blind. And so kinda caused me to go back and dig in and dig in and dig in and and so I Lord have mercy Just because just because my prayer makes you uncomfortable I'm telling you, they got quiet. Bartimaeus is not standing. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Rise, he is calling you. God, in the preaching of this gospel, it is my prayer that you would edify this body. Now he's bringing you their stories. He's got his disciples with him. The One Degree of Andy podcast. They said, Pastor, I'm not quitting my government job And all the people of God said together, Amen. Blind man said to him, Rabbi, Are y'all still here? I'm Andy Christman. That caught my attention. But the man has had great faith. He doesn't ask, give me a meal Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Stay here with me. I'm Andy Christman. org. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Oh Lord Jesus. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast. Watch this. Praise the Lord. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. I don't have to find a temple. org. He says