He could lay on a post and allow them to whip him all night long and be crucified on a cross, buried in a borrowed tomb because of my sin? So seal this book and later on it'll be opened up and people will understand that is it is for their time, but it's not for this time Praise the Lord. Hear God say, I'm gonna make sure in the end you win, you worship God. The One Degree of Andy Podcast. Voices behind the song. uh who do his commandments that they may have the right to the tree of life and may enter through the gates into the city. who showed me these things. The propped up economies were failing. of those of the prophets and those who keep the words of this book. And understanding and hearing him saying, Behold, I am coming quickly, we worship God. Else is around when God begins to reveal to you who he is and you begin to see the revealed God for who he really is. That your worship is properly directed. Which is a messenger has has revealed to him this message of who Jesus is and what is yet to come. Now there's a reason for these two paradoxical statements regarding revelation of future events that are yet to take place He is saying to John, John, this is imminent. And God says, don't seal it. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. bringing you their stories. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the Obeginning and the End, the first and the last. Uh the rate root of the offspring of David and the bright and the morning star, and uh the spirit and the bride say come, and let him who hears say come, and let him Who thirst come, and whoever desires, let him take the water of the of life freely. Father, I'm praying that you would lift the heavy spirit, that you would guide us in wisdom and direction, that all that is done and all that is said They are blocking you from being blessed from reading and hearing and doing this word. And while the floods and the storms raged through the south, God called for the holding back of the rain in the north, and droughts such as never had been seen before consumed the water of the land, and the land was dry and parched. And many died. To influence the East, and because they could not agree on anything, many more died. And their prophets said to them, peace when there was no peace. And God is speaking, but he's speaking at a biblical proportion. And hundreds of millions of others suffered. when he takes and destroys and moves across lands and shakes the lives of peoples and nations so that they can hear that I am God. uh revealed message that John uh is to share uh that he has experienced But he fell down to worship before the feet of an angel who had showed him these things. is start worshiping God. to him and the closer I get to him the less this stuff that's going on is bothering me. And what he had saw because the angel had showed him, uh, he had revealed to him who Jesus was in the fullness of who he was and when he when when it was revealed stay here with me when it was revealed to him who Jesus was to suffer always. Just trying to articulate in the nicest way I could, but I wasn't doing too great, that if God has done anything for you. The boss who paid no price for your salvation. Paycheck. When he hears and sees, because he's been on a journey, and the angel has taken him on this journey, so that he might hear things that are going on in heaven, in heaven's future, and he might see things that are yet to come, and that he might Uh uh he might um have the revelation that he might s really literally see the uncovering of fully who Jesus is. This angel is taking him on this journey, and when he gets to the end of this journey, John is so overcome with enthusiasm and excitement that this angel Lord help us here. Worship, Lord, help me here. And if you don't believe me, I know some folks are saying, well, I don't really believe Jesus. You will worship him. Y'all still here? And that is the timetable for which they're going to be executed. Please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. And watch this. All right. Blessed is he who keeps the words of the prophecy of this book. Behold, I am coming quickly, and my reward is with me to give to everyone according to his work. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III. And he said to me, do not seal the words of this prophecy of the book of this book, for the time is at hand. He who is unjust, let him be unjust still. But outside are dogs and sorcerers and sexually immoral and murderers and idolaters and whoever loves to practice or and practices a lie. I, Jesus, have sent my angel to testify to you these things in the churches. He who testifies of these things says, Surely I am coming quickly. Would bring glory to your holy name. That I'm about to read to you comes from. So he called fire from heaven, and it struck the earth, and millions of acres were consumed in the west, and many lives were lost. And as the fires were burning in the west, he called the winds from the south, and storm after storm arose, and brought winds and floods and destruction throughout the land, and many lives were lost. all the headache and the heartache, one of the things that's getting me through is worshiping God. he couldn't help himself but worship. reveal to you that I'm bigger than cancer. You know sharing with me the the challenge that some folk have for getting up to come to an eight o'clock worship service and pray for me right here. the one who's taking cat. God and the the very writ of God they're not the one who spoke the word. right to be worshipped. person that you might worship the one who alone is worthy of worship. understanding and realizing that he is coming quickly is not only to worship God, but witness for God. Notice something in this text. In Daniel's prophecy, chapter 12, somewhere around verse 9, the Lord says to Daniel, seal the words of this prophecy. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 10 a. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. God tells Daniel, seal the words of this prophecy, because the time is not yet. Minister in the spirit of excellence. What do we do? Y'all still here with me? For some of the worship you haven't gotten in. Circumstances and uncontrollable stuff in your life, you ought to think about what you've heard and what you've saw about God. To keep you busy in worship. To worship him? Lord have mercy. When you hear he's coming, when you when you realize who he is, and when you see who he is, John said, I began to worship God, but I need you to point out something here. Amen. 627-9500. And it is the revelation of Jesus Christ. For all those spooky people who are scared to read the book of Revelation, the first few verses of the book say, Blessed is the man. It's in Jesus' name I pray with thanksgiving and expectation. Or woman, who reads, hears, and does the words of this prophecy. Or are we getting lost in the parade of other foolishness that the world is trying to blind us and block us so that we can't hear that God is speaking? Because it sounds just like biblical error mess movements of God That's what God's doing in our midst. What do you do? By healing your body, by blessing your bank account, by keeping you employed, by protecting your children, by keeping your marriage. The Bible says here in verse number 10, it says, And he said to me, Do not seal the words of the prophecy of this book, for the time is at hand. He who's unjust, let him be unjust still. But here in John's case, the angel tells John, do not seal the words of this prophecy In other words, John, your text is imminent. Pray with me, please. Jesus Christ. How do I say, uh, teaching point was that the book itself tells you what the book is about. John says, When I heard this and I saw this, I fell down and worshiped. And when you think of those things, start worshiping God. Some of you have some seen some things that only God can do. In other words, Daniel, I've given you those things that are yet to take place to write down. But in John's case, John is told: do not seal the words of this book because the time of this revelation is right now. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. This is the revelation of Jesus Christ. I took every situation right out of the pages of today's history. Lord have mercy. The words of the prophecy of this book for the time is at hand. He says, Don't seal this book. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Lord help myself. But just in case you're wanting to understand it better, every Wednesday at 7 o'clock, 705, we are having Bible studies to teach you all the way through this book. To give their heart and their life to Jesus. He began to worship God. And it's a word that was already spoken by God. What do we do? He he's the one that is worthy of worship. Do anybody know where that text comes from? I want to talk to you on this morning from the subject matter, Behold, I am coming quickly. When you hear that, you ought to worship God. He's the one from whom all promotion comes. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. The word of the Lord from uh Revelation chapter 22, beginning at verse 7, reads like this: Behold, I am coming quickly. I need to park right there for a moment. And so because Jesus is the word, he is the only one worthy of worship. And if this word from God, this message from God is that God is coming quickly. I was wondering as I study through this particular book. So even if you don't think you're gonna worship him, you will worship him, whether you like it or not, whether it's voluntary or forced So don't worship the creation, worship the creator. I'm Andy Christman. Lord, help us here. Yeah, worship God for who he is and for the fact that he's been revealed. You have been listening to the Radio Broadcast Ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. If these very words had been written in Scripture, you would not have paused not one moment to think, that doesn't belong there. And worship God alone. And even as the books are unfolded and the seals are unleashed and everything transpires, what we all come to the ultimate conclusion is that Jesus is worthy of worship because he's earned the Father, we need you though on this morning to declare a word that is clear, a word that is penetrating of our current circumstances and situations, a word that would cause someone who is lost. If he could hang on the cross, Lord help me here, until death could could hold him, if he could stay up there and bleed for all those hours. And while the droughts raged in the north, God sent a confusing spirit and a disagreeable spirit. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. It's right here in the text. A lot of folks will be running around doing this and doing that. In fact, part of our lesson and part of our first uh When the boss man says we need you to stay late, who I'm talking about the boss that ain't done nothing for you Y'all still hear? Lord, as I yield myself as a vessel in your hand, accomplish through me, God, what you desire. When you hear that weeping may endure for a night, but joy comes in the morning. You can't get up and I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In this text, the angel tells John, after all that he has seen and all that he has been given to write down. Help me, Lord. Then he said to me, See that you do not do that, for I am your fellow servant and of your brethren, the prophets, and of those who keep the words of this book, worship God. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the songs. Well, this text, as it culminates the revelation of Jesus Christ and the Amen, somebody. I know you love your pastor, but the pastor is not worthy of worship. And so I'm going to suggest to you that as Jesus is coming and he says, Behold, I'm coming quickly, I'm going to suggest to us that the thing we need to do is worship God. Can I talk to somebody this morning? He says, Worship God. When when you hear that the Lord is coming quickly, when you hear that that God's gonna separate the wheat from the tares, when when you hear that I'm not gonna have That means I need this message to get out to everybody as quickly as possible. Sadness covered the people. The boss man, the you know the one who who you think writes your paycheck. And he's the only one. A word, Heavenly Father, that would encourage the body of Christ. Lord help us right here. I'm bigger than a tumor. I need you to understand something. Uh he says, Now I, John, verse eight, saw and heard these things, and when I heard and saw I fell down to worship Matter of fact, in the midst of all the trouble that's happening in our world, in the midst of the The plagues took even the lives of mothers and innocent children. When we realize, when we wake up, when we hear, when we finally hear him say, I'm trying to tell you, I'm coming quickly. He who is filthy, let him be filthy still. I don't believe in him. He who is filthy, let him be filthy still. He's the supplier of all your need. The second thing in the text, and I I don't want to bore you. Any witnesses in the house? Okay? This is right before you. Now, John says I he began to worship because of what he had heard. But yet when the boss man says you need to come in early tomorrow, And I just wonder: are we listening? And as much as we love the pastor, and as much as you love your Sunday school teacher, and as much as you love the one who may help you understand the word of God Listen to this. I just believe in God. Nobody else in heaven is deserving of worship. Some of you may have figured it out. When God begins to reveal to you who he is by bringing you through org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. That's what you're looking for. And he declares that he will not only reveal who he is, but also he will reveal the things that are yet to come. The messenger is important, but the messenger is not the one worthy of worship. Amen. So what do we do? I I know you've got a timer on your worship, but if God is getting ready to come, if God says, I'm coming quickly, one of the best things you can do. Because John makes the mistake of Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family. Families fought each other. I'm better than a doctor. I have I was having a conversation yesterday with one of my brothers, and he was And they they said, All is well, do not worry, eat, drink, and be merry, while four point five million people died. That's a great question. No, no. No, so the worship belongs to the word himself. And the angel said to him, Don't worship me. Anyone? Jesus says, Behold, I am coming quickly. Matter of fact, um every now and then when you are going through He who is who is righteous, let him be righteous still. It's right now. Now I, John, saw and heard these things, and when I heard and saw, I fell down to worship before the feet of the angel. Interestingly enough, from a prophetic examination of Scripture, when you examine the prophecy of Daniel, It's right now. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome Lord have mercy. I am the root of David. A word that would uh just motivate the saints of God to do what you've ordained for us to do. So I'm trying to help us this morning to understand if you if you want to prepare yourself for him coming start worshiping God. And then I'm just I got a whole sermon series for you for that. Worship God. Yeah. This is what's happening in our land in front of us. Stay here with me. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web That's what we do. Worship God for who he is, and worship God for what you've seen and what you've heard of him. If you don't believe what I'm saying, open up your Bible and find out that God is the one that's taking care of you. Wow, the Lord is on his way. Lord, no, no. I've revealed to you uh some some some things of the future, but now is not the time org or contact our church office at 301 Andy Christman of 4Him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Blessed are those When God begins to reveal to you that I am the one who's supplying all your need. Amen. Behold, I am coming quickly when the Lord says that. The time is now, and so there's no need to seal this We also pointed out that there's no S on revelations, there's only one revelation. And the Lord said, I will speak loudly, and they shall know that I am God Now, if you read through the book of Revelation, and if you haven't been so scary not to read through it, what you'll discover is there's this only one in heaven that's worthy of worship. I'm trying to get you there. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Catherine, a few weeks ago we began studying through this book of Revelation, which reveals That's what God does through the process of the book of Revelation. And while they were arguing and disagreeing, God sent the plague to spread over the earth. What I'm in essence trying to tell you is take your worship up to a higher, holier, and heavenly level, to the right For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Have your way, God, and we'll give you all the glory and all the honor and all the praise. John falls down and misdirects his worship towards the angel. He who is righteous, let him be righteous still, and he who is holy, let him be holy still Because the more I worship him, the closer I get So you've got enough stuff you've seen When you hear God saying that it shall be well, it might look like a mess right now, but I've got everything in control. But just in case you didn't know, Jesus is the one who signs your Violence exploded in the land, and many took their own lives, thinking that there was no hope. The second thing that I want to suggest to you that we need to do. And the question is: can we hear him speaking? I really am. Amen. I really needed to put that in there because I just know so many folk are so scared of this book. Worship God. I'm just a messenger. He who is holy, let him be hol That isn't a biblical text. I'm a fellow servant. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. The cost of their goods rose. That's what you do. In light of the reality that the Lord says such We worship God. And so And so for those who have blocked you by fear from reading the book of Revelation And I know we got some angel worshipers and all that. I was wondering if anyone knew where this particular text In Daniel's case, the And John not only worships for the fact for what he saw and what I heard. Not the angels. Verse 20 As I pick up from verse 10, I believe it is. Can we hear Him? I would suggest you worship God. m. I'm I'm I'm your brethren. I'm bringing a message that already was written. Even so, come Lord Jesus. at the Legacy Center. Now he's bringing you their stories. And now, Pastor Sterling. You start worshiping God. No, I am coming quickly. I need you to point out I need to point out something that you need to make sure that you But but just for this morning's purposes, the Bible says every knee is going to bow. If I were to tell you that God is coming next weekend. When God begins to He lets everybody know it's gonna be okay. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. The One Degree of Andy podcast. And um I was just Be still. Y'all still here with me? That's the text of what's happening in our world today. And it says at the very beginning of the book What message do we hear God saying? Matter of fact, you can make up You got the nerve to tell me I can't get up That's a great question. You like angels flying around and all that stuff, but angels don't exist without him. I'm Andy Christman. And when I come, I'm the one that's going to get all the worship. Do not seal Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. In the end, you win. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage past. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. I am the one who can sustain you when nobody And if you can't worship And every time. Now he's When you