Where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor Buchus Sterling III I was reading back and I saw the priest and the people, they didn't reverence God, they didn't respect God. Well here's the deal. You bread, I'm 65,000 a year. But I will tell you, if you're struggling in your financial area, it might have might have something to do with a curse on your finances We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together and we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services Sundays at 8 a. Amen. Thank you, Lord. That he gave his only begotten son, that whoever would believe in him would not perish but ever have everlasting life. Voices behind the song. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. Adopted into his family, surely you wouldn't rob the person who adopted you. When I read the word you, when I when I read, when it said yet you have, I felt you tightened a little bit. He's coming, I'm coming. Leviticus chapter 27, verse number 3. And then there's another group of folks who say, well, Pastor, do I tithe on my gross or do I tithe on my net? Now watch this. As a result of their robbing God that they have been cursed with a curse. Um in this statement that the that it's the whole nation, it's that so much of Israel is involved in the the robbing of the Lord and in the this unfaithfulness to God, not just in the giving area, but also in the multitude of other areas because the priests uh had left the abandoned God. Against God and God said, These things have brought a curse on you. And the text says that God listened in on a conversation of the saints, and the saints, if you will, the faithful ones, were communicating with one another. Go ahead now. I don't know how it happened, but God made a way that my child is in college. a layoff on my job guess what I was the last one to come I should have been the first one to go but they kept me in my job And I hear God listening in on their testimonies of faithfulness and how God had blessed them and how God was keeping them and they were concerned about those that are going on around them. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence. that we'll be his jewels and will escape the judgment that is yet to come. I mean I might rob you if you give me a hard time and you know when when it's time for me to get something you say nah we can't afford it but when it's ever time for you to get something you get what you want then I might rob you then But when God is constantly ever loving us, nah, we wouldn't rob him. preeminent, he is the I am, he is omnipotent, omniscient, omnipresent. Who exploit wage earners and widows and orphans, and against those who turn away an alien, because they do not fear me, says the Lord of hosts. Well, I'm gonna say it one more time. It belongs to the Lord, so we give it back to him for his glory. It's first fruit. And then on the other hand, you can also choose to disobey me, and then there's the mountain of curses. Because of their obedience. And offerings and and the other things, but even the covenant of marriage, if you want a uh blessings in your covenant marriage, covenant faithfulness in marriage reaps covenant blessings in marriage. And the people were following in their actions and their behaviors. To know that everybody was not unfaithful to God. Who feared the Lord and feared the Lord spoke to one another and the Lord listened and heard them Try me now and see if I won't open up the windows of heaven and pour y'all such blessing that there might not be room enough for you to receive. They knew that God would open up the windows of heaven and pour out such blessing that they did not have room enough to receive. While everybody else was struggling, God was taking care of them. wouldn't be alive i hear the faithful saying talk about him as much as you please the more you talk i'm gonna stay on my knees the more the wicked talk against him Draw them, God, as only you can. Because he holds me, because he tells me that I'm his own. This sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. Upper Marlboro, Maryland. John chapter 3 verse 16 says, For God so love the world. Live on the earth, die a brutal death, be buried in a bottle tomb, raised again the third day, and and and and and and invite you and I to be partners with him, call his own children. That's just the love and grace of God that He reigns on the just and the unjust. They figure God was had gone to sleep, he's not paying attention in essence. He will purify the sons of Levi and purge them as gold and silver, that they may offer to the Lord an offering in righteousness. Amen. Increase. It's his. Y'all still here? They shall be mine, says the Lord of hosts. That God says I will give to those who have remained faithful. The more the faithful talk for God. In the office place, when they start saying that you can't have your Bible on your desk, I hear the faithful sing, For God I live, and for God I die. I can feel them in my feet. God is not real. From destruction. Where he doesn't say, watch this, this is what he doesn't say. They were robbing you of tithes and offering, but maybe someone's robbing you of the privilege of being called Father. again as Senior Pastor Buchan Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence And Malachi says, even though you don't think judgment is coming, if you look back with me to verse number three, and I'm gonna read a couple verses there, Malachi says, judgment is coming. I'm coming. tithes and offering. And wheat and corn and seed from the field was commerce. For the children of Israel, he says, because you have robbed me, you are, and and in this area of tithe and offering, you are cursed with a curse. comes from covenant obedience. So so a book of remembrance was written before him for those who fear the Lord and who meditate on his name. That they would abandon the ways of the world and that they would come to you, give their heart, give their life to you. That he would take off his royal robe in glory, wrap himself up in limiting flesh And and even after adopting you, he keeps waking you up in the morning, keeps feeding you, keeps clothes on your back, shoes on your feet, car in the driveway, half a tank of gas at least. Then the text goes on. Tell your neighbor this ain't personal. That's the response of reality. Then the offering of Judah and Jerusalem will be pleasant to the Lord, as in the days of old, in the former years, and I will come near you for judgment. Holy to God. I just want you to know if you are a time tither, you would have to tithe, let's see, 18 hours and 38 minutes of every week to the Lord. It's your responsibility to bring the task to the house of the Lord. I've got to be faithful to the covenant. For those that are faithful, God remembers our faithfulness, but it gives us the imagery, if you will, that there is a book of remembrance that is ever in the front in the presence of God when the day of judgment comes, that he will remember that you were faithful. Amen. What your will is for us. Spirit of God, if there's one here under the sound of my voice that has not trusted you as Lord and Savior of their life, I'm praying even right now. This is verse listen to this. Y'all still hear? fruit from the tree and cattle and livestock from the stock Now, for those of you who say, I heard that before, that's Old Testament, that's the law. 18 I don't think I don't see no tide titles because I don't see y'all. Amen. Church today since you left it from last week. Then you shall again discern between the righteous and the wicked, between the one who serves God and the one who does not serve him. In him I move and have my being. That means salvation is not based on what we do, but his mercy towards us. It still takes the mercy of God. He loves us anyhow. Of the first fruit of your commerce increase. Amen. And we're not. That message was to the unfaithful to try God. But can I use my imagination for just a moment? I've been honoring God, and I didn't have much, but God supernaturally caused me to have enough when I got home. And said he doesn't know what he's talking about. The more the faithful taught. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Y'all see that? When Abraham gives ten percent of his first fruit of increase to Melchizedek before the law even starts. They knew the blessings of God. I'm gonna remember your faithfulness. And in that day of judgment, you will become my jewels. In light of the rhetorical question, there is a response of reality. Watch this. Father, in your name, speak to every heart, speak to every mind, make it clear. Might. I can hear another one saying, Well, you know what? And again, remember we're talking about Israel. The reason why I add the word commerce because I want you to know we're talking about money. The Lord had set before the children of Israel. Every single individual was not unfaithful to God. God said I'm coming. Leviticus chapter 27, verse number three says that the tithe is holy to God. Remember I say first fruit of commerce, but just in case you are a time tither. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. What do we do? Amen. Nobody brags on what they get after taxes and after after you know after allotments and all the other stuff. Are we guilty? Here's the great picture here is that once again everybody was not robbing God. But there was a faithful remnant and watch this. I was looking at the text and he says you're mine and on that day I will watch this I will spare them Y'all catch that one later. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. You can't tithe talent either because the talent ain't yours. First fruit means before the first part that comes in, and I'll call it your bragging salary. That means it is set apart, sanctified, it belongs to Him, is holy, it's untouchable He keeps on blessing you and loving you and pouring it out every day, even when we don't love him. And in their disobedience, they already knew that in our disobedience we're going to be cursed. I'm not saying every financial picture is a curse. I will be a swift witness against sorcerers and adulterers and perjers against those Now let me let me walk us through just a little bit of a little teaching here. I'm shooting y'all down. So if I'm faithful to the covenant, I can expect the covenant blessing. Now, for you and I, we it it paints a picture. Yet you have. Ain't no cattle ranches in here. Through Malachi, he lets them know that judgment is indeed coming. It belongs. Can I point out one more thing, y'all? I know y'all. It says, yet you have robbed me. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. And so the the the tithe is ten percent of the first fruit of commerce increase. I'm not gonna read it, but Leviticus chapter 27, verse number 3, you can write this down because you I want you to check me. You've been cursed. And the Lord is not asking for that because time ha is is in his hands, not in yours. They were marrying foreigners, and God had told them not to marry foreigners. Despite all the reasons why you shouldn't have robbed me, Israel. What do you mean by that? And even today, those who are faithful to the Lord's word, they know the blessings of God. I can see it. I hear the faithful say, oh yeah, he's real. Father, there are others that are struggling here with multitudes of issues. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III. It's holy, and it belongs to him as holy. You've given the best you had. He will sit at as a refiner and a purifier of silver. But the law was just a standard to keep us at the big basics. It's he is. So he said he says to them, Y you're cursed with a curse, for you have robbed me even this whole nation. On that day that I make them my jewels, I will spare them as a man spares his own son who serves him. Because you know it does rain on the just and the unjust. They knew this. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. See, they were living here in Israel like judgment wasn't coming. For them they were cursed with this curse and and again covenant blessings Um this is the responsible reality. I make 140,000. Okay? I'm I'm working and I'm a single parent. But you say in what way have we robbed you? Um it's it's it's it's in there and it shows you and lets you know all the things that they were doing that were anti and again. And so now, watch this. He doesn't say because of your faithfulness, you'll make it in. Okay, okay. The rhetorical question, response to reality, reward to the faithful. It's not personal. I wish I had somebody here that's not ashamed of the gospel because when they start talking about Jesus Um so they ask this question, how now the answer comes back to them in tithes and offering. He had set before them a mountain. He's still got to forgive you. While everybody else was trying to rub pennies together, they had dollars and they had spare change and they could bless other people. I'm gonna remember what you've done. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I could just imagine that one faithful saint says to another saint. Keep that in mind. I'm taking this rug from under your feet. And I'm out of y'all way. And God said, I've got a reward for you. It's not personal. So Tithin is Tithin is the first fruit of your commerce increase. I'm not saying that. Now what typically happens with this passage when people preach the passage is that they go to The more the righteous stood up and said, Yes, God is real I can feel them in my hands. We don't we don't go to a safe way and exchange a chicken for a loaf of bread. You died on Calvary's Cross. You'll become precious to me. And again, remember tithing has nothing to do with your talent. Alright, alright, I'm gonna leave y'all off. He said they say two mountains. Just you know write that down. It's it's ten percent of the first fruit, that's the first part that comes in of your commerce. There was a remnant of faithful people, and what I want you to look at in verse number 16 and through 18 is the reward of the faithful remnant. And so, you know, I believe that's what allowed them to get to the place where in the text he says, yet you have. I don't see y'all that much. I can't live without him. And so now what what I what I hear and I get a lot, some folks say, well, you know what, Pastor, I give I give some money, but I tithe my time. Now this this is not just the covenant as it relates to the covenant of giving and and That's a great question. Because I I felt y'all tighten up when I s when it when I read the word. But it might have something to do with it. I know y'all want to know this too, right? Yeah, that's what the first fruit. So I asked why Verse 16 picks up and says, Then those who fear the Lord, see there were some. And the Lord says, Yeah, judgment is coming. Okay. Tithe means 10% I'm praying you draw them too. And if God is loving us that way, you wouldn't rob a person who's loving you. And so they had a choice in terms of walking in obedience. They were doing all kinds of things. It's not that God is going to forget. But the faithful were already trusting and trying God. I looked at the text and I saw in the text Praise the Lord. He's still got to remove your sin. They they want to know what you're talking about, Willis. Now I don't have a whole lot of time to lay out for you all the ways in which folk even today are being cursed. Y'all know that, right? He is ever watchful and he is loving us all the time. They were afraid that God wasn't going to fulfill the promise, but yet they were not afraid that God was going to bring judgment. Watch this, here's another one I want you to We ain't under the law. I'm gonna watch this. Then there's another group of folk that say, well, I ties my talent because I sing in the choir. They had robbed God, and God said, You've robbed me. If I want the covenant blessings of God, I've got to obey the covenant obedience While everybody else didn't have enough, they had what they needed. He says, look, I'm gonna put their name in a scroll or a book of remembrance. Question is as I close, are we guilty? Especially not after they paid that kind of price. So that helps me to understand why this question is rhetorical, because he's creator, he's owner, he's But I've been faithful to God in giving to God, and last year, when my child had to go to college. You bled, you suffered. And the Lord says that every gift and every talent that's given is given for the benefit of all. And I hear another saint saying that that I've been faithful to God and I've been giving and honoring God. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. And if you read back in Malachi, you know, take a little time, read back through Malachi this week. I'm going to remember your faithful. I got some neighbors don't never go to church. Let me say this. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. But it's not personal. The response of the reality is, yet you have robbed me. So now I asked the question why, but as I kept reading the text, they asked the question how. I'm going to preserve you That's what they used to buy and purchase. And what Malachi comes back to them and reminds them, because of your unfaithfulness to God, you've chosen the curse. Now keep in mind before you take this too personal. Because I know y'all, you know, this is a subject matter y'all gonna be checking. 18 hours 38 minutes would be what will be required of you, even if we were accepting time tides. All the more the wicked talk Y'all already know that. And I'm going to judge, and I will separate, and in that day I'm going. Father, here in our text, org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. org or contact our church office at 301-627-9500. Have your own way in this time and in this place in Jesus' name Now, what John is saying is that he is loving us, and if he's loving us to the extreme. I gotta give glory to him. If you honor God, I will say this: God will take care of you. Just in case you wanted to know I ain't gotta preach that to them. m. This is Israel. The more that the the those that were evil talked against God One mountain is blessings. You're right. God does not forget. or 11 a. Your employer is gracious to you to take up take the tithes, I mean take the tithes for the government off for you. And so it will be 18 hours and 38 minutes, will be your requirement of time tithing. And for those most of the who would probably say that, not that talented anyway. They were not reverencing God. Y'all got that memorized. I feel Jesus. Even though we're still faithful, that doesn't get you a ticket to heaven Let me back up. We've looked at the rhetorical question. Father, I'm praying that today that they would surrender to you. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. And now, stay tuned for the conclusion of last week's message. Grace says I can do the basic and then some. Nobody b well, you know, my salary is uh, you know, somewhere around 30,000 after I pay everybody. He's real. m. We're not under the law. Now um the the idea here is But when the rain comes down, it rained on their yard too. They knew that they would be blessed. Everybody in here not robbing God. at our new edifice called the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway. If you do, if you keep my word, and if you're faithful to me, I'll bless you. So that we would be able to be called the children of God. They were not respecting God. Now he's bringing you their stories. They already know that. Now, the text doesn't tell us what they were saying. It's because of him that we'll be able to receive the reward that he talks about in the text. He's talking Israel. Y'all still here? See, in the old testament But here's the deal: the faithful already knew that. And I know that we want to get out from under the law and you are out and you are free. The One Degree of Andy podcast. But this is not law because this begins before the law is even instituted. We've looked at the response of reality. And so therefore, I get it, it's a rhetorical question. How can I put away his word if it wasn't for his word? I usher the door. You ain't got nothing else to do if you get pick up your Bible after. They had money in the bank. Oh yeah, he's real. But there is a promise to the faithful. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. But today we don't farm. But are we guilty? Everybody will know for sure who's mine, who's not. I'm Andy Christman. And Lord says, don't be concerned. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. They they had better than what they had when they were hustling. Matter of fact, sometimes their yard look better than mine. Last thing I want to talk about because I want you to In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. And even though there was a And God says through Malachi It's the mountain of blessings. Because he loves me. I hear the wicked say. I've got a reward for you. There is, if you will, a reward. For a copy of Please join us. No.