Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. 800-880-4TWR or online at WAVA. com. The following program is sponsored by Daily Hope Ministries. Here is Pastor Rick Warren. Now here's what the Bible says, Matthew 9 29. According to your faith, it will be done to you. According to your faith, it will be done to you. God says, you get to choose how much I bless your life How much I transform your life. Great faith, there'll be great transformation. Nothing happens in your life till you start dreaming. God says you get to choose According to your faith, it will be done. This is Pastor Rick's Daily Hope The Bible Teaching Ministry of Pastor Rick Warren. Today we begin a series called Transformed. In these lessons, Rick uncovers key principles found in God's Word that will completely transform our lives from the inside out in every area, including spiritual, physical, mental, emotional Relational, financial, and vocational. In just a few moments, we're going to tell you about a powerful tool that will help give new life to your prayer time and an amazing opportunity to come alongside this ministry in our efforts to see lives change through the gospel. You can find out more by going to pastorick. com or by texting the word daily to 99000 while you listen to the message. That's Pastorick. com with two R's in the middle, or just text the word daily to 99000. Right now, here's Pastor Rick Warren with part one of a message called Setting Personal Goals by Faith. Our theme verse is going to be Romans chapter 12, verse 2. Do not conform to the pattern of this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. Okay, let's read it again Do not conform to the pattern of this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. God wants you to be a non-conformist. He wants you to be a non-conformist. Do not conform to the pattern of this world. But be transformed. You'll either be conformed or you're gonna be transformed. You see, God created you to be unique. God created you to be special. God created you to be like nobody else. You have a unique voice print, thumbprint, hand print, heartbeat. God doesn't make clones. Man does, but God doesn't make clones. And God says, I want you to be unique, not conform to anybody else's idea of what you should be. But the problem is we all start off as originals, but we end up as copies of other people. And we get conformed and we get pressured and we get pushed into a into a mold. Now, during the next seven weeks, we're going to look at seven key areas of your life and the changes that you need to make, want to make, and can make because of God's power in your life. We're going to look at your spiritual health. We're going to look at your physical health, mental health, emotional health. We're going to talk about transforming the way you think. transforming the way you feel. We're going to talk about uh financial health, transforming the way you look and use, look at and use money, relationships. Relational health, vocational health, your career, and where you're going for the rest of your life. Now let me explain to you Where we're going. We're going to look at seven key areas of your life, but we also have seven key features that are going to help you grow. What I want to do today is explain to you Why you must set goals for your life. And God says it. It's very clear in the Word of God. Why you must do it and the changes it'll make in your life and the power that it will So this is all about the future. A lot of times we talk about problems and pressures in your life. This series is about your potential. This series is about your possibilities. This series is about your future. Making the best of the rest of your life. So I'm very excited about it. Now, I want to begin by giving you the six reasons why you need to learn how to set goals in your life. Number one, the Bible says six things about goal setting. Number one, the Bible says that goal setting is a spiritual responsibility. Goal setting is a spiritual responsibility. Did you know that God sets goals? God has goals for the universe God has goals for planet Earth. God has goals for history. God has goals for eternity. And God certainly has goals for your life. The Bible tells us that Jesus set goals. In fact, he often announced publicly what his next goal was I'm gonna do this now. I'm gonna do this now, and I'm gonna do this now. He publicly would announce in advance what his goal was for the next phase of his ministry. Every person who walked with God in the Bible, you can find examples of being goal-directed. But let me just give you one example. The Apostle Paul, Philippians chapter 3, it says this. I know that I'm not yet what God wants me to be. Hang on. Anybody agree with that? I know that I'm not yet what God wants me to be. I haven't reached that goal, but I keep moving toward it to make it mine because Christ made me and saved me for this. Now I know that I haven't reached my goal, but there is one thing I always do. Forgetting the past. And straining toward what is ahead, I keep my eyes focused on the goal. So that I may one day win the prize that God has called me to receive through Christ in the life above. Now, all of you who are spiritually mature should think this same way too. I want you to circle three things: that goal, my goal, and the goal. Paul was goal-oriented. He says, I haven't reached that goal. I haven't yet reached my goal. And my focus, my eyes are focused on the goal. Why is it important for you to set a goal? Because it's a spiritual responsibility. You're going to go through life either by design. Or by default. You're either going to set goals and you're going to decide what's important for your life, or other people are going to decide it for you. If you don't have goals for your life, you are abdicating control of your life to somebody else and other things. If you don't have goals for your life, you're not living, you're just reacting. You're just existing. If you don't have clear goals for your life, you're just coasting through life. You are drifting through life. And whenever you're coasting, you're always going downhill. If you don't have goals for your life, you have already decided to let other people run your life. Because you don't know what's important, so you're going to let them decide. And you react to circumstances and you go through your whole life wasting your life because you haven't clarified what's important. This is a very important spiritual discipline You're allowing others to direct your life. The Bible says to be spiritually mature. He says all of you who are spiritually mature should think the same way. I set my goal, I strive toward my goal, I move toward my goal, I keep my eyes focused on the goal. That's what Paul said, probably the greatest Christian who ever lived next to Jesus. Jesus himself. Number two, goals are statements of faith. Goals are statements of faith A lot of people think, well, goal, isn't that like a business thing? Isn't that like a secular thing? Isn't that like uh something athletes do? No, no, no, no. This is a spiritual habit. That you need to develop. And goals are statements of faith. In other words, if you're a believer in Jesus Christ, when you set a goal, what you're saying is, I believe That's faith. I believe that God wants me to accomplish such and such by such and such a time. That's a statement of faith. A goal is a statement of faith. This is what I believe God is gonna do. in my life. Goals don't just aren't just a statement of faith. They stretch your faith. And the bigger your goal, the more your faith will be stretched, and that pleases The Bible says without faith it is impossible to please God. So if you don't have any goal, you don't need any faith. And if you don't need any faith, the Bible says it's impossible to please God. please God. In fact in Romans 14 it says, whatsoever is not of faith is sin. So if I'm going through life without having to have need any faith. If I don't have any goals, I don't need to take any risks. And if I don't take any risks, I don't need any faith. And if I don't have any faith, I am You're listening to Pastor Rick's Daily Hope. There's more great teaching coming up. And if you'd like to connect with Rick, just go to Pastor Rick. com and click on his social media links. While you're there, be sure to sign up for his free daily email devotional. And if you'd like to let Rick know how this broadcast has changed your life, you can email him at Rick. At pastorick. com. Right now, we'd like to let you know that a very special friend of the ministry has offered a $100,000 matching grant for this month. Now that means that when you support Daily Hope, every dollar will be matched up to $100,000 all the way to the end of this month. But please remember, if we don't reach the $100,000 mark by midnight, December 31st. Well, we'll lose whatever is left over. So please give, however God leads you. These funds are critical as we go forward with our vision of sharing the hope of Jesus with more people who need it. Do you feel like your prayer life is stuck in a rut? Kind of like you're praying the same thing over and over again? Maybe you've started to wonder if God is even hearing your prayers. Whether you felt like this in the past or you're feeling that way right now, Pastor Rick has a powerful way to re-energize your prayer life It's called the Daily Hope Prayer Journal. Many of us don't realize that journaling is a spiritual habit that will help your prayers Stay fresh, effective, and consistent. This year, the Daily Hope Prayer Journal is themed after a mountain retreat. It has a soft cork-like cover and is packed full of scriptures and beautiful artwork that will help you enjoy writing down your prayers. Pastor Rick has asked us to send you a copy of this great resource as his way of saying thanks for your financial. support and please remember that all this month when you give your gift will be matched up to $100,000 but only through midnight December 31st So please ask God how He would have you support this ministry financially. Go to pastorick. com right now to get your copy of this great resource And to have your gift matched up to $100,000. That's pastorick. com. Or you can call $800-600-5004. That's $800-600-5004. Thanks in advance for your support. You're listening to Pastor Rick's Daily Hope. Once again, here's Pastor Rick Warren. If I don't have any goals, I don't need to take any risks. And if I don't take any risks, I don't need any faith. And if I don't have any faith, I am being unfaithful. You see how important it is for you to have a goal in every area of your life? Now, here's a goal-stretching verse, Ephesians chapter 3, verse 20. God can do anything. Far more than you could ever imagine. I don't know. I can imagine some big things. Far more than you could ever imagine or guess or dare to request in your wildest dreams. I don't know about you, but I can imagine some pretty big things. I'm a pretty big dreamer. Nobody has ever accused me of being a small thinker. I've always had big dreams. And yet God says, Rick, you think of the greatest thing, you of the greatest dream I could do in your life, and guess what? I can top that. I can beat that. I can do anything far more than you would ever imagine or guess or dare to request in your wildest dream. Let the size of your God determine the size of your goal. You let the size of God determine the size of my goal. Many years ago, when Saddleback decided to buy this land, it's 120 years acres. Do you know how much that costs? Millions of dollars. To buy 120 acres in Orange County would seem like nonsense to most people. And when we as a church decided to buy this 120 acres for millions of dollars, because we weren't, we were just not a very big church at the time And I remember the word got out of the communities. This little group of people called Saddleback was buying 120 acres. And the question was going through the community: who do they think they are? And I thought, that's the wrong question. The question is not who do we think we are. The question is, who do we think God is? Who do we think God is? Big God, big goal. Tiny God, tiny goal. No God, no goal. Let the size of God determine the size of your goal. I guess what I want to say to you as your pastor, as somebody who loves you, and I want the best for your life, and I want you to succeed in life. Is during the next 50 days, I dare you to dream great dreams. I dare you. Stop your puny little thinking. Stop being a little bitty box. Well, I'm too young or I'm too old or I'm not pretty enough or I'm not handsome enough or I'm a woman or I'm a guy or whatever. Stop all your arguments and start dreaming what God could do in your life if you would just trust him. To me, hell would be if God were to show me all I could have accomplished in my life if I just believed in my life. a little bit more. That would be hell. We limit God by our unbelief. Now there are two common mistakes we make in goal setting. We set them too low and we try to accomplish them too quickly. As your pastor, I am urging you in the next 50 days and each week we're going to set a goal in each of the seven areas. You'll set one for your area. I challenge you to dream big dreams for God, and I challenge you to think bigger than you ever thought before so that You have to trust God. See, I live my life in such a way that I am bound to fail unless God bails me out. I can't tell you how many times I've paid myself into a corner when everybody goes, who does he think he is? I mean, look at what he's trying to do. Like one time we said, hey, let's be the first church in 2,000 years to go to every nation. Nobody had ever done that. We did it. Why? Because we set a goal and God helped us. And I have spent my life dreaming great dreams, and it's amazing what God can do in your life if you will do that. Now, here's the cool thing: dreaming doesn't cost anything. Doesn't cost you any money. Doesn't cost you a penny. You can dream great dreams. What do I dream about in my relationships? What do I dream about in my career? What do I dream about in my finances? What do I dream could happen in my relationship with God? How would I want to look? How healthy would I want to be? On the all these things. Dream great dreams. You see, we overestimate what we can do in a year, and we underestimate what you can do in two years. 10. So instead of thinking puny little tiny goals and trying to accomplish them instantly, my challenge you is get a big goal for your life and then spend the rest of your life going after it. I did. When I was twenty-five years old and I moved here and started this church with no member, no money, nobody, and I I set a forty year goal for this church. When I was twenty-five, that seemed like an eternal Goals are statements of faith. By the way, the difference between a goal and a dream is you put a deadline on it And you say, this is what I want to happen by 2020. This is what I want to and that's what I did. In 1980, I set a goal to be accomplished by 2020. Now, if you don't have a date, a deadline on your goal, it's not a goal, it's just a dream. Now, dream is good, but you need both. Now, here's what the Bible says: Matthew 9:29. According to your faith, it will be done to you. According to your faith, it will be done to you. God says, you get to choose how much I bless your life. How much I transform your life. Great faith will be great transformation. Nothing happens in your life till you start dreaming. God says you get to change. According to your life, your faith, it will be done. So I'm going to encourage you that when we start setting one goal a week over the next seven weeks, don't miss any of these. That you you ask the question, will this require me to have faith? Is it such a big dream that I'm bound to fail unless God helps me. I'm really going out on a limb. Don't ever be afraid to go out on a limb. That's where the fruit is. The fruit is not at the trunk. You don't get the fruit by playing it safe. It's out on the limb. And never be afraid to rock the boat if Jesus is your captain. I'm sharing your life experience tonight. Because I'm looking out on the next generation right here. And I'm going, I want you to know God like I do. And I want you to trust him like I do. And I want you to be used by God in ways that you've never, ever imagined. I never imagined all of this, but God did. Goals are statements of faith. Number three, goals focus my energy. Well, another one of the reasons why you need to set goals in every area of your life is they focus your energy. They keep you from wasting time, money, reputation, energy. They keep you focused. Selection is the name of the game. Focus is the key to an effective life. And the more you focus your life, the more powerful, the more effective your life is going to be. If you spread it out and diffuse your life over a whole bunch of different things, you'll make no impact at all. But if you focus your life, it's going to be powerful, it's going to be strong, and it will change the world. This is Pastor Rick's Daily Hope. Now if you've missed any part of this broadcast, including portions we didn't have time for today, simply go to PastorRick. com to listen again, to find out more about this ministry, or to sign up for Rick's Free Daily Email Devotional. Rick's gonna be back in just a moment with a final word of encouragement, so please stay with us Do you feel like your prayer life is stuck in a rut? Kind of like you're praying the same thing over and over again? Maybe you're starting to wonder if God is even hearing your prayers. Whether you felt that way in the past or you're feeling that way right now, Pastor Rick has a powerful way to re-energize your prayer life It's called the Daily Hope Prayer Journal. Pastor Rick has asked us to send you a copy of this great resource as his way of saying thanks for your financial support. And remember that all this month when you give your gift, it will be matched up to $100,000, but only through midnight, December 31st. So please ask God how he would have you support this ministry financially. Here's Rick to tell you more. Do you ever feel like your prayers get stuck in a rut? Would you like to know what God told me to do when my prayer life got stuck in a rut? It was a time when I I just felt like I was praying the same thing over and over and over. In fact, I was beginning to wonder if God was even answering my prayers or even listening. Uh maybe you felt that way sometimes, or maybe you feel that way right now. So what did God tell me to do? Well, here's what he told me. It was such a powerful way to re-energize my prayer life, and it was so simple that I want to pass it on to you God told me to do this. He said, Rick, start writing down what you're saying to me, and then I want you to write down what I say to you. Write down what you say to me, and then write down what I say to you. You see, it's really not that complicated. God just said I should start by writing down what I'm feeling And then I should write down what he tells me after I've read his word. It's really just a form of journaling. And spiritual journaling is a spiritual habit that will help your prayer stay fresh. If you've never tried it, I'm begging you, try this for a week or two and see if it doesn't reinvigorate your prayer life. Journaling has many, many benefits to your spiritual life. It'll help you stay consistent in your prayers. It'll give you a permanent reminder of how God answers your prayers because you've got revealten them down. It shows how God is working in your life. You can go back and review it. It'll even help you worship God more and more as you speak to Him. God speaks to people who care enough to write it down. So, write down what God tells you, but you've got to have a place to do that. Now, I want to encourage you, and I want to help you take this simple step of learning this new spiritual habit. In your prayers, of writing down your prayers and writing down your prayer request. So, what I did is I had my Daily Hope team create a brand new spiritual prayer journal. It's got a real simple to follow format that'll help you put into practice God's wisdom that is found in Philippians 4:6. That says this: don't worry about anything, instead, pray about everything. Tell God what you need and thank him for all he has done. Those four things are part of the format of our prayer journal for this year. Now, some of you remember last year's prayer journal. And you you wrote me and told me how much it helped you in your Christian life. Well, this year, the Daily Hope Prayer Journal is themed after, get this, a mountain retreat. It's really cool. It has a soft cork-like cover, and it's packed full of scriptures and beautiful artwork that's going to help you enjoy writing down your prayers, helps put you in the mood, gives you the right spirit and thoughts, you're gonna love this tool. This year, the Daily Hope Prayer Journal is themed after a mountain retreat. It has a soft cork-like cover and it's packed full of scriptures and beautiful artwork that will help you enjoy writing down your prayers. Pastor Rick has asked us to send you a copy of this great resource as his way of saying thanks for your financial support. And remember that all this month when you give your gift, It will be matched up to $100,000, but only through midnight, December 31st. So please ask God how He would have you support this ministry financially Go to pastorick. com right now to get your copy of this great resource and to have your gift matched up to $100,000. That's Pastorick. com. Or just call 800-600-5004. That's 800-600-5004. Be sure to join us again next time as we look into God's Word for our Daily Hope. This program is sponsored by Daily Hope Ministries Andy Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. He sits Down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.