Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. In the Valley of Siddam, where I've tried to run from something, tried to avoid the battle, I've slipped, I've fallen, I've gotten stuck, and I'm in the pits. And I've had a public failure. And Lord, I I've I've been in that valley of Eshkol too, the valley of fear, where I've got to either take the risk and move forward or fall back and retreat in defeat. And Lord, yes, I've been in the Valley of Elah where I've had the conflict and I faced the giant problem, and maybe you're facing it right now. And some of you'd say, Lord, I'm I'm in the valley of Baca. I'm all dried up. I'm barren. I'm arid. I don't feel anything. Or I'm weeping and I'm grieving and I'm in the valley of grief and barrenness. Say, help me to remember that I'm not alone. That when I go through it, you go with me. You'll be with me. Help me to remember that You have a good purpose for even the bad things that happen in my life. You turn them around and you use them for good. God, I'm asking you to transform the valley of trouble into a gateway of hope. I want to be an agent of hope in the world. And when I start to get fatigued, and the tunnel seems long, and the valley seems dark. Help me to remember that the reward will last forever. And at present troubles are really quite small, and they're not going to last very long. But they're producing an eternal glory that will last forever. And it's greater than anything we can imagine. Jesus Christ, I'm asking you to be my good shepherd. I take the hands off the wheel of my life and I ask you to sit in the driver's seat, be the director and the manager of my life from this day forward. In your name I pray. Amen. Hi, this is Pastor Rick. If you just prayed to accept Jesus Christ into your heart, congratulations. You're now my brother or sister in the Lord. And you need to tell somebody, and why don't you tell me? Write to me rick at pastorick. com. Just email me, rick at pastorick. com And tell me your story. I would love to read it. And by the way, I'll send you some free material to help you start in your new journey with the Lord. God bless you. This is Pastor Rick's Daily Hope. If you've missed any part of this broadcast, including portions we didn't have time for today. Simply go to pastorick. com and listen online anytime or download the Pastor Rick's Daily Hope podcast to your smartphone or tablet So you can listen on the go anywhere you are. Rick's gonna be back in just a moment with a final word, so please stay with us Is God always good? What about during times of pain and suffering? Even during difficult times, God wants to comfort you. He wants you to rest in his promises. That's why Pastor Rick has created the Living in the Goodness of God Guided Experience book in this one-of-a-kind spiritual growth tool. You will dig deep into Psalm 23, experiencing God's unrelenting love for you and discovering why this passage can become the foundation for your faith You will learn to trust the goodness of God in every area of your life. In this guided experience book, Rick will show you how to revolutionize your life and your relationships. Rest and recharge your body and mind. Create a habit of worship instead of worry. Practice loving God and others well. Use your time for the things that matter most. Stop comparing and start being content. Throughout this guided experience, you will practice meditating on God's word, shifting your focus from fears to focus on your Father. And move from being overwhelmed to overflowing. The Living in the Goodness of God Guided Experience book has a vegan leather cover with 288 pages packed with inspiring photos and artwork. This spiritual growth resource is yours today when you support this broadcast ministry with a financial gift. Just go to pastorick. com right now to get your copy of this amazing study tool. Or you can call 800-600-5004. That's pastorick. com or 800-600-5004. And thanks so much for your support. And now here's Rick with a closing thought. Hi, everybody. I've got a special urgent prayer request for everyone who listens to Daily Hope today. Would you pray that some solar powered radios that we have sent to some refugee camps But are stuck in customs will be released so people can get the blessing of the hope of God's Word as it spread among refugees You know, in the refugee camps located near Ajumani, there are over one million people living there in desperate circumstances. I need you to pray for these people because they have so little and we are trying to give them hope on a daily basis. One of the ways we've been trying to encourage them and tell them about Jesus is by getting these solar-powered uh radios, which don't require batteries, they are they're powered by the sun. so that they can listen to the Daily Hope broadcasts, which are being broadcast three times a day in these refugee camps. The problem is these are stuck in customs because of increased customs fees. Now the good news is that the government has agreed to allow the radios into the country custom free, but we're still waiting on the bureaucracy to give the formal letter that documents what they've already agreed to. This is where we need your prayer. Pray that the solar-powered radios will be released to the refugee camps so that the Word of God and the Daily Hope messages can be given to those who need it most. Thank you, everybody. Be sure to join us next time as we look into God's Word for our Daily Hope. This program is sponsored by Pastor Rick's Daily Hope and your generous financial support. MyPillow has now made it easier than ever to own a MyPelo. Not only are they still offering a 10-year warranty, not only is it guaranteed not to go Flat, made in the USA, washable and dryable. But here is one of their best offers yet. For a limited time, go to mypillow. com or call 800-973-1792. Use the promo code family to take advantage of the four-pack special. You'll get 50% off two MyPillow Premium Pellows and two Go Anywhere Pillows. Now you can take your MyPillow with you when you travel and even give one to a friend. There's no excuse to delay any longer. Purchase the best pillow you'll ever own. Call 800-973-1792. Get the four-pack special. That's 50% off two MyPellow Premium Pellows and two Go Anywhere Pellows. MyPillow will get you into that deep sleep faster and you will stay there longer. Call 800-973-1792. Notice the difference a good night's sleep can make at home, or now even when You travel 800-573-1792 or go to mypello. com and use the promo code FAMLY. Hi, I'm Georgine Rice. This week in the Christian Outlook brought to you in partnership with the Pepperdine Graduate School of Public Policy. And ADF, the Alliance Defending Freedom. Democrats block the Born Alive Act. Only three even dared to cross the aisle to vote for a legislative ban on infanticide. Be sure to join us and visit our website at Christianoutlook. com. Saturday at 6 a. m. and 11 p. m. Sunday at 3 p. m. on WAVA. This just in death, destruction, and violence. Film at 11. Come on. Is all the news really bad? How about some good news in your daily routine? You'll find it when you log on to Christianity. com. They've got great devotionals, terrific Bible study tools, quizzes, and links to the day's most inspiring stories from around the web. Get Good news every day when you set your homepage to Christianity. com. Make a difference in your internet life. Christianity. com Share, like, comment, tweet. Are these foreign terms to your business? They may not be to your competition and the reason you're losing sales. Social media marketing is on the verge of dominating commerce. The right social media strategy can help you slay the competition and gain new customers We're Salem Surround. We take the mystery of digital marketing off your shoulders, letting you run your business while we deliver customers Your competition is already social. Catch them and surpass them. We offer a free analysis of your digital marketing effectiveness and suggest methods that could dramatically increase your sales. We know how to make every digital dollar count towards sales success. Now there are no limitations on where you can reach customers with Salem Surround. Total market penetration for increased ROI. Learn more by logging on to surrounddc. com. Surrounddc. com Connecting you with new customers. We've all heard stories on the news where people were minding their own business when suddenly tragedy struck and they were instantly killed. It could be a car accident. Debris falling from a building, a bridge collapse, or something else that happens suddenly and unexpectedly. We never know when our time will come. The question is, is it safe to die? The Bible says that it's appointed unto man once to die, and after that to judgment. One day we'll have to give an account for our lives. And God says that if we have disobeyed Him even once, it's enough to separate us from Him forever. Only Jesus Christ, who came to this earth to die on the cross, can take away the sin you committed He paid the penalty you could never pay and offers you forgiveness and new life. It's only safe to die if you have a personal relationship with Jesus. To learn how to begin that relationship, call 888-MeetHim. That's 888-MeetHim. I've been searching for ways to grow deeper in my faith and strengthen my daily walk, and I found it at crosswalk. com. From Bible study tools to Christian living articles, devotionals, movie reviews, to marriage and finance articles. Well, you get the idea. Crosswalk. com also has a great online community of Christians Just like me, with everything just a click away, it's like having a trusted friend, teacher, and mentor right here at my desk every day Crosswalk. com, the intersection of faith and life. The best Christian music, relevant sermons, and other Christian content easily accessible from anywhere on your laptop, tablet, or smartphone. Visit ChristianRadio. com. For those who love contemporary Christian music, CCM Magazine is a must-read. Explore the latest redemptive music and the culture it impacts by starting your subscription today. Visit CCMagazine. com One oh five W A B A You're listening to 105. 1 FM, WAVA FM and HD1 Arlington, and WSBZ Washington. This is life-changing WAVA. You're listening to 105. 1 FM, WADA FM in HD1, Arlington, and WSBC Washington. This is Life. Life changing, WAVA. Diabetes, high blood pressure, anxiety meds, everyone's on them. If you're a 50-year-old male, maybe a bit Porky and you may even have type 2 diabetes, a million dollars of term insurance may only cost you about 200 bucks a month. Call term provider. Speak with BigLou at 800-444-2013. BigLoo will find a term life policy for you even if you have type 2 diabetes or overweight or have high blood pressure. Term providers help thousands of people like you who think they can't afford term life insurance. To buy a million dollars of affordable term life for you, all you need to do is call Big Lou at 800-444-2013. Lou will make sure the scales are tipped in your favor. Call 800-444-2013. BigLou will answer your call and work to fit you into a term life policy that you can afford. Remember, Big Lou's like you He's on meds, too. Call 800-444-2013. 800-444-2013. That's such an important piece because Having that relationship in place, part of that is inspiring in them this idea of who they're gonna be. You may not have thought about this, but you can inspire a child. Here's Ellen Shuknick on Focus on the Family Minute. I really think that when we show that we believe in a grandchild or a child. that's necessary for them to even believe in themselves. That we have to hold out that hope. And I find that even for my grandkids or my kids, when they're discouraged, because kids do dumb things and they get discouraged on how their kids are acting, is to always be that Person who can say, Listen, you're gonna get through this, Joey's gonna be fine, Kate's gonna be okay, Hadassah's gonna be fine after this, offering hope to the parents Our adult kids and to the kids, keeping that hope alive. More from Allen at familyminute. org. One of the great privileges of my life has been to stand shoulder to shoulder with WAVA listeners in Israel. This is WAVA's Dennis Williams. I love Israel. I want to invite you to join me in experiencing Israel. Or if you've been to Israel before, it's time to return. Join me on December 2nd through the 11th, 2019. We'll visit the amazing places you've read about in the Bible, including the Sea of Galilee, the Jordan River, and the Garden Tomb. Find information today at WAVA. com Keyword Israel or give me a call 703-807-2211. A swimmer was caught in a strong current and close to drowning. Suddenly a life jacket Was thrown within reach. He grabbed the life jacket and it saved his life. Sometimes we feel like we're drowning in the problems of life. Maybe it's financial, marital, or job related. Where can we find hope? Jesus is our rescuer and wants us to reach out to him. Learn more. Call 888-NEEDHIM or chat with us live at needhim. org. The following program is sponsored by Touch of Love Church. Welcome to This Week in the Word with Pastor Wale Maye, Senior Pastor at Touch of Love Bible Church in Laurel, Maryland. A WV listener, this is Pastor Wally, host of this radio ministry this week in the world. First of all, I want to thank you for listening, for praying, for your emails, your letters of encouragement. They have been a tremendous blessing to me. Well, I'm coming to you this month of March because we need your help. As many of you do know, it takes a lot financially to do what we do here every weekend. That is why in this month of March we have a special matching fund opportunity for every dollar we raise this month It will be much dollar for dollar up to $25,000. That is why we're appealing to you as our audience to join us in this unique opportunity. Be a partner with us. Let us be a partner in sharing the gospel of Jesus Christ You can give by going to our website at TolBC. org. Again, it's t-olbc. org. And again, as you give, you are helping us to share the gospel of Jesus that those in darkness will see that great light of Jesus Christ. So one more time I want to thank you for giving and may God continue to bless you. The name Justus Vern Leiby might not sound too familiar to most of us but I am sure that this morning when you left home you glanced at one of his Enduring legacies. In eighteen thirty-five, German chemist Justus van Leby developed a process For applying a thin layer of metallic silver to one side of a pane clay glass. This technique was soon adopted and improved upon Upon a line for the mass production of mirrors. Today, with all our superficiality And our fascination with how we look, mirrors have become indispensable In contemporary life, they are practically everywhere. And I don't have to be a prophet this morning to know that someone in this church As a mirror in their bag or in their pocketbook. A world without a mirror will be completely unimaginable I believe that if there is no mural in this world, many will experience some form of mental crisis. Because their look is directly related to their feeling of self-worth. And when there is no mirror to look at Their self-worth is a total disaster. But as much as we love to gaze into the mirror, perhaps as many times as possible In a day to ensure that we look good externally. Many of us don't love to gaze into the mirror of our soul. To actually see how we look internally. Introspection is not a natural human tendency. Rather, the natural tendency is always to focus outward, to see the fault and the shortcomings of other people. people. Seeing all that is negative, all that is bad about other people comes to many of us much easier. easily than saying all that is wrong with us. And the Lord Jesus was able to identify this flawed human tendency when he asked to rhetorical questions in Matthew chapter 7 verse 3 and 4 it says why do you look at the speck that's in your brother's eye but do not notice the log that is in your own Eye or how can you say to your brother, let me take the speck out of your eye, and behold, there is a log in your own eye. And perhaps there is no other time that this flawed human tendency is more pronounced than in the times of conflict. conflict. The reason many conflict goes on resolve is because many seldom think that The problem the finger is always pointing at the other person. We intentionally Ignore the log that's sticking out of our eye, and we now see clearly the speck that's in the other person's eye. And countless relationships could easily have been rescued from the agony of hostility and estrangement. If people can actually turn the mirror to themselves and really see the log in their own eye and take Take it out before they can actually see the other person. And I believe that today many are praying a meese. Because many are praying, Lord, change my husband Some are praying, Lord, change my wife. Some are praying, Lord, change my boss of the job. Some will say, change my church colleagues, or change my son, or change my daughter. But unbeknownst to them, the change they're seeking is in their Eye. Unbeknownst to them, they themselves are the source of the problem. This morning, like the fairy tale Rhyme goes. We want to ask that question. Mirror, mirror on the wall. Is there a log in my eye? Am I the source of the problem? Or is there somebody else? Well, I tell you this morning the mirror of the word of God, the perfect law of liberty, as an answer for you. And I truly believe what God will reveal to us this morning might be an answer to some of your prayers that you will discover that I need to turn the mirror tomorrow. myself because I am the one with the problem. Now let's start from ground zero. Metaphorically speaking As conspicuous as a log would be in every single person's eye. Why is it so difficult? To see the Log. Put differently, as obvious as we as humans are filled with fault and short Shortcomings, why is it always so difficult to see or to admit our faults and our shortcomings? The mirror of God's word has an answer for that, and is a threefold answer. Let's look Look at this. The first reason the Bible actually reveals to us is because of that B word, pride. In the fourth century A. D. , a young man by the name of Evangros of Pontus. A Greek monk. This Andy Christman afore him has spent forty plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. Chrisman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass: the One Degree of Andy podcast. To now to one degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts.