Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. I want to invite your attention to Psalm 92 at verse number 12. The word of the Lord reads as follows: the righteous shall flourish like a palm tree. He shall grow like a cedar in Lebanon. Those who are planted in the house of the Lord shall flourish in the courts of our God. They shall still bear fruit in old age. They shall be fresh and flourishing, to declare that the Lord is upright. He is my rock, and there is no unrighteousness in him. Amen. Would you pray with me? Father, we bless you on this morning. We thank you for your amazing grace. Thank you for the power and presence of your Holy Spirit. And even now, God, we need you in this hour that you might declare a word from on high. Spirit of the Lord, we have nothing to say that's worth hearing, and so we need to hear from you. So Lord, I declare and I preach and I pray rather this morning that you would move even now, God, on the spirit of my heart. that you would articulate through these lips of clay what you desire to be said. Allow me clarity of thought and speech. Lord, that as the word Goes forward if there's anyone that does not know you today, that the day might be the day that they come asking, What must I do to be saved? Father, I pray that you would also deliver those who've drifted in their fellowship. that their fellowship might be renewed on today, that they might come back and have that relationship restored with you. Spirit of the Lord, and let the body of Christ and those who are listening be edified on this occasion, that the word might encourage them. to grow up as you've called for us to do. Spirit of the Lord, I bless you in advance. I believe by faith you have a plan this morning. I just want to be found in the center of it as I declare your word. Use me, Lord, as a vessel and instrument in your hand to accomplish your will. And I will give your name all the glory and all the honor and all the praise. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Kethering, we've been preaching through a series of messages entitled Grow Up. We started in Hebrews chapter 5, and we spoke to you there from the idea of the elementary principles again. We left there and we went to Ephesians chapter four and we spoke to you from the idea from babes to maturity. One last uh week when we were together, we uh would talk from the idea of walking like a grown-up. On this morning we find ourselves in Psalm 92 This psalm was written, it's called a Sabbath song that was sung on the Sabbath day. The Sabbath was a day of rest. And on that day of rest that was to remind the children of Israel in the Old Testament times of a time that God rested from his work and his labor of creation. It was on that day that this song was sang to uh reflect upon the goodness of God and how good God had been to them. And so on this morning, I know that we we probably could take a just a moment and and give God some glory if we thought about how good God has been in even preserving us. over these years. And in fact, many of us probably at some point in time in our life have stopped to ask God this question. What's my purpose? I want to talk to you for a little while from the subject matter, the purpose of your preservation. You want to know why God preserved you? He's got a purpose for preserving you. You're not just here to look cute and pretty, but God has a greater purpose. Than that. So I just want to dig in this text a little bit and and show us your purpose of your preservation. First of all, the text says in verse 12, the righteous shall flourish like a palm tree, and he shall grow like the cedar of Lebanon. And those who are planted in the house of the Lord shall flourish in the courts of our God. I want to extract from that and tell you that You are purposed to flourish. And when we use this word flourish, it means to grow or to develop in a healthy kind of way. Vigorous growth, if you will, and that growth is associated with a positive or favorable environment. God preserved you so you might flourish. Verse 13 says, you were preserved, you were purposed that you might flourish like a palm tree. Now The palm tree is a tree that is, in essence, an evergreen tree. Is green all the time So in other words, you were purposed to be able to flourish all the time. The palm tree is a tree that is said to grow stronger. And has of necessity adversity to come against it. So in other words, the storms of life and the storms that come, if you've ever watched a hurricane that has come through. the tropical areas, the palm tree is bending over and it's enduring hundred mile an hour winds and it's being whipped to and fro. And and it seemed like the palm tree ain't gonna make it, but when the storm is over The palm tree is standing straight back up, just like no storm ever came. And in fact, you usually can't tell that there's been a storm if you assess the storm by the condition of the palm tree. Because the palm tree is always still standing after the storm. And so what God is saying to you and me is that I've purposed you to grow through the storms. I've made it so, I've set it up so that you might grow through the adversities of life. In fact, you can't grow like you're supposed to until adversity comes in your life. You got to go through some stuff. You got to go through some storms. And you got to be whipped around to and fro every now and then in order for you to grow like God wants you to grow. Then he comes back and he says, to grow like the cedars in Lebanon. The cedars of Lebanon are known to grow for a thousand plush years. The psalm writer says, I want you to grow continuously. A thousand years is beyond what most of us are going to live on this earth. So I can probably use it metaphorically to say you should live, keep growing until you leave here. But cedar in Lebanon Grows wider and stronger and taller as it grows. In some cases, the cedar of Lebanon is known to be at its base 19 feet wide. You're to grow at your base, your foundation needs to keep growing wider while your height is growing taller The cedar of Lebanon not only grows wider and taller, but watch this, it grows more valuable and more admirable as it grows. In other words, your purpose is to grow more admirable. In other words, as we look at you, we ought to admire you more. People will look at you and they'll admire the growth in you. And they'll say, wow, look at. I remember when you were just a little one, but now look at you now. I remember when you barely knew the scriptures. I remember when you wouldn't even come to church. I remember when you was in the club on Friday and Saturday, and you were hungover on Sunday, but I admire what I see in you. As we grow like the cedar, we not only grow in admiration, but watch this: you grow in value And the value of the cedar in biblical times was such that the cedar was the the wood that was used, the tree that was used to actually be put into the tabernacle. In other words, I want you to grow in such a way that you become strong in the house of God. That you become useful in the house of God, that you become like the cedar that was drawn down from the mountains of Lebanon so that they can build the tabernacle of God. I want you to be part of the building of the house of God. This purpose that he has for us is to purpose us to flourish and to grow like the palm tree, to flourish and to grow like the cedar of Lebanon. But also this text in verse 12 it says, the righteous The righteous shall flourish like a palm tree. The righteous shall flourish like the tree of Lebanon. And then he comes back and he says, those who are planted in the house of the Lord, all the righteous are planted. In the house of the Lord. The righteous shall flourish like a palm tree, like the like the cedars of Lebanon. Those who are planted in the house of the Lord shall flourish in the courts of our God. You've been planted in the house of God as a baby tree. But as a baby tree, your roots are receiving living water. Because the living water that flows in the courts of God are life-giving water The soil that you're planted in is the soil of God that has in it all of the nutrients That you need to make sure that you grow the nutrients of the God who created everything in the world. The living water is supplying the water that you need to keep growing. And as you are in the courts of God and your roots are taking in the soil and the nutrients from the soil and the water from the rivers. Your leaves are being basked in the glory of the sunshine of God. If I can paint a picture for you of a righteous person who stays in the court of God, who's planted in the court of God, the glory and the radiance from God is shining on them so that the whole process of growth can be satisfied. In that I have what I need coming from the bottom, but I also have what I need coming from the top. And so I'm being nourished in every way I need, watch this, by that which is supplied by God And so I've got the best environment in the world in order for me to grow. Now, if I'm not growing, something's wrong with me. Maybe I'm not righteous. Or maybe I'm not planning in God's court. And if I'm not planning in God's court, I'm none of his. Your purpose for your preservation is that you would flourish, that you would grow, that you would continue to grow. Secondly, the purpose of your preservation is to bear fruit. Verse 14 says, You shall still bear fruit in old age, and they shall be fresh and flourishing. Let me start by saying the word steel is important here in the text. Because for some, they would say, well, this text is only talking to the old people. So I'm going to bear fruit when I get old. No, it says you shall still bear fruit. When you get old, which means from the time you accept him as your Lord and Savior, you have the Son, you got the nourishment, you got the water, you got everything you need to grow. So there is an expectation of you from the time you become a child of God that you will start growing and producing fruit. What are you talking about, Pastor? I'm talking about the fruit of God. You've been preserved. You've been left here so that you can produce love, joy. Peace, patience, long-suffering, self-control. There ought to be fruit on your tree You ought not be like the fig tree that Jesus came to and was expecting to find fruit and there was no fruit on the tree. Because you've been planted in the right place, you've got the right seed, you've got the right nourishment, you've got everything you need to produce fruit, so there is an expectation That you will produce or bear fruit. So he says here, you shall still bear fruit, which means I should have already been bearing fruit, but when I get old I will still be bearing fruit. There's an expectation that when I get old, whatever old is to you, because old is different to different people. But you should have been already bearing fruit because you expected to be bearing fruit from the time you become a child of God Because the righteous, even in their old age, they will still be bearing fruit. We know how we let old people get away with stuff. Say, oh, they old, you know. And people get old, they just say anything. You do not have that excuse if you're righteous. Because if you're righteous, you your mouth ought to still be bearing good fruit. You ought to still have love in your heart and joy and patience. Not only that, verse 14, you will still bear fruit in your old age, and they shall be fresh and flourishing So the fruit that you bear should be fresh fruit. So in other words, if we go to your tree, it ought not be some fruit from 1977. On your tree. Lord have mercy. In other words, the last time you did something for the Lord should have been this morning and not ten years ago. The last time that you represented Christ well ought to have been some present time event. It it's you can't hang on to the stuff you did long time ago. No fresh fruit is expected We gotta be positioned to keep on producing fresh fruit, which means we've got to take in some fresh things, some new things, some new experiences, some new understandings. I know you read Um the Bible when you was five or seven or ten years old, but it's been a while. Read it again. Fresh fruit ought to be coming on the tree of your life. It ought to be fresh and flourishing. That's the expectation of God for us, is that we would Continue to produce and bear fresh fruit. When he talked about being like the cedar, the cedar tree's root will grow Down based on the environment that it's in. If the environment is positive, the root of the cedar can grow as deep as 26 feet down in the ground. When I thought about that, I thought about here you are in the house of God in a country that does not persecute you for your faith And you're in a church where the word of God is preached every Sunday, and we've got classes that run throughout the week. And you've got right now media so that you can do it on your own time. And you can sign up for the GO program that you can get Education there, and we've got seminaries and Bible colleges and stuff all around us. And you don't even have to leave your house, you can do this stuff online. We've got every opportunity to grow We've got the best soil to grow in. And our taproot ought to be going deep in the ground. And the deeper your taproot grows. the stronger you'll be when storms come. The reason why some Christians can't take nothing because they're not taking advantage of the environment that they're in. You've got everything around you to help you grow and to be like Jesus and to understand him and to it reflect his image, but you're not taking advantage of your environment We need to be allowing our root, our foundation to grow deep into Christ so that the depth of the word is part of who we are. And so when somebody comes at us, we're not gonna come back at them like the world. No, I'm coming back at you from the nourishment that I'm drawing from deep down inside my relationship with God. And when I produce the fruit of the Spirit, it's fresh fruit that's being produced every day. Three comes in verse 15, and it says, to declare that the Lord is upright. You've been purposed to declare the glory of God. Do you realize that God left you here? He preserved you from danger seen and unseen. He kept you from the trouble. Of being wiped out. He created you in his image and after his likeness. He wanted us to be the reflectors of his glory He wanted us to look like him, and in other words, to be like him, and to the all-around of all his creations as we fulfilled and we filled the earth and populated the earth that we would reflect him. Sin, we understand, corrupted that. But Christ came and redeemed us and brought us back and repaired the breach and allowed us to be reconciled with God. And so now I'm still here, you're still here to glorify God. I know that the world we live in has told you that there are other purposes that you're here for. And you perhaps have bought into it a little too much. And so the priority of your life Is your career or your money or your children or your spouse or some other thing fun living? But we've made these things priority of life. And you spend 30, 40, 50, 60 years chasing after that. And my question is this: when you've chased all of that, And the Lord calls you home and you stand before him. What are you going to say about your priority? When he said, I made you to reflect my image. I preserved you for 75 years, 80 years, 100 years, or however long you get to live, so that you can reflect my glory. Well, what do we say? Well, wait a minute, Lord. Well, you know, I was hanging 10. Lord, I had I had to get that I had to get that retirement check. And the Lord says, was it not I who provided all your needs? Am I not the one who supplies seed to the sower? Did not I promise you that I would supply all of your needs according to my Riches and glory, not according to the economy or your bank account or or the government or none of that. Am I not the one who who came and wrapped myself up in flesh? Live the life 33 years without sin. Am I not the one who suffered, bled, and died? Am I not the one that was stretched up on that cross and bled for you so that you could reflect God's glory? Our purpose is to glorify him. That's our whole purpose. It's full circle. He made us to reflect his image, to glorify him. We sinned and then he came and reconciled us to God so we once again could be in the image of God and after the likeness of God. And so he's preserved us here, he's left us here. So that we can still fulfill that purpose. And guess what? I don't get to retire from it. I don't get to retire from his purpose just because I've reached retirement age as it relates to this society. You might retire from your job, but you don't retire from being a saint. We don't retire from a responsibility to glorify God. He says They shall they're gonna bear all this fruit and watch this and declare that the Lord is upright. I've left you here to declare That the Lord is good. I've left you here. I preserved you so you can have a testimony that I've been through some hard times, but The Lord is good. I almost lost my life, but the Lord is good. I was sinking deep in sin, but the Lord is good he's my rock he's my shelter he's my storm he's my wheel in the middle of a wheel he's my all and all and there's nobody like him you've been left Here to give him the glory to let the world know who he is. That he is a rock in a weary land. He's a shelter in the time of storm. Yes, he's a rock. Yes, he's a shelter Yes, he's a healer. Yes, he's my all in all. Yes, he's a mother to the motherless. Yes, he's a father to the fatherless. Yes, he's a hus husband to the widow. Yes, he's a wife to the widower. I wish I had somebody who could stand up and say I'll testify. The Lord's been good to me. Yeah I left you here to glorify him, to praise his name. To let somebody know he's alright. He's the reason that I'm still here He's the reason. He's preserved you here. So you can glorify him. So you can let somebody know that he's a rock. We've been left here. We've been preserved to bear fruit, to flourish, and to glorify God. And I just stopped by here on my way to glory. To let somebody know that Jesus is a solid rock. His blood made me whole. I was broken. I was disgusting in his sight. But he washed me in his own precious blood. He accepted me as his own. I'm I wasn't worthy to be a child of God, but I he accepted me as his own. Forgave me of all of my sin. Cast my sin into the sea of forgetfulness. Never to bring it up again. Never to rise it up again. That's the kind of God that I serve. And he wants to have that relationship with you. He's made it possible to have all of your sins forgiven. Past, present, and future. And he loves you too. His desire for you is to be reconciled to him. His blood has made that possible. And hit blood will wash all your sin away. All he asked of us is turn to me. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship services Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. On Andy Christman, in his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.