Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence, under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling the Third Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling 2 Kings chapter 20, beginning at verse 1, God's word reads as follows: In those days Hezekiah was sick and near death. And Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amos, went to him and said to him, Thus says the Lord: Set your house in order, for you shall die and not live. Then he turned his face toward the wall and prayed to the Lord, saying, Remember now, O Lord, I pray, how I have walked before you in truth and with a loyal heart. And have done what was good in your sight. And Hezekiah wept bitterly. And it happened before Isaiah had gone out of the middle court that The word of the Lord came to him, saying, Return and tell Hezekiah, the leader of my people, thus says the Lord, the God of David, your father. I have heard your prayer, I have seen your tears, surely I will heal you. On the third day you shall go up to the house of the Lord, and I will add to your days fifteen years. I will deliver you and this city from the hand of the king of Assyria, and I will defend this city for my own namesake, and for the sake of my servant David. Then Isaiah said, take a lump of figs, and so they took and they laid it on the boil and he recovered. Father, we need you on this morning that you might open this word up for us for our application and our understanding So we might be the more like you. We might be able to position ourselves to glorify you with our life and our actions. Spirit of the Lord, there may be someone who doesn't know you on this morning. They've come to this place for one reason or another, or they've tuned in for one reason or another. And Lord, I pray that on this day they would come face to face with the God who created them and hear your voice crying out to them, saying, Come unto me. And I'll save you from the judgment that is to come. Save someone, God, today by your amazing grace. Reclaim someone who has drifted in their fellowship. Remind them of how good you have been to them. And that they are still in need of you and draw them back to you, God, in the fellowship of purity. I pray, eternal God, that you would edify this body, that you would encourage us Who may be discouraged on today that you would allow your will to be done, your way to be accomplished, God, and all that is said and done We will glorify you. And Lord, as I stand to declare this word on today, give me strength, give me clarity of thought and speech, so that I might speak what thus saith the Lord is the very oracle of God. It's in Jesus' name I pray with thanksgiving and expectation. Amen. This text poses for us a series of questions. uh that explore, that we need to explore, I believe, deeply internally, personally, regarding our own potential responses to uh a situation that we may face that might be similar to that of Hezekiah. And so I want to kinda in in I want to kind of push us into that space on this morning and and uh and see how uh uh we would respond and what our thoughts might be and what our actions might be if we were to find ourselves walking in the shoes of Hezekiah. And I want to speak to you from the subject matter on this morning. What would you do When Hezekiah, who is the king of Judah, who is one of the, if not the best kings Judah ever had, He has been dealing with um well on the one side on one side the favor of God, but he's walked with a high level of integrity before God and he has this Assyrian army that is rising up that is conquering everybody around them and um now in our text he's sick. And so the question, the first question, if you will, that um I would have as I look at verse one, it says, Now in those days Hezekiah was sick and near death. And Isaiah the prophet came to him and said to him, The Lord says, Set your house in order, one For you're gonna die and I live too. So I was just curious and I'm just going, you know, see if I can walk us through this. on this morning, what would you do when you get a message to prepare for death? Y'all getting scared already, so I can hear your knees knocking From all the way up here, what would you do when you get the message that you're gonna die and not live? What would you do when you get the message to set your house in order? The prophet Isaiah comes into the uh room of Hezekiah who's laying on his bed. The text doesn't say, but I'm I'm just gonna imagine because of the character of Hezekiah that as he lays on this bed sick and sick unto death. He is praying to God and talking to God and has some expectation that though things don't look good, and though my doctors might be saying don't look good. He has some expectation that the only way I'm going to get out of this situation is that God has to come through. And so I'm I'm just imagining that he's you know he's probably praying and and we really don't know exactly what kind of sickness that Hezekiah has. The only thing The text reveals to us is that he's got a boil. It doesn't say he's got boils all over his body. But whatever he's got going on, he is sick unto death. And the prophet, this is not like your doctor coming in and saying you're gonna die. This is the this is the mouthpiece of God. This is the person who speaks for God only what God says to speak. And the person who Speaks for God, comes into your your room, uh, into your chambers, and says, What's up, dude? I got a message for you from God, and God said, Set your house in order. Now, I must confess that I have been um you know praying about how to How to take us all through some training on that subject matter alone. Setting your house in order. You know why I want to take us through that kind of training is because so many people don't have their houses in order. Can we just talk for real for real? This is just like this is this pulpit counseling. Um You think that you're not ever going to die and that when you get ready to die, God's going to give you a schedule. So that you can put everything in order once you have the schedule from God. I just thought about let you know, you don't get a schedule from God. You could go at any time. Amen, somebody. And when when you go, if your house is not in order. You leave grief on top of grief for your family. Do I have any witnesses? Amen. Thank you. So yeah, I I know this is probably gonna take more time than I really thought it would, but I gotta talk to us on this subject because There's so much that people don't do that cause chaos for the rest of the people left behind Amen. Y'all probably heard me talk about this a lot, and the reason being is because even though I'm not wearing a striped shirt on this morning, oftentimes I have to be the referee between family members who are born-again Christians. Who are fighting over stuff that family members left behind or they're arguing with sisters and brothers and aunties and cousins who who somehow think they got a right to everything that was left behind. Hi and help me Jesus. And so get your house in order. Well what would you do when when you get the message? Get your house in order. Will you do a will? Let me throw this out too. Um getting your house in order and setting your wheel and all these other things in place does not mean you're going to die today. Amen. A lot of old folks are you trying to make me trying to put me in the grave. No, we're not trying to put you in a grave. But when you go in the grave, we don't want to have to have a knockdown, drag out, fight and call PG County police to come deal with the family matters that happened afterwards. So please put a wheel together so we can know who gets the dog and who gets the picture on the wall that been hanging there for 55 years and nobody really wants it. But we want to know who you want it to have it. Grandma wanted me to have that plate. Take the plate. Write a will, get a wheel, get a wheel. Do you do you have these just some questions for you? Do you if you in terms of getting your house in order, what would you do? Would you would you get a wheel if you had that message? Maybe you would. I hope you do. Get I'm just gonna encourage you go ahead get a wheel done ready so everybody know. And um adequate life insurance. I'm preaching way better than y'all saying amen. But I I'm not gonna preach hard. I'm not gonna preach hard on these subjects because y'all might y'all might miss it. I want you to get this. GoFundMe is not life insurance. I'm not funding your your dead persons. I'm sorry, I'm just not. Get life insurance. And for my young people, get it as young as you can get it while you healthy. Amen, somebody. Get a whole life policy where the where the value is the same and the price don't never change. Because when you get old, they're gonna charge you like $700,000 a month for it. You won't be able to afford it. Get it now while you're young and you're healthy. When they say get your house in order, you need to already have this stuff done or you need to go get it done. And I'm saying this morning, go get your house in order. Get adequate life insurance because your family needs to live after you're gone and they're going to miss your income. And your children, if you got little children, your children still need food and clothes and and and transportation to and from and they gotta go to college or they gotta go to somebody's school or do something. There's gonna be some there's gonna be a big void, financial void. Get some life insurance and if you don't well listen, if your kids are already grown have some life insurance anyway. Watch this. Two reasons. One, you might want to invest in the kingdom while you leave. I know I wasn't gonna get a whole lot of amens on that one. But I was talking to a friend of mine, he he happens to be Anglo, and he was telling me they have uh they have a it uh they have a constant a scenario that when people die in their church that they leave money to the church. Can you imagine that? I'm just gonna put that thought in your mind. Yeah, do a policy for the church. Leave the church as the beneficiary. You can do that. It's really you literally can do that. And you can leave the church as a beneficiary. And and you can have them have the whole policy or part of the policy. You can leave you can have a five hundred thousand dollar policy, a hundred thousand goes to the church, and a hundred thousand to each one of your children on that policy. And you can have other policies too. Did you know that? I just this is a teaching moment. Get adequate life insurance. So you can leave a legacy behind, not just for your children to burn through because they going through it like a hot knife through butter. But you can also leave it for the kingdom so other people can come to know Jesus like you did. Are y'all still here with me? I'm really preaching way better. I feel like I really want to go in, but I'm gonna keep it right here. I'm gonna try to keep it right here Get your house in order, do a wheel, have adequate life insurance, and write your own obituary. I know y'all know I y'all think I'm crazy, but if you ever have to write somebody else's obituary, you don't know where they went to school, if they finished school, you don't know how many husbands or wives they had You don't know how many children they want listed on the obituary. Write your own obituary. Amen, Jesus. And leave it somewhere where we can find it. Amen. I ain't gonna do mama's papers for a week. I don't know where she left that. Put a big envelope in there and put your put if I die on it or something. Should I pass away? Here's all you need. And you can have all your policies and everything right there. Put it in a safe or something. Put it somewhere. I might maybe you shouldn't put it in a safe because you would die with the combination. Like oh I'm nobody getting this combination. Set your house in order is what Isaiah told Hezekiah, and I'm just trying to help us because the Lord have mercy knows we have all these challenges. Write down your final burial wishes. And pay for them. I'm really trying to help us. Because in your family, you might want to be cremated, but there's some folk in your family that don't think that God can bring you back after they burn your body. Trust me, you ain't living in that body when you die. Your soul and spirit leave that body and go to be with the Lord. That's just a that's just a shell. They could burn that up. God's gonna resurrect a new glorified body. It don't matter if you get cremated or not. Don't it doesn't matter. But there's some family members of yours, even though you might want to be cremated, and they go, no, we ain't gonna we're not gonna burn her, no! You write down your own wishes so everybody can know. And so when your kids or whoever are executing it, they can say this was what mama or which this is what daddy wanted. And so we're following through with their wishes. And if you pay for it in advance, there's two things I want to tell you about this. I know this kind of feels like a seminar, but I'm really trying to help us. There's two things that's beneficial for you if you pay for it in advance. You get tomorrow's value at today's price. So in other words, if you buy your casket and your burial today and it's $8,000 today, trust me If you live for another 10 or 15 years, it's going to be about $20,000 more. But you will have already paid for that at today's value. Are y'all trying to hear what I'm saying? I'm trying to help you save money. I'm trying to put money in your pocket So that there'll be more money for your family to live off of. Set your house in order. Get all these things worked out. And then when your family has to walk through the process of laying you to rest All of these things will have already been done and it is less weight and stress on them. And now they can grieve for you and not grieve over the other stuff. Amen. I know that went in one ear and out the other, but I had to say it anyway. So get your house in order. What would you do when the word of God comes to you and says, get your house in order? And then the second thing that Isaiah says to uh Hezekiah is, you're gonna die and not live You're so sick, you're going to die. What would you do if that word came to you? You're going to die and not live. And and I mean this came from God. This didn't come from the doctor. But even if the if the doctor you're gonna die, you're not gonna live. What would you do? This is the question. Is there somebody you need to apologize to before you die? What would you do? Would you go and run up your credit card bills or would you pay them all off? What would you do? These are some real life questions, things we need to think through, and not just for the purpose of this happening, but this is for the purposes of living from day to day. What would you do? Would I witness more? If God told me I'm going to die and I got a certain amount of time, would I tell more people about Jesus? What would you do? Would you start being nice and stop being mean and evil to everybody? What would you do? Are there some places that you want to go, some people that you want to see before you leave here? What would you do When the word of God comes from the man of God that says you're going to die and not live, it's a valid question. What would you do? I just firmly believe that a lot of us are living like we're gonna just be here forever. No, we're gonna die. What would you do when that message comes to you? Hezekiah praise When he gets the message, you're going to die and not live. Get your house in order, Hezekiah. Hezekiah, he doesn't go off on God. He don't lose it. He doesn't do any of that stuff. He doesn't start fussing, nothing like that. He starts to pray. He turns his face to the wall. The text says, and he prayed to the Lord. Now listen to what Hezekiah says. He says, Remember now, O Lord, I pray, how I have walked before you in truth and with a loyal heart. And have done what was good in your sight. And then he wept. Hezekiah prayed, and then he wept bitterly. Here's my second question out of the text that we can perhaps dig into and explore for ourselves. What would you do after you've prayed and you cried and you prayed? And you cried. But at this moment, the answer has not changed. What do you do when everything you know to do has been done and God hasn't moved yet? We struggle with this, not just on life and death situations. We struggle with this in everyday stuff. When we we're saying, Lord, you gotta come through. And we pray and we cry and we pray and we cry and God hasn't done anything as of yet. What do you do in that moment? And that brings us back to that song they sang this morning. Wait. Wait on the Lord. And when we read about the psalmist says, wait on the Lord and be of good courage, He will strengthen your heart. That idea of wait has the idea of wait with the expectation that God is going to come through It's not a wait without faith. This is a wait with faith. This is a wait with assured confidence. Because my God has done it before, and I know he'll do it again. I know God is up to something, so I'm just waiting to see what his plan is. What would you do? When you prayed and you've cried and you prayed and you cried and you prayed and you cried and you're exhausted from crying. I think Hezekiah's prayer is kind of odd for the situation, but it's powerful nonetheless. He prays and he he only renders two suggestions before God. One, remember my integrity. That's powerful Hezekiah realizes that if I'm going to die, I've got to stand before my Maker, and I Have to give account for the life that I've lived. I've got to stand in judgment. And since I'm on my way to judgment, my conversation with God is: God, remember I was a man of integrity. When you judge me, remember my integrity. Remember, I had a loyal heart. That's his prayer I thought it was interesting because he doesn't pray. God, you know I've been good. I gotta wait till my kids grow up. God, can you give me some more time? He doesn't ask for any of that He just says, Lord, remember how I lived. Oh, that's that's powerful. Can you imagine having your life and having the comfort? That your life is such that at any given moment you're ready to tell God, God, just remember how I live for you. That's it. I'm not worried. I'm not worried about leaving here. I'm not none of those other concerns. And in other words, at least in my conversation with God now. Now watch this. God knows your heart. Because perhaps what what Hezekiah doesn't say in his prayer, he's saying in his tears. Are y'all hearing me? Hezekiah is concerned that if you look at Isaiah chapter 38, Isaiah chapter 38 gives you some insight into Hezekiah's prayer, and he's concerned that I'll never get to worship God again in the land of the living. I love that. He's worried about going to church. He's worried. He's worried, God, I'm gonna die. I gotta stand in judgment, but I'm not gonna get another chance to worship you in the land of the living He's got that as a concern. He's got a concern. God, I'm the king, and I'm concerned about these people that I'm responsible for and that I'm accountable for. And the Assyrian army is rising up and God, I don't want to leave the work. Of your kingdom undone. Those are the concerns that he has. And they're not expressed in 2 Kings. But Literally word for word, but we get an insight on him from Isaiah chapter 38. But in his tears, these are his weeping bitterly, and I want you to hear this. God can read through tears. And so he cries, he prays, and he cries, says, Remember my integrity, remember how I walk before you in truth and in loyalty. And then he says, Remember my deeds, remember what I've done. I was good. I did what was good in your sight. Not that I was good. I did what was good in your sight. And he lays that before the Lord. And he cries bitterly. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor. Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at kettering ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship Services, Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301 six two seven nine five zero zero please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. On Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.