The Bible Teaching Ministry of Pastor Rick Warren. In these lessons, Rick will show us that no matter what comes our way, as Christians, we can always count on God's goodness and favor to be upon our lives Just go to pastorick. You can email him at rick at pastorric. You will learn to trust the goodness of God in every area of your life. In this one-of-a-kind spiritual growth tool, you will dig deep into Psalm 23, experiencing God's unrelenting love for you, and discovering why this passage can become the foundation for your faith. Go to pastorick. So his advisors will cast lots by shaking arrows from the quiver. Rick's gonna be back in just a moment with a final word, so please stay with us. It's bound in a soft leather-like material and includes beautiful artwork. Time to love everybody. And Jonah said, I'm not going. in the goodness of God. Wherever you get your podcasts. Texting the word daily to 99000 while you listen to today's message. Let me talk to the men for just a minute here. Voices behind the song. Now, as I said, God commands you to love everybody. That's pretty clear. Stop comparing and start being content. Rest and recharge your body and mind. Thanks in advance for your support. And so God says, I want you to look to me and don't look to other things for your guidance Packed with inspiring photos and artwork. You know, that's a pile of beans or whatever. Track. to do on the to read on the internet. Uh he had sent his army to war in spring and he's at home lollygagging around in his PJs and he's up upstairs and he looks out and he sees a beautiful woman taking a bath on a roof. You just need to be aware of that. Here's Rick to tell you more. And you'll learn that God wants to give you a life of confidence, even in your darkest moments. Now I'd like to send you this study of Psalm 23, Living in the Goodness of God, when you give a gift to Daily Hope today. We're able to reach more and more people around the world with the hope of Jesus. Or you can call 800-600-5004. Even during difficult times, God wants to comfort you. But here's the problem. This Bible study tool will help you learn to trust the goodness and favor of God in every area of your life. But if you associate with fools, your life will suffer great hurt. When people like get counseling. A thermostat turns the heat up or down. To focus on your father and move from being overwhelmed to overflowing. Five things I have to stop doing. Led by God. Now, when people look to anything else besides God for guidance for their life, do you know what that's called? Okay. Stop doing before you start doing that. A seaport on the coast of Spain, he's going as far east as he can. How about you? And he falls into affair. You don't use circumstances to discern God's will, but you you use it to confirm God's will. And uses the grace of God to reach other people for Christ. You know, I really appreciate all of your prayers, all of your support, and all of your financial gifts that help us keep this ministry on the air because of you. And thanks so much for your support. and every day of your life, how God looks out for you every single moment of your life. Degree of Andy. I'm commanded to love the people who hate me, criticize me, attack me. In a few moments, we're going to tell you about a brand new resource called the Living and the Goodness of God Guided Experience book Okay, I can't let culture get me off track, and I can't even let friends get me off track. A thermometer just reflects what the temperature is of the environment. 1 John 2. I mean, huh? Even during difficult times, God wants to comfort you. And talk to the Creator who made you, and that's where you're going to find out about your life. I mean, for instance, when you're looking for what am I supposed to do with my life, I've actually met some believers who think they can pray to God and read a horoscope. What was the most common way that people discerned the future? The Etruscans looked at the liver. You tell me. They want the future, but they don't want God. Never look to psychics or seances or fortune-telling or the stars or people who claim to be in contact with the dead. S-O-N. Um number four, this is a one that would apply to a lot of us, I must stop being led by my circumstances That new business venture, thinking it would be smooth sailing, but at sea, a violent typhoon storm arose, which made it impossible to control the direction of the ship. including portions we didn't have time for today, simply go to pastorick. Living in the goodness of God, a guided experience, is filled with biblical truths and practical lessons and application exercises and a lot of space for you to even write down your own response at what God is teaching you on that particular day. One of the biggest needs you have in your life is you want your grown adult children to respect you. They have no spiritual insight on that. Because you'll miss God's will. I'm commanded to love the people who hate me, criticize me, attack me. The value systems of like prejudice and racism and injustice and sexism and uh people hurting each other and war. And there are countless kinds of ways to define the future, fortune telling and stuff like that, predictions and prognosis and and things like that. The Bible says in Ezekiel 21, the king of Babylon now stands at a crossroad, uncertain of whether or not to attack. And then look at the pattern. Now, the other ones may have not been relatable to you, but this one is certainly I must stop being led by my circumstance. You know, I missed the plane. God says, no, no, you got that all wrong. Many other replacements. You either believe in one or the other. Uh hello. I actually did a little research on this just for fun this week, looking at the modern Saints divination. You're skating on thin ice, shallow, shaky ground when when you build your life around your circumstances When I think about the story of Jonah, God said to Jonah, Jonah, I want you to go to Nineveh and I want you to preach to it. But they didn't listen to him. Because we thought it was right. For uplifting and inspiration Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. In the first place, you're commanded to love everybody. Okay, so you it says you know who you hang out with, you need to choose your friends wisely. Okay, and that was one. Crystal ball and Madam So-and-so, and I mean that stuff's still still around. Don't go call the psychic hotline. You're never going to know God's will through a seance, through a medium, through a horoscope, through astrology. There are a lot of examples in the Bible where uh the the the circumstances were the exact opposite of God's will. That is the epitaph of many a believer who trusted in circumstances. But when a gentle breeze came up, they thought, this is exactly what we wanted. And you were heading straight into a storm. In the first place, you're commanded to love everybody. But here's the difference. Do not love the world or anything that belongs to the world. You need to understand the meaning of the word world. They should know that. And uh Paul is being taken to Rome as a prisoner, and the night before the ship is leaving, uh God says to him uh in his prayer time, uh tell him not to go tomorrow because they're gonna head straight into a storm. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Every day when you go to work, you're deciding, am I going to be a thermostat or a thermometer? If I'm looking for direction for my life, the best place to look is not on a TV talk show. So that was that was a call to divination. I'm not making that up. Really? Divination. Now, I mean, this is not some little minor thing. Now, I doubt any of you are doing this, but I will tell you this. I don't know a man who doesn't want that. And they would actually sacrifice animals. So we just gotta avoid that. That guy was way ahead of his time, all I say. He sits down with the voices behind the song. Love the people, hate the value system. We are to love the people and not love the value system. Christians do this all the time. You're listening to Pastor Rick's Daily Hope, and there's more great teaching coming up. Let me give you another example from Paul. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. And Paul says to the sailors and the captain of the ship, guys, if we leave today, uh we're we're gonna go straight into a storm. How many times have you ever thought of something circumstantial was an open door, and you later found out it was a trapdoor? And he looks down from his palace to see her and he goes, very, very pretty. Now, as you go through this study, we've designed it so that you practice meditating on God's Word. Number three. I've had people you know who were you know I bumped into them in a cart and a must be God's will. Psalm twenty-three is so well known, we often miss the depth of the message to us. If he can't tell me my credit card, he can't tell me anything else that's valuable because he has no ability at all There's a I'm not making this up. But you know, you know, I I overslept today. He had the money for a ticket. I've seen circumstance ruin a lot of businesses and business opportunities because it looked like a good deal And so you always check your circumstances against God's word. You mean I'm saying I have to give up all my non-Christian friends? Now, that same guy who wrote that also wrote this, the most famous verse in the Bible. You can't just trust circumstances. 15, by the way, they're written by the same guy. That looks like a big contradiction right there. Actually I read a quote the other day on the internet. It's a guided experience. And a lot of other areas. And here's what the Bible says up here on the screen. There are many other substitutes for God. You heard this word? It was l literally racial prejudice. com right now to get your copy of this great resource. Psalm 23 is one of the most popular passages in the Bible. Go ahead and get counsel, but get it from a mature uh believer. Circumstances can lead you the wrong way. I I've met believers who are going to non-believers to get counseling for their life. com and click on his social media links. And the other, and they will inspect the livers of sacrificed animals. Guys, you know what's the number one need that you have? Look up here on the screen. There's a lot of bad advice out there. One, I can't follow a culture that doesn't follow God. It must be God's will. You got it backwards. That's like saying I believe in reincarnation in heaven at the same time. Uh there's w there's a thing called parrot parrot mancy where you let a parrot out of its cage and it goes over and picks up a card and then you know who you're supposed to marry Third thing why I often miss God's will is this. Have you ever seen a palm reading shop or tea leading reading shop or a Can't follow culture, can't follow friends who are not following God, uh can't look to other sources besides God, like all those divination things Okay, I'm not making it up. Divination means to try to find about your future without going to your creator. And I'm going, you know, that's that's a lot of beans right there. The circumstances look good, but that was a disastrous business deal or marriage or or whatever. Be sure to join us next time as we look into God's Word for our Daily Hope. And the Bible tells us in 1 John 4 verse 1, don't believe everything here. You can't believe in both. This was the most commonly used form of predicting the future. Notice how quiet it got when I said that? They're no different. Create a habit of worship instead of worry. They don't want a Lord. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations, you won't hear anywhere else. They'd cut out a liver, because the liver was supposed to be the heaviest organ in the body. I wrote the scripture down there on your outline. This spiritual growth resource is yours today when you support this broadcast ministry with a financial gift. God said, go west, and he goes east. The next time you could use a pick me up, head over to godvine. Jeremiah 15:19 says, You will be my spokesman to these non-believing friends. Let me show you something that a lot of Christians and believers don't get. Throughout this guided experience, you will practice meditating on God's Word, shifting your focus from your fears. You're not following the sun. There's a there's a divination called rhompology, and there are people you can pay who will tell you your future by looking at the shape of your butt You want your grown adult children to respect you. And so I want to they say, you tell me if you're so smart Don't believe everything you read on the internet, Abraham Lincoln Today we continue with a series based on the 23rd Psalm called Living in the Goodness of God. You're not allowed to not love anybody. Well the Bible warns us. And this Bible study tool help you learn how to trust God's goodness in every single area. You're not allowed to not love anybody. They're just as materialistic. com. A lot of substitutes for God in the world. He said, I'm not going. Paul said, Men, he's talking to the sailors, if we sail now, this voyage will be a disaster. Here's Pastor Rick Warren. You know what the problem is? Uh the heavy traffic, it must be God's will. They had space on board. The Bible tells us in first John three seven, it says, Don't just let anybody lead you astray. John wrote the book John, and he wrote 1, 2nd, and 3 John letters. Love the world, people. They don't want somebody that they have to serve. God wants you to be in thermostat. The world is used two different ways in the scripture. He wants you to rest in his promises. Is God always good? Anybody know what this is? Of course not. God so loved the world, and then he says, but you, you're not to love the world, and if you love the world, the love of the Father is not in you. That was another popular way. The Roman Empire was built on this finding the liver. God wants to give you a life filled with generosity and with hope. You may have never even noticed it if you're a daddy, if you're a husband and a dad Proverbs thirteen, verse twenty. That's illogical, irrational, and it makes no sense at all He wants you to rest in his promises. They're being talking dirty. While you're there, be sure to sign up for his free daily email devotional. I don't get a choice. This is Pastor Rick's Daily Hope. Thanks a lot and God bless you. You're not following God. It's a comprehensive study that I believe will help you grow spiritually this next year. It is God's will I don't go to church. When a gentle brief came up, they thought this is exactly what we wanted. I can give you example example in the Bible about this, where where David Look at this verse. I don't get a choice. In this guided experience book, Rick will show you how to revolutionize your life and your relationships. Uh tarot cards, horoscopes, these are called divination. By the way, here's a little tip. That's pastorick. That's a great question. We got it reversed. Two, I can't follow friends who aren't In fact, you shouldn't do that. The Living in the Goodness of God Guided Experience book has a vegan leather cover with 288 pages. Is God always good? Does that make sense? That's Pastorick. God so loved the world. They're just as hedonistic. com and listen online anytime or download the Pastor Rick's Daily Hope podcast to your smartphone or tablet so you can listen on the go anywhere you are. Deuteronomy 18 says this. Instead of going east to Nineveh, he gets on board a ship headed for Tarshish, which is You take arrows in a quiver and you throw them out on the ground and you go, mmm, don't go to battle. And there's some crazy bizarre things out there. Alright. That's called stupidity. If I call myself a believer, a follower of Christ, I can't look to other sources besides God. If you know a believer who's doing this, politely, gently, lovingly tell them, you're heading down the wrong track. He wants to give you assurance, even when you feel alone. You can't soar with the eagles if you're running with the turkeys. It was called consulting the liver. Does that kind of stuff still happen today? He doesn't want you to influence them to influence you, but you to influence them. Now, if you'd like to connect with Rick What I mean by that is that In fact, you can probably recite some of it yourself, or even all of it. Look up here says this. These are counterfeits. He gets on board. You might want to read it. If you're a believer of Christ, you are to love everybody. If I call myself a believer, a follower of Christ, I'm to love everybody. This is Pastor Rick's Daily Hope You're a believer Christ. What about during times of pain and suffering? Practice loving God and others as well. Listen to me loud and clear. And so the ridiculousness The fact is, Satan can manipulate circumstances. Just go to pastorick. Now, let me be really clear when I talk to this about I'm gonna talk dirty, they're doing this, I'm gonna do that. Right now, here's Pastor Rick Warren with part two of a message called How to Be Led by God's Spirit. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. I can't look to other sources besides God. That's why Pastor Rick has created the Living in the Goodness of God Guided Experience book But the circumstances, there was a ship waiting there, headed for Tarshus com or 800-600-5004. That should have a hamper on the decisions you make now. He was going to attack Jerusalem and didn't know. So okay We bumped into each other. If you love the world, you cannot love the Father. It refers to the world's value system, and it refers to the world's people. That's why Pastor Rick has created the Living in the Goodness of God Guided Experience book. I've got I'm no I'm taking a long time on this, but if you want to be led by the Spirit of God, there's some things you have to We just finally gave up and let her drift. Now to help you go deeper into Psalm 23, we've created a brand new resource called Living Listen to me loud and clear. Don't love the world's values. com. They're mutually exclusive. Um the offering plate skipped my road. Her husband's at war. That's a great question. Make sure your advice is from the right source. We are to love the people, no matter what kind of lifestyle they live, but we are to not love. They're actually called idols. When they're looking for divine guidance, but they're not actually praying or reading the Bible. Fifty ways to lose your liver. They take him on. What about during times of pain and suffering? We love the value system and hate the people. If you've missed any part of this broadcast, You know, this psalm isn't just about trusting God to get you through dark days. You keep company with wise friends, you're gonna become wise. No Roman soldier would go into battle without looking at the liver. And the Bible tells us, 2 Corinthians 11, Satan masquerades as an angel And as you do that, I hope your focus will shift from your fears to the Father Or you can call 800-600-5004. You are to love everybody. Once again, here's Rick. And then somebody would look at it and goes, Mmm, yeah, go to war. I'm amazed how many believers, the number one way they try to determine God's will is, well, what's my circumstance? Find out more by going to pastorick. I'm going, really? And uh in fact, it's actually even mentioned in the Bible. Acts 27. That's a good thing. And it was they were the hated enemies of the Israelites because they had oppressed them for years. Keep company with wise friends, and you'll become wise. Well, what is it? com They're just as involved in everything in culture. This program is sponsored by Pastor Rick's Daily Hope and your generous financial support. That's saying I would and why do they people go to all these other because they don't want a boss in their life God wants you to have friends who are unbelievers. For instance, in in Russia, they throw beans on the floor com right now to get your copy of this amazing study tool And in 1 John chapter 2, he says this. The best place to look is to read the owner's manual. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. It must be God's will. I'm home alone. In fact, I'm even commanded to love my enemies. Have you ever had a gentle breeze come up in your life and think this is exactly what I wanted? In fact, I'm even commanded to love my enemies. All of that is in Psalm 23. It's about another Mediterranean cruise about 2,000 years later. So they launched out, thinking it would be smooth sailing. Let's show you two verses that look totally opposite of each other up here on the screen. Do you know in ancient times If you are following the stars, you're not following the sun. God wants you to have friends who are unbelievers. Looking to the future without looking to God. People who do these things are doing evil, and God hates it with a passion. You are to influence them, but do not let them influence you. And if you'd like to let Rick know how this broadcast has touched your life, Now he's bringing you their stories. Use your time for things that matter most. Now, there are many other sources that want to tell you how to run your life. We'll lose the ship, the cargo, and maybe even our own lives That's called divination. He wants to protect you. A thermometer just reveals what the culture is like Right there. So we gave up and just let her drift. Okay. If the psychic hotline says, what's your credit card number? That was God's will The One Degree of Andy podcast. We're to hate the things that hurt people in the world. The Babylonians looked at the liver. Now, it bothers me She's attractive. com or by text Go to battle. I won't say anything about that. He wants you to have a life that is influential and abundant. Look at this verse here on the screen. And God wants to use you to bring them to Christ. It's about living in the abundant and eternal goodness of God. They love the culture and hate the people. Or love your liver or whatever. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. Well, which is it? You'll win this one. That's 800-600-5004. Now, this book What's she taking a bath on a roof for? Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. That's the Bible. And God says, no, no, don't do any of that kind of stuff The One Degree of Andy podcast. Okay. Whoa. If I want to follow God's direction In fact, the Bible says we are to hate. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. It's called divination. I'm Andy Christman in his new podcast one. Hang up. Sound familiar? Listen now to One Degree of Andy.