Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling I want to invite your attention to Luke chapter 6, verse 27. The word of the Lord reads as follows: But I say to you who hear, love your enemies. Do good to those who hate you. Bless those who curse you. And pray for those who spitefully use you. To him who strikes you on the one cheek, offer the other also. And from him who takes away your cloak, do not withhold your tunic either. Give to every one who asks of you, and from him who takes away your goods do not ask them back. And just as you want men to do to you, you also do to them likewise. But if you love those who love you, what credit is that to you? For even sinners love those who love them. And if you do good to those who do good to you, what credit is that to you? For even sinners do the same And if you lend to those from whom you hope to receive back, what credit is that to you? For even sinners lend to sinners to receive as much back. But love your enemies, do good and lend, hoping for nothing in return. And your reward will be great, and you will be sons of the Most High. For he is kind to the unthankful and evil. Therefore, be merciful just as your father also is merciful Judge not and you shall not be judged. Condemn not and you shall not be condemned. Forgive, and you will be forgiven. Give, and it will be given to you. Good measure. Pressed down, shaken together, and running over will be put into your bosom For with the same measure that you use, it will be measured back to you. Amen. Would you pray with me this morning? Father, we bless you. We thank you for your uh your grace, your love, your affection towards us. Thank you for the privilege we have of coming to the Word on this morning. God, it is my prayer even now that you'd strengthen me, that I might be able to declare your word in such a way that if there's anybody that doesn't know you as Lord and Savior of their life, that today would be the day, God, that they would surrender. Spirit of the Lord, I'm praying that even those who have drifted in their faith they be drawn back to you today. that they might be reconciled to their their Lord and their Savior, the one who loves them and who has been waiting for their return. Spirit of the Lord, I pray that in the preaching of this gospel, that the body of Christ might be edified, that we might grow in the wisdom and knowledge of your word. That Lord God, not only do we be head knowledge wise, but we'd be applicationally wise as well. That we might be able to take this word and apply it to our lives. Father, someone came today and they just needed a word from you. I pray that you would speak in their life in the way that they can hear and know that you care and that you have attentive to their their prayers that have been offered up. Spirit of the Lord, do what you do best. Glorify yourself. And all that is done and all that is said, I need you, God, that you might be lifted up in this place. I surrender this vessel, this weak clay, God, to be used by you. Use me, God, in your way and in your in your power So that your name gets all the glory, all the honor, and all the praise. It's in Jesus' name I pray with thanksgiving and expectation. Amen. We've been preaching through a series of messages entitled Strange Plans of God. We started in Joshua chapter 3 I spoke there from the subject matter, crossing the flood waters. We moved from Joshua chapter three to Joshua chapter four and five in the second part of the series and we spoke there from the subject matter stones of the of victory. And then from there to Joshua chapter 6 in the third part of the series, we spoke from the idea of bringing down Jericho. And then we move from there to 2 Kings chapter 5. And we spoke there from the idea of God's help for your wholeness. And then last when we were together, we were in Mark chapter 9, and we spoke from the subject matter, God's pathway to greatness. Today I want to close this series of messages entitled Strange Plans. And uh but as I close on this message, This passage in Luke has what seems to be a series of disconnected, strange sayings. That God lays out in this Sermon on the Mount as He talks to His disciples. But as you dig deeper and look more Exegetically at the text, what you discover is that these verses are not disconnected at all, but rather They are sewn together by a thread that reveals the connection in verse 38. When verse 38 says, give, and it will be given to you good measure, pressed down, shaken together, and running over, it will be put into your bosom. For with the same measure that you measure it out, it will be measured back to you. What helped me to see the thread, the revealing thread of connection in verse 38 was It revealed to me a recipe regarding Christian life. I want to talk to you from the subject matter: a recipe for a rewarding Christian life The recipe begins with ingredients. As any good cook knows that before I cook up what I'm going to cook up, I need to have ingredients to cook up. What's the ingredients? So the ingredients are found here in the text. But I need to say that the principal ingredient of this text is love. But it's not the kind of love that we're used to. It's a strange kind of love. There are seven, if you will, applications. That the text uncovers to help us to get to this place of a rewarding Christian life The text says in verse 27, but I say to you who hear, love your enemies. And do good to those who hate you. Now, when we say love your enemies, we really are talking about real enemies And he not only says, love your enemy, he says, but do good to those who hate you. When hate is being heaped on you, you are called upon to love. And he not only says love them, but he goes another step, which makes this thing a little harder. And he says, do good for them Now let me help y'all. This is a strange kind of love. Because this love requires action. Love your enemies, but do good. That means you got to do something. You got to take action. Those who won't even call your name, those who won't return your phone calls, those who blocked you on Facebook and won't hit you up on Instagram. Do something good for them. Verse 28 says, when there is active contention, love anyway. Bless those who curse you. And pray for those who mistreat you. Not in generality. You get on your knees and say, God. Susie is in need of you. But when you go to God, go to God. On their behalf, call their name before the Lord. Pastor, why I gotta call their name? I don't really want to mention their name. Their name brings up some stuff in me. But listen, if you don't If you don't call their name in front of God, that stuff in you will stay in you. If you start calling their name before God, the healing hand of God will start working on you. Pray for them who are actively cursing you and doing you wrong. Verse 29 says, Love when there is a violation of your person or your property. To him who strikes you on the one cheek, offer the other one also. Whoa, Pastor, hold on. Pastor, ain't nobody gonna be hit me and I'm gonna give them the other cheek also. No, my Christianity has not grown to that extreme. So when they violate my person, I'm supposed to love them anyway. To him who strikes you on the one cheek, offer him the other one also. And from him who takes away your cloak, do not withhold the tunic also. The cloak is the outer garment. He says, when they when they steal your outer garment, offer them your inner garment too. This is strange. These are strange directions. These are strange ingredients, but but this is a this is a strange recipe that we have here. But we making something strange and the love is the is the primary ingredient here because he keeps telling you to love, love, love. Watch this. And this love that we're talking about is a strange kind of love. It's not the kind of love that we run around hollering, I love you about. No, this is this is deep heavy. godly, agape, unconditional, unreasonable, unthinkable kind of love. This is the love that allowed Jesus Christ to watch us act a fool all day long And still wake us up this morning and give us grace and favor. That's this is the kind of love we're talking about. This is the kind of love that he that he went to the cross with, knowing that even after I died and give my life As a ransom and a substitute for everybody in the world, everybody's still not going to accept me. This is the kind of love that even in the midst of folk who are murdering other people on the street, God Still rains on them and still allows the sunshine to shine on them and still gives favor and blessing in their life. This is the kind of love that most of us cannot comprehend. Verse 30, he says, love when there is a need, give to everyone who asks of you. And from him who takes away your goods, the one who steals from you, don't even ask for it back after they've stolen it. Because they have a need. The love that God has in these ingredients says, love those who have a need by giving to everyone who asks of you. Now, I do need to also probably throw out a caveat. There's some people here, and some of us have not grown this far yet. Because some people may not be willing to give to everybody in need. Because why, Pastor? Because we're selfish. We have inside of us a level or measure, because of our sinful nature, of selfishness. And and because of our deprived nature and our selfishness, there are some things, okay, let's just say money, when people ask of us We la. You have to keep in the context that what's in your pocket is not yours is he is everything's the Lord's. All of it belongs to you To him. And so when we give it, it's you're not giving away yours, you're giving away his. And if he gave you that, he can give you more. And he's the God that said, I will always supply all of your needs Not according to the economy of the world, but I'll supply your need according to my riches in glory. But we haven't all grown to that place yet. This love says give when there is a need, give to everyone who asks, and from him who steals from you. Now, this is really gonna push you to the limit. Don't even ask for it back, man. That's mine. You wear my that's my jacket. My name is on there. Don't even ask for it back. They probably need it more than you. Let them have it. These are the ingredients, strange ingredients of the text. Give to everyone who asks. But again, this is it's love, love, love, love, love. Now he gives us the instructions. How do you apply this? The instructions begin with the basic premise for successfully applying the ingredients. Now it comes up and it says, Now just as you want men to do to you, you do also to them. If you want a rewarding Christian life, apply the ingredients the way you want them to be applied to you. This is strong stuff. It's in verse 31, I believe it is. And just as you want men to do to you, uh you do also likewise to them. Now the instructions are going to address what seemed like strange deviations to us and he says this recipe is for a rewarding Christian life not just a rewarding life That's why the ingredients and the instructions are strange because you are not going to get a Christian life To be successful or to be rewarding by applying sinners' principles. He says now Verse 32, but if you love those who love you, what reward is there for you because sinners do that? If you do good to those who do good to you, what reward should you expect when sinners do that Verse 34. If you lend to those from whom you expect to get it back from, what reward is that? That's the same thing sinners do. So if we do what sinners do, then we should expect a sinner's reward. But if you move from The depraved nature of doing tit for tat and doing things the way sinners do them and you escalate your actions to the way your father does things, then you should expect a father's reward. If I start applying the principles in a godly way, then I should expect godly reward. But if I apply sinners' actions to my everyday life, my life is no better than a sinner. My rewards are no better than a sinner. So when a sinner gives money and loans it out, and he's waiting for his payment to come back and he gets his payment back, you know what his reward is: his money back. That's all he gets. If a sinner knows, you know, if I do good to you, you're gonna do good to me. What's his reward? He got back, somebody else did good to me, so I did good to them. That's it And the reality of it is that reward that they get, and I'm just classifying it as a reward, because what reward is it when you don't get to have eternal life? So why should I mirror my life as a child of God after the way sinners model themselves? And that's why this this plan is strange because God is not trying to push us to have a sinner's reward, but He's trying to push us to a Christian reward. So he says, don't do what the sinners do if you want to have a rewarding Christian life. Because what they do is simple, mundane, and done out of a depraved nature. If a sinner can loan money with the expectation of getting it back, ain't nothing glorious about that. There's nothing godly about that. There's nothing divine about that. And let me say this as well, because this love that we've been talking about, that is the impetus of this whole this whole text. This love, it requires supernatural ability to execute. In other words, all these things that he says, all those strange ingredients that I told you about earlier. It's going to require the power of the Holy Spirit working diligently in us and through us in order for us to accomplish the application of them in the instruction. Because guess what? It's not natural for us to do these things. Though we're born again, he's the one that's going to give us the impotence and the power and the ability to do any of this. But we have to be leaning on him in order for them to be accomplished. The last portion of this is the investment's reward. And that comes, picks up in verse 35. Verse 35 says, the rewards come when we apply the ingredients. He says now, but love your enemies, do good. And lend hoping for nothing in return, and your reward will be great. That's strange. Lend hoping for nothing in return. This principle right here, I learned a long time ago. And it has been extraordinarily helpful for me in my life and in relationships. I don't think that it's good to lend money and expect people to give it back to you. If I lend you money and I'm expecting my money back, I'm holding you hostage. To you getting me my money back. And if by some strange act of God or some negligence on your part But if for whatever reason you don't give me back my money and I had an expectation of getting my money back, One, it has ruined our relationship forever. Two, I'm mad. Because I didn't get my money back from you, and now I've got to carry that anger for the rest of my life until you give me my money back. But if I never expected the money back, I'm good. I don't have to be mad at you I don't have to be I don't have to be you know chasing you down I don't have to I don't have have put an APB out on you I don't have to take you to court we good If I give it to you, I don't have any expectation of getting it back. And if you can't afford to let it go without wanting it back, don't let it go. That might keep your family together. So he says, look, as a result, your reward will be great. My reward is greater than getting back what I gave you. And you will be sons of the Most High. In other words, there will be validation that I am a child of God. And as a result of my executing the ingredients and applying the instructions to my life, there's proof and there's evidence that I'm a child of the living God. That's great reward I can't pay for that. So then he comes back and he says, Look, the investment of your rewards is going to pay dividends as you be like your father. Okay? He's giving an instruction there. Verse 35-36. He says, look, he said verse 35. He says, Hope me to give none in return. And you will be like sons of God. For he is kind to the unthankful. In other words, that's the Lord. The Lord, your father is kind, so we need to be like him. We need to be like our father, even those who don't even come back and say thank you. Your father is kind to them, and he's kind to those who are evil So we need to act like him. Therefore, be merciful like our Father is merciful. The wages of sin is death, but he didn't give us death, instead, he gave us mercy. He should have wiped us out because we were wrong, because we were foul, because we were defiled, but he didn't. He died for us instead. So, in other words, the same kind of love that he loved us with He says, love everybody else with love, your brothers with love, your sisters with love, your enemies with love those who hate you with love. Be merciful like he's merciful. Be kind like he is kind. For wronging him and he's God. We should not try to hold people hostage For watch this for wrong that they've done to us. And in reality, can I help you really with this one? When you fail to forgive, you're not really holding them hostage, you're holding yourself hostage. So we need to imitate our father and forgive like he forgives. Strange plans God's intention for us to have is to have rewarding Christian lives. And when I talk about rewards, I'm not just talking about monetary stuff. I'm not just talking about dollars and cents because God has a way of blessing you with rewards that nobody can pay for. When God gives you good health and good strength, who can pay for that? When God gives you your mind and it's still in its right place. Who can pay for that? When God gives you people who pray for you night and day, you can't pay for that. That's pressed down, shaking together, running over. He's giving it back into your bosom This text is just a recipe for a rewarding Christian life. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the Radio Broadcast Ministry. of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship services Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he said Down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations, you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.