Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. We'll begin our reading at verse Number one, second Kings chapter two. The word of the Lord reads as follows. And it came to pass when the Lord was about to take up Elijah into heaven by a whirlwind that Elijah went with Elisha from Gilgal. And Elijah said to Elisha, Elijah Stay here, please, for the Lord has sent me on to Bethel. But Elisha said, As the Lord lives and as your soul lives, I will not leave you. So they went down to Bethel Now the sons of the prophet who were at Bethel came out to Elijah, and they said, Do you know that the Lord will take And then Elijah said to him, Elisha, stay here, please, for the Lord has sent me on to Jericho. But he said, As the Lord lives and as your soul lives, I will not leave you. So they came to Jericho. Now the sons of the prophet who were at Jericho came to Elisha and said to him, Do you know that the Lord will take away your master from over you today? And so he answered, Yes, I know. Keep silent. Then Elijah said to him, Stay here, please, for the Lord has sent me on uh to Jordan. But uh he said, As the Lord lives and as Your soul lives, I will not leave you. So the two of them went on. And fifty men of the sons of the prophets went and they stood facing them at the distance, while the two of them uh stood by the Jordan. And now Elijah took the mantle, rolled up, and he struck the water, and it was divided this way and that, so that the two of them crossed over on dry land. And so it was when they had crossed over that Elijah said to Elisha, Ask what may I do for you before I am taken away from you? And Elisha said, Please let a double portion of your spirit be upon me. And so he said, You have asked a hard thing, nevertheless, if You see me when I am taken away from you, it shall be so for you. But if not, it shall not be so. Then it happened as they continued on, and they talked, that suddenly a chariot of fire appeared with horses of fire, and they separated the two of them, and Elijah went up by the whirlwind into heaven. And Elisha saw it, and he cried out, My father, my father, the chariot of Israel and its horsemen And so he saw him no more. And he took hold of his clothes and he tore them into pieces. And he said, uh he also took up the mantle of Elijah and that had fallen from him, and Went back and stood by the banks of the Jordan. Then he took the mantle of Elijah that had fallen from him, and he struck the water and said, Where is the Lord God of Elijah? And when he also has struck the water, it divided this way and that. And Elisha crossed over. Would you pray with me on this morning? Father, I bless you for the word of God and for the opportunity we have to declare your truth. Lord, speak in such a way that it would meet us on the pages of our life. We need a word from you. We need to hear from you. God speak. Clearly allow me clarity of thought and speech, that the words, Lord, that come from me might be yours alone. Lord, if there's any one who's not saved, I pray you save them by your amazing grace. If there's any one who's drifting in their fellowship. They know you, but they drifted away. But today, God, they find themselves tuned in to the Word of God. I pray, Lord, that you would draw that one back into fellowship with you, that they would restore the broken fellowship. God, I pray That in all that is done and all that is said on this day and in this morning, Lord, I pray that you would get the glory and the honor and the praise, for it is in Jesus' name we pray. With thanksgiving with an expectation, and all the people of God said together, Amen and Amen. On today, I want to wrap up this series of messages on it's time to sew. Just kind of close out with this message on this morning. And I want to in this Text that we have, I wanna kinda drill in on something that I think that we really need to talk about And what I feel like we really need to talk about is making sure that we are showing wisdom. And knowledge into people that we're sowing into people in such a way that when we're no longer here, someone else can carry on. Now there's a lot of terms that we use when we talk about this kind of sewing. Some call it discipleship. Mentoring, coaching, parenting, amen, somebody, uh training But whatever you call it, there is a great necessity in the house of God and among the people of God. To sow into the next generation and into the people that are around them Help me, Lord. People are in need of the wisdom and the understanding that God has given you. I know you might say, well, Pastor, I'm not the sharpest pencil in the cup, but you have been sharpened. And so we need to begin if we have not already sewed from what we know into people around us because they don't know anything. We need to help people that are around us and that are coming up behind us to grow in wisdom and knowledge. Such that they will be capable of not only doing what we do, but even excelling us in our capabilities. Let me talk to some some preachers and pastors because I guess they probably some of them might tune in online or something. Pastors and preachers, we also need to comprehend and understand this that God didn't stop calling when he called us. And the only way those that are coming up behind us can get better and and horn the craft of preaching is that you have to give them opportunity and training to do it. Now I know, just to speak to the congregation here at Ketter and I know that you oftentimes wanna hear Pastor Sterling and sometimes you come and you were excited and you just needed a word from Pastor Sterling and you came and Pastor Sterling wasn't preaching. And you were disappointed because Pastor Sterling wasn't preaching. But what I have worked hard at doing is to pour into men behind me so that even when I'm not standing here, somebody else can carry on the word of God. I think we are greatly lacking, not only in pastoral ministry, but in other ministries, in church life in general, in life. We're lacking the termination of pouring and sowing into people behind us. In Christianity, in fact, I think there's a lot of people who are imitating Christianity, but not a lot of people being discipled as Christians. There is a difference between imitating Christianity and being discipled into Christianity The imitators of Christianity, when tough times come, they have no roots. And so because they have no roots when tough times come, the imitators cry moan, complain, flip off, whine, act like babies, because they've got no substance to stand when the storm comes. They're just imitating Christ because as I follow the life of Christ in the scripture, I never saw him behave in such a way. But those who've been discipled into Christianity have roots that go down and so went tough Times come, they dig in deeper that they might draw nourishment from the soil from which they've been planted in and discipled in, and they're able to endure the storms when they come. Are y'all still here? But if we're not discipling people, if we're not mentoring, if we're not pouring in, if we're not sewing into other people, how can we ever expect them to sus be sustained? or to endure anything when it comes. I'm a little bit concerned that Well, maybe a lot of concern that as generations of Christians die away That the next generations won't have a clue what to do. In this text, we literally see the prophet of Israel Elijah, who has been speaking on behalf of God for Israel And if you back up in the text a little bit, what you'll find out is that Elijah had just had a showdown with the prophets of Baal He had called down fire from heaven, and the fire had come down from heaven after the prophets of Baal could not the that was on the altar and not only the bulls that were on the altar were consumed, but the altars were consumed and the rocks that were around the dust. Were consumed and everything was consumed, and then the prophets of bail were killed. And um, Jezebel says, As a matter of fact, um, I I heard what you did, Elijah, uh kill him And Elijah, after this great, awesome demonstration of the power of God working through him, takes off running with his tail between his legs, and he's scared. And the Lord meets him in the cleft of a rock, in a cave, if you will, and the Lord is talking to him, and the Lord Deals with him in all of the stuff that he's going through and all of his issues, and God deals with him there in the cleft of the rock. And then the Lord says to him, Elijah, I need you to go and anoint Elisha as your pro as your substitute, as your replacement. But in essence, Elijah, you're gonna have to train him to be your replacement. You're gonna have to disciple him. Elijah goes and finds Elisha, and he's plowing up the field. I love it. He's standing behind 12 oxen plowing up the field. Now Elisha doesn't know what he's plowing up for, but God knew. Lord help me, Jesus. He's out in the middle plowing up this field and he's plowing up this field. He probably thinks he's plowing up the field, Lord help me, for the crops that are going to go down, but He's plowing up the field because God is even then giving him an illustration, a visual illustration that Elisha, I'm getting ready to prepare you, and I've been plowing up your life So that I can send Elijah to sow into you. So he takes Elisha and he carries them, he puts his cloak on him, he takes them with him, and he begins to disciple them for six years. He's been pouring into Elisha for six years. He's pouring into Elijah. Six years. He's pouring into Elijah. And then we come to our text where we are On today here in chapter 2. And here, after six years of pouring into Elisha, it's coming up close to the time where Elijah is going to be taken away by God. And it is at this point that it is time that Elijah passes the mantle to Elisha. I want to talk to you on this morning from the idea or subject matter, sewing the mantle. To another. I'm a firm believer that every believer needs to be sewing into somebody else And every believer needs to be being sown into. How many people are you sowing into the Word of God? How many people are you deliberately and intentionally discipling? As Christians. In fact, you've been a Christian for about 10 years, 15, 20, 30. How many people have you intentionally targeted, worked with, developed? in Christianity, so that they might know the truth and grow in it as well. Because if you've been a Christian for all this time and you haven't sewn into anybody, then it might be time to sow. Sowing the mantle to the next person. Sowing the mantle to another. That's the whole idea. I want to kind of dig in on this text. It's a lot. It's a lot here, but I think it's powerful for us. As we look at Elisha, he's being sown into, and Elijah is the one that's going to sow into him. But what we see that Elijah does, and I think it's important here, is as we sew the mantle to another, is first the training and the testing of the trainee, is what we see first. the s the training and the testing of the s trainee. In this text that I've read and you're hearing from uh Second Kings chapter 2. What we see is we see Elijah um taking Elisha to these various places, and he gives him the opportunity. To not go with him. On every occasion, he says to him, You stay here and I'm going. And every time Elisha says, No, no, no, no, no. I'm not you I'm not falling for that. I'm going with you All of this, first of all, is a test. He's testing Elisha. They've been together. He's been pouring into him for six years. He's testing him to see. Are you going to go all the way to the end? But help me Jesus. Because some folks start off with you, but they won't follow you to the end. He's asking it as a test for him. Elijah, I'm getting ready to go. I'm getting ready to move on. And you can stay here if you want to. You can stay within your comfort. It's a test. Will you stay within your comforts or will you press on and go uh the next mile because this journey that we see uh between the with that Elijah and Elisha are going on, this is about 40 miles that they're going to be walking in one day. So, you know, we walked from here, you know, down to Pennsylvania Avenue and there was a few cars sitting around waiting. And I said, well, you know what? I'm getting ready to walk all the way up to Route 50 You can stay here if you want to, because the Lord has sent me on up to Route 50, all the way on down 301, or maybe all the way down to 450. Some of you might say, well, okay, um, have a nice trip I've walked far enough with you, and I'll just sit down in the car. I'll you know stop over here at the restaurant, give me something to eat. Arby's is right there. I'll get some of that or something. It's a test. Are you willing as a disciple to absorb yourself in your comforts? Or, Elisha, are you gonna go and travel the distance? It's a test. It's a test for him. Are you committed? To the fool. And Elijah, are you aware that if you stay till I'm taken away, what benefit that will be for you? It's a test. But not only is it a test, it's also training for Elijah. Because when we talk about the mantle, what I have up here is the modern day equivalent Of a prophet's mantle. You probably may say, what is that, Pastor? What this is, is a it's a garment that once worn by the prophet, everybody would know he's a prophet. So this is the garment that if I walked around in this, everybody would know what I was. This is a pastoral robe. That's what it is. And so this is the mantle. This is the garment that Elijah was waiting for. He had been being a disciple for six years that the mantle might be passed to him. Elijah has the mantle, and he's Going along and he's carrying it. So he's testing Elisha on this final day, but he's also training him. Watch this. In chapter 2, verses 2, 4, and 6. There are some specific places that Elijah takes Elisha to. Walk with me. I know this is this is this is this not your head, this is not your run around the church shouting, preaching type of stuff, but this is this is heavy stuff, it's gonna hit you. Watch this. So what he does in the training, in the teaching, he's getting ready to pass the patan, so to speak. But what he does is he says, he takes them to three historical places. Okay? Watch this. They start in Gilgal. This is where they are. Verse 2. Verse I'll read it. This is And it came to pass when the Lord was about to take up Elijah into heaven by whirlwind that Elijah went. And went with Elisha to Gilgal. So they they're at Gilgal first. So they go to Gilgal. Now here's here's the deal. I know You you're not Old Testament theologians, you don't remember all this stuff, but but Joshua chapter four tells us what happened at Gilgal. Gilgal Is the place where Israel keeps going out from. It's the place, watch this, where 12 stones are set up in the midst of the waters. Watch this to remind them that our Lord, the hand of the Lord, is a mighty hand. It's a reminder to them. It's a place of remembrance for them that our God has done something incredible. It's where they cross the Jordan and they go back and they put the stones in. But it's a reminder that the hand of the Lord is a mighty hand. Elijah takes Elijah there. It's also a place where Israel would again go out from. It's a place where the when Israel is getting ready to go into the promised land for the next generation, the second generation, it's the place where they had taken these stones of flint and they circumcised all of those Who hadn't been circumcised, all of the generation who hadn't been circumcised, they were all circumcised right there at Gilgal. Now, why is that important Because that place is a place of remembrance for Israel that this is where God rolled away the sin of Israel. This is the place where God set you apart for Himself. Elisha, as a prophet, you need to know this. You need to know that God has separated your present from your past. Lord, help me, Jesus. Our Gil Gal today is Calvary. When I see the cross, I'm reminded that my sin has no more power over me. Elijah takes Elijah to Gilgal first and he he shows him uh he teaches them there and there's another thing I want you to notice in all these places that they stop In every place that they stop, there's a school of the prophets. Every place that they go, every one of these stops, there's a school of the prophets there. And a school of prophets is the equivalent of a seminary. It's where uh the studying and learning the word of God. They're learning how and what what what written papers they have, how they may articulate it, how may How might they understand it? How might they grow in the word and the wisdom of God? And every one of these places, there's a there's a school of the prophets. It's a reminder. Watch this from Elijah to Elisha that this is important. This is significant that we keep on training people to know the word of God, to proclaim the word of God. So he takes them. To Gilgal first. Then from Gilgal, verse 2 says, then Elijah says, Stay here, for the Lord has sent me on to Bethel. We're going to leave here to go to Bethel. And Genesis chapter 28 is going to tell us about Bethel. Because in Bethel, that's where Jacob falls asleep. And when he falls asleep, he has a dream, and he sees angels descending and ascending from the ground all the way up to heaven. And it is there that Jacob, when he awakes from this dream, he realizes this is the this is the door, he calls it the in essence the doorway to heaven. This is where the presence of God is. And so he names the place Bethel. Lord have mercy. House of God Whew Lord have mercy. This is blowing my mind. Look, Elijah says to Elijah, you need to know where the house of God is. Elijah says to Elisha, the presence of God, getting in the presence of God is important. For you to fulfill your your ministry responsibility. So he takes them to this house of Bethel. Now it is also here. Um as we keep seeing these places everywhere we go, there's there's a stone reference. Because there in Bethel, when Jacob gets up He takes a stone, lays it there, anoints it with oil, and declares the name of the place, House of God. When when they were in Gilgal, it's where the stones of flint were. It's where the stones that were of remembrance were. And then they moved from Bethel, house of God. Verse 4, may keep moving, because he offers them another chance. He says, and Elijah says to Elisha, Stay here. Please, for the Lord has sent me on to Jericho. To continue our journey, tune in next week for the second half of today's message. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at kettering ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301 six two seven nine five zero zero please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. On Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with The voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.