Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. I want to invite your attention this morning to 1 Samuel chapter 1. We'll begin our reading in verse number 9. 1 Samuel chapter 1. Beginning at verse number nine, the word of God reads, So Hannah arose after they had finished eating and drinking in Shiloh. Now Eli, the priest, was sitting on the seat by the doorpost of the tabernacle of the Lord. And she was in bitterness of soul and prayed to the Lord and wept in anguish. Then she made a vow and said, O Lord of hosts, if you will indeed look on the affliction of your maidservant and remember me. And not forget your maidservant, but will give your maidservant a male child. Then I will give him to the Lord all the days of his life, and no razor shall come upon his head. So we find ourselves in the beginning of this book of First Samuel tells a story of a man who had has two wives. The senior, if you will, wife, name is Hannah, and his second wife, Panina He loves Hanna. Hannah is barren. She has not had children. She has not born any children. As a result, Elkanah, her husband, gives her double the portion when they go up to offer to the Lord. They go up to offer to the Lord once a year, but Panina would harass her and give her a hard time. Because she did not have children. And Hannah was distressed by this harassment and the perception that perhaps she was cursed of God because she had not born any children. On the surface, this story it would appear that this is the story of a woman who is under great harassment by her sister wife and in the position of displeasure to her husband. in the grand scope of things that she's under a curse from God and therefore her desire is to remove all of the weight and the burden of that. In order that she might acquire for herself a child, that she might have something for herself, that she might be able to satisfy her husband and silence her rival wife. Mm-hmm. That's what it appears on the surface. But as I look deeper into this story, what I realize is that Hannah has grown beyond the selfishness of being able to stand up to Panina and say, Look here, I got a child too. She's grown beyond that. She's moved from that selfish position, though I believe she has been and is there at certain phases of the process. In fact, as she's provoked along the way, I mean most of us would want to the Lord to do something to cause our rival to to stop bothering us. Her husband loves her and he says to her, Honey, am I not better to you than ten sons? And he gives her double the portions of and everything. But obviously, though Elkanah is a good husband, he's not what Hannah needs or what Hannah wants. He's not enough. He's not the fulfillment of what God has put as an emptiness in her heart. I want to talk to you on this morning from the subject matter, the life cycle of a mother. Because every mother needs to understand that being a mother is a blessing from God. Now I under Understand, moms, that along the way, along the journey, along the cycle, there are periods and times when you wonder whether it was a blessing or not. Because we children have a way to vex our mothers. We all have done it from some time or another, and to cause them to bring into question the very notion that they had. That someday I want to have children. Amen. And I know that most mothers can probably attest that yes, it's a blessing, Pastor, but some days. I wish I had never asked for such a thing. As I viewed this this text and this progression of Hannah's coming into parenthood, I I couldn't help but see it as a cycle of life of a mother. Because in this text it begins there in verse number nine that Hannah has been weeping and and she's been grieved of heart, she's not eating and Verse nine picks up, and Hannah arose after they had finished eating and drinking in Shiloh. And now Eli the priest was sitting at the seat of the doorpost on the tabernacle, and she was in bitterness of soul. And prayed to the Lord and wept in anguish. The first movement of the text, if you will, is that I see that she prayed for the privilege. She understood that being a mother was not a right, but rather a privilege, and she went to God, the place where she could Have something done about her problem and she took her petition to the Lord and prayed to God for the privilege of being a mother and As you look there in the text, it says she was there in bitterness of soul, and she prayed to the Lord and wept. Now, some of her bitterness, some of her anguish perhaps comes from this rival wife, Panina, but What happens in the process of time is that Hannah moves beyond just being stressed out by a sister wife and concerned by her husband not having uh children born through her and even the issues that she may have for herself, she moves to a place Where she pleads to God for the privilege of being a mother, not for the benefit of bragging herself, but for the benefit of advancing the kingdom of God. She moves out of this whole idea of being cursed and and she understands it to be a privilege and she prays and she lays out her heart in bitterness and in anguish. And watch this. Sometimes in prayer, what happens is God begins to change you in the midst of your prayer. While she's praying and crying out to God and pouring her heart out to the Lord, she moves from just praying To God, to making a vow to the Lord. Verse number 11 says, And said to the Lord, O Lord of hosts, if you will indeed look on the affliction of your maid servant, And remember me and not forget your maid servant, but will give your maidservant the male child Stop right there. She is very specific, very emphatic about what she wants. She prays, first of all, out of her anguish, and she's crying and she's weeping, but then she moves and she says, Lord, I vow a vow to you. Lord, don't forget me. Bless me God with a male child. You know, most folk when they pray for a child, they they just want the child to be healthy. Lord, give me a healthy. I I don't care if it's a boy, I don't care if it's a girl, I just Lord, let make sure it has five fingers on each hand and five toes on each foot and and and and one head. No handle doesn't pray Just for a healthy child, Hannah prays, Lord, bless me to be a mother of a male child. Because Hannah is interested in receiving something from God that she can give back to the service of God. See what she understood is that her husband and Elkanah is of the Levitical line, and and a child born to a Levitical line would become a Levite and serve God If it were a male child, it could go back into the house of God and serve God. And so she's moved to a place where she's asking God, God, give me a child that I can give back to you that will serve you. And Hannah, praise God. Give me a male child because in the Levitical line or bloodline, I want a child that will be able to continue the bloodline Of my husband, and not only continue the bloodline of my husband, but also that will be able to serve you as a Levite. Now, as a Levite, he would have to serve from the age of 25 to age 50 But watch this, and this is what helps me to understand. She's growing deeper in her relationship and her prayer of having the privilege of being a mother. Goes deeper and it's beyond her. It's not just about her anymore. Because she says, Not only do I want a male child, but look at what she says, verse number 11. She said, If you give me a male child, then I will give him to the Lord all the days of his life. He only was supposed to serve 25 years, but Lord, I'm going to give him back to you all the days of his life. Then she goes even one step deeper. And she says, and no razor shall come. What she's saying here, Lord, bless me with a male child that might serve you, Lord, and I'll give him back to you all the days of his life. But I'll not only give them back to you as a Levitical servant, I'll give them back to you as a Nazarite under the Nazarite vow As a Nazarite, he would never be able to eat the fruit of the divine, no grapes, no raisins, no vinegar, none of that. But also, he would have to be set apart to God. To serve the Lord and the Lord only. He's in this position where he cannot touch dead bodies. He can't be near dead bodies, not even his own mother or his father. So, in essence, what she's saying, Lord, give me a male child and I'll give them back to you. And even if I die or his father dies, I understand he can't come to comfort us. She wants a child that she can fully release. He will be able to have no contact with the dead, no intoxicating drink, no fruit of the vine. And he would be dedicated to the Lord all the days of his life to be consecrated to God. She prays for the privilege of being the mother of a child that will serve God all his life. She says, I'm going to give them back to you all the days of his life. No rays will come upon it. Says verse number 12. And it happened as she was praying before the Lord that Eli watched her. Now, what's going on in Israel right now? Israel is corrupt. Even in the house of God, they're corrupt. You'll see it later on if you keep reading through 1 Samuel. Even Eli's sons are doing crazy stuff. They're robbing the offering, they're having sex with the women inside the temple and all kinds of Israel is in a bad state of mind. And so watch this. Eli is supposed to be sitting at the door of the tabernacle being priestly, and he's paying attention to what's going on inside. And he's looking at her inside because she's an angel And crying out and praying to the Lord. She's having a serious conversation with God, but Eli's being nosy and he's looking inside. And then Eli thinks, because of her behavior, because she's praying to God, she's crying out to God, but her lips are moving, but nothing's coming out. And he says she must be drunk. The very fact that he accuses her of being drunk in the house of God tells you the condition of the spiritual nature of the people during this time. That they would come to the house of God in the house of God praying drunk. And so he accuses her of being drunk, but she turns back to him and she says, No, I'm not drunk, somewhere around verse 15. Hannah answers him and says, No, my Lord, I am a woman of a sorrowful spirit. I have not drunk neither wine nor intoxicating drink, but have poured out my soul before the Lord. Do not consider your maid servant a wicked woman, for out of the abundance of my complaint and my grief I have spoken until now. Then Eli answered and said, Go in peace. And the God of Israel grant your petition which you have asked of him. Because as she's prayed out and poured out herself and made this petition to the Lord and laid it out in such a way that even that that is no longer selfish. It's not about her. It's about the kingdom of God. I want a blessing so that it can be a blessing. I want to be blessed so I can bless with the blessing. You give me. I want a male child that you will give me, and I'll commit him to the Levitical priesthood, and I'll commit him to Nazarite vow for the uh all of his days. In other words, you're going to give them to me, God, but I'm going to give them back to you, and that's really what it's all about. And so she prays that prayer. And when she prays that prayer, and Eli realizes she's not drunk, and Eli says in essence, well, go ahead, go on about your way. May the Lord bless you. Now I don't put a whole lot of stock in Eli's blessing And with his own children, and then he doesn't do too much to correct them either. But I don't put a whole lot of stock in that, but watch this. But when she leaves Praying, when she leaves crying out to God, when she leaves the altar asking and petitioning God for the privilege of being a mother Of such a child. She leaves with confidence. Look at verse number 18. And she said, Let your maidservant find favor in your sight. So the woman went her way and ate, and her face was no longer sad. She had confidence in the God that she had prayed to that God is going to answer my prayer because now I have not prayed. God, give me a child so I can show Panina up. Give me a child so I can make Elkanah happy. No, she prayed, she sat down, she realized her heart has changed. God, give me a child so I can give them back to you And she's confident when she leaves, she's no longer sad, and she's eating because before then she wouldn't even eat. And now she's she leaves with confidence after she prays for the privilege of being a mother. The next movement of the text, if you will, as as we look at this whole life cycle of a mother, oftentimes a mother will pray for the privilege of being a mother, and and God will grant that petition. But but the next phase of of mothering or parenting, if you will, we find in the next few verses, and that is that she prepared for the release as a mother. Picking up around verse number 20, it says So it came to pass in the process of time that Hannah conceived and bore a son, and called his name Samuel, saying, Because I have asked for him from the Lord. What Hannah does is she begins right off the bat preparing to release her son. In fact, the very name that she gives him reminds her of the vow that she made because his name means Axed of God. So every time she says Samuel, it's a reminder to her that this didn't just come naturally and automatically, but no, I asked for him from God, and I made a vow to God when I asked for him. If you give them to me, God, I'll give them a man. Back to you. And so she she gives them a name that reminds her, that is a constant reminder to her that this child that I have, it's not mine, it's your child. And I'm giving him back to you. Sometimes I believe what happens in some mother's situations is that they forget that the child that was given to them was given to them by God for God And so they hold on to them too long and too tight and too hard. Amen. And so and and so but the process the the the process of parenting if you will. The process of mothering, if you will, involves not only receiving the child from God, but preparing to release the child. Can I say that again? Your process as a parent is to release the child. You can't hold on to them forever. They are 40 years old. Let them go. You're supposed to be raising them to release them. She that would that was her plan. Look at the text. It says Elkonah is going up to the house, and he went up. Verse 21. Elkanah, her husband, went up to the house and he went to offer to the Lord the yearly sacrifice and his vows. But Hannah Did not go up. For she said to her husband, Not until the child is weaned, then I will take him, and that I may appear before the Lord, and he may remain there forever. So, what Hannah does, she says, Look, I have a plan. My plan is, I've got to nurture this boy, I've got to prepare this boy so I can release him to God so that he can serve God for the rest of his life. That's not a whole lot different from the plan that you as mothers ought to have. It ought to be that I receive this child, I nurture this child, I prepare this child so they can serve the Lord for the rest of their days Because God has given you as mothers the opportunity and the privilege to raise up godly offspring. Now I'm not just laying it on the mothers. Fathers, we've got responsibility too We can't just parent them and take off. No, we've got the responsibility as parents to nurture them in the wisdom and in the admonition of God that they might know God, love God, and serve God. Watch this. As I thought through this process, and and she's there nurturing this this this young boy, and she's gonna have him and she's gonna nurture him for probably about three years. And that she's going to nurture him and and then she's going to wean him off. And that that that ideal concept of weaning means uh slowly but progressively separating from him so that he can be independent. Not living in your basement eating up all your food and watching your cable TV. No. Separately, independently, weaning him off so that he can be independent. Y'all, y'all catching this Hannah is going to nurture this child till he's three years old and then release him because watch this. She's received him to release him. That's part of the process of being a mother: to receive the child, nurture the child, grow the child, prepare the child to stand on their own so that they can stand on their own and serve God and worship God. Because what she doesn't want to do, she doesn't want to bring Samuel to Eli and put Samuel in Eli's hand and then Eli, who's supposed to be the priest Now he's got to worry about how we're gonna get this boy changed, how you're gonna get him milk, how we gonna, you know, all that. He doesn't have to worry about that. When she brings him the Eli, Samuel is already prepared to minister before the Lord Because a whole lot of folk bring their children to the house of God and they turn them over to the Sunday school teacher and they turn them over to the pastor and they turn them over to the youth worker and they say Grow them up. Do something with them because I can't. No, that ain't the church's responsibility. That's your responsibility. You're supposed to nurture them. You're supposed to groom them. And then turn them over so they can serve God and worship God. She nurtures him and she weans him. She gradually separates herself from him in this process of time. And verse twenty-four, I believe it is, picks up and says, Now when she had weaned him, she took him up with her, and three bulls, uh one ephod of flour, and a A skin of wine, and she brought him to the house of the Lord at Chilo, and the child was young. They slaughtered one bull And they brought the child to Eli. What I like about this is when she brought this child to release him, she brought him with an offering and she brought him with provisions. She did not just Raise him, wean him, go drop him off at the door of Eli's house and leave him there. No, she brought provisions for him. There's two additional bulls that are there as provisions. There's There's flour and other provisions. There's there's the wine for the drink offering, and there's the bull for the offering. Because watch this, in order for him to enter into the service of the Lord, there's got to be some shedding of blood. Y'all don't hear me Right here. So she she brought an offering of the shedding of blood because in order for us to serve God, somebody had to serve some shed some blood. And if it had not been For the blood of Jesus Christ, you and I would not be able to serve him either. But yet she offered the sacrifice so that he might be covered, that he might serve the living God She comes before him, verse 27. For this is the child she tells Eli, this is the child for which I prayed, and the Lord granted my position. And see, therefore, I have lent him to the Lord as long as he lives He shall be lent to the Lord. So they worshipped the Lord there. When she came to the place where she released him to the Lord, she was able to worship. Now watch this. She's releasing this child out of her care at a very young age, but she's releasing him For the rest of his life. She's committing him and dedicating him and consecrating him for the rest of his life. That again just reminds me, it shows me the image in the picture that this is not for her This is for the kingdom of God. She has grown to the place, even in her pain, even in her absence, that you know what? I don't have to have it my way. But if I can just bless God, Lord, bless me so I can bless you back. That's what she's doing. And so she prayed to for the privilege of being a mother, and she prepared for the release as a mother. And finally, if you pick up there, as as we kind of move in through the remainder of that text. She says, look, I'm not going to release him until it's time. She releases them when it's time. They worship the Lord there. And as we move into chapter two, what happens is we see Hannah in the beginning of chapter two. She she she writes this book great poem of of her elation of how excited she is that God has honored her petition and she has had the opportunity to Raise this child to a certain age and wean him and give him back to God so that he can serve God for the remainder of his days. But she doesn't stop there because what she does next is that she goes back and she prepares, if I can say it this way, she promotes. His success in the ministry. If you look over there in verse chapter 2, verse uh number 18 and 19, it picks up after we get the story of Eli's sons and all the wickedness they do, while they're doing wicked The Bible says that in verse number 18, but Samuel ministered before the Lord, even as a child wearing a linen ephod, while everybody else in the house was acting wickedly. Y'all don't see this. While the older boys who should have known better were sleeping with the women in the temple, drinking the wine and acting a fool, this child, because he's been nurtured, because he's been prepared to serve God, he's ministering in the house of God. And he's there as a child wearing a linen ephi ministering before the Lord. Moreover, his mother used to make him a little robe. And bring it to him year by year when she came up with her husband to offer the yearly sacrifice In other words, she wanted to make sure that her child had had the right investments in him so that when he served the Lord, that he would be properly attired. She wanted to make sure as he stood before God that he had the right clothes on. She she wanted to make sure that when he came to church, she though he looked like he was coming to church. That's a motherly thing. Where are you going with that? She she made sure that he had the garments to to minister before the Lord, that he would be successful before the Lord, that he was uh uh truly uh prepared to worship the Lord and serve and stand before the Lord and And and and I could just imagine her coming each year, uh, you know, adding a few inches to the robe because she knew her son had grown up a little bit more and she brought a robe for him that that he might be Served God and had no hindrances in serving the Lord. Can I help us write about here? Mothers have a way of contributing to our success even after After we're out there serving the Lord, they have a way of comforting us and giving us advice and continuing to deposit into our lives even after they released us. We have a responsibility, parents and mothers, to continue to contribute to the success of our children in their service to God. Praise the name of the Lord. She prayed for the privilege of being a mother. She prepared to release her child as a mother would. And finally, she promotes the success in her son's service to the Lord. It's just a cycle. Of a mother. Praise the Lord. You've been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. And remember to reference the title or broadcast date. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together, and we invite you to join us for one of our Spirit-Fill worship services Sundays at 8 a. m. or 11 a. m. at our new edifice called the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlboro, Maryland. For additional information, go to our website At Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301-574-3515. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down. with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.