Today we've moved from mirror to phone because we even use the phone to check ourselves to make sure that we look like we want to look and that we are presentable The mirror says you got, you know, you slobbered all last night and you need to clean that off so we get a towel and we wash our face. But the word of God lets us know, first of all, that we came to be by the will of God. It wasn't because you have an opportunity to live on your own, function on your own, or decide on your own. They mature because they're taking in the nourishment that they need to mature. You've got to empty yourself and empty your hands and empty your heart of all the filthiness and all the wickedness, and you've got so much, James says, it's an overflow You're not allowed to hold on to that and then receive the word of God as well. You've got to let go of one and pick up the other. Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Who've fallen away by the wayside, that this word God today will provoke them to renew the broken relationship and restore that which has drifted aside and asunder Spirit of the Lord, I'm praying that the body of Christ might be edified, encouraged, provoked unto righteousness through the preaching of the gospel. At your podcasts. He sits down with the voices behind the song. Voices behind the song. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. uh humble positions and st and before the people of God on this morning. They would come and say, Lord, I surrender all to you. Asking Lord that you would use me in an extraordinary way as I surrender my body, my mind, my mouth as a vessel to be used for your Purposes and for your glory. uh in depth insights about uh what's going on in James and that type of thing. uh the modern day version of the story Snow White. I nothing else was on, so I said, Well let me let me check out what's what's what's going on it with this new Snow White version. And she says to the mirror, mirror, mirror on the wall. And he turns and he he he compares the process of being tempted to the biological process of human reproduction. But we were brought forth as good and perfect gifts from above from God. He says we we're he he likens our our life as as as coming forth through the the very word of truth. and the appearance that we have in this life as we look into the mirror, which is the Word of God. uh to Snow White. So he said by of his own will, by the will of God, he brought us forth by the word of truth. He moves on, he says, uh so then, my beloved brethren, as a result of hearing this and knowing this, so then my beloved brethren, let every man uh reaction, what we need to do, we've got to hear the word of God. Of the fact that God is the one who brought us forth, as a result of God being the one who's sovereign and in control, as a result of God being the one who called us out of darkness and into the marvelous light. Set your feet on a solid rock. So we're slow to hear God's word. From infancy to maturity in your faith. Let's listen. Never listening to the word of God. No, you've got to feed the baby all day long. That that filthiness, that the wickedness. Because they don't want to look into the mirror to see how messed up and how jacked up they are. And they say that's hypocritical. Please visit our website at kettering ministries. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Of his own will, he brought us forth by the word of truth, that we might be a kind of firstfruits of his creatures. to stand and declare it and even as I stand I pray that your spirit will give strength will give power to my feeble body as I stand in these uh Therefore, lay aside all filthiness and overflow of wickedness, and receive with meekness the implanted word which is able to save your souls. For he observes himself, goes away, and immediately forgets what kind of man he was. He who looks into the perfect law of liberty and continues in it and is not a forgetful hearer, but a doer of the work Are worthy of it all. Uh channels, you know, you know you're sitting down, you just what looking for something to watch. The story, the movie, There's Snow White. Mirrors don't lie, they tell what they see. He tells us exactly what to do. Uh from from God, this is all coming from our own desires and our own wills and things like that. And which we were brought forth in, and we were brought forth as good and perfect gifts from above, not from below. to the to the clay, his breath or his pneuma, which is the life that gave us life in the first place. For God in the very beginning even spoke and said, Let us make man in our own image and after our own likeness. so that they're presentable in whatever scenario that they're going to travel in for that particular day. And and virtual working and all that thing. Everybody's not gonna see what we see in the mirror, so we're not as concerned about fixing everything. We need to hear the word of God because sometimes, as we walk through this life, we have an improper perspective of who we are and how we came to be. Be swift to hear, slow to speak, and slow to rap. our look, our image, if we're trying to appear like the one that's Pharaoh in the land, if we're going to uh respond to the mirror's uh question or to respond to the mirror's It was the word of truth that brought us to the place where we even have life right now. And so you can be disrespectful, and so that you can no longer look like the image of the one that you're pursuing. That the word of God lets us know that our anger, our frustration, our wrath will not accomplish the righteousness. Equate your maturity. And I know, I know how it is, I know how it is. Your tie and all that kind of stuff, but it doesn't mean that you've matured in your faith because when you look in the mirror, the mirror will say you still look like a baby, and if you're not And watch this. How desperately wicked you are. You got to lay that down. And pick up the other. Lay all the filthiness aside and the overflow of wickedness aside. Once you put down that sin and all that overflow, now you have room to receive the word of God. Because what I what this is helping me right now. Stay here with me. They might know some of the text of the Word of God, but they're not receiving the Word of God. You've got to first of all clean out the garden of all the mess and all the filth and all the rocks and all the weeds and everything that's going to choke it out. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. And now, Pastor Sterling. This one will be blessed in what he does. All right, this morning as I uh uh look into this uh text and for those of you coming along through with us in Bible study, you know we've been studying through the book of James, so we've gained a lot of uh There is one Farer in the land. He says that Satan is the one who shows the seeds of temptation and desire then conceives the seeds. But then James, what he does is an interesting thing. And he says we'll be able to, as we keep delving in, he says we'll be able to enhance in fact and even uh grow and and and and and and and measure or gauge our progression of growth Now, this morning I want to talk to you from the subject matter, mirror, mirror in my hand. And as they look into the mirror, they see what last night left on them, and they realize what they need to do to get to the place And so this morning I want to kind of keep digging and digging and digging into this idea of mirror, mirror in my hand. The word of God. By the word of truth. Let me let me help us here as I walk through this and and and in order to put a uh a proper perspective on the reflection that we see. And there's a reason why you have two ears and one mouth, and that is so that you can hear twice as much as you talk. Slow to respond, slow, because watch this, slow to be tempted to spew out what's on our mind. But he says we need to be slow to speak, be anxious to hear. Because that's where desire wants to take you. Verse 20 picks us up and he lets us know why this is so critically important. But the wrath of man comes from being, watch this, instead of being swift to hear, the wrath of man comes from as a result of being slow to hear Swift to hear, slow to speak, and slow to wrath. So we've got to hear the word of God. spiritual maturity is to receive the word of God. The text gives us all clear instruction. All filthiness and the overflow of wickedness. You're not allowed to continue to hold on to the wickedness, watch this, and the deceitfulness and the overflow of filthiness. Put down the wicked behavior, put down the filthy behavior and the filthy overflows of activity. They've never repented of the sin. And in order for you to plant, Lord Jesus, something that's going to grow into full maturity and look like God The implanted word of God. Under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship Services, Sundays at 10 a. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlboro, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. But be doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving yourselves. Somebody ought to say amen this morning. So let me say something to you because I know that mirrors are very significant in the lives of a whole lot of folks. Now, so what happens to a whole lot of folks is they'll get up in the morning and they'll look in the mirror because they want to look and see what last night left on them. Now, the mirror answers us this morning, and the mirror says, No, there is one fairer. And what we need to do if we want to compare ourselves to the one that's fairer in the land, if we want to bring up our standard to the standard of the one who's fairer than us, he says, first of all, we need to hear somehow they came into their being on their own. So then, my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath. And receive with meekness the implanted word which is able to save your souls. First, you got to hear it, but secondly, he says you've got to receive it. six two seven nine five zero zero please join us again as senior pastor And then the desire gives birth to sin, and sin grows up, and when sin grows up and becomes full-grown, it brings forth death. This morning, the mirror is not the physical mirror that we hold in our hand or that's on the wall, but it's the mirror that we hold in our hand that is the Word of God. Christians by our own actions and by our own deeds, but we need to hear the word of God that it wasn't our own actions, it wasn't our own doing You can't hold on to both. Now, as I dig into this text, James has already told us and shared with us that when we fall in, not if we fall, but when we fall into various trials, we're not going to be able to do that. As we desire to present ourselves. My freedom, my liberty, my salvation is as a result of the will of God. Whoo, Lord, this is a whole mouthful here. The implanted word of God. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. The text moves on to the second movement. Temptation to death or Satan's way of reproducing to God's way. It's in our hand, but the question is, as I look into the mirror, am I the fairest? Does not produce, does create, does not allow us to get to the place of righteousness. You can't just give your life to Christ one day and sit around for the next 40 years, never hearing the Word of God, never pursuing the Word of God And and and hearing the word of God is not Lord Jesus, it's not sufficient to only hear it on Sunday morning. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Nor did you come into this Christian walk by your own accord. You you the old folks say you used to have one foot in the church and the other one on a banana peel. And God, when it is all said and done, it is my most fervent prayer that your name would get all the glory and all the honor and all the praise for you, God, alone It's in Jesus' precious and wonderful name I pray with thanksgiving and expectation. So in other words, when he says lay it all aside, he doesn't say lay some of it aside and then receive the word of God. Uh and so what the what the wicked witch was after the story goes on and uh the the wicked witch is after to obtain what Snow White has. Lord help us, Jesus. I'm praying that if there's any that don't know you in the pardon of their sin, they've haven't come into a personal, intimate relationship with you. As a result of all that God has done, we ought to be watched as swift to hear. Y'all still here? But I need us all to hear the word of God. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Watch this. It's right here in our text. Sometimes, you know, you just get pushed the wrong way, the wrong button gets gets gets smashed, and then all of a sudden anger rises up. Uh there's this wicked witch who's standing in front of a golden mirror. We're swift to open our mouth and tell somebody y'all. It's just not going to help you. To do so in order to receive the word of God, first you've got to lay aside Lord Jesus It'll show you how much filth you have in your life. Hearing the word of God is critical to the development of our growth, to the development of our maturity. I can't believe that Christians live like that. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Amen. Count it all joy. You can't have the devil and God at the same time. Praise the Lord. And the word of the Lord reads as follows from James chapter 1, beginning at verse number 18. Then he begins, as we picked up on this morning, he begins to contrast that biological process of I'm trying to help somebody because sometimes we, as I as I look and listen into this world, there's a lot of people running around acting like You've got to feed the baby two, three times, four times a day. Because you cannot receive the word of God when you got all that filthiness and you have all that wickedness in your hands and in your heart. They never turned away from the sin. Praise the name of the Lord. There's a whole lot of things that have gone undone as a result of what the mirror has shown because we realize that Desire wants to take you to anger so that you can so that you can blow up and so that you can act ugly You might look like you're mature. And I like the way he says the overflow of wickedness, which causes us to believe and causes us to be able to see. What I see is that a whole lot of folk they want to have the word of God, but they also want to have the other, they want to have hold on to their sin at the same time. Are y'all still here with me? For the wrath of man does not produce the righteousness of God. We need to hear the word of God first, but secondly, verse 21 says: therefore lay aside all filthiness and overflow of wickedness. Come into my life and save me. He says in verse number 18: Of his own will he brought us forth by the word of truth, that we might be a kind of first fruit of his creatures. And a whole listen, the reason why a lot of people look at people who call themselves Christians. I thought that was kind of funny. And if we hear the word of God, stay here with me. One, it's not going to help you to see what's in the mirror, and it's not going to help you to grow towards maturity. And he says we're a kind of first fruit of God's creation You can never accomplish the plan of God for your life, which is for you and I to grow up and to mature in our faith. And so uh you know I said, well I may check this out. And so the mirror told the wicked witch, uh, No, you're not the fairest in the land. And sometimes you know you get up in the morning and you go to the mirror and you're thinking everything is fine and you're thinking everything is in order and the mirror says no no no no no the mirror You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. I love this. In fact, let me say it like this. When he talks about laying it all aside, he's literally saying, You need to repent of it, turn away from it, put it down It's important as we look into the mirror, mirror in our hand. He goes on to say, look, this is how you handle temptation when it comes. But let me just kinda share with you what what kind of has transpired for for my particular purposes even getting here. The nourishment that we need to mature is to hear the word of God. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. In other words, the mirror told the truth. And as we look into that mirror, what we do is we find out in the mirror that because the mirror doesn't lie, the mirror says you got crust in your eyes, so we reach up and we get the crust out. And sometimes in Christianity we struggle with this whole idea that somehow we became It's because some folk who call themselves Christians ain't really Christians because they've never let go of the sin God, I pray that the the Spirit of the Lord will uh speak through me through the words that are in the text this morning, through the thoughts and ideas and concepts that you have Am I the fairest of them all? It wasn't because you wanted it, it wasn't because you desired it You might be wearing the fancy hat. I love it. He lays all of that out in the beginnings of chapter one In other words, be swift to hear, slow to speak, but watch this, and then slow to wrath, slow to get angry. He says, for the wrath of man does not produce the righteousness of God. But if you're going to be able to change in this life Amen. The mirror says you ashy. Here it is. It just the two don't go together. That's a great question. And see, this is the reason why a whole lot of folk they don't want to hear the word of God For if any man or any one is a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like a man observing his natural face in a mirror. And then the wrath comes out as a result. He says, Look, if you want to receive the word of God, you've got to lay aside all the other junk that you've been holding on to. They're still holding on to the sin. I pray, God, for those who've drifted in fellowship, who've I'm trying to nail this point home. No, we came forth by the will of God, and by his will, he brought us forth. You've got to release from sin and receive from God. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome Because if it had not been for the word of truth, we would all still be dust and dead. Channel surfing, I believe they call it. You did not come into this world on your own accord. You can't can't do both. In other words, we need good soil to plant the word of God in. Would you pray with me this morning? Somebody say amen. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web To do so, you have to listen That's a great question. And the babies just keep on eating and as they mature The next step, if I will, in our biological development towards Because to receive it means to take it in, to ingest it, receive with meekness, with humility. I know a whole lot of folks, they just can't wait to give you a piece of their mind. Put it all down, repent of turn away from it. org or contact our church office at 301 If we hear the word of God, he says, so then as a result If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. And all the people of God said together, Amen and Amen. There's a whole lot of folk that have been in church a long time, but watch this. You might be wearing the fancy suit. You can't straddle the fence I hadn't seen that version before. And so as I'm watching the the the the the And God spoke, and it began to come to pass as he scooped up the dirt and formed it into clay and breathed in Now, I know because most folk are are virtual learning and Lord, help us here. Help me, Jesus. Amen. And he says, in essence, what God does, God sows the seed of his word Is that first of all, if we if we're going to improve That gives me some perspective that that this this my existence But he says we need to be swift to hear, but slow to speak. And they listen, they're maybe reading the word of God. Eternal God, we thank you for the word of God. And so he But Somebody need to say that with me this morning. Because that's where we hold the Bible. So, Spirit of the Lord, I stand in this place today. And as she's standing in front of this golden mirror, she looks into this mirror We didn't come into this on our own. And I was channel surfing, and as I was channel surfing, what happened was I came across this uh Am I the righteous one in the land? And so we lubricate ourselves. Oh, Lord, this is good. But nevertheless, we're in the mirror. In other words, we ought to be anxious to hear the word of God. It will not accomplish the will. So you've got to put down one. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. No, he says Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. And the mirror responds and says to this wicked witch, No. It does not allow us to get to the will of God, to the plan of God for our lives. Am I the fairest in the land? And so therefore, he says, be slow, swift to swift to hear, slow to speak, and slow to wrath. You got to hear the word of God more frequently that even as you take a baby, you can't take a baby and feed them only on Sunday. For the wrath of man does not produce the righteousness of God. The wrath of man, man's anger, man's frustration, man's response. So, secondly, we need to receive the word of God. Y'all still here with me? There's one that's fairer than you. And so you know We need to hear the word of God. You might be having on the shiny shoes that match And I love this is what the word of God does. That's where we hold God's word is in our hand. And instead of instead of watching this, instead of squelching anger, we let it have its way. We're quick to wrath because we're quick to speak and slow to hear. m. You've got to hear the word of God. Watch this You can't come into this relationship with Christ And in this verse 19, he And once you've repented of it Now he's bringing you their stories. at the Legacy Center. We thank you for this opportunity. God, I'm praying that today The mirror tells the truth. We're looking in the mirror and we're looking in the mirror and we're checking ourselves and She wants to be the fairest, but she also wants to obtain this perpetual life of beauty. It will not accomplish the plan that God has for your life. He he deals with us and lets us know that all this temptation doesn't come. We put lotion on or what have you. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together The One Degree of Andy podcast. Stay here with me They can't wait to let it empty out of their tongue. Your time in church does not Uh a few weeks ago uh I was uh thumbing through the uh And and the mirror was referring And so you got to empty that stuff first and then you can receive. Now he's bringing you their stories. You know how you sometimes look in the mirror and you say, I know I'm skinny. It'll show you how Are y'all still here with me? Are y'all still here? The One Degree of Andy podcast. Well, you can't have both I'm Andy Christman. Praise the name of the Lord Amen. But the mirror lets us know what we see. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Y'all still here Somebody I'm Andy Christman in his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. It just doesn't work like that. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get. It will not allow you to mature. And the mirror say, No, you ain't.