Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. Praise the name of Jesus. For he all by himself is worthy. Amen. Amen. I'm thankful on tonight just for the privilege of being here in the presence of the Lord and all of you who've gathered. both in person and online. We know that it is is still early yet, so um just in case you have another party to get to. We want you to at least work yourself up before you get there, okay? Amen. Um, and so I want to thank God for all of those who have come before me on this evening for our dance. uh team, uh praise God for them, for our uh guest artists, spoken word, everyone uh has just done marvelously and as everything was kind of taking place It was as if God was just pulling all the pieces together, all the pieces together, all the pieces together. And so um I'm grateful for the opportunity to come step in in this next segment and share a word with you. Uh typically on this um New Year's Eve, uh which I will do this year as well, is I'll share the theme that we'll also um utilized for 2023 um throughout our year that we might focus on throughout the year. And so I'm praying even now as God is um uh trying to just accomplish God's will in his way that he wants it done. And so um pray for me and pray with me as we as we delve into this uh text on tonight. If you have your Bible with you on this evening and you should, uh I want to invite your attention to the book of Acts, uh chapter one. We'll look at verse number eight. The word of the Lord from Acts chapter one, verse eight, reads like this. But you shall receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you. And you shall be witnesses to me. In Jerusalem and in Judea and Samaria and to the end of the earth. Pray with me, please. Father, we need you that you might speak clearly tonight, that you might prepare us leaving out of one year to go into the next. Father, I need you as a strength in my body to accomplish your will, to speak what thus saith the Lord: guide my tongue, guide my thoughts. Guide this time, Lord God, of experience in your word. Father, I pray that you would tear down the barriers that have hindered us from hearing from you For every demonic presence that showed up for this worship experience that has come to keep your people from Being set free tonight. I pray, God, that you would bind every spirit that's not like you. That you would cast them out and asunder, Lord, that your people might hear clearly from you. Lord, whether they're viewing via live stream, whether they pick this message up over the radio, or whether they're here in person to hear it, or even if they hear some translation of this message. Through someone who heard it. God use this word to transform lives so that we'll never be the same. Save someone, God, who's lost, reclaim someone who's drifting, Father. Encourage someone who's lost all hope But let your will be done and let your way be accomplished. And Lord, when it's all said and done, I'll give your name all the glory and all the honor and all the praise. It's in Jesus' name I pray with thanksgiving and expectation, and the people of God said together, Amen. Amen. This evening, Catherine, as we approach this preaching moment. I was considering how we come to this time every single year. And every year, as the new year approaches, not only are people looking forward to the next year. In hopes always that it'll be better. I I have yet to have heard anyone say, you know what, um this year was so good that I'm really hoping next year just ain't as good. It it's always with this attitude that I want next year to be better than this year. Seems to be our attitude all the time, but we also are oftentimes around now, leaving out of one year, moving into the next year, inundated with promises. From pastors and preachers and motivational speakers and internet social media hype men and women that are gonna tell you that with no effort of your own. Your life is gonna be better next year. I mean, without any change to the same mentality that you've carried through this year. They throw out these awesome promises that next year it's gonna be better And we buy into that and we we have hope in that. And uh and the year comes and goes, and we think that just because the calendar changed That all of a sudden we're gonna stop being lazy. We're gonna stop eating too much and exercising too little. I'm just talking, y'all. I ain't talking to nobody. We think just because it moved from one year to the next, I mean yesterday you was that way and so just because the calendar changed We think that all of a sudden we're gonna make all the right decisions. We gonna cut off all the cancerous people in our lives. And you know those people have been in your contact since 1998. And they haven't changed either. They still cancerous. But we we move from year to year with this expectation that all al Oh, without any involvement, without any change, our spiritual life is going to get better. I'm going to pray more next year. Didn't you say that last year? I'm gonna come I'm gonna be a church, I'm gonna get involved in a ministry, and I can testify that didn't happen. Just in case you needed a witness. Because I didn't see you We go through this whole cycle of things and We think that things are just gonna get better. Our career is gonna get better. We're gonna go, you know, go to school, we're gonna do this, we're gonna do that. We've got all these hopes and dreams. You know the and the biggest one is always we're gonna lose some weight. Praise the Lord somebody. And um all of that we think is just gonna happen because the calendar changed. And we're going to be different in the same strength of the previous year in the next year. And so I I just want to suggest a few things. If you've been using the same strength for the last ten years and nothing has changed. Amidst all the hopes and all the promises of all the people who have told you and prophesied into your life, it's gonna get better. And you still doing the same thing that you was been that you were doing, I just want to encourage you on something. I want I want to help you. It's not going to change in the same string. I'm sorry, bearer of bad news, but Let me suggest something to you as well. The things that go on in our lives just don't happen by chance. Not everything that happens just happens by chance. And so we think by chance it's going to change. No, there are some There are some real spiritual warfare issues that we're dealing with. Y'all still here with me? Um the there they're not just mental problems and there are people and there are those that are dealingishing that there are those that are dealing with true real mental issues. There are those that are dealing with true real physical issues, but all of our issues are not just merely mental or physical. In fact, the reality is even some of our mental and physical problems Are a result of a spiritual attack on your life. I'm going to preach way better than y'all saying amen. So it's okay. It's okay. It's okay. I'm coming up your street. I'm just taking my time getting here. I got a long porch. That means I'm got a long introduction. Okay, so I'm just gonna walk through my porch this morning or this evening and and get you there eventually. But spiritually, um we are being impacted by powers and principalities in spiritual places. That's real. Ephesians 6 lets us know. We're not just wrestling against flesh and blood, but we're wrestling against spiritual wickedness in heavenly places. That's what that's what we're up against. And if I keep trying to fight spiritual warfare with physical weapons and promises from people who are only trying to promote themselves, then I will keep on ending my years defeated. Spiritually defeated, physically defeated, emotionally defeated, and nothing is ever going to change. Y'all stay here with me? I want to encourage you in twenty twenty-three through this text that we have in front of us on tonight and through the other text that we will examine over the next few and several weeks. I want to encourage you to in in 2023 to walk differently, okay? I want to give some context to this particular passage that I'm in right here because This alone might not be beneficial to you to apply if you don't understand how we got here and what what Jesus has done before he says this. And so I need to take you back to John's Gospel where in John Jesus it knows he's about to be crucified. He knows he's going to have to leave his disciples, and in John Somewhere around chapter 14, and you're very familiar with it. He lets his disciples know, I gotta leave you, but he he says to them, he gives them this message: I'm not gonna leave you as orphans. I will come back to you in the later days. I'm coming back. I'm not just going to leave you here by yourself, but I'm coming back to you. And we'll we'll dig into those uh texts later on the next few weeks um so you can kinda get some more depth to that as well, but um he says um I I I I want you to understand something. I'm gonna send you a walking companion Who will walk with you when I'm gone? Help me, Lord. I've been walking with you. You now for three years. You've watched me, you've witnessed me, you've seen the power and the manifestation of what has happened through me. And I'm getting ready to leave you, but I don't want you to Be discouraged. Don't let your heart be troubled. I'm I'm going to send you A comforter. I'm going to send you a walking companion who will walk with you. And I want you to know that this walking companion comes with power. Y'all still here? And so for this year, 2023, I want me to use uh for us And for the purpose of this message on tonight, the theme: walking in the power of the Holy Spirit. I just lost about half of my Baptist people. My Pentecostal people they they their legs are shaking right now. My holiness people they ready to jump. They ready to jump. They they ready to jump. They say, Pastor, come on, come on, come on. My Baptist people like mmm No but the Holy Spirit stuff. Help me, Jesus. And and and that's one of the reasons why we're still living the same way. Can I be honest with us? The truth is that we are spending a lot of our saved and sanctified days. Not walking in the power that was made available to us. Um I have a I'm a car guy. I love cars. And um I have I I bought another truck. I didn't need it, but I bought it anyway. So, okay. And so far I really haven't really got into it yet. I just I've been driving it nicely. Just respectfully. But it's it's a V eight. It's a five point seven liter V eight and it takes a lot of gas A lot of gays. And so I was I was going somewhere the other day and I needed to move this truck. Just a little bit faster. Than I was moving it. So, in other words, I was sitting on 5. 7 liters of V8 power. But I was driving it in eco mode. Like a little old lady on her way to church. Y'all still here with me? So on this occasion, this one occasion since I bought the new truck, it's been about three or four months. On this one occasion, my wife probably different, but on this one occasion, I got into it a little bit, just a little bit, and I realized the mass of power That I hate. It was exuberating. Well, Pastor, why do you say that story? Because there's a lot of people living their life as Christians. And they're walking in eco mode, like a little old lady, on her way to church. But it's not because you don't have the power. You've got the power, you're just not accessing it or using it. The text says, and you shall receive power when the Holy Ghost comes upon you. The Holy Ghost, that's a um an original King James version of the text. That scares Baptist people. Talking about the Holy Ghost. So I think for the you know new international version, for the um um New King James version, for the I think the um Some of the other modern verses, they they softened it for the Baptist people and they called it the Holy Spirit. But you shall receive power. When the Holy Spirit comes upon you. And the idea I think that I really want to push for us in 2023 is to walk in that power of the Holy Spirit. Now I'm gonna scare some of y'all along the way. This I'm gonna I'm gonna be honest with some of y'all gonna get scared. Don't get scared though. Just just hold on. Hold on. Because everything I'm telling you is in the word. I'm not I'm not making up nothing. It's in the word. And so but I want you to understand that when you use the power It might scare you a little bit at first because you've been driving in eco mode and you didn't even know you had a turbo. Y'all still here? So I'ma I'm gonna tell you um we're gonna work walk away through over the next few weeks. So In this text, walking in the power of the Holy Spirit, Jesus says to his disciples, now when we get to Acts Jesus has already been crucified. He's been resurrected from the dead. He's been showing himself to his disciples and showed up to them and showed up to them and showed up to him. And now at this particular point, we're getting he's getting ready to ascend to heaven. So he's getting ready to leave them for good, and this m this is the last thing he says to them as he uh is getting ready to ascend. He's getting ready to leave them there. And he lets them know. He'd already let them know. Look, I need you to go to Jerusalem. I need you to go and wait there because I'm going to meet you there. And when He gets there to have this conversation with them. He says to them, look, I'm getting ready to leave you, and when I leave you. You shall, watch this, you shall be uh how do I use what do I say? Um You shall be relieved of the power you have because the power that that's with you won't be with you anymore. In other words, the power that you have is me. I'm Been with you for three years. I have done marvelous things in your midst. I've been the power you've relied on, but I'm getting ready to leave. And so you're going to be, you're going to be in a position where you no longer have that power with you. That's what he says. And that's what he says. But you shall receive power. Why does he say that? He says that because when I leave, you won't have it. And and perhaps the thought of some is how are we going to deal now with all the challenges that come our way when you're gone, Jesus? So he lets them know, without me you won't have power, but I thought about you. I I have plans for you. And when I go, I'm going to I'm I'm going to make sure that that I'm going to send some power back for you Y'all y'all still hear? I I I need somebody to hear this when he's when listen, he when when I Jesus, I hear Jesus When I, the all-powerful, omnipotent God, leaves, there's no power. When I'm not walking in the in the in the presence and with the Almighty, omnipotent God, I have no power. Y'all still here with me? When I'm walking alone and trying to figure it out by myself, I have no power. I am without power. When he's not with me, I have no power. I don't care how smart you are, I don't care how how rich you are, I don't care how educated you are, without him, you have no power. I don't care how con Canal I don't care who your friends are. I don't care how high in power they may sit, but without him, you have no power. It's no power. Without him, we're nothing. We have no power. He says, no power without him. There's just no power. You have no power to wage war in the spiritual realm without me. I'm leaving you. I'm taking all my power with me because when I got up from the grave, I got up with all the power, and I'm going back to glory with my power. And when I leave you, when I'm no longer in your presence, you won't have power, but you shall receive power. I'm loving this. Because while I was with you, disciples, while I was present with you, I had power to heal the sick. And to raise the dead, I had power to feed those that were hungry with what we had. I was able to multiply it and feed thousands. I was able to remove demons from people, and I was able to face the enemy to him his face, and I was able to deal with that with my power. I was even able to go to the grave and get up. To continue our journey, tune in next week for the second half of today's message. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed. By today's message. Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. And remember to reference the title or broadcast date. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlboro, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301-627 Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.