Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling the Third Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling Um first Chronicles chapter twenty-nine, uh beginning at verse one, reads as follows. Furthermore, King David said to all the assembly, My son Solomon, whom alone God has chosen, is young and inexperienced. And the work is great, because the temple is not for man, but for the Lord God. Now for the house of my God I have prepared with all my might gold for the things to be made gold, silver for the things of silver, bronze for the things of bronze, iron for the things of iron, wood for the things of wood, onyx stones. stones to be set, glistening stones and various colors, all kinds of precious stones, and marble slabs in abundance Moreover, because I have set my affection on the house of my God, I have given to the house of my God over and above all that I have prepared for the holy house my own special treasures of gold and silver. Verse six then the leaders of the fathers houses, leaders of the tribes of Israel, the captains of the thousands and of the hundreds, with the officers over the king's work, offered willingly And they gave for the work of the house of God five thousand talents and ten thousand darks of gold, ten thousand talents of silver, eighteen thousand talents of bronze, and one hundred a thousand talents of iron, and whoever had precious stones gave them to the treasury of the house of the Lord, into the hand of Jael the Gershonite. Then the people rejoiced, for they had offered willingly, because with a loyal heart they had offered willingly to the Lord, and the King David also rejoiced greatly. Verse sixteen. O Lord our God, all of this abundance that we have prepared to build you a house, for your holy name is from your hand. And is all your own. I know also, my God, that you test the heart and have pleasure in the uprightness. As for me, In the uprightness of my heart, I have willingly offered all these things, and now with joy I have seen your people who are present here to offer willingly to you. Would you pray with me this morning, Father? We need you in this preaching hour that you might declare clearly your word in such a way, God, that we would grow, that we would be more like what you want us to be, as opposed to what we have settled in being Spirit of the Lord, I'm praying if there's anyone that doesn't know you as Lord and Savior of their life, that today would be the day that they would surrender and say yes to your will. That they would accept the free gift of eternal life that has been provided through the death, burial, and resurrection of your Son Jesus Christ. I pray, Spirit of the Living God, that those who are drifted in fellowship who who who have broken off the relationship with you, God, that they will be drawn back into fellowship with you on today. Father, someone came this morning and they said Within themselves, I just need to hear a word from God. Lord, speak in such an extraordinary way that they would know beyond a shadow of a doubt that it's not Sterling speaking, but it's you speaking. God, speak into their heart, speak into their life. Help us, God, to be more like you. Edify this body, Father, and above and beyond everything else that is done and said. It is my fervent desire So Lord, here I am, a vessel in your hand. Use me according to your will, God, that I might speak clearly, I might think clearly. I might be able to articulate what you've laid upon my heart in such a way, God, that everyone would understand. Father, I bless you in advance for what you're going to do, and I believe by faith you'll do it. It's in Jesus' name I pray with thanksgiving. And expectation. Amen. In the book of Haggai, or rather, Haggai as a prophet himself, during the post-exilic time, chastened The returnees of Israel from exile. He encouraged them on the one hand, but he chastened him on the them on the other hand, because though they had gone back to their homes And back to where they had been exiled from, kicked out of, if you will, they had begun to take and invest the resources of God and not to rebuild his temple as they were supposed to or should have done But rather they were taking the resources of God and the energies, if you will, and the efforts to rebuild and to build pleasurable homes for themselves. And so Haggai chastens them for such behavior. Following the resurrection of Jesus Christ, Peter, whom the Lord loved, whom denied the Lord. And the other disciples along with him who were supposed to be going to get themselves in position in order that they might be equipped to build God's kingdom instead of going to where he told them to be, they Peter decided, I'm going fishing. And as sometimes happens, the followers, which were the other disciples, followed him. And they went fishing instead of going and getting in position so that they could be equipped to build the kingdom of God. The Apostle Paul writes in 2 Corinthians to a blessed church who has a multitude of resources and a multitude of gifts. They've got all the gifts working and they got all kinds of resources and finances and everything. And yet they've got a lot of problems. But Paul writes to that church. To remind them that they had promised to give an offering uh for the church at Jerusalem, but till the moment they had not given it. They had not completed the assignment. had left the the the gift that they said that they were going to give. They had left it undone. They had not done it. And Paul writes kind of a strong letter to them and somewhere around ch uh chapter nine he starts getting real harsh on them and he says, look Um don't let it be that when I get there, I'm gonna have to get on you and and that I'd have others with me and then it would be a whole scenario of embarrassment to you. And so he writes to uh encourage them to to do what they said they were going to do. Uh in our texts on this morning, uh King David is calling upon Israel to come together to give to the effort of finishing uh this work of building a house for God. Uh he's gathered all of the resources and and God had As much as David wanted to build this house himself, God said, You got blood on your hands, David, and so it won't be you. But rather it has to go to your son for this to happen. And so David is calling upon them to bring the resources together so that everything would be available and in place so that together they could build God's temple. And as I kept looking through Scripture and understanding this process, even of what I'm looking at, it seems pretty evident to me that Scripture seems to declare and make clear that. God's people have difficulty finishing the assignment of giving to the building of his temple. Y'all still here with me? I want to talk to you on today from this subject matter, give to finish the work. Now begin into this year I challenge us to finish paying off this facility and just to give you a little bit of history. We started this work by raising resources and The first ten million dollars of the project to build this facility was was raised and paid for in cash. Somebody should have said Amen. And so over the next six years Um we paid off an additional six plus million dollars. Amen. Amen. And when we came in, some of you may remember this, when we came into this facility, um we had not finished the kitchen in the facility. And they had given us at that time a price tag of around $350,000 that we would have needed to finish the kitchen. And before the year was out We had raised in excess of three hundred and fifty thousand dollars to finish the kitchen. And the kitchen is is now finished. Amen. And so we we're we're we're almost there. And so I uh uh you know by by year seven, the time we get to the seventh year, we have the opportunity to have paid off everything. Amen. For us, like all the other examples that I've given you in the text. It it will require all of us to come together and finish this work. When we look at this process of what we're Trying to do, let me remind you one thing that this is just a building. This is the temple. So I want to look in this text and I want to see uh and maybe draw some information from the text. That we've read and you're hearing from first chronicles chapter 29 that might help us to finish the work, to give in order to finish the work. Stay here. First of all, I want to look at the motivation for giving because people won't give unless they're motivated to give. When we look at this text, the motivation for giving, David says in verse number one, it is a great work. Lord help us here. Why should I give? Why should I give to finish this temple? To build this temple, David? Why should I give to finish This project that that is before us. Why should I do that? Because it's a great work. It's a great work. Till now, God has not had a house, a solid building to live in up until now. And so David wants to build a house, a solid structure for God to dwell in and it's a great work. It's going to take a lot. There's a lot of detail involved. There's a lot in that that's going to go into this. This is not a a paste it together, put it together Snap it together project. No, it's gonna require men who are anointed by God for the purpose of of working with metal and gold and silver. It's it's just a great work. This is an assignment. Not only that's gonna require a lot going in, but the project. that we're doing is a great work for God. It's great work. It's a great work. That might and should motivate us, but David says it's a great work. And he comes back and he says, listen to this. My son Solomon is young. He's the one who's got the building. He's been the one chosen for it. He's inexperienced, but the work is great. Because the temple is not for man, but for God. What makes this work so great of building this temple is because this temple belongs to God And so, therefore, we're going to we're going to be motivated to give to this project, David says, because it's a a work that is not for man. This is not for man's glory. This is for God's glory. This temple is for the purpose that God would get glory so that When people come and they see the temple that we build, that we put in the intricacies, that we give in it the detail, that we've been certain to make sure that we follow every instruction of God to do things God's way. God will get glory. This is God's house. So David says the motivation ought to be because it's a great work, but it is great because it's not for man. It's for God. I could liken that as to this building as well. This building is not for us. This is for God. This is so that it facilitates opportunity for people to who don't know Jesus for their eternal destiny to be changed. This is a place where legacies are being built, where it not just not legacies so that we can remember your name, but legacies so that we can remember his name. This is his legacy center. This is about him. This is God's house. This ain't even Sterling's house. Don't talk about that's Pastor Sterling Church. This is not my church. This is God's house. This is his building. And it's for God. And so even the work we've done, even what we do here, it's for God. It's all about Him. It's not about us. It's for His glory. So they're motivated because it's a great work and it's for God and not for man. And he says, look, verse number three says, Moreover, I have set my affection on the house of my God. I have given to the house, and he goes, he says, I've given to the house of my God over and above all that I even set aside. I love this. This is good. He says, I'm motivated to give with all my might. I'm gonna give I'm giving with with everything I have. This great work that's not for man, but it's for God. He says I'm preparing this thing for God and I've prepared Things silver, gold, bronze, wood, everything in this place, stones I've done. Moreover, I've I've set my affection on my on the house of my God, and and I have given to the house of my God over and above all That was prepared. I mean, he I mean, he just he just went wild on giving for God. I'm giving with everything I have, I'm giving with all my strength, I'm giving with all my my might. to the purpose of making sure that God's house, his temple, gets built gloriously. Goes on, he talks about you know the things gold and silver and on and on and how much and how many and all that. And and and David basically lets us know, look uh Um I'm w and let me say this: when we do something for God, we always ought to do it with all of our might. Colossians uh chapter three um says, whatever you do Do it with all your heart to the Lord. Ecclesiastes, whatever your heart finds to do, do it with all your might. David says, I'm I'm giving to this kingdoms project, this this this temple. I'm doing it with everything I've got. I'm not holding back anything. In fact, I even gave above and beyond what I had set aside to give, because I have set my affection on the house of God David's affection, his heart was set on doing this work for God and making sure it was the provisions were there. Not only did he give, but he gave again above and beyond. David had prepared to give to the Lord, and when he started giving, he ended up giving in excess of what he had set aside to give. Because he was motivated by God to give. After the motivation of giving, I just want to look at for a moment, the method of giving. Look at chapter 29, verse 6. The leaders in the fathers and houses, the leaders and tribes, and the captains of thousands and hundreds, and the officers, and everybody, look how they did it. This is the method. They did it willingly. Y'all see that? They were not under compulsion. I'm not trying to put anybody under compulsion today. I'm just I'm walking through the scripture. I gotta preach it all, whether we like it or not They gave according to a willingness. They offered to the Lord willingly. All the leaders came together and they they they led. Can I talk to my leaders for a moment? They led by giving first. They did not step back and say, Let me see what everybody else is going to do. They led by giving. They gave in leading, and they did it willingly, and not out of compulsion. They had an opportunity that was provided for them, and they met the opportunity with willingness. To give to this house that was going to be built for God. And God loves it when we give willingly. He loves a cheerful giver. And so they gave, and they gave not only willingly, but if I keep on reading, it says they gave what was precious. Whoever had precious stones, verse 8. They gave them to the treasury of the house of the Lord into the hands of Jael the Gershonite. So they gave the precious things to God. And we might say, well, Pastor, I don't I don't necessarily have any precious stones, and you probably if I gave them y'all probably wouldn't want them What I want to focus on is what they gave was precious to them. There are things that we have. Help me, God, just to talk with my people. There's things that we have that are precious to us that we won't give to God because they're precious to us. Lord help me, God. We we we've got some bank accounts that we said I'm never gonna let it go below this level because that's precious to me. We got some habits that are precious to us that we don't want to give up. That we could use the resources that we're using on our habit to give to God. We have some shopaholics in the house and Pastor if you stop me from shopping that's precious to me. Amen, Jesus. They gave up what was precious, precious to them, of great value. They they went into those secret bank accounts Into those boxes under the bed. In between the mattress. And they they took that and they gave it so that the house of God could be finished. What was precious. But they made the sacrifice to give what was precious. To the building of the temple, because the temple was for God and not for man. Y'all still with me? This is the method. This is the way in which they did what they did. I I believe if we're gonna follow the method to give, let's just do it willingly. Let's let's do it and let's give what's precious to us. I'm almost ready to jump ahead of myself. They gave verse 9 said, rejoicing. In the collection. Then the people rejoiced, for they had offered willingly, because with a loyal heart they had offered willingly to the Lord, and the King David also rejoiced greatly. These people gave, and they gave willingly, but they also gave rejoicing because together they had all come together and done this thing. And they they were excited about it. And this is doesn't happen in church much anymore, where people get excited about giving. But I think we should. And that's why when we say it's offering time, I just believe we ought to just break out in an enthusiastic roar of clapping and incitement and enthusiasm because God is giving us the opportunity to obey him in giving back to him what belongs to him and to glorify him by giving. But these came together and they gave and they gave enthusiastically They gave willingly. They gave what was precious. And they gave rejoicing because we all had come together and done this thing. You know when you come together and work with somebody else and every and you you're able to accomplish a goal, that's rejoicing time You know, you if you're trying to do it all by yourself and it's like, ah man, this is this hard. And sometimes you don't even give up and you feel like I'm the only one But when we can all come together and do it, and we all step back and say at the end of the day, look what we did together. We can rejoice together. And especially if what we've done was for God. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor. Buch Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed By today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at kettering ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship Services, Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301 six two seven nine five zero zero please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. On Andy Christman, in his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down With the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.