Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. So the word of the Lord from Philippians chapter 3, beginning at verse 13, reads as follows, Brethren, I do not count myself to have apprehended. But one thing I do. Forgetting those things which are behind and reaching forward to those things which are ahead, I press toward the goal. For the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. Would you pray with me? Father in heaven, we honor you, we bless you tonight. Thank you. for the incredible grace that has brought us through 2021, even to this very moment tonight. God, as we stand here to declare your word, it is my My fervent prayer, Lord, that you would speak through these lips of clay, that you would give my mind clarity of thought, my lips clarity of speech, that the word of God got tonight, Lord, might change somebody's equal Eternal destiny. Someone who's lost might come to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. Someone who's drifted in their fellowship with you, God, may return to Fellowship with you once again. Father, someone who's in trouble might be rescued, someone who's distant might become close. Lord, edify the body of believers. Glorify yourself. And all that is done and said, I stand as a vessel, Lord, to be used by you. Have your own way even now. Spirit of the Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen and amen. Twenty twenty one has taken us through a lot. A whole lot Uh and now as we're winding down to the end of 2021, and just a little while, we'll be uh celebrating into 2022 a new year. We've been through all kinds of things. We've been through pandemic protocols and grief and uh climbing prices on everything from gasoline to potato chips. I mean everything cost like Just it's everything is ridiculous. I mean I went to the store the other day and uh I went to go get me some Wheaties. And Wheaties was nine dollars a box. I said, I'm not eating no Wheaties today. I mean everything is just ridiculous. And so we're dealing with all of these um challenges we're dealing with the um not only the things that that are directly related to the pandemic but also just the uh the the climate and the weather and the transitions and the the the the floods and the fires and the tornadoes and the hurricanes and the volcano eruptions and the tsunamis i mean we'd had everything this year if we We'd have rain, we've had drought, we've had flood, we've had everything. Just about everything that you can have weather-wise, we've had it. And we've endured. And God has kept us. And he's continued to bless us to keep moving on. COVID itself uh just has caused a lot of delay. uh a lot of postponements, a lot of disruptions in our lives and in our journey. And so as we move into 2022 and as we've dealt with all these challenges in 2021, I I have been praying Lord, what What direction? What wisdom? Where are you leading us in 2022? And and so God, I I need to I as I sought that answer from God, God directed me um to the the the the thematic idea that we'll use for twenty twenty two and for our subject of the text on tonight. And that is, and I want to talk From that subject matter this evening, achieving our full potential in Christ. As I stated, as a result of all the challenges we've been through, We've been delayed, we've been held up, we've been uh how do I say rearranged. We've if in fact even throughout 2021 our theme was reprioritizing our lives because we couldn't do the things the way we used to To do it. So we have to re-prioritize, we have to reshape things and redirect things. And so as we move into 2022, the what what I've been uh just laid upon my heart and and God just continued to put it in front of me is that we have not Achieved our full potential. And so I want to encourage us in 2022, and through this text this evening. From that idea of achieving your full potential in Christ. Now, in order to achieve our full potential in Christ, there are some essential evaluations that we have to make in order to do that. And the Apostle Paul in this text does, I believe, an excellent job of pointing us through some of those fundamental evaluations. That are going to be essential for you and me to achieve our full potential in Christ in 2022. Y'all still here? Tonight I'm I'm just gonna kinda do a little overview of it, but then as we move into this because I'm gonna keep going through a series through this month of Jan through the month of January and build on it and dig down deeper. But I just kind of want to overview it tonight and just kind of show you what Paul says. Here in the text, if we're going to achieve our full potential. And Paul starts off by telling us here in the text: he says, Brethren, I do not count myself to have apprehended. I like that because what he starts off with is what we need to start off with, and that is we need to start off with first of all acknowledging our present condition. Are y'all still here with me? Now, I I just happen to know we're in church, but just because we're in church doesn't mean that church folk don't lie. Church folk lie because when you ask them how you doing Amen. Somebody. Praise the Lord. Hallelujah. I'm doing wonderful. Fine. And they and they then they're miserable. Life is falling apart. They would just come just contemplating suicide before they came in. And I mean they they'll tell you anything at the moment because church folk lie. Can we just be honest? They won't even be honest now. If we're going to achieve our full potential in Christ, we have to. It is essentially necessary for us to acknowledge our present condition. The Apostle Paul says here, with the greatest degree of honesty, he assesses his situation. He says, I have not yet arrived. I love it. He says, look, brethren, and as he speaks openly, I do not count myself to have apprehended. Now You've got to realize that the apostle Paul has done a lot of things. He's he's got a lot of accolades, he's got a lot of degrees, he's got a lot of education, he's been through a whole lot, he's survived a whole lot. He's admired a whole lot, but yet he still at this very instance is honest about his present situation. He's acknowledging his present. He says, I have not Yet I don't count myself to have apprehended. I have not achieved it all. I have not acquired my full potential in Christ Jesus. Now, here's the question. He says not that I not that that that I'm I count myself to have apprehended. I don't I don't evaluate as I evaluate myself as I do a self-assessment. I don't consider myself to have apprehended it all. The question tonight is, where are you? Honestly, where are you as this question of your acknowledgement of your present state Is presented to you. Where are you? Have you arrived yet to your full potential? Is God finished With you? Is there nothing else that God can do in your life? Are you have you reached the age and the the accolades such that you won't grow anymore and God can't use you anymore? I mean where where are you honestly? Is there nothing else that in the in the in the in the in the the storeroom of God that that you can achieve or acquire or do Where are you honestly? And I think if I'm going to move towards achieving my full potential, I have to be honest with where I am. Now, if I say, you know what, I'm already there I've done it all. I've achieved it all. There's nothing else for me to do. Then you're lying to yourself, first of all. And second of all, you're limiting your potential to achieve any more. Y'all still here with me? If you think you have already arrived, you won't go any farther than you are. I I hope this is getting plain. This is not a complicated message, but I think we do have to be honest with ourselves as to where we are. Now, as you're evaluating, as you're thinking, I can almost hear here in the sanctuary, I can almost hear some thoughts Of some people thinking, you know what, Pastor, you're right, I'm not there yet, but in 2022, I'm gonna get it together. You said that in 2020 and 2018 and 2017 and 2010. And 2000. And and and the truth of the matter is not not that you're on this progression of getting better. For some you haven't gotten any better. Let's be honest. You still doing the same thing. You still you still lying Still getting drunk. Still waking up in places you don't know who. Yeah, I just thought it was gonna be nice, easy stuff, huh? If you haven't moved from where you were, let's be honest. I I have not yet Achieved, I have not yet acquired, I've not yet gotten there. Like Paul says, I I I I can't count myself to have apprehended. I've got to be honest with where I am. And Paul is honest, and I think in our honesty, it's more than just acknowledging that I'm not there yet. Okay, y'all still here? Because That's part of it, is is is saying I'm not there yet, but some of us use that as uh as a common excuse, you know, God's not finished with me yet, and so we still do what we do. You just say, oh yeah, God's not finished with me yet. After we cuss people out, yeah, you know God ain't finished with me yet. After we finish the fifth, oh yeah, God ain't finished with me yet No. It has to be an acknowledgement with a preparation to do better. I'm I'm I'm preaching way better than y'all saying amen. I don't need no organ for that one. Yeah. You you've got to be able to say this is honestly where I am. And where I am is not my full potential in Christ Jesus, but but my desire, my my passion, my My plan is to move towards accomplishing what's yet ahead. And in acknowledging that I'm not there yet, I'm also acknowledging that I am failing the potential of God in me. Lord help us help us here. So so so he says, look, okay, uh he acknowledges first of all the present. We've we've got to acknowledge the present. And and in acknowledging the present, it's gonna bring up some stuff, okay? It's gonna bring up some stuff that you probably don't wanna talk about. It's some stuff that you don't wanna remember. It's gonna bring up some stuff. But but you've got to deal with that in order to move on to your full potential. Y'all still here with me? Okay. So Paul says, I do not count myself to have apprehended, but one thing I do. Forgetting those things which are behind. That's the second assessment The second thing we have to do. We've got to acknowledge our present condition, but we have to forget the past. Um say that with me. Forget the past. Okay, one more time. Y'all did that pretty good too. One more time. And you know why it's so easy to say that on December the thirty-first? Because we can't wait to forget 2021. But there's more that you we need to be forgetting. And the Apostle Paul says, I'm forgetting those things that are behind me. Because your past life and watch this. This is necessary. It is essential. If I'm going to fulfill, if I'm going to achieve my full potential, I have got to forget what is behind me. I cannot move forward while I'm looking back. Help me somebody. My my past has a powerful potential to ensnare me and to capture me and to hold me hostage for years Can I talk to somebody this evening? Some of us are 40 and 50 years old, but you are still ensnared to things that happen to you when you attend. You're in a 50-year-old body, but you've got 10-year-old problems. You've got five-year-old issues. You've got Lord help us today. You're still in the past. You're still stuck on the bro man that walked away from you. Sister girl that cheated on you. You are still hung up on the hang-up saying you can't move forward and achieve your full potential if you're still looking back. Paul says forget about it I've got to forget those things that are behind me. I've got to forget those things. I've got to I've got to look ahead. I can't I can't keep looking back. I've got to forget the things that are but Paul says I'm forgetting those things are behind me. But but but but but as I looked at this Paul is not just saying I'm forgetting bad stuff because yes forget the bad stuff forget the bad things that happen to you and when when I say forget I'm not just saying uh flush it out of your brain Okay? Because it's not so easy to flush some hurts out of your brain. Some things folk did to you and some things you did to folks. And it's not always so easy to just flush that out of your brain. But let me say this: don't park there. Does that make sense? Don't park your don't park. Don't Lord help. Keep moving. Don't don't don't stay in the past. Don't get stuck there. Don't keep going around the block and keep coming back to the same place. You say you're moving on, but you keep ending up at the same place. You keep Lord help us, you you keep going around and around in a circle, and every time you get there, it's somebody else's fault. Why is it always somebody else's fault? No, so at some point I've got to acknowledge this is my problem and I got to deal with the problem and move on. I've heard people say, why do I keep getting these same kind of people in my life? I'm a fisherman. And one thing I learned about fishing is that you catch a certain kind of fish with a certain kind of bait. I'm really preaching now. So you wanna know why you keep going around the same circle catching the same fish? Because you're fishing in the same pond with the same bait. Lord help somebody right there. Change the bait, change the pawn. Forget what is behind. You've got to move on. You gotta stop blaming everybody else for your issue. Acknowledge your own condition, acknowledge your own issues, acknowledge your own problems, and move on. Forget those things that are behind. Paul, when he says this, he and again The first thing that comes to our mind is let's forget all those bad things. But Paul is not just forgetting the bad things. Paul is forgetting his accomplishments as well. Because guess what? Our accomplishments can also hold us hostage from achieving the greatest potential that God has for us. Some of us are still celebrating that you were the captain of the cheerleader squad and you 75 years old. You can't cheer no more. You won the hundred-yard dash 35 years ago And if you had to dash now, you can't do it. You doing DoorDash So it's not just the bad things, you've got to forget even the positive achievements because positive achievements of your past can hold you hostage from achieving the greatest and fullest potential that God has for you. Listen, some people some people go through life and they things come easy for them and they get achievements and they they get this and they get that and things come and some people work hard for it and they get there and they say you know what I worked hard for this and this is it. No That's not it. If you're still here, if you're still breathing, if God is still speaking, God is still calling you to go higher, to go deeper, to go further. Yes, you wrote one book, write another. Yes, you were on one program, do another program. Yes, you did this. raced this, you did that. That other means over. Forget what you already achieved. You can't hang on to what you achieved in the past. Paul says I'm forgetting those things. And if you if you read back earlier, he he lays out, he says, look, I I I I I I've I I'm forgetting I'm counting all those achievements as loss. The only way I can I can I can focus on achieving my full potential is to take my mind off of previous accomplishments and previous pain. And press forward to what's ahead of me because listen, what's ahead of me is better than what was behind me. Listen, listen. If I'm walking with God, I Lord, I'm never going to go into a worse place than I've been. Stay here with me. Does that mean I won't have trouble? No, that's not what I did. I didn't say that. That's not what I meant Doesn't mean that the situation won't get worse. I don't mean the situation won't get worse. What I'm saying is God is taking me to a better place. And sometimes, listen, in order to get to the greater place, I got to go through more hell to get to the higher place. But the good news is while I'm going to the higher place, I'm walking with God. And if I'm walking with God, He's leading me to the achieving of the full capacity that He has for me. And if he's got a place for me, I want to be there. And the only way I'm going to get there is I've got to acknowledge where I am right now, and I've got to forget where I was yesterday. I've got to forget the things that are behind me, the Apostle Paul says. And so he says, look, I'm I have not achieved. I'm honest about where I am. He acknowledges his present situation. He says, I'm forgetting the things that are behind me. This is the one thing I do. I forget those things which are behind me. And then he says finally. And I'm reaching forward to those things which are ahead. He closes in verse 14. He says, I press. Toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. The third and final thing here in the text That the Apostle Paul says we need to do to achieve our full potential in Christ. We've got to acknowledge our present condition. Forget the past. But finally, we've got to reach for the future. Now. That sounds sounds easy, sounds simple, but listen. As I began to exegete this text When Paul says I'm reaching, what he literally is saying is I'm extending myself Beyond myself to the extreme that is stretching me. I'm not just reaching that which is in close grasp. No, but I'm stretching and reaching beyond myself to the extreme that it causes me to stretch. And I, oh help us, I can I I can I can envision it. I can my faith says it's there. And and in order to get there, he says, I've got a press. Okay, so let me take you to another level of what he's saying. Not only am I stretching beyond myself to an extreme that it stretches me. Which means achieving my full potential in Christ is not going to be easy. But he says this, he says, I press. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministries of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III Where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org and remember to reference the title and broadcast date. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at the Legacy Center. located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries Or contact our church office at 301-627-9500. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence Beginning Sunday, January 2nd, 2022, the new service times for Adult Sunday School, New Members Class, and Young Adult Power Hour will be 8:45 a. m. to 9:45 a. m. The new service times for in-person worship service, children's church, and nursery will be 10 a. m. Continue to connect with us in-person or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he said. Down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.