Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now Pastor Sterling. Beginning at verse one. And the word of the Lord reads like this Again the children of Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord, and the Lord delivered them into the hand of the Philistines for forty years. Now there was a certain man from Zora of the family of the Danites whose name was Manoah. And his wife was barren and had no children, and the angel of the Lord appeared to the woman and said to her, Indeed now you are barren and have borne no children. But you shall conceive and bear son. Now, therefore, please be careful not to drink wine or similar drink, and not to eat anything unclean For behold, you shall conceive and bear a son, and no razor shall come upon his head, for the child shall be a Nazarite to God from the womb. And he shall begin to deliver Israel out of the hand of the Philistines. Now if you turn from there to chapter 14 at verse number one, just want to read a couple of verses there as well Now Samson went down to Timnah and saw a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines. So he went up. And told his father and mother, saying, I have seen a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines, now therefore get her for me as a wife. And then as uh his father and mother said to him, Is there no woman among the daughters of the brethren, or among all my people, that you must go and get a wife from the uncircumcised Philistines? And Samson said to his father, Get her for me, for she pleases me. But the father and mother did not know that it was of the Lord that he was seeking an occasion to move against the Philistines, for at that time the Philistines had dominion over Israel. Chapter 16, verses 27 and following. If you flip there with me, uh it says this, uh now the temple uh was full of men and women All the lords of the Philistines were there, about 3,000 men and women on the roof watching while Samson performed. And then Samson called to the Lord, saying, O Lord God, remember me, I pray, strengthen me, I pray, just this once, O God, that I may with one blow take vengeance on the Philistines. for my two eyes. And Samson took hold of the two middle pillars which supported the temple, and braced himself against them, one on his right and the other on his left And then Samson said, Let me die with the Philistines, and he pushed with all of his might, and the temple fell on the Lord's and all the people who were in it. And so the dead that he killed at his death were more than he had killed in his life. I'll stop right there. Would you pray with me this morning? Father, we honor you. We bless you. We thank you for your word. We thank you for the worship experience thus far. Lord, we're praying even now that the The power and presence of your Holy Spirit will move in the midst of this time of experience of preaching. Lord, I'm prayerful that you would use me as a vessel in your hand to accomplish your divine and holy will. Spirit of the living God, move in this place and on the line and on the platforms whereby we may broadcast through our radio broadcast through our YouTube, through our Instagram, through our website, through all the venues, Facebook, that we may be getting this message out. I'm praying that your power would move this morning in an extraordinary way, that if anyone, God, is listening that doesn't know you, personally, intimately in the pardon of their sin, that today would be the day, God, that they would surrender their life to you. I'm praying, Lord Jesus, that in the name And in the power of your son, God, that you would allow this day encouragement to be given to someone who's discouraged. I'm praying, God, that you would draw Someone who's drifted away from you, someone who has abandoned the house of hold of faith, someone who has determined I'm not going back to church. Father, I'm praying this morning that you would encourage them That they will be drawn back into the fellowship, that they would be drawn back into that relationship that they once had with you. Father, in the name of Jesus, you have your way. And all that is done and all that is said in this place and in this occasion. And as I yield myself an instrument in your hand, God, I yield as a a vessel to be used for your glory and your honor. For I'm just praying, God, that you would speak through my lips of clay, Lord. Speak through me, use me, strengthen me, give me wisdom. Let my mouth speak clearly, let my thoughts think clearly, let your word go forward. With authority and power, such that the devil of hell cannot hold back or restrain what you intend to have done on this day. So, Spirit of the living God, have your way Even now, God, we're trusting you. In Jesus' precious and powerful name, I pray, with thanksgiving and expectation. Amen and amen. As I've looked at this particular uh story and I'll begin by saying I've been uh Working through Samson's story in life to try to figure out how can I lean in on This story in an effective way to preach it such that God's people can get what they need. From this story of Samson. And I've been wrestling with this story and the life of Samson for probably two or three years. So this is a a message that's a few years in the making. Um because Samson's story is um probably not the the normal story that would encourage people. Uh it's not the nor i it that there's such an oddity to his uh story that it makes it somewhat challenging to uh to present. And even now as I stand, I'm still praying, God, help me to be able to open up this story of Samson in such a way that it would not only uh bless our men on men's day, but also that it would bless every woman, every child, everyone listening with Something that they need to help them on their journey in a powerful way to achieve their full potential in Christ Jesus. Are y'all still here with me? As we examine this book of Judges, I need you to have some historical backdrop and understanding of this text. Judges is a book that records for us what are known as sin cycles in the history of Israel. There are at least six to uh seven to eight Uh some say seven, some say eight, uh sin cycles that are recorded in the book of Judges where uh the Lord uh uh uh blesses Israel and delivers them from some bondage uh of some enemy and for a season they're okay and then they drift back into their wickedness And uh they do wrong and they do evil in the sight of the Lord. And as a result of their evil, God brings judgment on them and puts them in bondage to someone and enslavement to someone and and then they they go through that season and then they get to the point where they can't take it anymore. They cry out unto God and then when they cry out unto God, God comes and delivers them again, and then there's peace for a little while, a little season. And That will come and conquer them or or hold them in bondage. And so that cycle goes around and around and around and around and around some seven or eight times in uh the book of Judges. Judges uh is uh uh the recorded time of Israel's history where the Bible says most often during this period of time men did what was right in their own eyes. One of the most powerful things about the book of Judges is that Judges is written thousands of years ago, but it sounds like 2022. Where everyone justifies their sinful behavior and does what's right in their own eyes and then wants to slap the religion of Jesus on top of it to pretend as if they're okay with God. And then when God brings judgment on them, they they they get into a fit and a f and a frizzy. And eventually they cry back out to God and say, God, I'm sorry for what I've done. I'm not talking about nobody. I'm talking to everybody. And they cry out about what they Done, they know they're in a mess, they know they're in a trouble, and then they cry out unto God and because of his amazing grace He comes and he delivers you out of your mess. I don't know if I got any witnesses in the house. He'll come and get you out of your mess, and then he'll deliver you and set you in a solid place, and then you have peace for a season. But the nature of man and the nature of humanity and the nature of our culture that we live in of today is one in which men still want to do what men want to do. And they want to do what's right in their own eyes. And that is the season. Judges also records uh twelve of the judges that are going to to be uh in leadership and responsibility. They're thirteen total. The other one, the last and final one, Samuel, which is in recorded in his own uh book, first and second Samuel. But there's t the twelve of the judges that are that are recorded here in the book of Judges, and this Samson is the twelfth of all the those in the book of Judges. He's the final judge to be given uh uh uh the story of in the book of judges. And so um i he I'm I'm I'm let me see how I can get into this. During the time of Samson's um reign, he's gonna reign for twenty years. Um but during this time Israel is going to be in bondage to um to the Philistines for forty years. Because of their wickedness. And so they're in this place of servitude to the Philistines when God, in this season, raises up Samson to be a judge in Israel. Y'all still here with me? I want to talk to you on this morning out of this text from the subject matter born for this. Um this is a a question that perhaps I can pose um to you this morning. What were you born for? The men have, as a theme which is in line with the theme of our church for 2022, achieving your full potential in Christ Jesus. But in order to achieve your full potential in Christ Jesus, it is important and enormously relevant for you to first of all know what you were born for. Y'all still here with me? Born for this. In the examination of Samson's story I'll say that, first of all, his full potential was partial deliverance. Stay here with me. I'm in chapter 13. Go back to chapter 13 where we started. In chapter 13, it it says, watch this. And this is this is interesting to see. Samson is a miracle child. Okay? He is his mother and father, Manoah. uh have no children and his mother is barren when the angel of the Lord, not just An angel of the Lord, but the angel of the Lord, which is the pre-incarnate Christ, shows up And has a conversation with this barren woman and says to the barren woman, you're going to have a child. Watch this. And his his purpose in life is going to be to partially deliver Israel from the Philistines. Stay here with me. This barren woman who has no reason for the pre-incarnate Christ to show up and to deliver her this message, other than to let her know that this son that you're going to bring forth is going to be a Nazarite to God, which means his whole life is to be dedicated to God. Stay here with me. And as he gives the message to this barren woman of uh her son that is to be born, he gives her instructions as to how she is to govern herself during her pregnancy. Stay here. He says to her, drink no wine. So that that throws out the the the the parties. No sippin', no tippin' Drink no wine while you're pregnant with this child, because even God knows that what the mother takes in she gives to the child. Who I'm preaching way better than y'all saying amen. And and it she he's the Lord says to her, drink no no wine, nor touch any unclean thing. Lord Jesus. Because the son that is going to be born to you is going to be a Nazarite. He's Dedicated to me. He's a boy that's born dedicated to me, and no razor shall come upon his head. So in other words, don't cut his hair. His hair is uh his commitment to his service to God. Now we will find out later in the story if you read all the way through that is it is within his hair that it seems like Watch this. Seems like his power rests. I'll try to remember to come back to that. But stay here with me. So I'm digging in on this point that his potential, his full potential in life was partial deliverance. Now, after the angel of the Lord came to his mother and told his mother, This son you're gonna be born, and gives her all these instructions, she goes to her husband and tells her husband Uh honey, I just got a visitation from uh this man in shining garments and he told me I was going have a child and so then the father starts asking questions and Manoah reminds me of myself because Manoa starts asking questions that she can't answer. And my wife would probably say, Amen. So some Manoah says Well, what did he say to you? What did he say uh the that that the rule of the son was going to be In essence, what Manoah was asking, what did the angel of the Lord say that the purpose of our son was going to be? What was going to be his potential in life? And so because she couldn't answer the question, the angel of the Lord came back and talked to Manoah and told Manoah, Manoah, this is his purpose in life. That he would partially deliver Israel from the Philistines. It's in chapter 13, verse 5, I believe it is. For behold, he shon conceived this son, he's gonna be a Nazarite from God, and at the very end, and he shall begin to deliver Israel out of the hand of the Philistines. That's his purpose in life. Now, as I look at that, I need I I it it kind of messed me up because Samson's life story probably looks more like most of our story. Now let me let me see if I can walk this back. When we started the year off and we were preaching through this series of messages, achieving your full potential in Christ. And then someone says to you, you need to achieve your full potential in Christ. Probably few of us have the idea that our full potential is partial deliverance. Watch this. But but the reality is most of our lives look like this. Mm uh listen, um m most of our lives is not making it all the way to the finish line. Let me see if I can fix it up another way. Um Everybody's not gonna be the champion. Everybody won't get the the Super Bowl ring. All of us can't be president of the club, president of the class, president of the association, president of the United States. Everybody not gonna make it to presidency Everybody's not gonna be the hero or the she ro. Everybody's life does not look like and and their full watch it and this and their full potential in Christ. is not that they are at the top of everything. I'm digging in. I'm digging in. Um we we need to we need to we need to embrace that because sometimes we feel like failures in our life because we haven't achieved what somebody else has. But if your full potential is to achieve partial deliverance, Then you're then your then your life is pleasing to God. Can I dig really in your business? Some of you who are listening to me, y you need to hear. Um You were not made for, you were not born for full deliverance. You were born only to accomplish so much. You are the assist man. Or woman. What are you talking about, Pastor In other words, you're not going to dump the ball. You were born just to pass it to the next guy. Watch this. But if you examine the life of some of the great assist men in history, the dunker can't dunk without the assist. But your full potential is to do a good assist. Lord help me God. And and and that oh God and and Samson's Divine calling and appointment and birth purpose was only to partially deliver Israel from the hand of the Philistines. Now, if we were evaluating Samson's life, we would say, man, this dude, he didn't, he didn't get there. He was unsuccessful. He was uh marginal uh because he didn't achieve We would say he didn't achieve his full potential. With all the strength that Samson had, he could have achieved far more That's what we would say. He could have delivered Israel completely out of the hands of the Philistines. That's what we would say. But if you don't know, here I need to put put this pen in. If you don't know what God's purpose is for a person, stop judging them thinking that they can do more. Can can I can I can I meddle just a little bit more, just a little teeny bit more. We also need to be careful in that even with our own children. You know what I like about what Manoah did? Manoah didn't say I'm gonna make Samson the same kind of man I am. Manoah said, what did the Lord say his purpose was? And as parents, we need to find out what does the Lord say? The full potential of our children is instead of them comparing them to our smarter child or our this child or that one across the street or our cousin or neighbor or somebody else That might not be their purpose. But guess what? Even though your purpose might be partial deliverance, you are no less successful than the one who carries it to the end. Samson's full purpose is just to partially deliver Israel out of the bondage that they're in. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the Radio Broadcast Ministry. of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web Please visit our website at kettering ministries. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship Services, Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlboro, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301 six two seven nine five zero zero please join us again as senior pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman in his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. He sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get. At your podcasts.