Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, stay tuned for the conclusion of last week's message. I'm trying to help somebody right here because maybe that's your situation this morning. Maybe you're looking at your life. Maybe you're looking at our world situation. Maybe you're looking at the pandemic. Maybe You're looking at the in social injustices. Maybe you're looking at a job, or maybe you're looking at a marriage. I don't know what it is, but and you've been crying out to God and you've been having hope in God But your hope seems to get dashed because at every turn it seems like it's getting worse and worse and worse. Can I tell you this? And I know it sounds cliche-ish, but sometimes it has to get worse before it gets better. Or at least it seems like it's getting worse. But watch this in the text. They have hope. In the word of God, because God has said these things. God said, I'm coming. To kill all the firstborn in Egypt. I'm gonna wipe out not just the for firstborn children. But I'm gonna wipe out all the firstborn of their cattle. I'm gonna wipe out all the firstborn of their sheep. I'm gonna wipe out all the firstborn of their oxen. I'm even going Up to Pharaoh's house and I'm taking his firstborn Now, for you, and I, that may not mean a whole lot because we don't we don't operate under this same firstborn system, but to take out the firstborn of Pharaoh means you're taking out his his heir child. His preferred child. And so God in essence says, I'm taking out the preferred. I'm taking out the heir. I'm taking out the first. And there's a reason for this. I can't put it all together for you right now, but I've got to remove the first so that I can be first, if I can say it that way. And God is working something out, but his word comes to them as a means of assurance. That I'm going to do what I said I can do. You can have hope. You can deposit hope in what I said I am going to do. Now we've learned something That we can't put our hope in men because when we put hope in men, men will disappoint us. Men's words don't always come to pass. They make promises and they go back on them, but we've got a God who's not like man. He does not lie, and what he says he's gonna do, he always does, Lord Jesus. When he said to Abraham As much as it seemed impossible, Abraham, I'm going to make your descendants as the sand on the seashore. It seemed impossible to Abraham at that time, but here We are looking at Israel, a nation that has now blossomed and grown so large that if you had told Abraham, these were all your children, Abraham, but All of these came from Abraham, from Isaac, and through Jacob, and now all of these are as greatly numbered as the sand on the seashore. Because The word of God said it was going to happen. And I want to encourage somebody today that you can put your hope in deliverance. When God said he's going to do it, when his word says he's going to do something, he's going to do what he said he's going to do. Help me God. When he says I will keep those in perfect peace whose mind is stayed on me, he will be and he'll do exactly what What he said he's gonna do when he said, I will never leave you, nor will I forsake you. Our God, he'll do what He said he's gonna do. I know mama has gone on, and I know daddy has gone on, but the Lord He said, I'm not gonna leave you he's always there when he said in his word weeping may endure for a night but joy is coming in the morning he's a god of his word he ain't like man to tell you a lie. But joy shown up is coming. When he told them in Israel how if I lay down my life, in three days later I'm coming back and I'm going to pick it up again. You can take him at his word because whatever he said he's gonna do, I declare he's gonna do it. I know it might seem impossible, but if he says I'm gonna deliver you, you can put it in the bank. You can cash that check. You can be assured it's gonna come to pass because whatever he said he's gonna do, he can do and he will do So we can put hope in his word, in the very word of God, because the word of God is secure. And we can hope in the words that he declares unto us. And so for Israel He has spoken to them over and over again, and he said to them, still in chapter 11, he says, even though this deaf angel is coming, but against none of the children of Israel Shall a dog move its tongue? In other words, not even a dog in Israel is going to lose the firstborn. Against man or beast, that you may know that the Lord does make a difference between Egyptians And Israel. Whoo, Jesus. Y'all should have shouted right about this. Somebody should have ran around the bedroom. You should be glad that God makes a difference Between those who belong to him and those who don't. Stay here with me. Some people would take this passage and make it racial. This is not racial, this is relational. This is God saying, I make a difference between those whom I have a relationship with and those who I don't. Israel is God's relational children. Egypt is not. Lord have mercy. Far too many of us are making all of our differences based on race. This ain't got nothing to do with race. Our deliverance is not an issue of race. Our deliverance is a uh an issue of relationship God said, I'm trying to deliver you, Lord have mercy, from not having a relationship with me. And you're perverting the issue. By trying to make it black and white and Mexican and Asian and Hispanic has nothing to do with that. My deliverance for you Has to do with delivering you from ultimate destruction. I know it's painful. I know it's tough going through the things that you go through, but there's something tougher That's coming down the road called the judgment of God. And I came to deliver you from that. Now, let me see if I can walk us through this last piece because this is where the rubber hits the road. Because Hope of deliverance not only should be based on our history of God and based on the word of God. We can have hope based on the word of God, but finally, because of the blood of the Lamb. Lord Jesus. We can have hope in the blood of the Lamb of God. It's in chapter twelve. Chapter twelve, picking up around verse three, I guess it is. Because the Lord is speaking, he's talking to Israel, telling them what I'm what he's gonna do. And let Moses know what's going to happen. And around verse 3, he says, now Moses is what I need you to do. He says, I want you to speak to all the congregation of Israel. Say to them, this is what need you do. I want you everybody go out and get a lamb on the 10th of this month. This is gonna be the brand new year for you. Things are ready to start all over for you It's going to be new life for you. He says, go get a lamb. Everybody get a lamb. On the 10th of the month. One lamb for every house. And if it's a small number of people in the house, Then they can share with their neighbors next door, but enough so that everybody would have some. Watch this. And he says, now I need everybody to keep their land Now, watch this because the the hope in the blood of the Lamb of God is what is of the utmost criticality in terms of deliverance. And here are the components that we have as we walk through the text. First, if you're going to be delivered, everybody needs to have a lamb. Look at verse number five. The lamb shall be without blemish. It's got to be a male lamb of the first year You can take him from sheep or goat, doesn't matter to me. But watch this. I want you to see the criteria that he lays out. First of all, everybody Everybody who's going to be delivered has to have a lamb. And it can't be any old kind of lamb. Don't just go getting the lame lamb and the broke up lamb. And the defective lamb, no, is got to be a lamb without spot or wrinkle. It's got to be a lamb without blemish. If you're going to get delivered. From this death angel that's coming. Stay here with me. I want to translate this from Israel's history to what God is really talking about. Because what we're literally looking at in this text is a foreshadow of what's coming In the future. Lord, have mercy. It's a model, if I can say it that way, of what God is ultimately going to do to bring deliverance to his people. So, if you're going to get delivered from the death angel that is yet to come, from the judgment of God that is yet to come, then you need a lamb. And the lamb has to be without blemish. This is why Muhammad won't work. Because he's not without blemish. This is why Buddha, Confucius, John Smith won't work. You can't cover your Poach with their blood. No, you need the blood of a lamb who does not have blemishes. Watch this. He had to wait until the appointed time to kill the lamb Verse 6 says, on the 14th day. You bomb on the 10th day, but you can't slaughter him. Until the 14th day at twilight. Lord help me, Jesus. So in other words, the lamb, he could only be slaughtered at an appointed time I'm reminded in John chapter 7 when the Pharisees and the scribes and the Jews were trying to kill Jesus and Jesus slept the way when he snuck away from them he says it's not yet my time because he knew that the lamb could only be slaughtered at the appointed time lord help me Jesus this is just a foreshadow of What God was trying to show us that was yet to come. Then He told them, He says, Look, verse number seven, he says, The blood is no good. In other words, you slaughtered a lamb, but I need you to do something with the blood. It ain't no good just to have a slaughtered lamb if you don't use the blood of the lamb. Lord Jesus. Everybody walking around talking about I'm a Christian. I'm a child of God. Well, if you haven't taken the blood and put it on the doorpost of your heart, if you're not covered. In the blood of the lamb, when the death angel comes, he won't pass over. How do you know that preacher? Because the word of God says, When I come. The blood help me God is gonna be a sign over you if you're covered in the blood. I see the blood. Help me God. I'm so glad that Jesus has a way. He's got vision. Even though we don't have it. He's got vision to see who's coming. in the blood you might be covered in your church doctrine you might be covered in your degrees you might be covered in your eloquency of speech In your ability to fool people, but you can't fool God because when He comes, He's looking for the blood, and when I see the blood, I'll pass. Pass over. When I see the blood, I won't bring judgment. When I see the blood, I'll let you live and not die. When I see the blood, I'll know you belong. to me I'm coming looking for the blood nothing but the blood can deliver me I'm glad Martin Luther King And all the others marched in DC. I'm glad for everybody who's done great things in the history of the world. I'm glad. that you love me and I love you no matter what color we are but I came to let you know our love ain't nothing without the blood you March all day, but it won't protect you from the judgment that's yet to come. We've got to march covered in the blood. We've got to march up the hill. of Zion we've got to march to that beautiful city yeah yeah yeah marching up to Zion that beautiful city of Because my deliverance is coming through the blood of the lamb. It's not coming through legislative changes. It's not coming through governmental organizations. not coming based on who's in the White House. My deliverance, your deliverance, it's coming through the blood. Nothing but the blood. Nothing. But the blood, it will never lose its power. Yeah, yeah, yeah. You want hope of deliverance? You better put your hope in the blood, covered in the blood, washed in the blood. I'm glad that our deliverance is in the blood of the Lamb. That Lamb of God who came to take away all the sins of the world. And the children of Israel put the blood of the Lamb on the doorposts of their houses and on the lentils. The houses they ate in. Bible says that night when the judgment of God came in, came in, and he took all the firstborn. He just took their life One after another after another, he just took them. Because there can only be one firstborn. Guess who becomes the firstborn? Jesus Christ. Himself. In other words, I'm God, nobody else. I'm the one. I'm the heir of God. The rightful ruler and king So Jesus Christ becomes. He is the firstborn of God. Came to take away the sin of the world that he might deliver us all, but from the final plague. Which is death. Final plague that we will face. I know we're facing all kinds of plagues and Pandemics and epidemics, facing all kinds of turmoil and confusion, hatred. Final plague, if I can use that term, that we have to face is death. And I don't care how successful you are at making it through all the other things, when you breathe your last breath. Gotta give account to God, and you gotta deal with that death angel. Question is, will God see the blood on your heart On your life that he might pass over you. In other words, if I can say it this way, when the Lord looks at you, he sees the perfection of his son. Because When you take the blood of the Lamb, wash in it, accept Jesus as your Savior and Lord, you're washing in the blood He washes you and cleans you up, sanctifies you, gives you an blood transfusion, takes out the sinfulness of us and puts in the righteousness of God. So when God sees you and me, what he literally sees is the blood of his son, which is righteous and holy. Therefore, we are connected with him. Adopted in him. We're his children. But if you're disconnected from him, If you're not covered in the blood of the lamb. Now watch this. Now, because I know a lot of people, they just hanging out close to the blood. Okay? That's not enough. It's not enough to be close to the blood. You need to be covered in the blood Just because you go to church, you might be close to the blood, but if you're not covered in the blood, that ain't doing you no good. If you had killed your lamb and left your bucket outside with your lamb's bucket outside, that didn't cover your house. If you slay the lamb, the lamb is slayed, and the blood is there, and the blood is available, it's available to you. But instead of you taking it into yourself instead of you accepting what he did for yourself and you just say well I think that's something for my kids, that's something for my wife, that ain't for me, that's for my husband, that's not for me, then watch this, when the judgment comes. It passes over your wife, it passes over your children, but it's gonna kill you. And that judgment, that ultimate death that the Lord is pointing to. Is what we are familiar with in terms of going to hell or the lake of fire. God does not want us Destroyed. He wants to deliver us. And there's hope in deliverance. Put your hope in the history of God, the history you have with God. Put your hope. Let it be stirred up. By the history you have with God. Let it be stirred up by the word of God. It said, I come to give you life. And that you may have it more abundantly. His word said, you shall be saved. Put your hope in that. That when the end comes, you'll be with him. Put your hope Ultimately in the blood of the Lamb. Because it's the blood of the Lamb that's going to ultimately deliver us. From all the wickedness, wretchedness, and sinfulness of this world, and allow us to unite with God Father in heaven, thank you for your word today. Thank you for pointing us through to know there is hope. Of deliverance. We might experience mal progressions and successes in this world But ultimately, God, you've already created another place for us. And you said you're coming again to receive us unto yourself that where you are, we may be also. So, Spirit of the Lord, I'm praying that everyone under the sound of my voice has already made preparation. They have already been covered in the blood. They've already washed their heart and the lentil. Of their home in the blood. So that when you come, you'll see the blood on them. Welcome them into the kingdom of God. Father, if there's any that don't know you today, save them, draw them Allow them to make a profession of faith that says, I need you. And I invite you into my heart. God, move their lips, move their heart. to a place where they can ultimately experience deliverance from the sin that has us bound And that they can prepare themselves for the way that is yet ahead. I know, God, that Death is coming. Judgment is coming. And all those who are not covered in the blood of the Lamb, they shall be destroyed. So Lord, let not one listening to my voice miss out on this privileged opportunity. To invite you into their heart that you would save them. Have your way, God, in the midst of each and every situation, in the midst of each and every life. Have your way. We just committed all to you. Even our troubles of today. We put it in your hands. Have your way, God. In Jesus' name. Amen. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. For a copy of Of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at kettering ministries. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together and we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 8 a. m. or 11 a. m. at our new edifice called the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway. Upper Marlboro, Maryland. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301-627-9500. Please join us. again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman in his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. He sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever. For you get your podcasts