Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now Pastor Sterling. I want to invite your attention to Psalm 121. The word of the Lord reads as follows, I will lift up my eyes to the heels From whence come my help? My help comes from the Lord, who made heaven and earth. He will not allow your foot to be moved. He who keeps you will not slumber. Behold, he who keeps Israel neither slumber nor sleep. The Lord is your keeper. The Lord is your shade at your right hand, and the sun shall not strike you by day, nor the moon by night. The Lord shall preserve you from all evil, and he shall preserve your soul. The Lord shall preserve your going out. And you're coming in from this time forth and even forevermore. Amen. I want to Read a couple of other verses. They're not long. Don't don't don't don't panic. Habakkuk chapter 2, verse 4 says, Behold the proud. His soul is not upright in him, but the just shall live by his faith. When I flip over to the New Testament, I find Romans Chapter 1, verse 17, and it says, For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith to faith. As it is written, the just shall live by faith. I kept on flipping. I got to Galatians chapter 3 and verse 11 And it says, but that no one is justified by the law in the sight of God. Is evident. For the just shall live by faith. And then over in Hebrews chapter 10, verse 38, it says, Now the just Shall live by faith. But if anyone draws back, my soul has no pleasure in him. This message of the just living by faith is repeated Over and over and over again in Scripture. And It just keeps popping up at the most, I will say, opportune times as you're reading the Word of God. But I don't believe that God is repetitive because he has a stutter. He needs to get it in our head that it is of essential necessity that the just shall live by faith. The just is those who have been justified by God and set apart from sin by the blood of Jesus. We are declared just or in line with justice or right or righteous by God, not because of how we live, but Because of his grace towards us and his blood that was shed for us The just, those who are justified, those who have been washed in the blood of the crucified one, those who are his and have his name, those who are righteous before God, shall live, shall be. Informed shall be governed by their faith. Faith is the substance of things hoped for and the evidence of things not seen. If I'm confident in God, it changes the way I act and the way I react. Some people right now today are in a state of panic because they have abandoned their faith in God. They have drifted from faith in God to faith in job and faith in finances To faith in marriage and faith in husband and faith in wife and faith in children and faith in government and faith in political party and faith in all these other things, but their faith is not in God If my faith is in God who is immutable, that's a fancy word that means he does not change. And if my faith is in God who is omnipotent, another fancy word that means he has all power. And if my faith is in God who is omniscient, which means he knows everything. Then the stuff that's happening around me does not shake me because my faith is not in what's happening, my faith is in God. But when my faith has drifted To believing that my job or my money or my circumstance is what's sustaining me. I'm experiencing a rude interruption. Of my faith. Because I'm learning that what I put faith in was the wrong thing. There's another group of people right now who are going through a panic. And the reason they're going through a panic is because they're not just. The just are those who are justified by the blood of the Lamb. Those are the ones who are born again. They have the Spirit of God living in them. That's the just. But if I'm not just Then my faith is in all the other things. Because my belief is I don't need God because I've got the things I want to talk to you this morning from the subject matter: the just shall live by faith. The message of faith says you are safe. I want to start off by telling you that the just live by faith, and the message of faith says you are safe because the Lord helps you. As the pilgrims would be making their way and they've been carrying the burdens of their sin and of their sorrow and of their hurt. For usually a period of about a year before they could m make this migration to Jerusalem to go to the temple. And so they've been carrying that all along the way. and travel through the lowlands, they look up to the hill of Jerusalem and they see that the house of God is on the hill. And so they they declared with excitement and enthusiasm, I'm I'm lifting up my eyes to the hills. From whence come my help, because they knew when I get to the temple of God, I can unload my heavy burdens and I can give my cares to God. That that's the way that they experienced it. But for you and I, we now have the same, a similar experience because our Savior came into the world, lived a perfect life, died, was buried in a tomb, caught up On the third day with all power in his hands, forty days later, ascended to glory, and right now he's making intercession for you and me, and so we too can look up to the hills above the hills but from from whence our help comes because we know we have a savior who's praying for us And so I looked to the heavens because that's where the help is. And I need us to wrap our minds around this this truth of the text, that our help comes from the Lord. I I know we have become um uh economically stable and we become middle class and upper class and and high class and all that when we used to didn't have no class and now we We didn't we got fancy cars and and leathered them all up and got all the bells and whistles and all that, but guess what? None of that None of that uh is your help. Lord help me, Jesus. Um when you get sick and you're in your bed, when the doctor comes and he looks over you and he's just shaking his head, none of us are running out to our Lexus or Mercedes and rubbing our In the seat because the seat leather or the bells and the whistles are gonna help us. No, we're not doing that. We're not running to our 401k and massaging ourselves with the numbers from how long we've been uh contributing to our our our our return. Retirement package. None of us are doing that, but when trouble comes, you better learn that your help comes from the Lord. As a matter of fact, I think so somehow naturally we have a tendency, even the ones Who don't know the Lord have a tendency to call on him when trouble comes. And if they don't know how to call on him, they'll come to your desk and they say, Can you pray for me? I'm I really want that to sink in on you because the devil's been lying to you, causing you to believe somehow you don't have no help. And somehow your help left with some political party or with some judgment on the heel or some decision in the office. No, your help never was there. The Lord is your help. He's our helper and he has all power and he can handle anything. He's our helper. And you are safe. Second thing here in the text, it says, verse 3, he will not allow your foot to be moved. He who keeps you will not slumber. Behold, he who keeps Israel shall neither slumber nor sleep. For the Lord is your keeper. He's your shade from the sun and the moon. So The just shall live by faith, and the message of faith says you are safe because the Lord helps you, but secondly, because the Lord keeps you. He will not allow your foot to be moved. The place where God has planted you. The earthquakes of the world cannot move you. Whether that earthquake is death in your family. Or the loss of a home, the loss of a car, a bad report from the doctor that says you've got cancer, or this is going on, or that's going on God is your keeper. And if He planted you, He's the only one that can uproot you. He keeps you and He doesn't go to sleep. He's a God who's always awake, always paying attention to keeping you. Do you realize that God doesn't miss anything that happens in your life? And at the same time, he doesn't miss anything that happens in my life. We have seen just recently that there's been a couple of uh situations where men and or women their eyes could not Keep up with everything that was happening and it caused some catastrophic scenarios to play out. But God doesn't sleep And his eyes are running to and fro and he sees everything. And he doesn't he doesn't come up short of keeping you. But sometime man could come up short of keeping you, and it might cost you something, but God is faithful. He's your keeper. Now, you don't believe he's your keeper. I want you to think back about 15 years ago if you that old. Think about where you were fifteen years ago, thirty years ago, and tell me God hadn't kept you Yeah, he he kept you. I I know some of you have been saved a long time, but can you think back to your BC days before Christ? When you were running the street and acting a fool and doing everything you were big and bad enough to do and you should have been dead. You should have been addicted to drugs. You should have had six or seven extra kids. Some of you have gone through some divorce, some of you gone through some loss of mama and daddy and brothers and sisters, children, but God has been a keeper If it had not been for God who was keeping you, you would have lost your mind. But God is the keeper. Oh yeah, uh you I can walk by faith. You can walk by faith knowing that you're safe if God is your keeper. He would he will keep you, he doesn't slumber, he doesn't sleep, the Lord is your keeper. He's your shade at your right hand, so that the sun won't strike you by day and the moon by night I love it. I love the fact that we have a keeper, somebody who's keeping us all the time, who is making sure that we are kept. And so the message of faith says you are safe. Because the Lord is your helper and the Lord is your keeper. Final thing, and I'm gonna get out of your way if I can. Verse 6 says, I'm sorry, verse 7, the Lord shall preserve you from all evil. He shall preserve your soul. The Lord shall preserve your going out and your coming in from this time forth, even forevermore. Listen, listen. The just shall live by faith, and the message of faith says you are safe because the Lord helps you, the Lord keeps you, but thirdly, the Lord preserves you. Listen, I can't promise you that your job is safe I won't suppose to be some supernatural prophet that can say your job will never be taken away. And then you come the next week and talk about Pastor. They fired me on my job. Because let me let me tell you something. Just people lose jobs too. I can't promise you that your house Is gonna be safe. I can't promise you that your marriage is safe. I can't promise you that your career is safe. I can't promise you any of those things. I wish I could But what I can promise you is what the text says, and he says he will preserve you from all evil, and he will preserve your soul. Mark 8, 36 puts it in perspective, and it says this: What profit is it to a man to gain the whole world and lose his soul? If God was in the stuff preserving business, he would open up a a storage um facility like the ones that's popping up all over the world, all over town, and all over my neighborhood. I don't know what's going on in my neighborhood. But if that was the business that he was in, then he would guarantee the keeping of that. But he's not a keeper of stuff. He's a keeper of souls. He's a preserver of your soul. Now, if if stuff is your God, that's not a good sermon note for you. Okay. I can pass I gotta have my stuff. If stuff is your God this ain't the text for you Matter of fact, this ain't the Bible for you. In fact, this ain't even the church for you. The text said he preserves you from all evil, and he shall preserve your soul. When I was growing up, and my mom, she still does it, doesn't do it quite as much as she used to, but she used to can preserve. Some of y'all probably remember this. Like figs. Like we go pick figs in in their backyard and we take the figs and bring them in and get them all cleaned up and get them all ready and and some people call it canning Canning. Some people call it canning. That is uh jars, you know, the little the double top on the top, canning jars. Put everything in there and So what what my mom she would do is she would she would preserve all kinds of stuff. We had all kinds of stuff to preserve. And then after she got it all fixed up, she would take it and take it downstairs and put it in this dark cool place and it will be there for like for like forever. And then, you know, she might say, go down there and get me, you know, bring me up some of those preserves. And lo and behold, what the preserving does, it preserves the fruit, the vegetable, whatever it is, it preserves it from the outer elements that cause it to rot. And to die. When the Lord says, I'm preserving you, He's putting you in a protective cover. And let me tell you something else about the preserves because Whatever is in the fruit or the vegetable or whatever you preserve it in, when you take it out The flavor is magnified. In other words, if you take a fig and you preserve it, when you take it out, you have fig magnified because the flavor that was in the fig is preserved. from the outer elements that would destroy it and it would cause it to become more sweet, more flavorful. In this life God is preserving you and preserving me from all the evil outside that wants to kill us That wants to destroy us, that wants to cause us to rot and crumble. And God is preserving us from all of that. And the day is yet coming when he opens up the book, Lord have mercy, and he pulls back the scroll and he calls you. your name you're gonna come forth like pure gold because what's in you is gonna come out of you personified you're gonna be like jesus He's preserving your soul so that when he brings it out, it's just like him But listen, in the preserving process, we used to have to put it in the jars and it was warm and all that at first and then we put it down and and it would be down in the darkness in a cool dark area For a season. But all that season of darkness of cool And uncomfortableness bottled up in a jar was only working out so that when the day came When the fruit or vegetable got delivered, Jesus, it was it was it's I'm trying to help us here. God is just putting you through a process There's gotta be some pressure. There's gotta be Lord have mercy. There's gotta be some struggle. There's gotta be some some some heartache and some headache and some darkness in order for him to preserve you so that you can come out like he wants you to come out. If you don't go through nothing, you ain't gonna be nothing. But as you go through hell and high water and the traps, tricks, devices of the devil, and the anxieties and the fears. That he wants to bring your life, you say I'm in the preservation of God. He's keeping me, and I'm safe. I'm safe. So I can live by faith in confidence that God is my help if I need help. He's my keeper. Lord help me. No matter what I have to go through, he's my keeper. And he's preserving me. Lord have mercy. He's preserved my soul so that no matter what happens, it doesn't matter what goes on in this world. This world won't affect what I come out to be. Because I uh for those of you that are born again, we got another home. Lord have mercy, Jesus. We just passing through this wretched place. I'm not I'm not concerned about what they're doing down here because I know what it's like at home Lord help me Jesus. I'm just here as an ambassador for my kingdom, and I've come to speak on behalf of my king. Hey, I come to let somebody know that there's a better place There's a better place to put your faith. There's a God who sits high and looks low and he's taking care of his own. And guess what? He's not a selfish God. He's not willing that anybody should be lost. His arms are open wide for anybody and everybody who wants to be a part of his kingdom. And all we need to do is surrender and say, Yes, Lord. It helps me to know that I can put my faith in Him. There is no one else and nothing else. That has those attributes. And so anything else would be less than God. The just shall live by faith. And the message of faith says, you are safe. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed. by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance. For uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 10 a. m. At the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301-627 Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family Minister in the Spirit of Excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the songs. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to 1Dree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts.