But the single people got nobody to turn to, and they look from the left to the right, and fear will say, You by yourself, you need to put hands on yourself and say the devil is a liar And when that spirit of fear showed up, you froze. You've got to speak to that spirit because it didn't come from God. They said Jesus had failed. And I know some of them, Pastor, I've got some stuff on that list. I'm trying to help us. I don't know. All the honor and all the praise. That is one of the first and greatest challenges we have to claiming unclaimed inheritance in corridors for Christ. They in the same bedroom and they can say, Oh, are we okay? In his hand. It's the spirit that gives you the ability to watch this to keep marching on, even while you're loving folk you know are doing you wrong. I'm doing it according to the power of God. For one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 8 a. Cast fear out of every person who wants to fulfill the assignments on the paper. Even as the three Hebrew boys suffered, being thrown into the fiery furnace. What God has given, except that fear has risen up and paralyzed them and stiffened them to not move to where God said to move. Voices behind the song. Fear no evil. Morning ongoing prayer is that God will keep on making clear to every one of his people what it is he has for them and what he has that you have not yet claimed. Gotta remind yourself, remind yourself when fear rises up, remind yourself that the presence of the Lord is with me, and yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I shall Remind yourself, I've got the anointing of God on me, and the anointing has already prepared for me, and the gift that's in me has already prepared me with the ability to do what God has for me. fear. Prove it. other spirits that are mentioned in this text. I'm not afraid to fail anymore. Given you. I don't know why you went down that church and put it on the altar. Christ conquered death, hell, and the grave. Get distracted from your ultimate goal, and your ultimate goal is to glorify God and to take hold of everything that God has laid in front of you to accomplish. that you're conquering territory for Christ. His prisoner. Through some suffering. This position and and having these experiences of being caught up into the third heaven. Offering for the gospel according to the power of God. Just to take them away and lock them up because they had heard about this dude. Pastor, how in the world was Jesus able to take all of that whipping all night long and not give up the holy? He was nailed in his feet when they pierced him in his side. Lord, have mercy. Is your backstage pass. The spirit of excellence. Excellent. Personally. Baptist Church. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. To go and claim what you've laid at the altar on this morning. Spirit and the spirit that's in me, the gift that's in me is able to accomplish it. has shown up. Fear spirit was not given to us from God. If it didn't come from God, it means it came from the pit of hell itself. Spiritual man, spiritual woman of God, you need to declare in the name of Jesus, fear you have no place here. For that spirit. In you, you can conquer the land. fail in if I've got eternal life in me. Not the only one who has failed before. Failing. To speak down to you and tell you that you cannot make it and you'll never be nothing and you'll never be nobody. Jesus and I need you to understand the spirit he has given you is a spirit that can love those who have stabbed you in the back. And forth, he says she says. In your life. Insane about the scenario until I get to glory because I'm gonna conquer everything that He's put in front of me to accomplish. Ball practice, I'm trying to get them ballet, trying to get them to a wana, trying to go to church. Spirit of insanity. For you. Fear too. Circle. And have all the benefit of all this. To get to where they are. Stand it, Pastor, well, because he was suffering according to the power of God. Of suffering, but yet at the same time gave him power to keep on moving. Only way we're gonna conquer this thing called fear is to understand what power we have. Amen. I had to anoint myself. On your own and going through suffering with Christ. And I suffer, you're gonna suffer a different kind of way. Forward and share in the suffering. Doing that we have not done, that God has put in our heart to do, claiming the unclaimed inheritances that God has put before us that we have not in yet inherited. Speaking from that very subject matter, claiming the corridor for Christ. Seven, he says, for God has not given us a spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of a sound mind. successful to accomplish everything he put in front of you to accomplish. If you're here and you're one of those fearful people, I need you to ask yourself this question: Have you ever failed before? That's the spirit in you. We can't let them have it. Are. And so I'm not gonna lose my mind conquering territory that he's given me to conquer. Stayed on him even through the midst of turmoil, even through the midst of trial, even through the midst of tribulation. You can't do that. We need to rise up and share in suffering. I don't have a whole lot of time. Where you're going, but God will give you strength to pick yourself up, dust yourself off, and keep on moving. On CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. Spirit. You out of my home, I rebuke you out of my cubicle, I rebuke you out of my car, I rebuke you out of my classroom, I rebuke you out of my ministry, I rebuke you out of my In me? And remember, God has not given you this fear spirit. And saying, I wish I was where they are. Let them not be parked or paralyzed in idleness. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III. The Spirit of the Lord is with me. And for some of you, you can testify that you've been in scenarios where everything was going well and all of a sudden the spirit showed up. Every time. Matter of fact, most of us got a few t-shirts, tank tops, and some hoodies to prove we've been through failure. I look this up. Listen, and in the process of you conquering some of your territories, you gonna have to love some folk that seem unlovable. Are you hearing what I'm saying? Lord have mercy. I want to follow this person. Y'all follow what I'm saying? Maryland. Out of access, living inside of us. But we can't let fear keep us from conquering our inherited territory. We continue to pursue this series of messages claiming the corridor for Christ. And you stopped and you put down whatever you were doing and you backed up slowly because the spirit of fear The spirit we have is a spirit of victory. They had to walk past the fear of losing some folk who thought who they thought were friends. That even though I suffer, I'm suffering under the Spirit, I'm suffering in the power, I'm suffering in the anointing, I'm suffering not like man would suffer, I'm su Second thing we need to do, if we're going to conquer the corridor of fear, you've got to remember that God has not given you the fear He's giving you a conquering spirit. In the face of hatred, in the face of rejection, in the face of others who don't care about you, in the face of those who would seek Can I talk to y'all here this morning? You got to conquer some of your own fears, Ketterin, in order to walk in the power of that other person because they had to go through some stuff Because when he suffered, this text says we're going to suffer for the gospel according to the power of God. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Then you shall dwell in the land. Don't be afraid of what men call failure. Are losing their proverbial mind, you need to remember God gave you a spirit of a sound mind But be like Jesus who was on the cross, who said, Father, forgive them, for they don't know what they're doing. Now he's bringing you their stories. Ezekiel chapter 36 says, speaking of the new covenant promise that is to come, the land that was to come for us, he says, I will place my spirit in you, and you will walk in my statue. It is the spirit of dynamite from God. Listen, I know you thought this was going to be a cakewalk. WAVA's Chris Roth here, and summer is just around the corner. The Lord is with me. You know what I like about God? There are some people in your life that they're going to come around and bring hatred. Praise the Lord. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. Don't get distracted. Don't let fear have its way in your life. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. So he says first of him, he says, remember to stir up the gift that is in you. Everybody in here has failed before. We have been given to us everything we need to conquer fear in our life, to conquer adversity to us conquering the territory in front of us. In where God really wants you to be. I can be like the missionaries who brought their casket with them and said, if I die, let me die. Was according to the power of God. Because fear begins to rise up and get stirred up at the moment we began to talk about doing the thing that we know we should be doing Hallelujah. They had to walk past the fear of failure. I said, hope, hold, hold, pump your brakes. I had to go through a journey to get here. The one degree of Andy Podcast. I realize something that the very first and greatest challenge, probably to most of all of us, as it relates to this whole experience, is fear. Listen, far too many of you are already delayed. The Bible defines and describes, in essence, a spiritual spirit. Lord Jesus, while the people in your community, while the folk up in your house, while the folk in the White House But share with me in the suffering for the gospel according to the power of God. God has given us not the fear spirit, but the Holy Spirit, the victory spirit, because victory is in Jesus. Come Sunday morning, early in the morning, they realized failure was just a part of victory. The spirit of power is the spirit of overcoming. I'm gonna cut your ties, I'm gonna scratch your car. Paul says to Timothy, Timothy, join me in my suffering for the sake of the gospel. In and Paul's scenario, Paul didn't just show up as the apostle. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. For you, God are with me. Remember that spirit didn't come from God. If we're gonna conquer fear, this corridor of fear, we've got to remember to stir up the gift, we've got to remember that God has not given us the fear spirit. What am I doing being afraid of what somebody might say about me? But but you got to go through the suffering for yourself so that you will know beyond the shadow of a doubt that you are where God wants you to be I had to lay hands on myself to remind myself. The way he dealt with our sin is that we were in an unlovable condition, but love conquered our unlovable state. Praise the Lord. No, I had to go through some suffering. You've been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in He's giving you a spirit of power. God is not in the process of building you up. Failure is just a part of victory. Pastor, what do you mean you've got to suffer according to the power of God? Paul says to Timothy, I say to you, if we're going to conquer fear, remember that Stir it up, Timothy. Don't get caught up in that. You've been given a spirit of a sound mind. I I know I'm trying to help you conquer fear, but sometimes it's the fear of losing some folk who've been in your life that causes you to dumb down your stuff I'm doing it according to His will. Every single one of us in here has failed before. It's holding us back. Don't get caught up in that because, in the midst of getting caught up in that, the enemy is distracting you. I had um one of one of my deacons ask me um this week. And the Spirit of the Lord is on me. I'm Andy Christmas. He's giving you the spirit of power, giving you the spirit of love, and the spirit of a sound mind. It's in Jesus' name I pray, with thanksgiving and expectation. It is a spirit that overcame death, hell, and the grave. You can conquer these unclaimed inheritances because the Holy Spirit is in you, and that spirit, that Holy Spirit conquers fear. Well, I need you to know he's giving you a spirit of love, and so don't let hatred overcome love. I'm already almost halfway lost my mind. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. He's given us the spirit of power. The Spirit of God is in me. Then you shall conquer your territory when my spirit is in you. If I'm walking with the Spirit of God in him, there is no failure. You gotta remind yourself every now and then. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of equity. The only thing that's keeping you from accomplishing it is fear. We're gonna conquer this fear thing. You thought this was going to be a hoop-ha-hallelujah. In Joshua chapter 18, we spoke there in part two from the series titled Claiming Your Inherited Corridor. While you're doing that, lay hands on yourself to remind yourself that God has put in me a All of that didn't come without suffering. m. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. You have failed before. Stir up the gift because you need access to this power. How am I gonna do this too? Can I just talk to some of my real scared folks? He suffered. Spirit of the Lord, have your way in this place. I heard a noise. I don't have time to argue with you. And we're gonna go through some stuff. But in the name of the one who has authority over the spirit, you need to declare an exit ramp. They had to walk past the fear of being misunderstood. Here's the good news. or 11 a. He's giving you a spirit when you're facing weaknesses, when you're fac He's giving us the spirit of power, the spirit of love. Praise the Lord, I got insurance. That's what he says in verse number 8. I don't know how I got to where I am, except to say I did it under the power of God. So if it didn't come from God, where did it come from? Don't get don't get involved in the the back and forth email messages. Don't let fear keep you from walking in the authority of whatever's on that list that God has. Lord, have mercy. Paul had to face all of that, he had to face the suffering of all of that, even as I look at Christ Himself And while you're doing and while you're performing and while you're reaching out, And you looking in on my life without having gone through the journey, you only gonna see the positive side He's not in the process, well uh well yeah they got that. On Friday, they said Jesus had failed. m. That's a great question. And maybe, I'm just I'm hypothetically, maybe you're looking at some other folks I said, because where I am, I didn't just step into this. Yeah, he suffered, but he suffered according to the power of God. We've got to get ready for it now, right? And so when the spirit shows up, you as a strong, powerful They're going to come around and try to sidetrack you. The bad news is I've got to suffer. I'm trying to help somebody here. What if I go and I suffer for the cause of Christ? Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. When he was nailed in his hands, when at our new edifice called the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marble. We've got the power of the living God. We've got to go through, but when we go through with you, You're not by yourself. org or contact our church office at 300 This ain't you, Sterling. And I'm asking you, Timothy, I'm asking you, Ketterin, join me in the suffering You thought about all your failures. The conquering spirit. It is the spirit of of motion and strength. And since you have failed before, why are you afraid to fail again? You trying to make me lose my mind. I've gone through some things to get where I am. What I mean by that is, let me see if I can walk you through a little bit of this. Um he says, Pastor, uh I want to I want to follow you around. Help me, Lord Jesus, because when you're going to accomplish what God has for you, some folk can't go where you got I hate you. Everything will be wonderful. I know I've told myself, Oh, I'll never be able to do that. Paul had to forsake Judaism. Why am I afraid about failure? God didn't give us a fierce spirit, but he gave us the Holy Spirit. While the folk on your job are losing their mind and trying to make you lose yours. I have a soundness of mind, I've got a spirit that'll keep my mind So if I'm walking with the spirit of the Holy Spirit, I am walking in victory Can I talk to somebody right here? Are we okay? He can't have dominion in the lives of believers. The Bible says they came out without even the smell of smoke, because they're suffering If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Help me, Lord Jesus. Here, listen, I didn't I need I need you to process this And so if it's for you to accomplish He says, Therefore, do not be ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me. For God has given us this not the spirit of fear, but he's given us three spirits. That helps me right there. And I don't know why you wrote that stuff on that piece of paper org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. Okay, I'm glad to hear that. The good news I'm going to suffer according to the power of God. You're gonna go through some tough times to get Father, in the name of Jesus, have your way in this place. Can I talk to my single people? Fear tells you you're the only one failed. I'm going to get all my stuff and everything's going to be great. It's the spirit in you that's trying to get you to where you are going. But God calls them to rise up, move forward. But you can't get hung up on that because if you get hung up on that, you can't The Spirit of the Lord is upon me. Secondly, verse I've given you the Holy Spirit. That's what the text says, right? So guess what? We began this journey in Numbers chapter 33. Timothy, me being the apostle Paul, me having this title, me being this in the Pastor, how are you doing what you're doing If I take on a journey by myself, do this myself It is They had to walk past the fear of being hated by folk that was in their I don't understand And we've got to conquer. Because the way I've got these kids running around trying to get this, trying to get them to foot The corridor is there, God has given it to you. You thought about all the ways in which you are not going to succeed. In other words, an entity, a presence called fear. We've got that spirit living in us. That's the spirit he's On Saturday, they said They're going to come along and try to get you caught up in I hate you and all this back and forth stuff. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent forty plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist person. Now let me add something else. Because on that third day, he got up with all authority It doesn't even matter what I have to go through. Because what it helps me to understand I still love you anyhow If you failed before, I need you to hear this. He's giving us the spirit, even to love those who hate us. And we will forever give your name all the glory. You need access to the spirit of power. Paul had to be under the threat of other Jewish folk because they didn't know who he was. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. What possible thing can I While the rest of the world is losing their mind and they Because a fear show enough grabs a hold of single folk. And now, stay tuned for the conclusion of last week's message No, you have not been been given us the Well, in order for them to get where they are, they had to walk past faith. Ting low points, you've got a spirit that will give you strength But there's a difference in going through suffering in the flesh. I I didn't just walk into this, I didn't just I didn't just show up yesterday Help me, Lord. In the name of Jesus, I rebuke And so since the Holy Spirit is Your text say that And I think Cast fear out of them Now he's bringing you their stories. He's pressed calling the ministry and said, I want to follow follow you around and I want to see what you do. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building for a copy of this sermon. When fear says you're all by yourself, lay hands on yourself and say you are liar. No, he already put the fullness of the Godhead bodily dwelling in you, and he's giving you every gift that you need to be. Stir up this gift. You've got a spirit of love. No, the devil is a liar. Guess what? And help me. But I'm gonna do what God told me to do. We're gonna go through some stuff. The One Degree of Andy podcast. I had to stir up that gift in me He can't I'm going through with him and I'm gonna keep my mind sane. In other words, God gave him the ability to go through the humanity The spirit of love that's in you is the spirit of God because God is So why would people not take what If I've got the spirit that overcame death, hell, and the grave. I'm trying to help you right here, there are some demons In the process of conquering territory, you got to go through You already been there, done that, got a t-shirt to pro I'm not gonna lose my mind about this Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. You uh have been given the spirit of love. I'm Andy Christman. At least married folk could turn to somebody in the middle of the night if Let the spirit of love help you get to your destiny. Put your hands on yourself Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Fear is the thing that I believe that Toughing I Christ suffered on the cross And I'm trying to help us this morning understand. You're not We're gonna go through some suffering. Marriage I recall help me Lord That's a great question. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Last thing I'm out of your way. They didn't know that he wasn't coming to If you love Christian music, this You ain't got time for. I'm gonna remain