Where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. Then Jesus entered into the entered and passed through Jericho. I'm trying to help us understand that sometimes Jesus doesn't do what you want him to do, how you want him to do it, but he's always working in the midst of your presence. The veil of the temple was torn from top to bottom. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together and we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services Sundays at 8 a. Zacchaeus goes ahead, climbs up into a sycamore tree, and watch this. So it's like he has moves everything out of the way, climbs a tree. Help me Lord, you will move all the obstacles out of your way to get in position to see Jesus. Doesn't matter how much power you possess. Voices behind the song. They couldn't help it. Between now and seven o'clock. If you've got a promise that you're going to see Jesus, but God has not told you when, but He's told you it's going to happen before you die, I'm gonna I'm gonna suggest that it might cause you to live a little differently Every now and then, because you know he's there. See Jesus. He's a man of great position. And the text says he waited a long time to see Jesus because he had heard about this Jesus who had healed the sick and raised the dead. And so Pilate found out he was a Galilean, so said, I'm taking you to Herod. Believe that a man could do all these things. High and wide, after he had bled, suffered, and died. All the excuses and they pressed their way. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence. And now, stay tuned for the conclusion of last week's message. But that's I don't want to stop there because they're not the only ones in the book of Luke who wanted to see him. And he blessed God and said, Lord, now you have are letting your servant depart in peace According to your word, for my eyes have seen your salvation, which you have prepared for, or rather before, the face of all people So, in other words, if you don't know when Jesus is going to show up, but he already told you you're going to get a chance to see him, and what it's going to cause you to do is you're going to start living a certain way, a just way, a righteous way. a devout way so that when he comes and when he shows up he doesn't catch you living the wrong way. I should be living every moment like it might happen right now. Lord, you have allowed your servant to now depart in peace. Did what you said you was gonna do, and that's what Simeon. He is gone to be the guest with a man who is a sinner. I give half my goods to the poor, and if I have taken anything from anyone by false accusation, restore, I restore fourfold. He had to persevere to see Jesus. I ain't got time to go to church. He was the IRS. As a tax collector, but watch this. Based on patience, Herod wanted to see him. And he had hoped to see some miracle done by him. And the chief priest and the scribes stood and vehemently accused him. But yet he wants to see Jesus. thousand hungry souls he said he had heard this Jesus who had given sight to the blind caused the lame to walk stopped funeral processions caused people to come up and rise up from the very funeral he had heard about this Jesus and he wanted to see him for himself because who would Because watch this Herod wanted to see Jesus and he had this idea that I'm gonna see him perform some miracle and I'm I'm gonna see him do some miraculous thing in front of my eyes. Sometimes the best way that people can see Jesus is when our life is under pressure. It's when we're going through some tough times when our bills are due and we can't pay our bills, when our house is being repossessed, or our car has been repossessed, and when it's Christmas time and we can't afford to buy a gift, sometimes the best time that people Just because everything is not going smooth doesn't mean God's not at work. Sometimes the only way that people can get the scent of Jesus is that we gotta be under pressure. Jesus Christ, because everybody wants to see him. And we're being pressed in on every side. The hope of glory. You can tell them the story. This sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. Upper Marlboro, Maryland. Has no beginning and no end. When you realize I have seen God in the flesh, when they realize I've seen him, you won't keep it to yourself. Based on promise, Simeon wants to see him. As a just and a devout man, because he has a promise that he's going to see Jesus. To see Jesus on a promise. Until you see the Messiah, until you see God in the flesh, you will not die. The best thing you can do is acknowledge God, you did what you said you was gonna do. He sought to see who Jesus was, but could not because of the crowd, for he was of short stature. Because he also is a son of Abraham. Third person that I look at in the text is in chapter 19. For he was going to pass that way. For he had desired for a long time to see him. The interesting thing here about this text: here's a man who's not a Jew. That Jesus was in a kangaroo court in Pilate's house. That Jesus would perform. And let me say this to you, Jesus doesn't always respond the way you want him to. Based on promise, Simeon wanted to see him. Father, into thy hands I commit my spirit. Go ahead and say amen. We don't want anything out of order. Can see Jesus is while we're under persecution because it was this centurion after they had nailed him in his hands and after they had nailed him in his feet and after they had beat him and beat him and beat him and abused him and stretched him. He is God in the flesh. That is now glorifying God because he sees Jesus during persecution. That lives inside of you? And we've got to show the world who Jesus is. Everybody wants to see Jesus. But until they see Jesus, they won't believe. Father, if there's one here today, draw them into the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. That they experience new birth in you. The crowd stop him. Based on patience, wanted to see Jesus. office at 301-627-9500. And was born into the world in the form of a baby. This man was a just and devout man, waiting for the consolation of Israel. A light to bring revelation to the Gentiles and glory and the glory of your people Israel. Now, if I can nail this home for the Christian, if you believed that Christ is coming again, That's the result of Simeon seeing Jesus. So he made haste and he came down and he received him joyfully. Zacchaeus also wants to see Jesus because everybody wants to see Jesus. That very day, Pilate and Herod became friends with each other. Develop the friendship, camaraderie, if you will, between Pilate and Herod while he was in the presence of Jesus So he came to Jesus and he he saw Jesus with and he waited with patience, but yet God came through for him. Are y'all hearing what I'm saying? It's not enough just to say it. To go see this thing that was declared God with us. So that we can live a life that they can see you in us. To see you. Amen. Is that he blessed God and he affirms the promise. And God says, salvation comes to your house. Trying to help you understand. So he's there. He, the centurion, the Roman soldier, glorified God, saying, certainly this was a righteous man. The centurion finally got to see Jesus. And in the midst of that, guess what he did? There's a lot of people around you, and a lot of people you're going to come in contact with who want to see Jesus So he came by the Spirit into the temple, and when the parents brought in the child Jesus to do for him according to the custom of the law, he took him up in his arms. It would change the way you live from day to day, too. You might live your life a little differently. Zacchaeus wanted to see Jesus based on perseverance. Because Jesus knows the heart. Because the text says previously he and Pilate were at odds with one another. But everybody wants to see Jesus. Verse 47 says, so when the centurion saw what had happened, Pastor, what happened? The Messiah? Father in heaven, it's my prayer that the world will see Christ in us, the hope of glory. That they may see you today. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Watch this. Came down with joy and he accepted him with joy. Shepherds. But guess what? Spirit of the Lord, maybe there's someone here today. It's interesting to me that while Jesus is being crucified, someone gets to see him who didn't even know they would. And perhaps the only way they're gonna see you is in us. That seems unrealistic. Because of persecution. The final person I want to examine in this book of Luke is in Luke chapter 23, verse 47. I want you to understand something about seeing Jesus. If anybody's ever gonna see him, it's gonna come through us. Because everybody wants to see him. So now when they had seen him, they made widely known the saying which was told to them concerning this child. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Why? I'm sleeping today. The one who spoke everything into existence, the one whom holds everything together. He didn't let anything get in his way because he wanted to see Jesus. You can read them the scripture. Don't be in despair. Because he knew Jesus was passing this way. Sometimes you got to move some stuff out of your way so that you can see Jesus and salvation come to your house. It doesn't matter. This is a righteous man. And you're speaking to them even now. Praise the Lord. They said, I believe he ought to be at the church. They push their way to see Jesus based on proclamation. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. He he wanted to see Jesus. He wanted to talk to Jesus and find out something about this man. The anointed one? He's in a powerful position. Why would a man in this position, why would he want to see Jesus? And watch this. Is that Christ that you always talking about? Simeon had a promise. When you want to see him, you'll make time. Zacchaeus got into position, climbed up in a tree, and watch this. But when he saw Jesus, the result was he repented and he says, Lord, I'm giving half of my stuff away, and I'm gonna restore fourfold to everybody I cheated, Lord, because I've seen you. And when the centurion saw all of this, the Bible says, after all this, after he saw this, what had happened Sometimes the only way that Jesus can come out of us is that God gotta put a squeeze on us. Even this centurion got to see Jesus under persecution in the worst time of Jesus' hour. We ain't going over nobody's house if we know it's gonna be out of order, because it's Christmas time. You might be a little friendlier. And when he gave up the spirit, the earth began to quake. Sometimes the best time for people to see Jesus is while we're being persecuted. Perhaps even as Zacchaeus, they pressed their way, they removed all the obstacles We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. This man lived his whole life as a devout and a just man because he had a promise that he would see Jesus. Look at chapter 23, verse number 8. But everybody wants to see Jesus. But what he didn't realize, while he was looking at Jesus, while he was in the presence of Jesus, Jesus was already working out a miracle in his life And as we walk through this text of Luke, the shepherds, they wanted to see him based on the proclamation. People gotta see it. He has done nothing wrong. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Pettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III. And when Jesus had come to the place, he looked up and he saw him. When you want to see him, he knows you want to see him. When there is a God who has more than you have, when there is a God who's empty in your life, when your life is void, you still want to see Jesus. Everybody wants to see who he really is. But Simeon's desire to see Jesus was based on a promise. And he was the RS who was cheating people. He got a chance to see him. It's Christmas time. Don't be saddened because you're going through what you're going through. Here's a story that seems surreal. He's got his plan of what he wants Jesus to do. If you flip on over to chapter 19, we've got a guy by the name of Zacchaeus. He had heard about Jesus, no doubt, all the things about Jesus, but he couldn't see Jesus because of the crowd and because he was short of stature, but he didn't let So he goes and he sees Jesus based on perseverance Here I am. So based on proclamation, the shepherds wanted to see him, but based on promise, Simeon wants to see him. In fact, if I told you tonight around seven o'clock, Christ is gonna show up and you're gonna have to meet him face to face, I would suggest that you would probably start living differently And Zachia Stewart. Then he looked up and said, I see Jesus, and he is, according to the word, just like the angel declared, he is the Christ the Lord. You can say, hey, Isaiah says, unto us a child is born, and unto us a son is given. He couldn't wait to see. Promise, I'm you're gonna see Jesus before you die. So he says, I need to see him. You would think he's sitting on top of the world. For the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost. Now, Pastor, where are you going with this? The Prince of Peace? So, in other words, if I don't know when I'm going to see him, if I don't know when I'm gonna have to meet him face to face, then I should be living each day like it might be today. When he saw Jesus, not only did he get saved, his whole household got saved. Herod, you would never think Herod would want to see Jesus. And then he questioned him with many words, but he answered him nothing And Pilate couldn't find anything wrong with him. Even Herod, a Roman ruler, got to see Jesus Because when you want to see Jesus, time won't get in your way. Watch this. Shepherds wanted to see him. So he takes him to Herod, and Herod finally gets a chance to see him. He brought peace between him and his enemy. They want to see you too. Have your way, dear God. The question I have, will they see Jesus in you? Now behold, there was a man named Zacchaeus who was a chief tax collector and he was rich. Ain't no need to go into the club, talk about I'm going to see Jesus. Here's a man who's who's cheating the people. You've given me what you said you was gonna give me. Based on perseverance, Zacchaeus wanted to see him. I've come that you may have a life, and I've come that you may have it more abundantly. Is that Christ that you always praying to? That's a great question. And then Herod, with his men of war, treated him with contempt, and they mocked him, and they arrayed him in a gorgeous robe, and they sent him back to Pilate. And he saw Jesus and he glorified God. So they pressed their way to the church and they got in position. He was promised. Now, watch this. And he said to the Lord, look, Lord Everything ought to be at peace. Luke's Gospel chapter 2, verse 8. I don't know if I got any witnesses in the house, but every now and then God gives you a promise, I'm gonna come through, and He'll come through just in time. And when you really truly want to see Jesus, you're not going to let anything get in your way. And so he waited patiently all this time to see Jesus. And if anybody's ever going to see Jesus And sometimes, let me help you here. Here's a story that seems incomprehensible. But when he saw but when they saw it, they all complained, saying, Everybody wants to see Jesus. This centurion gets to see Jesus Sometimes the best time for people and the best way for people to see Jesus in us In verse number 17, they told everybody that they came in contact with. And the Holy Spirit was upon him, and it had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he would not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ. The shepherds wanted to see Jesus. And all the other people got mad because Jesus was with Zacchaeus. But Jesus wouldn't answer him. The sun had refused to shine for three hours, and all of the earth shook, and all things were out of array. Everybody wants to know: was the proclamation of the angels true? Simeon wanted to see him. He says, blessed be the name of the Lord. It says, now when Herod saw Jesus, he was exceedingly glad Was that him that was born into the world? The scripture says it's no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in us. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. If you turn over to chapter 2 verse 25 Zacchaeus moves the obstacles out of his way. He's rich. He had given a promise by the Holy Spirit. Lord, I'm praying today that you open up their eyes. In the name of Jesus Christ, I pray The shepherds left everything. But watch this. God wrapped himself up in flesh. And he had made himself wealthy. And when the Lord comes through, Simeon begins to praise God, bless God, and says, Lord, you are God of your word. For previously they had been ennemies, or rather, had enmity with each other. Lord have mercy. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. But after seeing Jesus, guess what happened? Where I'm going is that we as Christians, especially around the holidays, we don't want any persecution. Let me help you right here He's got all the money. God may be using you to show somebody They've heard the stories of your birth, they've heard the stories perhaps even of your death, burial, and resurrection. Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. What Simeon does as a result of the promise that he was given, he lives his whole life You might not cuss as much between now and then. He couldn't find any charges to stick. Y'all still here with me? He got in the tree to see Jesus, but Jesus saw him Simeon based on promise. Because he wanted to see Jesus because he wanted to see a miracle. And Jesus saw Zacchaeus in the tree. I ain't got time for this. I want to help us to understand something. Sometimes the only way you can get lemonade is you gotta squeeze the lemon. That this might be the day org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. org or contact our church He lives in you Zacchaeus wanted to see him. He's a Roman tax collector. That's the result of seeing him for the shepherds But the scripture tells us that even Herod But in the middle of you thinking and desiring him to do one thing, he might be working on something else. And let me say this: sometimes when you're waiting to see Jesus and he comes through, like he said he was gonna come through. Jesus wouldn't speak to him at all. Is he alive in you? Is he with you today? Sometimes God is using you in your most difficult hour to show people the Christ in you. m. That God, I'm talking about God, the creator of the world, the one who We don't want to invite nobody over that's going to cause anything to be out of order. Simeon wants to see Jesus. He's got all the power. Sometimes the only time that people can see Christ in us is when we're in desperate need of Him. Simeon waited And he ran ahead and he climbed up into a sycamore tree to see him. The Holy Spirit says, Simeon, you're not going to die until you see Christ. or 11 a. Because he had heard many things about him. And he said to him, Zacchaeus, make haste and come down, for today I must stay at your house. Jesus ain't passing that way. Because based on persecution, a centurion gets to see him. I ain't got time. Did what he wanted to do, what Jesus wanted to do. When you see Jesus, you cannot keep it to yourself. I don't have time to read the Bible. Why would Herod want to see Jesus? You never know how God's gonna work it out that you get to see him Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. Based on patience, Herod wanted to see him. Jesus had given up his spirit. You can put happy birthday, Jesus, in front of your house m. In chapter 2, verse 25, it reads like this: And behold, there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon. Everybody wants to see you. He couldn't help the fact that he was short, but he climbed up into a sycamore tree so that he could get in position to see. He's got all the position. We want peace at our new edifice called the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway. What no? But there's another person I want you to look at in chapter 23. Now he's bringing you their stories. Salvation can come to your house today He's the least of the least. He glorified God for who he was. Here's a story. And he says, now. And Jesus said to him, Today salvation has come to this house. And he says to Zacchaeus, Come down, get out here. There was peace between the two of them. Is that him? When you want to see Jesus, you will. Just because your life is not perfect, Zacchaeus in chapter 19 wants to see Jesus The One Degree of Andy podcast. And it just so happened. I ain't got time for that. Y'all still here with me? But if you know that you know that he's in the house of the Lord, maybe you ought to make your way to the house of the Lord. Y'all hearing what I'm saying? You would think he's okay. Here's a man that doesn't even know God. Was this the Christ Y'all getting quiet on me. And so if you live in us, then the world ought to see Christ in us. He's a Roman. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. But when you when you want to see him, you'll make time. And he's in position I'm Andy Christman. Now y'all gotta understand, Zacchaeus was a tax collector. Now, watch this: the result of him seeing Jesus. Why would he want to see Jesus? And so this man wants to see Jesus too. You've put your Holy Spirit in those who believe. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. It just so happened. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. But they want to see you. And all you can say when He comes through is Lord, you Because it doesn't matter how much you have. For a copy of