Where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And and you're the God in who my fathers and forefathers built a temple to, and your name is in this temple. I need you to be there all the time. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together and we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 8 a. Then the Spirit of the Lord came upon Jehaziel, the son of Zachariah, the son of Beniah, the son of Jael. Voices behind the song. uh the son of Mataniah, uh Levite, of the sons of Asaph, in the midst of the assembly, and he said, Listen, all you of Judah And you inhabitants of Jerusalem, and you King Jehosaphat, thus says the Lord to you do not be afraid, nor dismayed because of this great multitude. And Jehoshaphat bowed his head with his face to the ground, and all of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem bowed before the Lord and worshiped the Lord. Then the Levites of the children of the Kohites and of the children of Korites stood up and praised the Lord God of Israel with voices loud and high. Father, if there's any that don't know you, have not come to that personal, intimate relationship with you, have not repented of sin, have not placed their faith in you, let this be the day, God. Let your glory be revealed. And in the process of him doing all that, he gets caught up in the midst of allying with the king of Israel, Ahab, in order that Ahab might do battle with Ramoth Gilead. Words that will cause your name to get all the glory and all the honor and all the praise, strength in my physical body. And he put Jehoshaphat up as if Jehoshaphat was literally the king of Israel. He rebukes him as a result of it and then chastens him because of it, but at the same time he admonishes him and he says, But the Lord sees something good in you We're here in this temple calling on your name, and we need your help because the situation, the circumstances are way outside of our control. I want to speak to you from the subject matter, the validation of your destiny. When they're standing at the edge of what they believe is going to be destruction and their destiny is going to be wiped out, and they along with it are going to be wiped out. and of Keteran and the inhabitants of Jerusalem and you King Jehoshaphat and Pastor Sterling. They have fasted. Whatever it is that you put in his hands, otherwise, why did you bring it to him in the first place? Find them at the end of the brook before the wilderness of Jeriah. Y'all have that in your text? My father wasn't real tall, and I was uh even smaller. Then there's some some very strong instruction in the text that I want to pull out for you because there's some things that are significant Tell him be on time. But if you're not in place on time, you won't see what I'm getting ready to do. fake like you're getting ready to fight. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. Upper Marlboro, Maryland. by the ascent of Zeiz, and you will find them at the end of the brook before the wilderness of Jarel. Father, I'm praying that if there's any that are here on today that have already been born again, but yet in the process of life, circumstances and trials, they've drifted away from you. Spirit of the living God, I pray that if there is any that came in hurting, any came in perplexed, any came in in need, God, meet the need, exceed the expectations of those who've come in this place. Jeff Hospital comes to lead Israel in the ways of God. The place we find ourselves in the text, Judah's king, Asa, has died and Jehoshaphat becomes king in his place. study in our research that he has a way and has a plan of instituting reforms in the land and drawing people away from idolic worship back to the worship of the living God. He begins to take those down and do this system of reform and putting leaders in place and putting order in place and putting integrity in place. He's interested and he's concerned about assuring that the high places are taken down, and so he begins to take down the wooden idols and the high places that the people of Israel and the people of Judah at this particular point in time, because he's the king in Judah. And while he's allying with Ahab, Ahab tricks him and tells him, When we go into battle, what I need you to do, Jehoshaphat, is I want you to array yourself in your royal robe. Now, Ahab knows that the soldiers of Ramoth Gilead, they're only looking to take out the high-ranking people uh wicked king Ahab. And to come to him a readiness of heart to seek the Lord. The Uithites, but we don't really know who they are. And he knows that you've got in your heart to do good, and and you've taken down these wooden idols, and you're taken down these high places, and you're beginning to do good. And is it that time that Jehoshaphat gives word that they're pressing their way and they're moving towards him, and Jehoshaphat becomes fearful. To pray, and when they came to the house of God, Jehoshaphat stood in the midst of all of Judah, and they began to To pray and call upon the name of the Lord. That we could come to this temple and call on your name and you would come and help us. The clarity and the affirmation and the validation that their destiny is still secure And you have cried out to God, and you need to know that everything's still gonna work out to the good and to the glory of God. This message came from anywhere but God. Because the one who is speaking it comes through five generations of prophets and he speaks for God. to speak and he begins to declare to them. Great multitude of things you cannot control. That this battle, the text says the battle, but can we make it this so that we can be specific to your situation? I like that. This job issue, this person, this battle, it's not your it belongs to God. I think I I somebody might help me here, but I think he's big enough. If we're going to benefit from what the prophetic answer is to our problem. Obedience. And when you go down, I need you to get in the right place. And so he gives them the time, he gives them the location, and then as I'm keeping reading through the text, he says in verse number 17: You will not need to fight in this battle. This one don't you no rolling up the sleeve, no, no, no, no shadow boxing. And your eyes are swollen and tears are filling up your eyes. again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. This morning I want to invite your attention to Second Chronicles chapter 20. who is with you. Not I who declares and speaks, but you. And not the king of Judah. And ultimately, as they go to war, he knew that if he comes arrayed in his royal robe and garments, that they will assume that he is the king of Israel. that this army that is overwhelming, this army that is great, this army that is far exceeding in size and strength to his own nation is going to come and and wipe them out and destroy what he's destined to and destroy the destiny of Judah. In heaven, are you not the one who rules all the nations? Are you not the God who gave us this land, who drove out the inhabitants before us and our fathers? So this message may come to speak to you on today to help you to know that God is interested in validating your destiny. That your destiny is still intact, but there's a process we need to go through. the son of Zachariah, the son of Beniah, the son of Jael, the son of Mataniah, a Levite, of the sons of Asaph in the midst of the assembly The Spirit of the Lord has come upon him and he begins to speak prophetically into the lives of the people of Judah after the prayer, immediately following up the prayer with what I call the prophetic response to the prayer. God takes and gives special attention to make sure that you know Israel and that we know even as we're reading it that this message, this response to prayer did not come from a hat. It did not come from a Johnny Cum lately, it came through the verification and the validation of one who spoke for God. Great multitude of beals that are in front of you. But God's this thing that you're facing, this trouble in your life, this dispute, this argument, this financial thing I need to help somebody here. Then don't worry. And put me in position on his shoulders so that I could get a glimpse of James Brown. Can y'all help me preach this and say to your neighbor, be on time. Well, I can I can I show up Thursday? Important, but the location is important. The salvation of the Lord. But I believe, if I could just talk for God for a moment, that the Lord knew that there were some people who were battle ready. And so what the Lord, He already told you this battle ain't yours, is His, and now He needs to remind you that in this battle you won't have to fight. Who is with you? For the battle is not yours, but God's. Tribes have divided. That the Moab and the Ammonites come and they partner together along with some other side armies. Maybe somebody came in today and life has been beating you up. To this prayer, and in the text, what we see in verse 14, which is somewhat unusual, it says, Then the Spirit of the Lord came upon Jehaziel. And I was just a child and I I r pray didn't know a whole lot about James Brown, but I knew we had gone to see James Brown. What God wants you to see, you've got to get in position. Don't don't don't don't don't don't respond to God and say, well, God, I got something to do tomorrow. Amen. And during this time, there's two kings, one in Israel, the ten northern tribes, and one in Judah, the two southern tribes. You're thinking, what? Do not be afraid and don't be overwhelmed because of this great multitude of trouble that you're facing. This battle is not yours, it's is God's. We see secondly the positioning of yourselves to see. Okay. He already told them at the end of verse 15 that this battle is not yours, but God's. And since some folk never listen to the pastor, can you tell them for me you don't have to fight? To continue our journey, tune in next week for the second half of today's message. You will not need to fight in this battle. In this text that we have find ourselves in, Israel is going through a period of history when is in you. battles and wars and things and people who come against you may cause you to be fearful that your destiny is about to be destroyed. This battle is not to wipe your faith out. I like what he does here because he helps them to understand that what they're facing because of their prayer, because of their position that they take, and because God says be there tomorrow we show up on Wednesday but three days before that he already done done what he was gonna do and we missed it and didn't see it He called the people to fast and he called the people to pray, and he said, We need to seek the Lord. We don't know what to do. But this text and this story gives for Jehoshaphat and the nation of Judah. He says tomorrow go down to them and they will surely come up. See, some of us just need to be in position for the victory. Can I just talk to Kether and folk? Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Of the preceding life of the one who's speaking, to alleviate any possible doubt that you would think that Do not be afraid nor dismayed. See, when you when you're still carrying it, then that battle is yours. You will not need to fight in this battle. Sometimes it causes us to believe that that which we know God said will be, maybe won't be. See, here's the problem with most of us, and this is why we don't get to see what God is doing because we're not obedient. But God. I'm really up on it. Watch this. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. God has to calm us sometimes. God, in essence, if I can say it this way, He says to them, I got it from here. Father in heaven, I pray that your Holy Spirit will be in the midst even right now, that you will speak a clear word in the midst of these, your people. O Judah and Jerusalem, do not fear or be dismayed. And see the salvation of the Lord who is with you. Well, how come he didn't tell me? And if you're gonna make up your mind to worry, then don't bother to pray. I need you to get in position and and and what I want you to do when you get in position, I don't want you either Let your spirit be manifest in such a way, God, that we would know that we have heard from you. I remember when I was very, very young, and this is really a faint memory in my mind. What that helps me to understand that there is a time constraint to what God is getting ready to do, and you need to be on time. Now let me help somebody right here. I want you to see that. I don't need you to roll your eyes. I need you to be in the right place. Yeah. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. This battle is not to destroy you. There are ten tribes to the north and they're known as Israel at this point in time. Our hope of deliverance is in you. And when Jehoshaphat began to pray, his prayer went something like this Are you not the God See, sometimes we pray and then we don't give it to him. We we need to be on time because what God is gonna do, uh, Judah, what He's what He's planning on doing is gonna happen tomorrow, and you need to be on time And so when they go to war, he's nearly killed because what Ahab did was Ahab disguised himself as someone else. But another group of people gathers together, and they all come together and they team up against this small nation of Judah, and they're coming against them to destroy them. And he says to them in verse number 15, and he said, Listen all you of Judah. This great multitude, Judah, of the Ammonites and the and the Moabites and those others that have joined with them. He God wants to make sure that Judah knows that the message that's coming to them is coming prophetically from God Then uh Jehu, a prophet, comes to him and says to him, God is not pleased with your ally that you've allied with, and God is not pleased with you, and so he re We've got some people that showed up at the 9 o'clock service and they were battle ready. Um uh what I what I want you to do is uh uh position yourselves and stand still. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. And we're in this precarious situation, but our eyes are on you. He says, don't be overwhelmed. This great multitude of sickness or disease, this great multitude of pain or depression, this I love that. I want you to position yourself. No, wipe your tears, lift your head up, go to where he said to go. The Lord, as I open my mouth, speak through these lips of clay, words of life, words of encouragement, words of edification. You need to be down by the brook of the wilderness of Jariel because that's where they're coming up, and that's where I'm gonna do my thing. You can't see if your eyes are closed. No, you need to be there tomorrow. That's what he's told. Well, there is no doubt in the minds of the people of Judah that God is speaking through this man. This battle is to strengthen your faith. I don't need you to roll your head around. And I want you to stand still. Now watch this. And so what my father did was so that I could get a glimpse of James Brown, help me, Lord, he picked me up. Position yourselves, stand still, and see the salvation of the Lord. That picks up in verse number sixteen. That shouting stuff right there. You in the wrong position. Circumstances have been pounding on you. If you're gonna see what God wants you to see, you have got to get in position. Don't be dismayed. Are you not the God who in whose hand is all the power and such power that nobody is able to stand against you? We'll begin our reading at verse 14. Y'all still here? Go where I'm sending you. I I think he's wide enough. Now now if your if your if your husband, your wife is the reason why you was late this morning, uh say it with a little bit less attitude. That's a great question. Y'all still hear? You don't have to put up your dukes. I want to be used by you, God. This word dismayed gives the idea of being overwhelmed. This battle is to validate I'm gonna take care of you. Tomorrow go down against them, they will surely come up I need you to obey what I'm saying because not only is the time And so when they chased him down, it was only by the grace of God that he escaped and was not killed because of his allying with God knows where they're gonna come up. You in you in the position for fighting, and he said get in position for victory. And so when we get to chapter 20, we find here in chapter 20 that as Jehoshaphat is king in Judah Don't be afraid of the multitude, for the battle is not yours. Come on, man, preach. And Jehoshaphat says, so here we are, Lord. Sometimes life and situations and That's what the text says. But when you prayed and given it to God, that battle ain't yours no more. Verse sixteen says to them, Tomorrow go down against them, and they will surely come up by the ascent of Zeas, and you will Praise the Lord. Go when I'm sending you. And so what he wants them to do is get in position so they can see. And when they began to come together, and they came to the house of God. There is a prophetic response Because if you give it to God, you ought to leave it in his hands, and if it's in his hands This battle is not yours, but God's. Watch this. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Tomorrow go out against them, for the Lord is with you. We find in our I don't need you to do none of that. If anybody was in the midst of a battle, if anybody came in facing some opposition this morning, that should have been an encouragement to you. I want you to see the delivering power of God Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. Now after Jehosaphat praised this prayer, then the series of events picks up from where we began our reading in verse 14. He says they're gonna come up by the synthesis, and you will find them at the end of the brook before the wilderness. My parents took us somewhere down DC and they went to go see James Brown. Pastor, why does it belong to God? We just talk to him about it, but we go back and carry it. I want to begin because what I believe when we picked up in verse number 14 of this text, it picks up The first thing is that in verse number 16, he says, tomorrow org or contact our church office at 301-627-9500. I'm trying to help us here. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III. Lord, hide me behind your cross and use me as an instrument in your hand to accomplish your will. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. Are you not the God of this land? Have thine own way. That that's not good for me. Can we help somebody right here? Now Tomorrow, uh watch this, because the issue is You're standing in a place where you're looking at a multitude that's way outside of your control. You can't see if you've been crying all night. You you don't have to pull off your earrings and kick off your punks for this one. Two tribes in the south that are broken out and they're known as Judah. And you are the God, are you not? m. The word of God reads as follows. This battle is not yours So so if, and I say this way, if you're gonna pray I think he's high enough. Stand still. Now or 11 a. And so therefore what Jehosaphat does is he calls a prayer meeting. Thus says the Lord to you. Be there when he said to be there and stand still. That's what he says. All I want you to do is stand still. And now, Pastor Sterling. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. In the name of Jesus Christ, I pray and thank you. What I'm trying to help you to understand is if you're gonna see m. Open your eyes. That at our new edifice called the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway. And Because every now and then, you know, folk will come up to you and they'll tell you, God told me to tell you And the best thing that God sees in you is that you've got a desire to seek after him. This Now he's bringing you their stories. So immediately he begins to It belongs to God because they prayed and gave it to him. They move from religiosity to relationship. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Don't be afraid, don't be overwhelmed because they're coming. That told us whenever there was trouble. I think he's deep enough. He says we have no power against this great multitude. In this text, it lists five generations. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. He says to them in his response They're not in good fellowship with you. Our faith I'm Andy Christman. And see Oh, that's what I need you to do. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Get in position. Amen. No. I think he's powerful enough to handle what In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. I pray you draw them back to yourself. But if it's somebody you don't know, give them some attitude and Go down, watch this, tomorrow. It's gonna be alright. I need you to get in position Amen. You you you okay on? Please join us. For a copy of