Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling We want to invite your attention to the Gospel of John, chapter 19. We'll begin our reading at verse 25. The word of the Lord reads as follows. Now there stood by the cross of Jesus, his mother, and his mother's sister, Mary, the wife of Clopus, and Mary Magdalene. And when Jesus therefore saw his mother and the disciple, whom he loved, standing by, he said to his mother, Woman, behold your son. And he said to the disciple, Behold your mother. And from that hour that disciple took her to his own home. After this, Jesus, knowing that all things were now accomplished, that the scripture might be fulfilled, he said, I thirst. Would you pray with me this morning? Father, we are blessed to be in your presence. We thank you for your Holy Spirit. Even now, God, we pray that you would speak a word. In the midst of your people that would serve to be of great encouragement to us, Lord a word, that would draw someone out of the darkness and into the marvelous light. Eternal God, that this word on today might help change us for the better, might shape us into the people that you want us to be. Pray, God, that you would draw those who have drifted in their fellowship. Back into fellowship with you on today. I'm praying, Lord, that your word will accomplish what you desire it to go forward to do. I'm trusting you, God, in all these things. I believe by faith you already have a plan And I am in need of you, Heavenly Father, as I stand to declare your word. So I pray for your strength. I pray for your power. I pray for your wisdom and for your clarity of speech and thought. That the word of God might be clear as a very oracle of God, and none can deny that God has spoken in this place. Have your way. In the name of Jesus, who is the Christ, I pray and I thank you in advance for what you're getting ready to do. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, Ketterum, this past few weeks we've been on a journey of actually preaching through a series of messages entitled Family Dynamics. And we began our journey in Esther looking at the sacrifice to save the family. Last week, we were in 1 Samuel chapter 3, and we spoke from the idea out of the same house. And so on this Mother's Day morning, I want to continue this series on family dynamics. And as we look in on this crucifixion scene, where Jesus pauses death. To take care of his mother. So while Jesus is busy dying for the sins of the world, while he's busy taking on your sin and my sin, while he's Enduring the pain of all of the suffering and the the the whipping and the beating and the bleeding He's not tied up, he's nailed up. But yet he takes time to give attention to the needs of his mother. I want to talk to you from the subject matter this morning. Behold your mother. This text starts off, first of all, with this whole concept and idea of observation. There is a call, if you will, for observation in the text. This is the progression of the seven last sayings, if you will, the process of Jesus' crucifixion on the cross. This is now the third word that he's about to speak. And so the the text says in verse 25, now there stood by the cross of Jesus his mother, his mother's sister, Mary, the wife of Clopus, and Mary Magdalene. When Jesus is at his greatest point of need, when Jesus is broken, bruised, wounded, distressed. Carrying and taking on all the sin of the world while Jesus is going through utter hell and nobody else seems to quite understand. Look who's at the cross with him. First, his mother is there. Lord, help us. Thank you, mothers. His mother's sister is there, which is his aunt. So when you're at your greatest point of need, Who can you count on? Now, Jesus has four other brothers and at least two sisters. And none of them are there at the cross while he's dying also for them. So that they might not have to go to hell and they might not have to spend their eternity separated from God, but they ain't even there. Now you say, well, Pastor Belisa's aunt is there. Praise the Lord for aunties. Now the text doesn't say, but we don't really know why she's there. I don't know if she's there to support her sister or whether she's there to support Jesus. But because she's seen nowhere else in scripture, I'm gonna just guess that she's probably there supporting her sister. So not only is there his mother is dead, thank God for mothers His auntie is there. There's Mary, the wife of Clopus, and Mary Magdalene. Mary Magdalene has benefited from the ministry of the Lord because he cast seven demons out of her and she's there. I'm grateful for the imagery and the picture of folk that are faithful to you when you've been a blessing in their life. Jesus, I like I said, he has James. Jose, Simon, and Judas as brothers. And according to Mark chapter 6, he's got sisters, so that means he has at least two sisters. And none of them show up at his crucifixion. None of them show up to support him. None of them show up at his greatest point of need. So just in case you happen to have some scenarios playing out in your life Where your family members, your siblings who you grew up with, who were in the same house with you, who you blessed, who you paid their bills for, who you took care of, some of whom you even raised, and if they don't show up for you, don't worry about it, they didn't show up for Jesus either. You got good company. They don't even believe in Jesus. When you've gone through some things in your life and nobody else was there, mama was there. Amen. Sometimes mama wasn't there physically, but mama was there praying for you. Do we still have mothers that pray for their children? And do all of us who are here realize that the prayers of your mothers have kept you from a whole lot of stuff? Have blessed you into a lot of places that you shouldn't have ever made it into. protected you from doing some stuff that you wanted to do, but somehow the prayers of mama was keeping you from it. You was mad at the moment, but you're glad now. And there is a group of mothers that get ignored on today, but I don't want to ignore them either, and those are the mothers who step in and be a mother. Praise the Lord for those mothers who have been mothers to those you didn't give birth to. I don't want to ignore you. You have contributed greatly to the lives of those you have invested in and you have you have parented. Thank you. So I want you be behold your mother. The observation here in the text is is who's there at the cross. But The observation leads to what I call appreciation because as you observe, as you behold your mother It leads to you appreciating her. And if if we would pause for a moment to behold our mothers in the idea of the family dynamic, we would come to the realization that the mother is significant. We'll come to the realization that it that mama has done great things for us. And for those of you who say, you know, I don't have nothing good to say about my mother. She ain't done nothing for me. No, that's not true So here's what I want you to do. I want you to at least appreciate the fact that for nine months She carried you in her womb. She fed you from her own body. She put her body as a sacrifice of life so that you could have life. If she birthed you into the world, she did something for you. She still got stretch marks because of you. I'm trying to help us. Appreciate what she's done. She's made some sacrifices. Even if she gave you up for adoption after you were born. She recognized I can't take care of you. And she at least puts you in the hands of somebody who would do better for you than she would. Sometimes we get mad because mama puts you up for adoption. Why'd she leave me? She left you because she knew that she wasn't gonna do the best for you, and the best she could do for you was to put you in somebody else's hands. A lot of times folk have babies and they left them with grandma. So grandma's raising a whole lot of babies too. And because babies are having babies, we got great-grandmamas still raising babies And so she sacrificed. She she prayed for you. These are things we ought to appreciate. Listen. Mothers are praying and we ought to appreciate the prayers. We are to appreciate their sacrifices. We are to appreciate all their their love that they've given Jesus, as he is on the cross, he sees his mother at this very crucial moment of the crucifixion, and in his earthly sense, he has to have great appreciation for the fact that here I am going through such pain and such suffering in my humanity, but yet my mother who gave birth to me She's here and even though nobody else is here, he's got to have some appreciation for the fact that my mother cares enough to loves me enough to be here to support me in this hour. So he he appreciates his mother. But in a whole family dynamic, sometimes we are more distracted. We're missing out on the opportunity of appreciating the person who has done the most for us because we're missing the one who ain't there. Can I talk to some single mothers who notice this story? You are the one who is working. You the one who was trying to go to ballet and football and basketball practice and doing all this by yourself. You with platin hair. You were keeping up with PTA meetings and and all the stuff. And the daddy is absent. And the child misses daddy. When you're the one giving all the work. I want to talk to the child for just a moment and say to that child, appreciate mama. Behold your mother. Look at your mother. Look at what she's doing. She's sacrificing for you. She's carrying the weight all by herself. And I know sometimes this is hard because we just want the other person to be there. And they're not. And so we're consumed with missing them. And while we're consumed with missing them, we fail to appreciate the one who shows up. Jesus is not consumed with his brothers and sisters not being there. He is appreciative of his mother being there, and he gives attention to the fact that she's there by appreciating her. So out of the appreciation that Jesus has, and he said, Pastor, how do you know he appreciated his mother? Because appreciation will move you to action And what Jesus does, he's dying on the cross, he knows he's in just a horrible place, and the pain that he's causing his mother to have to look on to his crucifixion, he wants to divert her attention away from himself and he says to her woman behold your son in other words stop looking at me Because I know you looking at me and you looking at what I'm going through is causing you more pain. So I want you to look at your son, look at John Behold your son. And he says to John, John, behold your mother. And so Jesus takes action to demonstrate his appreciation for the fact that his mother is there and the love that he has for her. He's demonstrating it. By making sure he's taken care of. The next thing I want to talk about is the obligation. In the text, Jesus observes his mother's presence. But he knows that he's getting ready to leave her in an earthly sense, and he can't provide for her the way he did when he was here. Now, according to Jewish law, if a father died, by now Joseph is believed to be dead. Jesus is the oldest son of Mary, and so Jesus has the obligation to take care of his mother. But now he knows he's getting ready to die. He knows he's gonna have to ascend back to glory, and he won't be presence in in the human sense with her. And so what he does is he now fulfills his obligation to assure that she will be taken care of. So he says, Woman, behold your son. Look at John. I'm transferring my responsibility, my obligation to take care of you to John. The disciple whom I love. I'm making sure that when I'm not here, that you're not going to be left destitute, that you're not going to be left alone, that you're not going to be left A finning for yourself, some dude ain't gonna come and try to push up on you, mama. So John, take care of my mother. The obligation to step in, step up, and take care of his mother. He's fulfilling his obligation. This was Jewish law, but I believe it's common sense. To take care of the person who gave you life. He says, Behold your mother. John, look at your mother. Take notice of her to make sure the obligation of her care is taken care of. John, I want you to do it. Why doesn't Jesus turn the care of his mother Over to one of his brothers. He's got four of them. Number one, because his brothers are unbelievers And his mother is a believer, and he's not going to turn the care of his godly mother over to a heathen brother. How come the brothers Don't automatically step up and take care of their mother. Don't they see that Jesus has been taking care of her all this time? Can I talk to y'all families for just a moment? Don't your brothers and sisters know you the one taking mama to the doctor's appointments? Don't they know that you the one taking care of her bills? Don't they know that you the one making sure that she go get the this and get the that to the grocery store? They know that she ain't doing it by herself Why don't the brothers and sisters who always got their hand out, how come they don't never have a hand out to give mama nothing, but they always want to take something? They always want mama to watch their kids. Why you bringing them Bad kids over here. Mama, too old to be watching your kid. Watch your own kid. It's family dynamics. This is happening in Jesus' family. So you know we don't have a chance. They don't show up and they don't step up. I'll tell you when they will show up for the reading of the will or the distribution of the insurance policy. Last point about your way is the adoption. Jesus transfers the care of his mother to John and the sonship of John to his mother and not the other children. Because they're unbelievers. But this adoption that he performs on the cross that causes John to be adopted by Mary, and Mary to be adopted by John. Is an interesting dynamic that's happening here, but there's a bigger picture that Jesus is trying to paint for us. Because this is not the first time That God has looked in on his people and seen their suffering. This is not the first time that God has looked and observed and declared, behold, no, this is not the first time From generation past, God looked in on you and me and saw that we were a mess. We couldn't handle things and we couldn't work it out by ourselves and he spoke to himself if I can say it this way He had a conversation. God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit had a conversation and said, behold your children. And he was talking about us, but we was messed up. We was tore up from the flow up. And so God said, look, I've got an obligation to rig Restore the brokenness that they're dealing with. I've got an obligation to make sure that they're reconciled to me. And so Jesus says, I'm going and I'm I'm gonna wrap myself up in flesh, Lord help me God. And so as He fulfills the obligation of coming To reconcile us to himself. God the Father looks in on us even though we were messed up, even though we were tore up from the floor. And God the Father says, Look, I still appreciate Those human beings, because they were made in my image, they were shaped in my likeness. I still see something to appreciating them, even though they don't look like what I want them to. So God the Father has this action to come to redeem us through God the Son He takes action because appreciation pushes you to action. If I don't appreciate you, I won't do nothing for you. But if I appreciate you, I'm gonna do action for you. And you might not appreciate my action, but my action Action is done out of love. And so listen, even though Jesus came and he showed us action by dying on the cross, everybody won't receive the appreciation of his action. Can can I just make it plain? There's some folk that will they that some mothers this morning they got to give and it was given out of love and appreciation. But there's some mothers they're gonna say, What is this? It doesn't negate my action. It just says that you can't appreciate the love that I'm given. When Jesus died on the cross, there are people who will never appreciate his action. But it doesn't negate his action. He still died for you. He still fulfilled the obligation to cover your life with his blood. But it's up to you You might say, you know what, I can't accept that. I don't really want to accept that. This ain't no of no value to me, but it doesn't negate the fact that he loved you so much that he died for you. And as a result of his death, his burial, his resurrection, he the God the Father says to you and I, behold my son. John the Baptist said the same thing. Behold, here comes the one. The Savior of the world Here he comes, behold, him who I spoke of, whose shoelaces I'm not worthy to tie. Behold, here he is, the Son of God, the one who's gonna wreck Reconcile us to God. Behold, here he is the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. And I say to you this morning that all that God did for you You might not appreciate it the way he gave it, but it sure doesn't stop the fact that he did it. And then God arranged for you and me an adoption. Listen, because in our sin And in our wickedness, we are children of the devil. We do what he tells us to do. We are sons of disobedience, daughters of disobedience. But Jesus arranges an adoption as a result of fulfilling his obligation to die for us and to provide the sacrifice that would Pay the price for all of our sin. And then he says, now here's an opportunity for you to be adopted. Behold, my son. Check him out. Look him over. Observe him. There is no sin in him. He is without guile. He is without sin. He loved you beyond your own imaginable recognition. In fact, every day when you get up, he keeps blessing you and blessing you and blessing you Behold my son, I offer to you my son, the adoption opportunity is available for you, and you can be a Adopted into the family of God, where he will take care of you in the same way that John took care of Jesus' mother. The Bible says, from that day Look, listen, listen. From the very day that you accept Jesus Christ as your Lord, as your Savior, as the one who died For you, as the one who fulfilled the obligation on your behalf, as the one who loved you. That from that very day he'll take you to his home and he'll take care of you. Like John does, Jesus' mother. It says from that very day. John didn't wait. And listen, John's mother was still alive. And so he didn't hesitate or pause. He reacted. Because Jesus had performed the adoption. Lord help me God. When you come into the family of God, don't go on vacation. No, when you get adopted into the family of God, you ought to set your soul on fire to run for him, to live for him. To stay in his presence and in his house because he will take care of you. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. Under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship Servic Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org. Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. He sits Down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.