Where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And Saul attacked the Amalekites from Hevilah all the way to Shur, which is east of Egypt. Lord, above and beyond all things that transpire, I'm praying that your word would cause your name to get glory and honor and praise. Lord, that you might get glory even out of me, the vessel that is surrendered to you. Lord, I'm gonna talk to somebody this morning. And big borrowing and stealing. He's the choice of the people, but he wasn't the first choice of choice of God. Y'all get out of town because I'm getting ready to do what God told me to do. So you start doing research to help you fulfill the assignment. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together and we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 8 a. You y'all know what I'm talking about. The Amalekites for the glory of God. Church family get all of my business and God all up in your business because you haven't finished the assignment. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. Kettering, if you have your Bibles with you this morning and you should, I want to invite you to join me in First Samuel chapter 15. Voices behind the song. So Saul gathered the people together and numbered them in Telehim and two hundred thousand foot soldiers and ten thousand men of Judah. and has not performed the commandment. Father, I pray that the Spirit of God would speak in this place, that it might encourage someone who came in. Maybe way back when there were some things that God told you and some things that you committed that I'm going to do and I'm going to get it done. And the word harem means to completely destroy as a sacrifice to God. When you go in to Amalek, I want you to go in and wage holy war against them. And as you kill them, as you sacrifice them, they are a holy sacrifice to me. Gathers up ten thousand of Judah, gathers them up together. Then he attacked them. To fulfill the assignment that God put on your life. When I first talked about the stuff that you said you was going to do, and then you haven't done it yet, you got convicted instantly. You started walking, bought you some tennis shoes, got you some nice workout clothes. And he attacked them, he didn't just attack them mildly, he attacked them fiercely, and he was destroying them. From from Hevelah all the way to Shur, which is east of Egypt. They looking at all what they how they could benefit from what was there, everything that was good. People tell I can't do that. Upper Marlboro, Maryland. And Saul came to the city of Amalek and lay in wait in the valley. And he also took Agag, king of the Amalekites, alive, and utterly destroyed all the people with the edge of the sword. told Samuel, saying, Saul went to Carmel, and indeed he set up a monument for himself. Then Samuel went to Saul, and Saul said to him, Blessed are you of the Lord. But Samuel said, What then is this bleeding of sheep in my ears and the lowing of oxen which I hear? through me and that the glory of God might be revealed. I'm praying that, God, through the preaching of the gospel, that someone who's drifting in their fellowship might come to a place, God, where they would surrender and say, Lord, I commit myself back to you. As I stand to declare your word, Lord, strengthen my physical body. The people of God said together, Amen. You ain't gone nowhere yet. Lord help us. We didn't really hear what God said, and sometimes in the middle of what's happening, we get it confused. How do I know he heard the assignment? I know he heard the assignment because the text tells me he heard the assignment. Saul, what I want you to do, Saul, I want you to utterly destroy all that they have. It's a holy sacrifice. One of the first things you did is went to Google and you started Googling information to help you to fulfill the assignment. That's how I know you heard the assignment. I'm in your business. I know y'all man, but y'all still here though, right? Guess who else has a tendency to do that? We're unwilling because it infringes upon our desires. They now don't want to destroy it. But you do what you put value on. You see how we devalue? And so that's why we have all these issues and stuff. To continue our journey, tune in next week for the second half of today's message. And the word of the Lord reads as follows, Samuel also said to Saul, the Lord sent me to anoint you king over his people. For you showed kindness to all the children of Israel when they came up out of Egypt. Saul said, They have brought them from the Amalekites, for the people spared the best of the sheep and the oxen to sacrifice to the Lord, and the rest we have utterly destroyed. God, we need to hear from you today. Praise the Lord. The Lord had told you to do. Lord help us in here today. Lord help us. We left some stuff unfinished. When the Lord told us to do it. Am I right? And so Samuel says, Saul, I've come to anoint you as king and to put you over God's people Take heed to the voice of the words of the Lord. So he calls him out and calls him to his assignment. This is what God said. I've put you in this position, but I need you, Saul, because this is a high position, but I need you to listen to God and do what God says do. Not yours. He gathered the people together and then he went to Amalek and he went to Amalek to attack Amalek just like God said. all the people. Man and woman, infant and nursing child, ox and sheep and camel and donkey kill everybody So now what Saul does, he goes, here's the proof that he heard the assignment. To attack Amalek just like the instructions were. But he warns the Kenites, y'all better leave. See, he he heard the instructions. You heard the assignment. The Holy Spirit convicts you when you hear there's an assignment you have that you need to finish and you haven't done it. The call this morning is finish the work. Okay, we got all the proof. That stops the work of the assignment. Watch this. And all that was good, and were unwilling to utterly destroy them. There's more value in me keeping him alive and parading him in front of the rest of Israel to show how awesome I am than to do what God told me to do. Watch this. As opposed to keeping the value as to what was valuable to God, God said, These Amalekites are valuable to sacrifice for me But now he's devalued what God put value on, and he's made himself more valuable than the sacrifice of God. Everything that was good. I ain't gonna kill that and just lay it on the ground for the Lord. We can hold on to that. Well, guess what? Now we don't have time. office at 301-627-9500. for what he did to Israel, how he ambushed him on the way when he came up from Egypt. And do not spare them, but kill both man and woman, infant and nursing child, ox and sheep, camel and donkey. the oxen, the fatlings, the lambs, and all that was good, and were unwilling to dis to utterly destroy them. Finish the assignment. Watch this. And what they view as good. To watch your show. Over Israel. That they utterly destroyed. We made all kind of commitments to the Lord. A hundred thousand, uh, rather ten thousand men from Judah, and he did what God said do Do all the different sites, try to figure out what can I drink, what can I eat, what I can't eat, what you try to figure out what diet's gonna work for me. He utterly destroyed all the people with the edge of the sword. And before you know it, you've been in front of the TV for six, eight, ten hours. You said that I'm I'm cleaning up the garage. Saul to do. They did this because when he looked at Agag, watch this, this is the king of the Amalekites, he looked at Agag and he thought to himself. Finish the assignment. To anoint you as king over God's people. So he says now when you go to Amalek, here's the assignment. Men, children, nursing, infants, kill everybody. You didn't come for us, we gone. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. It's interesting that we can always find excuses not to do what we said we was going to do. Finish the assignment. They probably were thinking, man, we're gonna have some lamb chocks. And when the assignment is priority, we will do the assignment. In Sweden, they they doing a European tour. Would you pray with me for a moment? Saul heard the assignment and understood the assignment. So uh look here in the text, and Saul, watch this, verse 1. Get involved in ministry. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. You said I'm gonna finish school. That's what we're going to talk about this morning. I know. And so now therefore he says, listen, Saul, as I anoint you as king, I need you to Now the context of this passage, this word that we translate utterly destroy comes from a Hebrew word, harem. I'ma I'ma get me my own car. So now the value became what was convenient and beneficial to him. Now that that good means good to them. Saul heard the instructions. Yes you do you do whatever you whatever it is you want to do folk ain't got no money I see all kind of people ain't got no money they be traveling all over the place I mean like how'd they get to Haiti how they they said they had no money they now they on vacation in in in And in this text, as we look at Saul's situation, we know that Saul heard the assignment. So he starts to do the assignment, which tells me he heard the assignment. See this, I know y'all. And now as we stand here and we look back from where he's brought us from, if you look back just to the beginning of this year, there are some things that Now therefore heed the voice of the words of the Lord. I'm gonna punish them for what they did, how they ambushed my people as they came up from Egypt. Just tell them finish the assignment. It's a sanctified sacrifice to God. It's all here in the text. So he he not only watched his head so they kept back the best sheep, the best oxen, the best lambs, the fatlings, and they deemed, watched the text is everything that they deemed good. And so maybe it wasn't just the beginning of this year since you had the assignment. Saul, verse 8, took Agag, king of the Amalekites, alive. So, in doing so, they have devalued the assignment. For as long as there was a was, there's been 24 hours in a day. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. You said, I'm gonna get out of debt. God didn't say just go to Amalek and kill everybody there. Because you don't know what I heard. They looking at all the stuff that was good, and it was good to them. No, you had time, but you shift the value. And so I yield myself as an instrument in your hand, Lord, that your will might be accomplished in me. On Sunday, when the Super Bowl and the playoffs are coming and your football team is on, all of a sudden, you ain't just watching your team, you watching other teams. And then before long, we've devalued all the things and the commitments we've made to God, but we've put the things that were valuable to us on the front burner. Y'all still here with me? So they leave. Verse 2: The Lord said, I'm the Lord of hosts. You bought a treadmill and use it, but you bought one. Because he gathered the people together, 200,000 foot soldiers. And it grieved Samuel, and he cried out to the Lord all night. You say, Lord, I'm gonna do it. So y'all need to get out of the way. Y'all still here? Now the word of the Lord came to Samuel, saying, I greatly regret that I have set up Saul as king, for he has turned back from following me I'm going back to school. I'm moving out of mama's house. Finish the assignment. Watch this. I'ma get this garage clean and you ain't done it yet because it didn't favor your desire We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Father in heaven, we need you on this morning to clarify your word and to speak into the life of every man, woman, boy, and girl. The text is just laying it out to us, letting us know he knew what was going to happen. Us. God, if there's anybody that doesn't know you as Lord and Savior of their life, it's my prayer on this morning, God, they would come to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. Verse five and six, he goes to Amalek. Even as we look at this text on this morning and we look at Saul, Saul has an assignment from God that he did not complete. We've left some things incomplete, unfulfilled. See they not listening to me. It's in the text. So you heard the assignment. And Amen. So they devalue the assignment. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. But when he got to Amalek, this is how I know he even further, he heard the instructions. Oh yeah, I know you heard the assignment. I'm all in your business. No, we taking that back home. Amen. You ain't worked out yet. You still borrowing people's car. I'm tired of being in debt. God laid it out for him. He's attacking them all the way. We've been given all kinds of instruction from God. Yeah, we all do. Give me strength enough to declare your word with power and authority. You didn't only do that, you start talking to people. Finish the assignment. What Saul is going to do is he's going to devalue the assignment. But Saul and the people started sparing stuff. How they do that? Finish the assignment. I know why it's getting quiet. As we look at this text, in order to finish the assignment, we first of all have to have heard the assignment. And so when your TV show comes on, and it's a two-hour special episode, all of a sudden you got two hours. But God concedes and says, I'm going to do what they wanted. And if you don't get out of the way, I'm gonna kill y'all too. I mean, I've been I've been carrying this weight around for the last 30 years, and I'm trying to figure out how to. Have your way, eternal God. I'm gonna get my degree, and you ain't done it yet God, I'm gonna join this ministry. Because you know I'm this is this is my embellishment on the on the text, and I know you're not supposed to do this, but this is what came to my mind. They looking at the gold and the silver and they looking at the the nice Louis. I'm tired of living here. They already tuned me out because I got all in their business already. We do the same thing. And some things that you told the Lord you were going to do. The only workouts you're working out is from the closet to the kitchen. I know I'm in there. Because I didn't come to destroy the Kenites. They ain't even got a job. So they they get up, they pack up, they leave. In other words, I'm not putting you in this position and letting you do what you want to do And so he heard the assignment. He said go there and kill the Amalekites. That's a great question. Then Saul said to the Kenites, Go, depart, get down from among the Amalekites, lest I destroy you with them. And you owe everybody steal. And he says to him, Look, when you go in, don't spare nobody. He knows exactly what the assignment was, and he starts on it vigorously. Praise the Lord. I'm getting ready to do the assignment. Are y'all still here? He goes and he gathers up the people. You know how I know you heard the assignment? What God said needs to be done, now they have devalued it. That's what I he comes. He went to Amalek. It's right here in the text. See, we first have to hear it in order to finish it. And you steal in mama's house. Go to Amalek, I'm gonna do the punishment. Praise the Lord. I'm gonna tell you in a minute. But God wants to make it clear, Saul, I'm gonna punish Amonek, not you. Because all of the people of Amalek belong to me, and I want them sacrificed to me. Y'all still here? So when we say, you know what, I'm walking out on this thing, but you didn't walk out. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. We devalue what God places value on by putting our priorities above God's. And here's how we devalue it. I'm trying to figure people do what they want to do. Can you can you help me with this this morning? I'm gonna do this. Watch this. That's how I know you you you heard the assignment They spared Agad and the best sheep. Call an Uber and Chop it up, split it up, put it in the refrigerator. Samuel says to Saul, he goes to Saul and says to Saul, Saul, I've come under the authority of God. Y'all still here with me? You said, you know, I'm trying to do this and I'm thinking about doing that, and I'm supposed to do this, and I need some help. And so they said, we're not going to utterly destroy And when you kill them, you're killing them as a sacrifice to me. He was going all the way from Y'all still here? But I ain't got time to do the work of the Lord because that's not valuable to me. And we'll give you all the glory and all the honor and all the praise. Discourage, lift up their heavy heart. So the Kenites departed from among the Amalekites I'm gonna do that. And he goes, verse 7 said he attacked the Amalekites. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Catherine, here we are on the last Sunday of the month, and God has brought us a mighty, mighty long way. I will punish Amalek. I'm just going to walk through the text. I just want to make sure that y'all know I'm not making none of this up. Why would they do this? So you started doing these things. Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. Why? You started looking up schools and trying to figure out how much it's gonna cost and and you start looking up businesses and you try to say, well if I go into this business, how I'm gonna do this and how I'm gonna do that. But when we devalue the assignment, we'll never get it done. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III. That's why y'all got quiet. Now watch this. And I stop by to encourage you to finish the assignment. Thus says the Lord of hosts: I will punish Amalek. Now you need to understand something. Do I go on Weight Watcher? Now, go and attack Amalek and utterly destroy all that they have. That's why they were getting quiet. Here's something I always say. org or contact our church So when Samuel rose early in the morning to meet Saul, it was Now, here's your part. And because it infringes upon their desire. It's ten years later. And so what we've done, we've left a lot of things undone. He went to Amalek. Because after you got the assignment. We'll begin our reading at verse 1. And so he gets there, and the Kenites are there, and he says to the Kenites I came here to utterly destroy, to harem And you said, I'm gonna have it done by the end of the year. You go to Amalek, you go there and you attack the people, and when you get there So he heard the instruction. I have performed the commandment of the Lord. And every excuse in the world has come up and interrupted you from completing the assignment that God has given you. Look at the fat on that lamb right there. Pastor, how you know he heard the assignment? So this is a holy sacrifice to God. We devalue it saying, I ain't got time. And he has gone on around and passed by, and gone down to Gilgal And Saul said to I want you to utterly destroy You ain't done nothing yet. m. And so I want to talk to you on this morning as we examine this text from the subject matter. But did you hear the assignment? It's in verse number four. Doesn't matter how long you've lived, you've always had 24 hours in every day. And guess what? They figure out a way to do it. or 11 a. Just tap your neighbor on the hand and tell him, can you just finish the assignment? Lord, I need you So the Kenite said, We out, peace. What Saul does, he heard the assignment. I need you to commit yourself to the study of the word. That's the assignment. Let my mind be clear. So I need you to help me to tell them finish the assignment I know he heard the assignment because That tells me he heard the assignment. When he got to Amalek, he got there and there were some Kenites mixed in with the Amalekites. Do I go on this? And now, Pastor Sterling. Amen. Now you go and attack Amalek. So I know you heard the assignment because you're also getting convicted by the Holy Spirit. People do what they want to do. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. But Saul and the people spared Agag and the best of the sheep. But everything despised and worthless m. He knew what he was there to do. Saul devalues the assignment. God, encourage them through the preaching of the gospel. Maybe it was the beginning of the decade. And so, okay, go anoint Saul as king. Man, I didn't come down You haven't finished the assignment, but you heard it Saul's, he's he's not the worthy one. at our new edifice called the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway. See, here's the problem with some of us. Do I stop eating bread? Now he's bringing you their stories. And you still haven't done them. . Oxen, the fatlins, the lambs. We gonna have that for dinner next week. He gathers up the foot soldiers, 200,000. Kill everybody. So you went the you went the It doesn't have value anymore. He says, Do not spare them, but kill both man and woman. Saul is not the only one who heard the assignment. Watch this. Let my articulation be straight. We ain't just gonna just slice up the Louis. You know that But then all of a sudden, he begins to do something The One Degree of Andy podcast. I'm gonna lose this weight Do I stop eating chicken? You know why you didn't walk out? When it's priority. We thank you. In Jesus' name we pray That's my part. Y'all still here with me? And so you start inquiring of other people to help you. And what now has value is what they want to do. So now that you heard it and you know what you're supposed to be doing. I'm Andy Christman. That's what God is telling What do I do? We don't know what God said. He says, women. You didn't walk out because it didn't favor your desire. I need you to get involved in some classes. Did you? org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. Did you understand the assignment He's Y'all still hear My question is: have you done the same? Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. My part is the punishment. Well, how am I gonna use so you start doing your investigation? But watch this. Because it doesn't have value, it doesn't rise to the top. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Father, in the name of Jesus. No, take that Louis home. I need you to Verse number three.