Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now Pastor Sterling. I want to invite your attention to the Gospel of John, John chapter 1, verse 1. The word of the Lord reads as follows: In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things were made through him, and without him nothing was made that was made. In him was life, and the life was in was the light of men. Verse 14 And the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. Amen. Would you pray with me on this morning? Father, we bless you once again for another occasion, another opportunity we have to declare your word. Lord, I stand in need of you this morning. Endow me that I might speak what thus saith the Lord. Father, open up our understanding. Let our minds be clear. Let our hearts be clear to receive what thus saith the Lord. Spirit of the Lord, I yield myself as a vessel and instrument to accomplish your will. Someone may need to be saved today. Save them by your amazing grace. Someone, God, may have drifted in their fellowship, and it is my prayer on today that the preaching of the gospel will cause them to return to fellowship, God, that they would abandon the ways of the world and drift. Brought closer unto you and return the fellowship to you. Father, I pray that in all that is done and all that is said and all the our time and experience that your name we get the glory and the honor and the praise for you, God, are worthy, worthy. It's in Jesus' precious and wonderful name I pray with thanksgiving and expectation. Amen I want to talk to you on this morning from the subject matter, the Christmas message. He is God. And I want to start with in the beginning. The text in John, who writes uh definitively from the perspective of proving to us, that Jesus was in fact very God starts off his texts in the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God. In the beginning, according to Genesis chapter 1 Verses 1, 2, and 3, there were the clear manifestations of God when the Bible says, and darkness was over the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God hovered above the darkness. So we see the Spirit of God in Genesis 1 in the beginning. And then the Bible says, and God said, so we now have God speaking, and we have the word, because when you speak, that means words. And so we have God The spirit and the word in the beginning. Now, the word that God spoke was so synonymous and so in order and so in line with who he was in his personhood and in his character that there was no separation, there was no variation between his word and himself. He wasn't hypocritical like some of us. God, whatever he said Whatever word came out of his mouth, his word was directly in line and clearly connected To the person and the character of who he was, so much so that the word was God. His word was perfect. And it was pure. And it was a clear mirror of him. There was no lie in him. There was no untruth in him because the character of who he was as God as divine creator of the ends of the world his word was clearly manifest of who he was. The word was God, and the word possessed every aspect of the authority And the divine manifestation and the power of God. From God was Perfection and his person and his character of excellence and immutability. In other words, God is an unchangeable God and His Word is unchangeable. His word doesn't change when you create new laws. His word doesn't change when it becomes no longer socially acceptable. No, you can't legislate change to an immutable word because the word is God. And so the word, John says, was God. And he was in the beginning with God. So if the word is God, And I carry the word around in the form of 66 books. And the word has all the authority and all the power of God. How come I'm not reading it every day? How come I'm not in love with the word, though I say I'm in love with God? Now, in the beginning we have the word, and the word is with God, and the word is God, and then verse 3 says, all things were made through him. And without him nothing was made that was made. Wow. So now we move from in the beginning to in creation. So in the beginning the word is God. In creation, I need you to understand, in creation the word is also God. He is the word, the word is the creator. Do you realize that God created everything just by speaking? If God can speak and nothing comes into something and creates itself by what he spoke. When there was nothing, he said, let there be light. We didn't know what light was, and light just showed up because he spoke it. And all creation came together by the spoken word of God. So in creation, the word is God. In him, all things were created and made through him. And when we talk about in him, we're talking about the word, and the word is God. Now, remember, in the beginning, we also had the Spirit of God that was there and present. And the Spirit of God is God's Spirit, which also is God. And so God who is spirit spoke. And if I could take you back to when it all happened, here's God who exists out of nothing. He he just ex the hilo. He just exists. He doesn't have a mother. He doesn't have a father. He exists out of nothing, and he and he comes out of nowhere, and as they say, stands on nothing, and the spirit starts speaking, and worlds come into existence. And this is creation. And in creation, the word is God. Nothing was made without Him. The Word created everything. God created everything. Well, same thing, because the word is God. And so everything that exists, the plants, the trees, the dirt, the water. The flowers, the fruit, the vegetables, everything was created through him. Through the spoken word of God Through the power that was manifested of God. And with all of that power, I think you and I can can glean from it That if God through his word can speak everything into existence and then he gives us his word so that we can live by his word, so we can manage life by his word, then the word has power for you and me too. And in the word is everything we need. Sometimes when we're doing Bible study and people say, well, Pastor, can we Can we talk about this or can we talk about that? They want to do s you know some people I get it. Sometimes you want to do topical Bible studies and you want to talk you know talk about a topic. But here's my thing about topical Bible studies, and I think they're great, and I think they're needful and there's times for it, but I think if you don't study the whole word You miss out on the context of the topic. And I think if you study the whole word of God, every topic that you can wrestle with is in the Word. Because everything we need is in this word. Every topic, every challenge, every struggle, every problem that you have to go through is in the word. Verse 4 says, in him Was life, and life was the light of men in him. That is, in this whole process of creation, when there was darkness, God was the light The word was the light because he said, Let there be the word spoke light into existence. And not only light, but life. Because before God spoke to the dirt, the dirt was lifeless. When God has scooped up the dirt and formed it and shaped it into what we call man, the Bible says it wasn't until God blew his breath, his spirit. Into man, and that God, through the word, caused man to become a living being. So without the Spirit, man was dead to God. He didn't have life. When Adam and Eve were created, they were created and they were given life by God, but they were also given the light of God. And so they had the glory of God inside of them because the Spirit of God was in them. And God said, In the day that you take of the fruit that's in the midst of the garden, you will surely Die. And so the serpent came along and said, God is lying to you. God just knows that in the day that you take of that fruit, you're gonna be like him. Satan is always promising you what you already have. They already were like God. But when they took the fruit and ate it, the spirit of God that was in them departed. Ichabob Now they no longer were in the image of God because there was a fracture in the relationship between God and man So man was physically still moving, but spiritually he was dead. And for you and I, we were born in sin. And we were shaped in iniquity, and we were born spiritually dead to God, so we need the word so that we can have life. When we don't have the word, we're walking in darkness. I want to look at this other passage here. In Colossians chapter 1, verse 15, it says, He is, we're talking about Jesus, he is the image of the invisible God. For by him all things were created. That are in heaven and that are on earth Visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, all things were created through him and for him. And so what that tells me is the word is Jesus. So Jesus is the word, and all things were created through him. Watch this verse 17. They were not only created through him and by him and for him. And he is before all things. He existed before any other things existed. And in him All things consists. What this tells me is because of Jesus, and which is the word, which is God, and he was in the beginning and in creation, and what he did He's the one that created everything, but he's also the one that's holding everything together. In him, all things exist and consist. If it's not for Jesus, everything falls apart. He's holding everything together So when we talk about Emmanuel, God with us, even God is with us, holding us together even when we don't believe. Literally, as we go through the hell of day-to-day challenges and struggles of life, guess who's holding you together? Jesus. God, the word. You made it to church this morning or you logged on. And it is Him who has been keeping you together. In him you are able to exist, and he is the one that allows you to be in consistency. He's holding you together In creation, he created you, and in creation, he fused you to himself to hold you together. Now that I've uncovered that we're talking about Jesus, because y'all thought I was only talking about the word But the word is God, and the word that is God is also Jesus who created everything. So now, this is the Christmas story. Because God, who was in the beginning, who was the word in the beginning, was made flesh. Verse 14. And so in the beginning he was God. In creation he was God, but also in incarnation he is God. What do you mean by incarnation, Pastor? I mean when he came into the world, when God became flesh, he came into the world, when the birth happened, God, Jesus, the baby, was God. The word who was in the beginning with God, who is God, who was God, he became flesh. That's called incarnation. When he moves from eternity outside of time into the limitation of time, that's his incarnation The word became flesh and dwelt among us. Watch this. Because Mary wanted to know when when Gabriel told her and left her the message and said, You're gonna be with Chow and it's gonna be of the Holy. He said She says, How is this gonna be when I have not been with a man? And the angel said to her, The Holy Spirit will overshadow you The Holy Spirit, who is also God, wraps himself up in the flesh of Mary's womb. And the word of God says, And it shall be, and it shall come to pass Lord, have mercy, Jesus. And so here now we have God wrapped up in a minute little egg inside of Mary, and Mary did not give permission for it to happen because Mary belongs to God. And so God, watch this, He uses whom He will, when He wills, to do what He wills. It doesn't make Mary special. No, it makes God special. When God can speak out of eternity and say, I'm coming forth and I'm going to be born into the world through human means, I'm going to limit myself I'm going to wrap myself up in flesh. And I'm going to lay in a womb. And the flesh that I have is going to be nourished for nine months. And at the close of nine months, I'm going to come into the world In the same way that every other human being comes into the world. And at the same time, I'm still God. So incarnation, he's God. And we go through the whole Christmas narrative, you know, that Mary's pregnant, and you know, her time is coming, and they're trying to take the senses, and they're trying to find the place, and all the places to be kept were filled. So they put her and Joseph in a barn. More like in Israel, it might have even been a cave where animals were. And they went in, and it is there That God comes into the world. Now here's my question. Is it worth celebrating? God coming into the world. The Word who is God. The Spirit who is God, wrapped up now in flesh, coming into the world as a baby. What did he come for? He came because the sin that I talked about, the death that I talked about, the darkness that we were walking in. He came to bring us into the marvelous light. Because up until that time, there was nothing that could bring mankind out of darkness and into the light, but God had to do it himself. Gabriel couldn't do it. Michael couldn't do it. None of the angels could do it. Getting drunk can't do it. Having a bunch of women, men, and money can't do it. You need Jesus. Only He can bring you out of darkness and into the marvelous light. So he came into the world and was born into the world. God wrapped up in flesh Now, he's called the second Adam because you now also have, as God had taken dirt and blown his spirit into the dirt in Adam, now you have the Spirit of God wrapped up in flesh. But this time for the first time, incarnately born into the world. This is a cataclysmic occasion of history. It only happens one time and is never going to happen again. It comes into the world. And God lives as a human being. He lives, watch this. And at the age of 12, they went to worship and he lagged behind. And his parents went a day's journey, and they thought he was with the crowd, but he wasn't And he was in the temple teaching the priest in the temple, the word of God. And the Bible says the priests were astonished. The people were astonished at his wisdom at the age of twelve. Because he was the word wrapped up in flesh. And when he's teaching and he's dealing with the scribes and the Pharisees, and they they say of him, Never have we heard a man speak like this That's because it wasn't a man speaking, it was God speaking through the flesh. And I know we want to give the glory to the man, but the glory belongs to God because He is God, the Word is God And he became flesh. And he lived as a man. He lived as a human being. And watch this. In every way we are tempted, he was tempted. As it got tired, as it got wearied, he slipped away and he restored himself through prayer and worship with God. He even grieved as we grieved. So everything that we've gone through, he experienced it in the flesh. So now when we go to him in prayer, he understands what you're going through. Because he's been through it himself. Because he's God in the flesh. He goes through all of this for us. At the close of his ministry, which was about three years. At the appointed time that he had appointed before the was a was and before the world had even begun, he already had appointed a time that he would offer himself and the flesh that he was living in, and the blood that he had acquired. I'm going to offer this blood as a sacrifice for everybody's sin. So he offers himself. He dies. Nobody takes his life. He lays his life down. And he's buried in the borrowed tomb, and on the third day he ascends, gets back up, after having paid for all of our sin. That's why he came That's why we ought to celebrate his coming into the world because he came into the world to take away our sin that we couldn't get rid of. But he paid the price that our sin could be forgiven, and he did that just because of his love for you to demonstrate how much I love you. And so he paid that price. And so after paying that price, watch this, he ascends to glory and sits back down, takes back his world, diadem, puts his holy sanctimonious self back together, if I can say it that way. Not that it had ever left because watch this, at the same time while he was living in the flesh, he was still sitting on the throne in glory. And you can only do that if you're God. And the Bible says here, we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. What do you mean by we beheld his glory? Well, the Bible says that when he was born, that the angelic host showed up and the glory of the Lord was revealed. So we saw his glory. When he was at his baptism, the glory of the Lord shined all around him, and the dove came and ascended upon him. We saw his glory When he was being crucified on the cross and he was giving his life and he looked up towards heaven and he said, It is finished. We were looking and peering in on his glory We saw the glory of God. We saw the glory, watch this, in the presence of God dwelling in earthly vessels. Text is the glory of as a full full of grace. We saw we saw earthen vessel full of grace and truth. We saw a fleshly vessel that was full of grace that could have wiped us all out, but instead he extended grace. And we see the glory of God even now. We see the glory of God even in essence that He hasn't wiped us out yet. His grace is sufficient. We see the glory of God in that He keeps on pouring new mercies on you. Every day. New mercies we see. And in his incarnation, we saw the glory of God in his life, in his death, in his burial, and we surely saw it in his resurrection. And when he ascended, we saw the glory of God. So, in this Christmas story, he is God. Watch this. He's God in the beginning. The word was with God, and the word was God. He's God in creation. In him all things were created. Nothing that was created was created without him. Lord have mercy. In incarnation, God wrapped Himself up in human flesh to be born into the world to eradicate sin from the world and from us. He made all of that provision for us in his incarnation. Not only was he God in the beginning, he was God in creation, he was God in incarnation, he was God in crucifixion, he is He's God in resurrection. He is God in ascension. He's God when He comes back again. He's God as judge. He's God as jury. He's God as an eternal existing one. He is God and what we're celebrating is God coming into the world. That's the Christmas story. It's all about God. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III. where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance For uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website Facebook and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org. Or contact our church office at 301-627-9500. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church. church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent forty plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing Bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Undegree of the Andy Podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts.