Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. I want to invite your attention to 2nd Corinthians chapter 9. We're going to start our reading at verse 8. The word of the Lord reads as follows, and God is able to make all grace abound toward you. That you always, having all sufficiency in all things, may have an abundance for every good work. As it is written, he has dispersed abroad, he has given to the poor, his righteousness endures forever. Now, may he who supply seed to the sower and bread for food supply and multiply the seed you have sown. and increase the fruits of your righteousness. Would you pray with me? Spirit of the Lord, we thank you for this morning. We thank you for the grace that you've given. We thank you for the opportunity and privilege we have even to stand and declare this word. Spirit of the Living God, as we preach on this morning, I pray for your power and your spirit to move through this vessel of clay Use me, Lord, in a way that would give glory and honor and praise to your holy and adorable name. God, cause this word to go forward and accomplish what you've set it out to do. If there's anybody who does not know you in the pardon of their sin, they've not come into the personal, intimate relationship with you. God, it's my prayer on this day that today would be the day that they surrender to you I pray, Father, for those who've drifted in their fellowship, that they would return to you on this day and renew the broken fellowship. God, I pray That in all that is done and in all that is said in the preaching of this word, that not only will the body of Christ be edified, but that your name would be glorified. Spirit of the Lord, I need you As I stand to declare your word, I need you for clarity of thought and clarity of speech. Lord, I don't want to waste your time or no one else's. I want this word to come forward with authority. And so let your will be done. Let your way be accomplished. Use me, Lord, and help me that I may be pleasing in your sight. Now I bless you in advance for what you're going to do. It's in Jesus' precious and wonderful name I pray with thanksgiving and expectation. The people of God said together, Amen. The Apostle Paul here in this text talking to his early church to encourage them to give an offering that they said they were going to give. But up until the point of his writing, they had not done what they said they were going to do. He wants them to realize that God's intention for them is to have a cheerful heart and a purposeful attitude about giving. And when they do it with enthusiasm and joy, that he take care of everything Your giving is going to be proportional to your return, your reaping. And so as we have been on the journey, our theme for this year was it's time to sow. Well, embedded in the idea of sowing is the idea and the understanding that if I'm sowing, there also has to come a day of reaping. And he's sharing with this Corinthian church that you're going to reap according to what you sow. If I go out to my garden and I take a package of seeds whether that's vegetation or flowers and I plant them in the ground and cover them up and and put some miracle grow on on them and and and water them every now and then and In my mind, my purpose for planning them was so that they could come up. And If it's food that I'm planting, my expectation is that at some season after my sowing the seed that I would benefit from it by Reaping. This morning I want to try to use this text to talk to us from the subject matter. Sowing a legacy. Now, legacy is defined as actions taken or events that have occurred in the past that benefit the generations of the future. As a church of 56 years, there are no charter members still here at Ketteran. Which means that every member of the ministry Is benefiting from the legacy of those that came before us. Fifty-six years ago, when they were building the Ketteran community Three churches came together and said there needs to be a church in that community. And they sold people and they sold resources and they sold Time to make sure that Kettering, Maryland had a church that would minister to the needs of the people in that community. When I came here twenty-five years ago, Catherine had been without a pastor for two years, and it was a lot of need When I came in, but when I came in, I came in and was able to stand on the shoulders of the legacy of those who have been here before me. I need you to understand that where we are as a church is possible because of the sacrifices and the sowings of generations and people That's some of whom we will never meet, never seen, never know, and won't get to see until we get to glory. And so I need us to understand that not only are we standing on and benefiting from someone else's legacy, but what you're doing right now is preparing ground for your legacy for the next generation. Generations. We're living through a period of time right now where there's stuff happening in our governmental circles of the United States that the United States will never be the same because of the legacy that's being sown. And it is going to impact and change generations of the future. But at the same time, where we are, and what we have called normal was not normal 50 to 70 to 100 years ago. Here in America, but we're standing on the legacy of those who came before us. Y'all still here? Paul encourages the Corinthian church here in this text. to realize that their gift will create a legacy for the next generation. He wants them to understand that. He wants them to to kind of understand that Macedonia, which is the the group that you said you was going to give this resources for the benefit of they're going to benefit from your from your legacy offering when you give it. But they they haven't given it yet. And so Paul encourages them that if you have the right attitude and if you have the right understanding about giving, that God will provide everything you need. If we have the right attitude and understanding about sewing, God will provide everything we need. So in the text he says, look, God is going to provide abounding grace to you. Let me read verse seven. So let each of you give as the purposes and heart Not grudgingly or of necessity, but God loves a cheerful giver. And God is able to make all grace abound towards you. If you have the right attitude about giving, if you've got the right spirit, if you've got the joy in your giving, if you've got the celebration in your sowing, watch this. God is able to allow all grace. God has the power, the ability, and the will. He wants to untether grace so that like a river it'll flow in your direction. If you're willing to sow cheerfully, joyfully with purpose. Now, sowing can be Giving of your offering. Because you're saying Pastor, don't be come up here talking about no sewing and all that giving money. And I work for the federal government. And don't you know there's a shutdown and I ain't getting no paycheck this week, Pastor. I'm broke. I need you to know, broke government worker, that God is able to make all grace abound in your direction if you have that right attitude about sowing. Sowing is not just a direction of your financial giving in the context of what I'm trying to lay out for you this morning. Sowing is also giving of your time. Giving of your talents, doing something other than sitting in the pew and sucking up the air that everybody else is putting out. So, what am I doing for the legacy of the church? Because I've run into people since I came here twenty five years ago and they told me, yeah, I used to go to Cataran And I run into people that go to m like these really big mega churches and they say, Yeah, I go to this church or that church and I say, Well what what ministry are you a part of? And they just hubbadah hubbadah hubbbah hubbuda. So that tells me they're just there to take. In fact, they come into the ministry and they ask, what do y'all have to offer? Like they had a smorgasbord They want to say, let me see the menu so I can choose if y'all serve what I want. They don't come in and say, what can I do to serve And if your menu doesn't meet my liking, I'm going somewhere else. And so he says, look, God is able to make abounding grace. Flow in your directions. Here's the thing. Here's how we think about it. We oftentimes think about giving of our money and our time and our talents. We think of it as if it's like a well that somehow will get exhausted If we start giving out of it too much. And we ration what how much we're gonna serve and we ration how much we're gonna sow into the kingdom of God. But listen, when a bounding grace is flowing in your direction, like a river that has overflowed its boundaries, when grace is flowing in your direction that way, God is able to do anything. Catarine as a church has been sowing for 56 years, and if we look at what God has been doing and has done in this branch of Zion, we all must testify that God's grace has been abounding towards us. It's just flowing in our direction because as a church we have sown into you. We have sown into ministry partners. We have sown into the community around us. We've sown into the world in which we live, and we keep sowing out of the abundance, and the more we sow, the more we reap, because my sowing and my reaping are connected. And so God keeps on letting grace flow our way. I want us to understand how the flow of grace is coming in our life. How the flow of grace is coming as a church. And if you go back and look at your own life, I guarantee you, you got testimonies. Grace, you got three or four bedrooms, two or three cars in a garage. Yes, Grace. And it keeps coming. They used to sing a song when I was growing up. The more you give, the more he gives to you. Just keep on giving. Because it's really true. That you can't be God's giving no matter how you try. That's abounding grace coming your way. Paul says, look If you do what God is requiring of you and asking of you, you're not going to come up short. Grace is going to run over in your direction. Abounding grace will come your way. But he doesn't stop there. He goes on. Look at that part of verse 8 he says, God is able to make all grace abound towards you. Watch this. That you always having all sufficiency in all things, may have an abundance for every good work. There's not only abounding grace in this text There's abounding sufficiency. Sufficiency means you have enough. Abounding sufficiency means you have more than enough. When God sends grace your way, grace brings abounding sufficiency. So instead of your well running dry, the well keeps filling back up. If you sow into the kingdom of God, your the resources that belong to him anyway, the time that he gave to you. The energy, the talents, the gifts, if you show it into the kingdom, you'll never come up short, and you'll in fact always end up running over with what you need You'll always have an abounding grace flowing in your direction. You'll always have an abounding sufficiency for everything you need, and you'll not only be able to take care of your own, you'll be able to bless somebody else. For 56 years, Catherine has been sewing even when it looked like the church wasn't gonna make it. Even when they couldn't afford to pay the pastor. And couldn't afford to pay the bills. Kettering kept giving and kept sewing, not just money, resources, time, energies, people as a church. We kept sewing through the pandemic. And and and I need y'all to get get this in your mind. We paid off our debt during the pan during that time, right after we came out of the While other churches were closing, God was blessing and sending an abundance, abounding abundance in our direction that we would pay off the debt. During that time. And he keeps on blessing us when we had a mortgage that we were not comfortable with. The abounding grace of God was flowing in the direction of this church who had been sowing into the community, sowing into the kingdom, sowing into Other churches. It was during the time that we had a mortgage that looked unrealistic to me that God said start sewing into other ministries in your local area. And we that's when we started our kingdom building campaign, and we started investing thousands of dollars in other churches while we were in debt. That does not make sense. But it makes biblical sense. Because when you have the right attitude and the understanding about sowing, you get to reap a legacy. Some of my government people were happy about the shutdown because they didn't have to go to work. They were they didn't care about the money because they have so much they don't need it. So if you've been if you've been sowing when everybody else is hungry, you reaping what you've been sowing If you don't plant nothing in the spring, it ain't gonna be nothing to harvest in the fall. So here's the last thing when we do this thing right, when we have the right attitude and we have the right understanding of sowing. There's abounding grace, there's abounding sufficiency, but finally there's abounding seed and abounding fruit of righteousness. Verse number 10 says. Now, may he who supplies seed to the sower and bread for food supply and multiply the seed that you have sown and increase the fruits of your righteousness. All of this sounds like increase to me. This is all return on investment. This is all reaping from what was sown. This is all The favor and the blessing as a result of investing in the kingdom of God. This is all to make sure that there's no scare givers. Amen. There's no scared sacrificers. You sacrifices don't be scared to sacrifice your time, your energy, your talents, because God will take care of it all. Let's start by saying and understanding that it is God who supplies the seed. That's what the text says. It says, now may he who supplies seed to the sower You're the sower. I'm the sower. We as a church are the sowers. Watch this. But God is the one who supplies us the seed to sow. But I do need you to know that the seed is coming from God. It's not yours. The seeds belong to God. I know this is my money. No, it ain't. Because God gave it to you. So no, Pastor, I work for this. God gave you the ability to work. God moved on somebody's heart to hire you. So you ain't had nothing to do with it. This God is the supplier Of the seed. Lord help me, Jesus. And if God is supplying seed, we have a couple of choices that we can do with the seed. We can eat the seed or we can plant the seed If I eat up all the corn, I have nothing. If I eat some and sow some, at least I have future. At the end of the day, we want to make sure that the generations to come, it's not just your family that you're sowing for, you're sowing for the kingdom. So that the future kingdom has resources to keep on going. God is a supplier of the seed, and if he's the supplier of the seed, the text says he will multiply to you seed. So that means he'll give you more. That you have sown, and he'll increase the fruit that comes from what you've sown. What you sow into the kingdom becomes an investment in other people's lives which becomes fruit in your life when you stand before God because everything that you've done is going to be weighed and tr ta tried through the fire and at the end whatever is left from That doesn't burn up in the fire becomes reward for you. So what I sow into the kingdom becomes eternal investment to fruit to my account. So he says, look, he's going to supply, he's going to multiply, seed that you've sown, he's going to increase the fruit of your righteousness. Notice what I didn't say. I didn't say he was just going to increase your fruit. He's going to increase the fruit of your righteousness, which is the evidence that you are righteous. God has multiplied the evidence of this church Sowing for 56 years that this is a righteous church. And he keeps supplying seed so that we can keep sowing. And some of the some some of the seed is you. Some of you are the seed. You're being equipped and prepared and sent out into the world so that you can be sown into different places in different spaces so that you can be the next supplier so that you can be the multiplier of what's being sown here. Some of you come and leave from church and you tell 15 people about the sermon that was sown into you. You're taking discipleship training classes and you're sharing with somebody else. You're multiplying the seed that's sown. Are y'all catching this? And God will sow in you, multiply in you, and keep increasing the fruits of your righteousness, the evidence of your righteousness that you're right with God. He's done that to us as a church. Sometimes the seed is you. Sometimes the seat is the people that listen on the radio. Sometimes it's the people that's listening by a live stream. Sometimes it's those people that that you're sharing the message to. God's multiplying, multiplying, multiplying. God keeps on multiplying the fruit of righteousness. What if God had not sown his seed? All of our faith, all of our religion, all of our worship would be in vain. God sowed a legacy in the form of his son, Jesus Christ. He took what was best and precious, watch this, and he took the only and he sold it into the world that it might die and be buried for three days. Help me, Jesus. And because his seed was a miraculous seed, it only took three days for the seed to come back up. But when the seed came up, it was a tree of life, and it was powerful, and it had all power manifested in itself Because he sold his seed of his son, we're benefiting from the legacy of God himself. When God sold the seed of his son, he sold it in the right attitude. He showed his son with joy, peace. He showed it with enthusiasm because God loves A cheerful giver. He didn't hold back, no God. He didn't get stingy with us. No. He didn't say, you know what, I could send Jesus, but I think I'll send Gabriel. No. He said, I'm sending my best. Because he sowed his best, there's abounding grace, there's abounding sufficiency. We're experiencing the grace of God because he sowed his best seed. We're experiencing the the abounding sufficiency. We have more than enough because God sowed his best seed. We have more than we need because God sold his best. And watch this. And we're standing on the shoulders of his legacy. Listen to me. We've got to tell somebody About this Christ who died for every one of our sin, who was buried in the borrowed tomb, who got up on the third day with all power in his hand. We got to start telling that story We're running around telling every other story, posting it on all our social media pages. You better start s start posting about something that matters. And help people understand that God loves them. Not because of your sin, but in spite of your sin. God doesn't love you in your sin. No, he commended his love while that we were still sinners. He died for us to deliver us from our sin. Lord help me God. There's a whole lot of folk going around now talking about, yeah, God just love you. Just stay like you are. God, no, no, no, no, no, no. He died and he gave his life and he rose again to deliver us from sin. Not so we can run back and act crazy and live in it again. No. But we've got to tell that story We've got to keep sowing into the world around us. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance. For uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website Facebook and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org. or contact our church office at 301-627-9500. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling the Third and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist. Personally, now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this This is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy Podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts.