Now even if I'm on the boat and and I'm one of the disciples who's just watched and witnessed Jesus perform all kinds of miracles Sometimes for all of us in the midst of our windstorm, we just need to remember who it is we've got on the boat with us. I know that every now and then we have a thunderstorm that's just like a thunder boomer and it'll wake you up out of your sleep. You probably don't run outside in the middle of a storm to see whether the sign is still there. And so there's no need of me reproaching him because tribulation comes. You don't have to stay down. And where did he tell you he was going to send you? And we can rebuke the whim in the power of the God who lives inside of us. And so you've got to learn how to then speak to that and say, peace be still. And he said to the sea, see peace be still. To the storm. Be still. Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. The One Degree of Andy Podcast. Uh do you not care that we are perishing? Voices behind the song. And those who are searching and seeking a way of deliverance. The drifter. And all the people of God all over the world who were listening said, Amen. uh been teaching by the Sea of Galilee a whole exhausting day of ministry and Jesus is tired and wearied in his flesh Read through the text, we see that it is on the same day in the evening time after Jesus is performing the miracles and teaching and preaching, he receives wisdom and sight from God is because Jesus didn't do anything except his father sent him If I've already got confirmed plans from the Father, I can rest when the windstorm comes because I already know I can just lay back in the midst of the windstorm and rest and preserve my energy until I get to my destination. The positioning of the sea is that wind comes down, shoots off the mountain, and there are sudden windstorms that come up on the Sea of Galilee. Then then what you will do is that you will be able to rest without having to get up and be concerned. You can get fearful and let fear take over. Christian journey. That's normal. But they have exaggerated their circumstances and fear will cause this to happen to you. It says, in this life you will have tribulation. Fearful. promoting them. And he wanted them to understand how their fear had impacted their reaction. You know, but Pastor, I never lived through no pandemic. That when you leave this life, you'll enter into eternal life with me. And so if you know where you're going, you don't have to be disturbed about the things that happen along the way. some carryover. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And they took him along in the boat as he was, and other little boats were also with him. clear that my words may be articulated well, such that the very oracle of God might be spoken in the hearing hearts of the people of God. where we minister in the spirit of excellence, under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling the Third When evening had come, he said to them, Let us cross over to the other side. Preachment of the word. And he gives clarity and instruction after having received it from his father that it's now time for us to go to the other side of the sea. That as I stand to declare this word, that all that is done and all that is said would glorify you, Father, because I believe that most importantly your name They're in the midst of getting there, a great windstorm rises up on the sea. Types of situations that might occur in our own life's journey. in responding to a great windstorm that will come and catch us on the sea of life. An assignment and a timetable that Jesus had, and he had instruction and he had guidance from the Father, and he then conveyed the plan And the waves began to beat on the boat, and it was filling up with water. I believe that one of the options that you and I also have in the middle of a great windstorm That the plans that were given to me, I know I'm going to get there because God has given it to me, and so therefore, there's no need of me being alarmed In the middle of a COVID-19 pandemic, believe that one of the options that we can extract from the text that is here this morning is that we can do like Jesus did and we can rest right through it. fills up with water, our God has the ability to cause the boat not to sink because we've got a supernatural God I already ought to know that because he's on the boat with me, he can show not perform miracles in the midst of the sea. be very strong and very fierce and but if you've been on the boat before and you've already experienced that these sudden storms come up and you know how to survive them and that these are sudden and they do have it's normal, it's not unusual. And that was very encouraging and but we can reproach God for it. This is the level to which they take their disapproval, their reproach of God. Well let me remind you something about windstorms on the sea of life. That you don't care for us? You ought to understand that God is working all kinds of things out for you. That viruses were all around. Did he not promise you a home in glory? And when you start seeing things, you start acting on what you see and not on your faith. And the economy and the mental health and your patience and being locked in a house, all these are circumstances that the wind is impacting With authority and rebuke the wind. Praise the Lord. bringing you their stories. And now, Pastor Sterling. Would you pray with me on this morning? And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm, but he said to them, Why are you so fearful? Needs to be glorified. On the sea. Have your own way, and we will forever give your name the glory and the honor and the praise. and hit you on this sea of life and cause you to be reeling and rocking in the midst of the windstorm. To the disciples, that this is what we're going to do next. Even when windstorms come, you can still rest in the midst of your windstorm. Jesus also knows, now I'm speaking of Jesus in his incarnate fleshly form. while he was on the boat. Now, let's just think of it from the perspective that maybe even God doesn't decide to do anything with the wind. Jesus was very much aware. Who are also very familiar and very knowledgeable that this is a common occurrence. They woke Jesus up from his sleep. They reproach Jesus. Things are gonna happen. So fear is affecting their response. That we are perishing. Now, the text really didn't say they were perishing. He suffered way too much. That's fear talking. To respond and do what Jesus did, first and foremost, as I read the text in verse number 39, he arose By the winds and the sea and the rocking and the reeling of this great windstorm on the sea, faith will allow you and I To get back up, to rise up, listen, because some of us have been knocked down by this You have faith in what Jesus gave you as a commandment of where we were going in the first place. So faith will allow us, first of all, to respond like Jesus responded in arising. Great windstorm called COVID-19. And I hear what you're saying. The wind is the equivalent of what's creating the effects of the storm. Without the wind, there's no waves. We probably would go on and not have a problem. And so the reason why you can't go nowhere without wearing a mask is because of the wind. Scene tomorrow, it doesn't mean that you're not still going to see economic ruin and you're still not gonna see hunger and you're still not gonna see fear and you're still not gonna see people losing jobs. But if the wind is still blowing, there's still gonna be adverse responses, adverse reactions, trouble for people. And they responded after having witnessed this. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 10 a. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. Minister in the spirit of excellence. Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. And as we delve into this, there are three suggestions that I would say that are options that we have And you have an assignment from God already, then while you're on your way to your assignment, it doesn't really matter what when comes along. With him knows that when he got on this boat, that on the boat with him was the power and presence of his daddy. And so he sends them, why y'all so scared this is my version, why y'all so scared? If when I think about this, yeah, we're aware of a virus that's spreading around. I ain't getting up either. that we have within us the living God who is capable to speak to the wind. And first, Jesus rebukes the wind, pushes the wind back. No, you can't not in fear, but in faith. But he was in the stern asleep on a pillow, and they awoke him and said to him, Teacher, uh And they feared exceedingly, and they said to one another, Who can this be that even the wind and the sea obey him? here in Mark chapter four and try to glean if I can what we can for how it is that we might be able to manage these Why? No, they were just in a boat that was filling up with water and wind was blowing. Approaching blasphemy. If you've got any of these things, if the bones in your body are still holding you up, if your mind is still working, you ought to know that he still cares for you And then he rebuked the win. Moving and hitting a ship and causing the trouble by themselves. That makes the situation in your journey so difficult and makes it so bad. Be still. You've got to be able to rebuke the source first. The wind and the sea did what he said. Stop moving. 627-9500. And then we can rest. That's an option you have. To respond like Jesus did. Faith, if we respond in faith, faith will allow us when we've been knocked down And even though the stuff is still moving around, the impact is still there, we need to be able to then speak to it and say, peace. Racism, injustice, narcissism, division, hatred, that's the C. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Be still. And so having known that the time for the teaching and the preaching and the miracle performing on that side of the Sea of Galilee was complete, there was There it is. In other words, just because they get a vaccine doesn't mean that the impact of the wind is gonna stop. But as long as there's wind, you're gonna have impacts of the sea. God, that you would edify those who are in need of edification and encourage those who are discouraged. All of us are going to deal with this at some point in time. That's natural. Look at the verse 39. He never promised us that we would not have trouble. And that is that your response to this great windstorm on the sea should have been faith. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. There's still the sea that's that's causing trouble. Because we know that the house that we're in can sustain the storm, and you can rest when you know that storms are going to come. I'm Andy Christman. And remember to reference the title or broadcast date. Faith in God will allow us to rise back up. God, it is my prayer even right now that you would empower me, that you would speak through my lips, God, that you would think through my mind, God, that my thinking might be All of us occasionally will find that a fierce windstorm will come and disrupt your life I'm just gonna stay down here. In other words, COVID 19 is the wind. And then what happened? Because see, fear blocks our ability to trust in God. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor So Lord, have thine own way as we lean and depend on you to accomplish the assignment set before us on this day. He he knew now in the Sea of Galilee is a sea that's kind of uh set right off in between these mountains, and so it's very common just through the uh the way that the And how is it that you have no faith? Pastor, wait a minute. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. I mean, God has kept you before. Okay? Father, in the name of Jesus, we bless you for another great day. Please don't ever accuse him of not caring for you because he has done far too much. Don't let that be part of the recipe of your complaining that He doesn't care for you. So if we rebuke sin, then we can speak to racism. You can rest through the windstorm. It picks up. Because you know that you've got someone who has authority to handle the wind on the boat with you. We can grab a pillow and go to sleep. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. Y'all handle this business. We can get caught up into that, but let me point you to the real key that's happening here is because of fear. Um, now I know some people are gonna argue me on that. Well, this is just a slight elevation to the things you have been through. And then guess what happened? If you have your Bible with you and you should, uh please turn with me to Mark chapter 4, verse 35 on today. Now, it's interesting to me that in the middle of a windstorm, people have uh an exaggerated perspective of what's really happening. He was crucified way too long for you to dare open up your mouth and let the words proceed from your lips. And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm. You really want me to speak to the wind? They express their disapproval and wake him up because of the circumstances that are going on. It says, Then he arose and rebuked the wind and said to the sea, peace Then he speaks to the sea. Then we can say to the circumstances that are being impacted, be He says we're going to the other side. And in your fear, you can wake Jesus up and you can reproach him and you can tell God, you know, all your disappointments with him allowing this windstorm to come on your life. And so he says, now that you're fearful, you can't even walk in faith. Because I look at this thing from this perspective. And they go a step farther and they accuse him of not even caring about them. Then some have lost your jobs, and some have lost children and mothers and fathers, and you've been knocked down, but faith will allow you to rise back up. Did he not promise you I'll keep you in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on me? See, when the storm is subdued, the disciples were at peace God, deliver them out of the darkness that they are currently in. And since Jesus shows us here, he's got his instructions. Is he not a keeper of his promises? And they said, Who can this be that even the wind and the sea obey him? So then he says to the sea, peace be still But wind impacts things around you so that you can see And then he arose and rebuked the wind and said to the sea, peace be still. He's in the boat sleep. But he was able to rise up as first. The wind ceased, and there was a great calm. That's promise to us. That's what Jesus does. You probably say, oh yeah, another thunderstorm. There's no need in me telling him he doesn't care when times like that come. I want to talk to you on today from the subject matter responding to a great windstorm But responding in faith will allow us In faith, we have to believe When I say reproach, it means to express disapproval to God It just said the wind was causing the sea to beat against the ship and water was filling the boat. But Lord have mercy. It's not blasphemy, it's approaching blasphemy. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family. What's the problem? We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. That's a great question. And verse 38 says, but he was in the stern asleep on a pillow. Jesus knows the Father has given me instructions. And Amen. Because there's a guarantee that I'm going to get where I'm going. What I want you to get is that in responding in faith, and in faith, you can do what Jesus did. Even if the thunder and the lightning wake you up out of your sleep Well here's what Jesus is trying to So they could have faith in that. Well, yeah. Stop. That's what's blowing. You you lost me. We're going to the other side. In fact, John chapter 16, somewhere around verse 30, 33. That's one option. And since it is a common occurrence, and now these are also some very dangerous wins because they can come up very suddenly and they can And they begin to reproach God instead of them resting through the storm, they're reproaching God in the storm. Fearfulness disarms faith. Well, Pastor, what I got to have faith in. But the wind is blowing and through faith we can speak The waves are doing what they're doing because of the source. He realizes that even after the wind has stopped blowing, there's still Jesus never promised us ever in this We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together Okay? We bless you for the opportunity and privilege of the preaching. The boat is filling up with water. Don't you ever dare declare He doesn't care for you But he came to them and said, Why are you so Have you not seen storms before I want you to rebuke the wind. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. In this life, you're gonna have it But look how long God has kept you when you were unaware Jesus could have laid down in the boat and said, you know what? We know that even if the boat They ask him the question, do you not even care? If I've lost all this and all these things are happening, so I mean, hey, God, I can keep my faith in his word, what he told me Because the wind is precipitating the storm. Now the sea is the thing that's being impacted by the wind Now, as I kept reading the text And God has taken you and moved you through a whole lot of other things If it was just when You you you way over my head. What if sin is the win? Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. org or contact our church office at 301 If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. I'm just trying to give you the real perspective You don't have to get all panicky and running around on the boat and all that. In the midst of this windstorm, there is a great lesson also that is being taught to the disciples and us. Matter of fact, if you're breathing, you ought to know He cares for you For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. So even if they had a vaccine I mean, like you're basically telling God you don't even care I look at this and I say, responding in faith will allow us Through faith, we can do things that seem impossible. We need to learn how to rebuke the source and say to the source, in the authority of God, stop. Think about this. Spirit of the living God is my prayer on this occasion, this day And when you accuse God, you're now accusing God at a level that is He said we were going to the other side Now when they had left the multitude We know where we're going. Jobs and health. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. This passage that we find ourselves in finds Jesus after having He also knows who's on the boat. And so some They told him what to do. We should respond in faith. How is it that you have no faith? Father, I pray that you would save the lost, that you would reclaim It is in Jesus' name that I pray with thanksgiving and expectation of what you shall do. He's not going to let me get out in the middle of the sea and drown. The last time there was a thunderstorm in your neighborhood There's 12 of them at least on the boat. But he also, when he rose up, the text says he rose up Now I'm telling you, in faith, you can do what Jesus did. So therefore, we can we can do like Jesus did and just rest Verse 37, and a great windstorm arose I'm glad you asked that question God didn't promise me that it was going to be a straight road, but He told me I'm going to get there First and foremost, as I So you can go chasing after the C all you want. In other words, as a result of the faithful statement. Now, not only does Jesus know this, but remember, Jesus has some fishermen on the boat with him Turn right on over and go right back to sleep Then we can speak to hatred. The waves are not I can't do that They're gonna come m. Y'all right. And so since he knew who was on the boat with him, he could go ahead and rest. Now he's bringing you their stories. Have your way, Jesus. Jesus wanted them to know that they were fearful at the Legacy Center. And I'll say it like this: when you know what your destiny is. Did he not promise you You know, just go on, go to sleep. There's a lot of water in here The One Degree of Andy podcast. Now, that's an option that you have also And instead of them managing and handling it No, see that's the sea that's moving The word of the Lord reads as follows: On the same day. That's a great question. Then we can speak to poverty and say peace. And I hear what you're saying. I'm Andy Christman. But third and finally, if we can respond in faith. In other words, you can try to cure racism, cure injustice. Now there's another thing here I was thinking The source is the wind. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. They weren't dying. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage path. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. He rebuked the wind. Now he's