If I plant the seeds in the illustration that I gave you, and no water ever hits the seeds, it won't ever grow Nobody ever steps beyond their little comfort zone and says, Lord, use me because there's other people that need some water on their life. What kind of trouble, Pastor? Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. I want to invite your attention to Proverbs chapter eleven. Voices behind the song. whose loss might come to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ today. I pray, Lord God, that your word might serve purpose as we lift you up. And so, eternal God, in this time of preaching on this morning, it is my prayer that you would give my body strength, that you would give my mind clarity, Lord, that you would give my mouth articulation of speech such Spirit of the Lord, I pray that you would evict every spiritual entity that is standing in the way of allowing us to hear a word from you. I'll give your name all the glory, all the honor, all the praise. It's not an idea of just throwing stuff anywhere. Then you have great increase. And he responds to me. Because you know how sometimes we ask God a question, but we got the answer already. And you know why he getting dirty? Watch this. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. with the voices behind the songs. You've been better to us, Lord, than we are deserving of, and we're thankful on this day that we have the privilege to stand even now to declare your word. God, it is my prayer that the word of God will reach them on the pages of their life, that it would speak clearly to their heart, that it might change their eternal destiny, that someone, God Spirit of the Living God, I pray that as your Holy Spirit is here and moving in the midst of your people, speaking and preparing and turning up are prepared this morning that we might hear from you, that you might minister to us, that you might change us, Lord, from the inside out. That your word would be clear and that it would bypass all the obstacles that we've already thrown up that would keep us from hearing from you. the challenges are being faced uh about the same issues uh all the way around the world. This morning out of this text, I want to talk to you from the subject matter, a pathway to prosperity In order to travel to this pathway uh to prosperity, it has a lot to do with the way you sow. This idea of scattering as a as a principle of farming is one who actually sows seed in good soil in a variety of space and place. And so he says in verse 24, there is one who scatters yet increases more, and there is one who withholds more than is right. Your money and giving you a little interest and using your money to invest and make more money. And because I invest in what belongs to God, what belongs to God, God keeps giving me more. Okay, let's back you up. And what is right and which belongs and which is set apart and sanctified and holy to him is the 10% for a moment. In the midst of need all around, how dare you withhold grain and not even bother to sell it? for those seven years of famine during the years of plenty. It is to have a heart that is connected and committed and desirous of chasing after or looking for or pursuing. In some ways, I believe he's freeing us of our hold on money. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III. There is one who scatters yet increases more. But it leads to poverty. The people will curse him who withholds grain, but blessings will be on the head of him who sells it. But trouble will come to him who seeks evil. But the righteous will flourish like foliage. ground that good seed might be sown. Kether, this morning we find ourselves in this book of Proverbs in uh a season and a time when something that you need to say to us on today. Making more money than we've ever made. You've bought up all the bullion that you could buy, but in the process of this pursuit, like sand in the hands of a child, it seems to just fall out. I want to just do a short series of messages entitled Money, Money, Money. God's way never works like our way. But the one who withholds more than is right will become poor. If I invest God's money, God's resources into God's work, that's good soil. He gave us the positive side, but listen to the negative side, verse 24b, the second part of verse 24. You know what that means? But if I withhold part of that more than it was what's right, it leads to poverty. So the one who withholds more than is right, he's not going to grow wealthy. Now, as a baseline, what is right is the 10% that belongs to God. And he who waters will also be watered himself. And keep me out of the out of the elements of the weather. If you're generous enough to add to what has already been sown so that it has the nourishment to grow. Nobody ever comes and talks to them. But God says if you water, I'll water you. But Joseph said, no, God has shown the king the dream and his seven years of plenty and seven years of famine. Because even in Joseph's case, Joseph didn't put forth the way in which to fulfill this survival of Egypt. But after he put it forth, the king said that nobody could think come up with this but you, man. So he he shared and then God ordered him an increase. Verse 27 says, He who earnestly seeks good finds favor, but trouble will come on him who seeks evil. He who trusts in his riches will fall, but the righteous will flourish like foliage. Givers. This is the whole idea of seeking. He says not only is a pathway to prosperity embedded in the way that you sow and in the way that you share, but finally, I believe it's also embedded in the way you seek. And the idea here is the one who has it in their heart to pursue, to chase after, to to want to do good. He said, nah, mm-hmm, that ain't the one. We got to move past our selfishness. He will find favor. This whole idea of seeking evil, he who is is the one that verse 28 talks about who's trusting in his riches. That would that would classify me or make me to know that I'm rich in Christ Jesus. And I invest my life in righteousness. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. So if you if you put everything in order, which okay, this this this resources belong to God, I'm investing what belongs to God, I'm giving above and beyond, and I'm blessing, I'm being generous, all the other things. my soul to be in rest that will allow me to have joy, unspeakable joy. Via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. We're facing a variety of challenges as it relates to economics. In these few verses, the author gives us a great insight into what is the pathway to prosperity. Because if you put all your seeds in one place as a farmer, they will choke each other out and you won't get the increase that you need. If I give my riches to those who are rich, that's bad soil. Says that the pathway to prosperity depends on the way you share. What this author of this proverb wants us to get is sharing and having a generosity of heart brings riches. more than he should. And so if that's the m that if that's the direction that that person seeks, then the con there's consequences to seeking evil. Because, you know, again, it's the contrast of seeking good. So you could have gave 10 and then received a blessing from God, but now you got to give 30 to the car dealer or the mechanic, and he ain't giving you nothing back What do you mean by good pastor? And here is another facet I need you to see. Which belong to God, and it's holy unto God, it's sanctified unto God, it is supposed to be set apart for God, and if I sow my tithes, watch this, instead of me having. So we think I got 100%, I give God 10% of what's mine. And our desires above what belongs to God leads to poverty. Because when you put yourself above God, it is idolatry. Would make you rich, and they are poor. And sometimes, unfortunately, this is what happens to people who get saved. And so he goes on here in verse 26. Then God will also nourish you so that you have what you need to grow. The one who has it, but withholds it, will be cursed. Sometimes the opportunity he shares with you or shows you does not line up with your preconceived answer. Because Moth and Russell eat up the million dollars, but favor is favor is forever. When I gave you the raise and I gave you the extra resources, did you use those resources so that my word could be spread? He says the one who scatters, who sows more, will increase more. You're not smarter than him. Car breaks down and I need this car. Praise the Lord. If you have children, they going through your stuff. For some, rich is a certain amount of money. Hosea gets upset about this. No, we understood. I know increase is coming if I've invested in what belongs to God. God did good for you. If you seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, all the other things will be added to you. So now the pathway through to prosperity it comes through seeking good Because everything you gain on this earth is going to pass away. They don't care. Did you invest your life in good soil? Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. We've done all the things that we thought might help us to get there. 10% less, I just invested that I might increase the more. The stuff that they've collected in this old world. You'll have trouble that will cost you more than you withheld. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Grasp the imagery of a time when there is a need and there's someone who has it but won't release it but they hoard it and keep it for themselves. In a good soil bed? Everything I have yet to see anybody take with them. If I if I say yes, at least I I have eternal life. They got an open hand and open heart. You can't beat God. Righteousness is your prosperity. Well, you name it. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations, you won't hear anywhere else. That's rich. He's seeking to hold back more than he should. Because you withheld Miller was right. And it might be even that he or she is generous, so they not only gonna give your tithe that you was withholding, but they gonna give some extra. And that favor is the favor of God. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III. Nobody ever comes and helps them understand how to read the Bible. It's a pathway to prosperity. And hear me in this. I'm glad you asked. You still have to be generous. Nope. The generous soul will be made rich, and he who waters will also be watered himself If the text says there is something called more than is right, that means there is a right amount. God gave you 100% of his, and it still belongs to him, and he's entrusting you with it. It is my prayer on today, eternal God, that someone who is listening, someone either via live stream, radio, or in presence, or who will tune in later And when the famine comes, what you need is somebody to be the administrator so that the people can come and we can sell them the grain in the time of need. And so he who earnestly seeks to do good, he's got this passion, he's got this desire, he's looking for the opportunity, seeking out ways to do good. Even if you got what you have in an evil way, you won't enjoy it. Why I want to at least have, and I mean come on, I'm gonna be like everybody else. Give me the basics. I'm not sure how God you're going to allow it to minister to each person, but God, I pray that our hearts Okay? That's eternal. I'm trusting and I'm leaning and I'm believing in you, God, that you would have your way. It's not an idea of taking the resources that belong to God and putting them anywhere you want to put them. Show me somebody else, Lola. And when I stand before the Lord, he doesn't care either. They don't have any problem with that. I'm trying to tell you this. We'll begin our reading at verse 24. You draw men and women and boys and girls to yourself. And he says, How dare you, in the midst of a famine? When you ask God to show you an opportunity, He will Okay, God, show me no Lord lead me to somebody that needs some help. And the pathway to prosperity seems still to be elusive to us. There is no prosperity without God. I know you are a person who's gonna keep giving it out. Even if you think, you know what, well, I done done good for myself. All kinds of trouble. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Did you pour water on other people's lives? For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship Services, Sundays at 10 a. I'm praying, Heavenly Father, that you might draw someone who has drifted in their fellowship away from you. Did you scatter the days I gave you like seeds? God's way says give and you will get. And God is not going to bless idolatry. You God is with you. And he's it might just be that he's a tither and God's giving him what he needs so he can tithe. If I can back you all the way up to verse 23, it says the desire of the righteous is only good. He's seeking instead of to bless to withhold from those who have need. He who trusts in his riches will fall. Now, all of us want the favor of God. Anything else of this world is going to pass away. And when you're generous, God will be generous to you. It's just a matter of when. Verse 25 says, the generous soul will be made rich. But the people will curse him who withholds grain. I want to be rich towards God. He says, He who waters will also be watered, but the people will curse him who withholds grain. And there is one who withholds more than is right. That's a great question. This is what I'm trying to get us to. Nobody ever encourages them to get involved in discipleship training. Some people are also looking for opportunities. And you say, how much is it gonna cost me? Y'all see that? Only what you invested in the kingdom of God that lasts forever. That's what makes us rich when we become righteous and living righteous before God. This whole idea of scattering is not to scatter indiscriminately. I know that those things will come because I've sought after the things of God. So you held back 10%. Now I only have 90% left. I'll take the favor. That's a great question. So I increase more when I sold my tithes, my ten percent. So if you withhold what belongs to God, it's going to lead you to poverty. The text is trying to help us because if we don't share, we'll never be rich. And and and and if we keep it in the context of the resources, you will have trouble If I say no, well Lord, I was I was too busy. We're facing a variety of challenges, not just personally and nationally, but globally The seeds have been planted, and they maybe have accepted Christ, but nobody ever comes and waters them. Father in heaven, we honor you on today and we thank you for your incredible grace. But there is one who withholds more than is right. And Lord says, No, this is a person. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. We've played the lottery and The rich have no return for you. And so you got the job. He's shaking you loose. And so what's interesting to me that we are living in a time when we are That's that's in their heart. Lord help me. I want at least have the basics of life. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Your pathway to prosperity depends on how you sow. But there are people who have more money than you think And it's not an issue that God has a problem with them making a profit. Now, I need you to kind of grasp this imagery. He didn't put it forth so that he can get a good job. Finally, in the latter two verses. And so favor comes on him, but trouble will come to him who seeks evil. And I know it's coming. That's not what the text says. I should have brought some seeds with me. No, you didn't do good for yourself. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. You can't get around him. Or virtually I'm gonna keep giving it to you. I'm only willing to give them $10. That I've been blessed with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places that would give me peace of mind. They're gonna call somebody and say, can you set this stuff out for a garage sale? But if you invest what belongs to God in the good soil that God has given you. And based on my answer, first of all, my first answer, did I invest my life in you? Did you use the gifts that I gave you to enhance and help other people? Have your way, God. I ain't giving the church no tithe. I want to have a spiritual relationship that when I talk to the creator of the ends of the earth, He listens. That's the thing to have. If you seek trouble, trouble will come on him who seeks evil. Now some people just have it naturally. So, verse 25 and 26. And so guess what? The one who's trusting in his riches is really seeking evil. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. I'm going to escalate you to second in Egypt because of your wisdom. The word reads as follows. Father, it is my prayer that the body of believers be edified, but more importantly, God, that your name be glorified. This idea of earnestly seeking is the idea of getting up early in the morning. Lord, show me an opportunity where I can be a blessing to somebody. This is it right here. And he's training you to trust him to be the supplier of your need. All he wants to know is where did you invest your life? We're going to save up. He who earnestly seeks good finds favor. And that's 30% God, I believe you have This attitude of putting ourselves You can never be successful when you put yourself above God. I was trying to get to hustle, I was trying to get to the top. Because when you see good He begins by telling us that Let me have enough food to feed my children. Nobody ever yields themselves to be a teacher in the classes because they know the information, but they won't share it with anybody else. It's in Jesus' name I pray with thanksgiving and expectation. Our way says keep it and you'll have it. They got rich off of taking The text says it leads to poverty. They shrink away If you give me a million-dollar bank account or favor, I'll take the favor. If you could imagine planting a seed So you gotta be willing to let God it because this because what God is doing to us. You can't enjoy it. Lord Jesus. And now, Pastor Sterling. Now he's bringing you their stories. Sowing is good, but need some water too So you already got it fixed in your mind. You must be kidding me. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. Now he's bringing you their stories. No. The One Degree of Andy podcast. That's evil But blessings fall on the head of him who sells it. The One Degree of Andy podcast. You won't even sell it, and people are dying org If you haven't figured this out yet about the Lord When I seek first the kingdom of God, all the other things come along. How you how you gonna enjoy your money when you gotta watch it all day? That's eternal. Let me have enough water to drink. He's seeking to take I'm Andy Christman. When you die Joseph didn't say man hold on to that stuff. But God leads you to somebody who needs a hundred dollars. You at the top, but you get ready to go to the bottom. Trouble comes your way. I'm Andy Christman. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. And the people of God said together, Amen. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast. And so when I invest in the righteousness of God. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. It's gonna be gone. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down And let me let me have enough shelter to cover my head. That's Matthew 6:33. m. at the Legacy Center. That would allow my spirit. We're gonna we're gonna be rich. org.