Where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. This is a whole new sermon. God started answering him, Job, where were you when I laid the foundation of the world? I'm going to prove to God that I'm righteous. And if we comprehend that he is the omnipotent God, surely nobody would rob the omnipotent God. And if he's watching everything, if he's got eyes that are keeping sight on everything, good and evil. When I read the word you, when I when I read, when it said yet you have, I I I felt you tightened a little bit. Praise the Lord. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together and we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services Sundays at 8 a. I was reading back and I saw the priest and the people, they didn't reverence God, they didn't respect God. Voices behind the song. Tell it I'm I'm I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ. I'm not ashamed to tell the world that. In Jesus' name. uh who had turned away from God and as the priest had turned away from God so had the people turned away from God and there was uh uh this uh how do I say lack of reverence for God. The question is a relevant question even for today, uh, as it relates to what we're going through, because we too are living in a time where both priest and people have abandoned God. The money's not flowing, the jobs aren't flowing like they used to. Or are we guilty? The text, you know where Pastor's going. Because when I looked at the rhetorical question, and I said, well, this is a rhetorical question, so God, why do you even ask the question? Uh when Jesus was resurrected, Matthew chapter 28 comes back and says that when he got up from the grave, uh all authority. adopted him to his family, surely you wouldn't rob the person who adopted you. He's owner, he's uh preeminent, he is the I am, he is omnipotent, omniscient, omnipresent Where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Sharing it everywhere you go, whether you're on the bus or whether you're on the metro or whether in your office or whether you're in a grocery store or If you're not ashamed of the gospel, you will you'll share it everywhere you go. It is written in the very holy script. Uh just hear what God is saying today from this passage Father, save someone who's lost and redeem and reclaim someone who's drifting and encourage someone who's running this race, Lord God, to keep on running the race. Spirit of the Lord, have thine own way. that need to be generated. uh on television, on radio, uh in the newspaper, or any other place, and declaring that somehow God was wrong. in the people. that would also declare that we can we can go completely contrary to his word and they have no problem standing up I feel it. That's a rhetorical question because we know that the answer to the question ought to be no. Not only was he in the beginning he created heavens and the earth, but he also created man, which means he is creator, and we are creation, and for that reason, we ought to know a man wouldn't rob God. If he is preeminent over all things, it ought to be a rhetorical question that no way a man would rob God because God is supreme and pre-eminent over all things. Uh where the lines that are drawn in the atmospheres and in the heavens and who put the stars in the Where were you? Everything. Was given unto him both in heaven and in earth. Your hand is there. Now I might rob somebody if I figure they not home. And if it wasn't for him, there wouldn't be nothing to be known because you wouldn't have a brain to know it. That he reigns on the just and the unjust. This sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. Upper Marlboro, Maryland. But you say, in what way have we robbed you? of the people that the promise of God that he had laid before him them uh would ever come to pass had grown very dim and there was this I already know that. With the understanding that we already know the answer. See, it is a rhetorical question, but what I'm hearing from your response is that maybe this is not as rhetorical as I thought it was. If someone asks, would a man rob God? Over all things. Y'all still here with me? Because he is the owner of everything. Says, great is the Lord, mighty in power. He's an omniscient God. Watching good and evil, and I believe if we go back a couple other passages, let us know that his eyes roam the earth. He sees everything. Live on the earth, die a brutal death, be buried in a borrowed tomb, raised again the third day, and and and and and and invite you and I to be partners with him, call his own children. He is ever watchful and he is loving us all the time. again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence It's during a time where Persia is still in political control and has political influence over the nation of Israel. Has been poor. We're living in a time where there is what is declared a sermon, but the sermon doesn't come from the script. senses of oppression that uh they were going through. Dimmed even in the house of God, to the extreme that we have those that would wear the cloth and name the name of Jesus Now, here we are we begin here in in verse number 80 with what is called a rhetorical question. Chapter 1, verses 16 and 7. God, who shall I say when they asked me who sent you? Y'all know the story of Job. When I created the animals and and and all that and and when I feed the birds on the field and and none of them go hungry, Joe, where were you? In other words, everywhere we go, he's there. I mean I might rob you if you if you give me a hard time and you know when when it's time for me to get something you say nah we can't afford it but when it ever time for you to get something you get what you want then I might rob you then That's the response of reality. The fact that he lives in me is not ashamed to let people know that I'm his child and he's my father. We'll begin our reading there at verse number 8 of Malachi chapter 3. For you have robbed me. But Alan is preaching our Heavenly Father, we need your strength and we need your power that you might exalt yourself in this place, that your name might be glorified. They're dealing with that, and while they're dealing with this, um they they're they're also dealing with some some economic issues because the harvest And they were resentful to God because God wasn't blessing like they were accustomed to Him blessing. State, if you will, of moral ambivalence. This is a state of kind of moral ambivalence that's going on in the day of Malachi. Well, this is the day, this is the time that we're living in, and so therefore, I do believe that the text for uh this morning is relevant for us, it's applicable to us, and I just want to ask a question uh this morning from the topic. Will a man rob God? And so I believe that if we walk through scripture and just bear with me for a moment, I'm gonna give y'all some scripture y'all can write down as for the note-takers. Would a man ever possibly consider robbing God? All power is his. And if you really, really, really get down into the depth of it, if there is any knowledge at all, it's because of him. Because he's everywhere at the same time. Keeping watch over good and evil. That he would take off his royal robe in glory, wrap himself up in limiting flesh Husbands and wives, y'all might know something about that. That he gave his only begotten son that whoever would believe in him would not perish but ever have everlasting life. And and even after adopting you, he keeps waking you up in the morning, keeps feeding you, keeps clothes on your back, shoes on your feet, car in the driveway, half a tank of gas at least. Matter of fact, sometimes they y'all look better than mine. Tell your neighbor this ain't personal. Not ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Stay here with me. Y'all still here. Psalms 139 verses 8 and 9 says, if I ascend into heaven, behold, you are there. You're there also. And so uh but it but it should be, let me say it like that, it should be a rhetorical question. And so for that reason, and if you move on through Genesis and you come to the point where where it lays out clearly that In heaven and in earth, visible and invisible, all the thrones, all the dominions, all things that he may have preeminence. That I am. I am that I am. Man would not possibly rob God. Isaiah comes back and says, Has thou not known? Amen. He loves us anyhow. Nah, we wouldn't rob him. Then the text goes on. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. And and then when I when I said three and eight and you turn there and said will a man rob God you said oh Just divine insights. On the one hand, we know we belong to him and we're supposed to worship him and we'll do what we need to do, but we won't be faithful to him. There is a day and time when man has uh this lethargic attitude about God. I feel it in there. He made all things, everything was made by him, for him, through him, and everything belongs to him, and it was done that he might have preeminence. And wherever you rob and go and take it to, he's there too. In light of the rhetorical question, there is a response of reality. The word of the Lord in Malachi chapter 3 and verse number 8 reads as follows: Will a man rob God? Job, I mean Exodus, I'm sorry. J I'm just just write it down, okay? In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. Job said, I learned I couldn't contend with him. And the people have also, even in our day and time, come to a place where they have become ambivalent about uh God. And so if we we understand and comprehend that he is an omnipotent God, which means he possesses all power, and and y'all gotta stay here with me for just a moment, that means that everything that is power, it belongs to him. I asked you to just bear with me for a little while here in uh Malachi chapter three and verse eight. I'm I'm uh uh yeah yeah I'm I'm I go to church but I don't live all that stuff out. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. I I feel the tension in the air. Malachi's writings are are and and and occurrences transpired during a time when uh it's about a hundred years after the Babylonian captivity had ended. Amen. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III. We are dealing with an economic situation in time when we're not quite being blessed like we used to be, you know. I know that there's a sense of tension. Y'all still hear? You're an omnipotent God. He keeps on blessing you and loving you and pouring it out every day, even when we don't love him. But if I realize and I understand what Proverbs is saying here that his eyes are in every place. You know what he's gonna preach this morning. But it ought to be rhetorical. Amen. Amen. Uh everything belongs to him. Yet you have. Any power that you thought you had, you're just lending is just being lent to you, or you're borrowing it from him because it belongs to him, because all power is his. Job uh had had begged and pleaded for his moment in court. And if if if we comprehend that, if you're here with me and you understand that he he is the great I am, ain't no way that man would rob the I am. Um I just want to speak from that subject matter for just a little while. Job discovers something. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. They have not been reaping from the fields what they were accustomed to. He's an all-seeing God. And and if if God is loving us that way, you wouldn't rob a person who's loving you. So that helps me to understand why this question is rhetorical because he's creator Prepare our hearts to hear from you. It is a rhetorical question. If I take the wings of the morning and and ascend or go into the depth of the sea, even there Despite all the reasons why you shouldn't have robbed me, Israel. Psalm chapter Psalm 24, verse 1 says, The earth is the Lord's, and the fullness thereof, and all they that dwell therein. Y'all still hear? And so just bear with me as we kind of walk through this thing and ask the question, are we guilty? Y'all still hear? We ought to know that the answer ought to be no, that wouldn't happen. I'm going to show God that he was wrong in what he did. On this morning, we want to invite your attention to the book of Malachi, chapter 3. Even this whole nation has robbed him. Exodus chapter 3, verse 14. 16 through 18. Because you know it does rain on the just and the unjust. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. All power belongs to him. And so when I when I read that text, I realized that if we comprehend He is preeminent. It says, yet you have robbed me. And so we we're kind of finding ourselves in a similar uh situation, and uh reverence for God has And I asked the question: why should it be rhetorical? The psalm writer here is trying to help us to understand that he is an omnipresent God. Amen. I I I I caught that when I said Malachi, somebody said, ooh. Just I'm gonna walk through my I'm trying to help us to know why this ought to be a rhetorical question, and we ought to know that the answer to the question To continue our journey, tune in next week for the second half of today's message. Amen. I know that there's some pressure on you. You already know. It's not personal. John chapter three, verse sixteen says, uh for God so loved the world. Yes, I do believe. There was, on the one hand, we know he's God, but on the other hand, we can't stand him. Colossians 1, 16 through 18 says, by him all things were created. That's the first movement of text. And when I say omniscient, that means he knows everything. We are dealing with perhaps even in our own day and time uh the oppressions of the increases of taxes and revenues In other words, God told Moses, I am the eternal one that exists out of nothing. I can't escape him. You heard this sermon before. We ought to be able to answer the question. And he says, God, I know that you you are you're able to do everything. It's not personal. Job uh chapters chapters forty through forty-two. Has thou not heard the Lord, God, the creator of the ends of the earth? But when God is constantly ever loving us, You possess all the power. We're excited on this morning that we have the opportunity to stand before you and to declare the gospel and the word of the Lord as Lord, thank you that we have the privilege to come and worship you, to celebrate you, to exalt you, to lift up holy hands before you. Who shall I say sent me? And so therefore, I get it, it's a rhetorical question. Yeah. Use me, Lord, as an instrument. Y'all still here? And if he's an all-seeing God, well, I understand that's why nobody would want to rob him because he would see them robbing him. And that the and then watch this. Now if if he's uh watch this uh what what what the what what Proverbs is saying here is that he is uh uh watching everything That's a great question. And as there was a lack of reverence for God, the hope And and that what what that helps me to grab hold of is when I get to where I'm going, he's already there. Proverbs chapter 15 verse 3 says, the eyes of the Lord are every in every place. Because I I felt y'all tighten up when I s when it when I read the word I'm a believer. Matter of fact, Job, what did I attach it to? And when you're not ashamed, you will have no problem. In tithes and offering. A rhetorical question. His understanding is infinite. So I asked why God said to Moses, when Moses asked the question, Moses says, Before you grab your purses and run out. Matter of fact, Pastor, you were in this text last year. No. I'm moving on to my third one. It ought to be rhetorical that no, no way, that he him being owner of everything. So no no no no no way no way. He's an omniscient God, and if he knows everything, and he would know if you robbed him, so therefore, nah. I can't run from him. Amen. They were afraid that God wasn't going to fulfill the promise, but yet they were not afraid that God was going to bring judgment. And you know, I know that this text brings a lot of tightness to the people of God. Malachi is the last book of the Old Testament. It's kind of we're kind of half-hearted in our approaches and in some ways even in the same I surrender myself to you. There's some answers that you've already come up with. And and I'm trying, you know, a criminal uh looks for opportunity when folk ain't watching. Especially not after they paid that kind of price. And Job learned something in the end because God started asking him questions that he could not answer. No wait, not a little wait. But if you understand he's always home. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. In other words, when we ask the question, will a man rob God? If I can just get my moment in court. God the Father couldn't have given it to the Son if He didn't have it. The life, the death, the burial, the resurrection. And in our text today, as we look at this question that is posed here in verse number eight. First of all, we ought to know it, and it ought to be a rhetorical question, because of Genesis chapter 1, verse 1. In fact, Matthew chapter 28 comes back just in case you thought that was just an old testament thing. I'm not ashamed of the gospel. And a rhetorical question is a question that is asked. I got some neighbors don't never go to church, but it when when the when the when the rain comes down, it rained on their yard too. But it's not personal, this is Israel. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. Let's pray. I mean, when you think about that, God is the creator. The response of reality is, yet you have robbed me. That's just the love and grace of God. And the reason even in your responses it it it helps me to understand even why the Lord took me in this direction org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. org or contact our church office at 301-627-9500. Colossians Uh uh Job learned that uh we can't contend with God. The hearts of the people had grown kind of against God. And then your response helps me to understand why he asked the question because it's not rhetorical to everybody. Because in him exists all knowledge, and because of him, there is something to be known. Chronicles, second chronicles, they're roaming all over, watching everything. Father, thank you for the word on this morning. Why should we know that the answer should be no? m. There's nothing that is to be known that he doesn't know. Malachi meaning my messenger. This is probably more scripture in one sermon than I'm ever gonna give and probably ever have given in my 28 years of preaching. Did you have any insight on any of that? I'm not gonna rob an omnipresent God. Now, what John is saying is that he is loving us, and if he's loving us to the extreme. Now keep in mind before you take this too personal. I can't hide from him. He neither faints neither is weary. or 11 a. There was in the midst of the nation of Israel, the priest Have your way in and through me. The hope of God is growing dim. And now, Pastor Sterling. I know because I got it written down too. God said to Moses, I am Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. I'm not ashamed to live it. You've already figured out m. For my uh effort on this morning is to really try to You are cursed with a curse. at our new edifice called the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway. Y'all still hear? Now he's bringing you their stories. Yet you have robbed me. Are we guilty? He's talking Israel. Amen And if he is an omnipresent God, oh no way. In the name of Jesus Christ, I pray and thank you in advance. The One Degree of Andy podcast. I'm not ashamed to say it. There's no searching of his understanding. I mean, come on. But I'm not preaching last year's sermon. There's no way. They they they I'm a Christian, but I don't really believe all the stuff. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. So if you if you can find Matthew, just go back one book. Thank you for If I make my bed in hell, I'm not gonna Psalm Psalm 147 verse 5 I'm Andy Christman. Ain't that there's nothing that escapes the eye of God. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. I'm not as I And wherever I left from, he's still there. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. I'm gonna rob an omnipresent God. Amen. But For a copy of Please join us.