Immediately the girl arose and walked for she was twelve years of age, and they were overcome with great amazement. And I'm going to put it this way, she steals the power that was stored up in Jesus for the purpose of healing Jairus' daughter. That goes on. Praise the Lord. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. But some of y'all made it through because you had a praying father. Voices behind the song. And he begged him earnestly, saying, My little daughter lies at the point of death. And Jesus immediately knowing in himself that the power had gone out of him, turned around in the crowd and said, Who touched my clothes? And for she said, If only I may touch his clothes, I shall be made well. uh finds his daughter has fallen in a point of sickness uh to a point where there's nothing he can do to save her, to rescue her, but I want you to know there's some praying fathers. and when he saw him he fell at his feet. But a believing father will humble himself and say, This is a situation beyond my control. This gyrus humbles himself, this believing father will humble himself to the point to get for his children what his children need. To humble himself and go get the help that he needs. This gyrus is the example of a believing father who humbles himself and he petitions Jesus for the help of his child because the situation is beyond his control. I believe he's a God who's waiting for opportunity for us to exercise faith in him so that he can show us how awesome he is Help me somebody. death instead of going to Washington Hospital Center, instead of taking them to children's uh hospital, instead of calling the specialist at Johns Hopkins, he goes to Jesus And the great multitude is following him, and everything is going well, and we're on our way to get to my daughter, and time is of the In fact, she grew worse, and when she heard about Jesus, she came behind him. The requirement according to Jewish law would have been that as she would have traveled and been amongst people because she could not uh oftentimes be amongst people, she had to s be separated and isolated because she was And now she's healed. She had to be on the outskirts with the the the lepers and the other unclean and she had been in that position for twelve years. Don't think that he has forgotten you or that he has he's abusing you or misusing you. And so Jesus went with him, and a great multitude followed him and thronged him, and now a certain woman had a flow of blood for twelve years. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. I pray eternal God you would save someone who is lost today, that you would redeem someone from that pit of hell. be able to turn around today and come back to you and renew the broken fellowship. The devil would be horrified, and you would be glorified. by boat to the other side, a great multitude gathered to him, and he was by the sea. and had suffered many things from many physicians, and she had spent all that she had, and was no better. But the woman, fearing and trembling, knowing what had happened to her, came and fell down before him and told him the whole truth And he said to her, daughter, your faith has made you well. And he permitted no one to follow him except Peter, James, and John, the brother of James. And those who wept and wailed loudly, though when he came in, he said to them, Why make this commotion and weep? And they ridiculed him, but when he had put them all outside, he took the father and the mother of the child and those who were with him, and he ended where the child was lying. And then he took the child by the hand and said to her, Talatha Kumai, which is translated, Little girl, I say to you, arise. But he commanded them strictly that no one should know it, and said that something should be given to her to eat. He is moved because of the love for his daughter, and he goes to Jesus to get help for her. Now I'll say this as I oftentimes do on holidays or days that are addressing a particular group of people, though we are addressing the Father in this text, this this much text here to deal with us all Whether you're a father or whether you're or not, the text should and ought to speak to us in some way, shape, or form as we open it up in your understanding on today. And you tell your father, can we stop at the gas station and get some directions? even had hostility about the very idea of this man named Jesus because my daughter is sick I've heard that this man can do something about my situation and so he humbles himself and he petitions Jesus My daughter, whom I love, is in a position that is beyond my control. And here is Jairus humbling himself, falling at the feet of Jesus to get from Jesus the healing for his daughter. That he knows and he believes that Jesus can provide. This unorthodox man who's risen up in the land, who's causing chaos in the religious circles, and he goes to him because he heard that this man can do miracles, and my daughter needs a miracle. I'm gonna get to this, but I part of me is rising up in me because I just get kind of the sense that I feel like y'all not believing nothing I'm saying. You see the hands. You need a man who can humble himself and go to God and pray for you and talk to God for you and petition God for you Listen to what the text says. If you lay your hands, the the idea of laying on of hands was the understanding that you were transferring from the the initial vessel that which was necessary to the one you touched. that in you, Jesus, is the power that's necessary if you just reach out your hand and touch my daughter who is at the point of Death. That's faith. I'm not just a Sunday morning believer. Jesus, he's just made this petition to Jesus for his daughter and come and lay your hands on her. essence and so we're on our way we're moving we're going I've made my petition to Jesus Jesus has left the stuff that was going on there he's coming with me to help me with my daughter and along the way something happens And she presses her way through the crowd, and and the crowd is thronging and they're pushing and they're shoving and they're trying to go because they're trying to get to Jairus' daughter, and Jesus is following him along the way. This woman with the issue of blood, she grabs hold to the hem of a garment of Jesus, and Jesus stops the parade, and Jesus stops in his tracks, and he says, Wait a minute, somebody touched me. defiled and she was unclean, but even when she came among the people, she was supposed to be crying out, unclean, unclean, unclean. Y'all need to get this right here. Dying, he's already got the attention of Jesus, and we're on our way, and now all of a sudden there's a woman who sneaks up behind Jesus and Can I talk to some people out here that have lost their patience? And she gets a hold to the hem of the garment of Jesus and she gets healed. uh up on you or he's giving his attention uh to somebody else, I I need you to kind of be aware that he's not forsaking you, he's preparing you. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. Down with the voices behind the song. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. Alright, I hear some folks that have found it. And speak clearly to those who are under the sound of my voice and who will hear this message at any given time. All right. But his disciples said to him, You see the multitude thronging you, and you say who touched me? came from the ruler of the synagogue's house and said, Your daughter is dead. On this particular Father's Day morning, as we try to open up this word in your hearing, this text, we find what we call today a girl dad. In this text, a believing father, Jairus is this synagogue leader who normally would be in opposition or hostile towards Jesus, because most of the synagogue leaders were, not all of them, but most were. I know that you're used to a praying mother and you're used to a praying grandmother, but I'm talking about a believing father. of what I call a believing father. He comes to him for his daughter because a believing father will do this first and foremost. I know where I'm going. Now, I just want you just for a moment, just for a moment, just for a glimpse. For the help of his daughter. He not only humbles himself in setting his title aside, and he not only humbles himself by falling at the feet of Jesus, but the verse 23 says, He begged him earnestly, saying, My daughter lies at the point of death. In fact, I think it's even difficult for sometimes for us men to acknowledge that something is beyond our control. Am I right, men? And as he humbles himself, this believing father petitions God not only with humility, but he petitions God with faith A believing father has faith in the Savior. But yet, because of your faith. Pray and extend himself towards God with humility, but also with faith. Whenever they would get sick, I would just call them aside and I'd pray for them and and then they would get healed. Because his belief is that in Jesus there's power to heal my child. Sundays at 10 a. or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. He's gonna fix it. Holding on and waiting patiently because he knows that the Lord is going to finish what he started. Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Amen. It's hard for us to acknowledge. But this gyrus is a perfect example of a believing father who petitions Jesus for the help of his child, and he humbles himself in order to do so. And she will be healed and she will live. power to accomplish anything. When he goes to Jesus and says to Jesus, I know that there is enough power in you that if you touch my daughter, she will be healed. They'd come and I pray for them and they would get healed. And I I tried to walk in the shoes of gyrus and and try to s figure out how gyrus might be feeling and what might be going on in his head the time. Whew, I'm preaching way better than we saying, Amen, but that's okay. Father, in your name, we are thankful for this day and for the opportunity we have to preach the word. Jairus is a ruler in the synagogue and he only has one child, a twelve-year-old daughter. To go to God to get the help that He needs. Amen. That pastor, you talk about a man that doesn't even exist. For a moment, and I can stop uh letting everybody know I'm unclear. You done snuck up behind and stole the power out of Jesus. He might be involved in working some other works, but he doesn't run out of power. Watch this. Listen to me, I think this is something that might be helpful to us as well. Sometimes we're so worried about our son that we forget that God has other sons. A believing father knows he's gonna do it. Our text this morning from Mark chapter 5, beginning at verse 21, reads as follows. Yeah, that part about the directions, that's him for sure. petitions Jesus to help his children, but also a believing father patiently waits for Jesus Let me see if I can dig in a little deeper. Hmm, can't see that. Um just for a glimpse of reality, do I have any believing fathers in the house Watch this. In this text, after we get this introduction of Jairus to Jesus and this petitioning of Jesus by Jairus, the whole story takes a turn. This is this woman, a certain woman, who had an issue of blood for twelve years and had suffered all these things from all these physicians. Somebody touched me and Jesus makes it clear. Can I get a witness? This woman has in essence been dead to society for twelve years because she could not live amongst society. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. I know it doesn't always seem that way, but we are. Listen to what Jesus says in verse 34. I believe I've got faith enough to believe that if you touch her, then she'll be made well and she will live. I'm not trying to say that he's limited in his power and he's limited in his ability, but I need you to understand something. That's a faith statement when you can declare something that doesn't look like it's going to be a certain way. And since um we don't have to have reservations, we'll be here for a couple of hours with this test. And he just waits and he waits and after they go through the whole dialogue, he after Jesus has looked around and hears the woman who's trembling, and she comes and she falls down and tells the whole truth to Jesus, all the stuff. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. There's some believing fathers. And so I see in Jairus the faith of a father who believes in Jesus so much so that even at the point of You have been listening to the Radio Broadcast Ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. And this is why when you ride places with your father in the car and everybody is lost After we've torn the walls apart and can't find where the water is coming from, then you call the plumber. I got this. I think I got this. It says, Come, I'm in verse 23, come and lay your hands on her, that she may be healed, and she will live. Jairus doesn't lose it like most of us would have. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations, you won't hear anywhere else. Men y'all gotta say something because the women not gonna help me this morning. Jesus says, I felt the power flow out of me. m. I'm so glad that he he doesn't run out of power. A believing father is able to stand patiently and wait patiently in the midst of when everything seems like it's not going his way, he's still able to keep But he doesn't just watch this. Now only believing fathers can do this because a believing father knows that in God there is And if I go to him in prayer and if I petition him in his will, he'll do it. at the Legacy Center. I know that the world has caused us to believe that all is lost and fathers are worthless and we don't need them, but When you feel like it's taking too long for him to answer your problem, it's taking too long for him to fix your situation. There's some believing fathers who will go to Jesus on behalf of their children. I think I got this. And then when my grandchildren came along, my children would bring my grandchildren. Now I'm painting the picture from a selfish perspective. And so I would pray for them, and I still do. And he said to her, Daughter, your faith has made you well. Amen. Come and lay your hands on her. I just I'm just talking to a few folks that know what I'm talking about. Amen, somebody. And I want to talk to you on this morning from the subject matter, a believing father But yet a believing father will fall at the feet of the Lord to ask the Lord for what he needs for his child. Well, you might need a you might need a wrench instead of a screwdriver. If I can just slip in behind him, nobody would have to know. And so what Jairus is able to do is he he just keeps waiting patiently because guess what? The humility is expressed in the first thing that he comes to Jesus and falls at his feet. And he humbles himself not only by falling at his feet, he humbles himself. No, I felt the power flow out of me. They are excited this morning, too. I want to say this about this believing father. No, this man exists. Can I talk to us for real? A believing father will humble himself for what his children need. We're designed to be leaders, and as leaders, leaders sometimes are not always good at seeking instruction from others. He think he got it, he ain't got it. Come, Jesus, because I believe that you've got power in you and And so when he says, Come and lay your hands on my daughter, he's speaking with a great degree of faith I need you to understand something. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services And so I commit everything to you on this morning in the name of Jesus who is the Christ, I pray. Lord, I'm praying for your strength and your grace in the process of preaching for I need it today. Stay here with me. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. Why trouble the teacher any further? And so this believing father petitions Jesus to help his child. If he said he's gonna fix it, My daughter is dying. Immediately the fountain of her blood was dried up, and she felt in her body that she was healed of her affliction That's a great question. Imagine your father falling at the feet of another man to ask for something. I know she's going to live and exercise all this faith. I pray for them, and the power of God is able, I believe. And there's still enough power in the hem of his garment to take care of every situation that's going on in your life, and it doesn't matter how long you've been going through it. When Jairus comes to Jesus, he comes to Jesus with the attitude and with the understanding that And even though I, as a synagogue leader, perhaps ought to have hostility, and maybe in the past Come and lay your hands on her, that she may be healed, and she will live Now, now watch this. This woman is in a state of uncleanness. Here's the good news. Sometimes we're so worried about our mama and our own daddy and we want everything to be happening right now and quick, fast, and a hurry that we forget that Jesus has other children. Can you turn the GPS on? For real? Go go to go to Poppy. That's a great question. Bless the Lord. He waits patiently. Sometimes we're so concerned about our daughter that we don't realize that Jesus has other daughters. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. Lord, I'm praying even now that your word would come off my lips in a way that it becomes life to those who are lifeless. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. I know he ain't got it. Jesus doesn't run out of power He exists not only in the text of scripture, he he exists in the text of life. This believing father says, Come and lay your hands on her. No, he's preparing you And behold, one of the rulers of the synagogue came, Jairus by name, and when he saw him he fell at his feet I feel like I could say more, but let me let me let me move you along in this, lest you be late for your reservation. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. From a selfish perspective, Jairus is perhaps thinking that's the power that was there for my daughter. The world doesn't revolve around you. Lord, I'm praying that the body here will be edified. She had been to every doctor, she had been to every medical, she had spent all the money that she had and and her situation was not getting better, it was getting worse They looking sideways. And they would have something happen and If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. We as fathers are and men, uh, we are we're structured in such a way that we are designed to be leaders. And so because he doesn't run out of power, Jairus can be patient. The believing father doesn't throw in the tile, he's still there. I'm kidding, I'm kidding. And he looked around to see her who had done this thing. He petitions Jesus to help his children, but he does so first of all in humility. It's not natural to humble yourself to say I'm lost. He's begging. Jairus exercises a great degree of faith. If I can just get in behind him, and if I can just grab the hem of his garment, I believe that I could be made well. He loves his daughter, obviously, and he And I know that you believe that all the prayers that rescued you from all the hell you came through in life was because you had a praying mother, and that sounds great. Because we're designed as fixers. I already got the plumber on speed down. As soon as Jesus had heard the word that was spoken, he said to the ruler of the synagogue, Do not be afraid, only believe. But we got this. And I'm not taking nothing away from the praying mothers and the praying grandmothers and aunties and all that, but this morning Go to go to Paul. He never loses power. And verse 24 says, so Jesus went with him. She spent all her money and had nothing left and she was no better. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. And she touches his garment and the power that was in Jesus that could heal Jairus' daughter now flows out of her, flows out of him, and it's into this woman. We fixed the But rather grew worse, and when she heard about Jesus she came behind him in the crowd and touched his garment. But she heard that Jesus was in town, and she thought to herself, Help me here, God, she thought to herself, if I can just set this unclean stuff aside. As he followed this text, what we get an opportunity to see is the behavior. He's pleading on behalf of his daughter because he loves his daughter because he's able. Jairus is in a hurry to get to his daughter, who's Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. Amen. We got this. She could not live in her home. She's an unclean woman and a He he kind of puts his position aside as a synagogue leader and he goes to this They're like, mm-hmm, you ain't talking about my husband. And so a believing father is able to He can heal you. God This child is not dead, but sleeping. He waits as Jesus deals with this other daughter. And Jairus My phone says we should have turned twenty minutes ago. We fix stuff. I remember when my children were growing up. See Y'all hear that? Verse 22 says, And behold, one of the rulers of the synagogue came to him, Jairus by name. Now he's bringing you their stories. He will petition Jesus to help his children. And now Pastor Sterling. If Jesus said he's gonna do something Because I believed that God could heal them. Even if they don't know how to fix stuff, we fix stuff. Go in peace and be healed of your affliction. And so when you think that God has given Amen. The One Degree of Andy podcast. I need you, Lord, that you might stand up in me. Now he's bringing you their stories. Well, that we don't have it He doesn't say I think it might be all right. The One Degree of Andy podcast. I'm Andy Christman. Mark chapter 5, verse 21. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. And along the way He says, No, she will live and she will be healed. I'm Andy Christman. The believing father knows how to humble himself. No. org In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast. Your father says, mind your business. A believing father. Y'all still here with me? In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he said That's a faith statement. org.