It's as if David is having a conversation as we read through this psalm, as if David is having a conversation with himself. And then he says, and oh, that's within me. So heart, you got a right and you've got a privilege to join in and bless the Lord. Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. That David is laying here out in terms of when he says, bless the Lord. of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. He sits down with the voices behind the song. At your podcasts. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. Voices behind the song. That you will begin to turn over the soil, Lord God, that the seed that is planted on this day, God, might grow up into great and good fruit. I just want to be your child that that that can glorify you on this day. And I thank you. Spirit of the living God, I know that there are a multitude of things that you're going to be doing in the midst of our preaching time. Believe by faith that you've already set the things in order. They are running God through similar filters that we do when we enter into relationships with one another. Secondly, it's hindering others from entering into the relationship because they're evaluating on the wrong terms. were like the relationship that we have with people, people would walk away from us because we are the ones that are coming up short on the benefit. It's almost like David is it says that wasn't enough. And so bones, you ought to bless the Lord. Help me, Jesus. Got privilege, you've got opportunity, so you ought to join in with the bones to bless the Lord. Please visit our website at kettering ministries. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III The word of God from uh the one hundred and third division of Psalm reads like this: Bless the Lord, O my soul. um than uh if I can say the old school way. That it seems like to me that more people today are meeting people not in person but online. And you know, when when we go through these examinations of people today for relationships We evaluate whether or not we want to have and what level of relationship we want to have with God. Uh uh our relationship with him as we feel like his benefits are meeting us at our particular time and our perceived need Uh this evaluation process is hindering, I believe, some of us from one appreciating what we have in this relationship, but If I can say it that way. And appreciation manner for the relationship he has with God. gets stirred up and if you meditate on it a little while longer, the stirring begins to stir a little higher and a little harder. To remember the things that God has done for you that you know you are not deserving of. He has with God. There's a high call here in the text. All by yourself and we can praise him for that. is happening here um because because david is motivating himself as he as he contemplates And flow all around inside the body. Lord help me God. The achievements of their team who might win and they might lose. I I love that and and I I love the fact that David is sincere as it and is as he has this conversation with himself because His benefits while you're blessing him, while you're celebrating him, while you're praising him, while you're exalting him, don't forget his benefits When you thought about he forgave all your iniquity. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. He has not dealt with us according to our sins, nor punished us according to our iniquities. So great is his mercy toward those who fear him. As a father pities his children, so the Lord pities those who fear him, for he knows our frame and remembers that we are dust. Would you pray with me this morning? Today and glorify you. By you on this day. somebody. And you decide what you like and don't like, or if it seems like to you, it matches up with what you want or what you desire in a relationship. I think it's essentially necessary for us to take some time out every now and then and celebrate. blessing you. Blessing God as he reflects upon the relationship he has with God. A few seconds about the relationship you have with God, something on the inside of you At this particular point, talking to anybody else but himself, he says, Oh my soul. Um, I think it's we can praise God for who he is, and we can we can say, praise you for being high and holy and being God Let let all that's inside of you that knows what God has done for you. long and that the carbon Lord help me Jesus dioxide inside of you doesn't poison you but it affords you the opportunity to blow out the air and catch another one long as you've got a right We have a tendency as humans to forget stuff quickly, especially the benefits of God. And I like the way he says, he says, forget not of all his benefits. And the benefit that we need it most. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship Services, Sundays at 10 a. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlboro, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. His acts to the children of Israel. Someone needs a savior today. Um we want to know are you are a member of any kind of clubs or associations so that I can have the benefit of being a new club member. As a matter of fact, I already know what I'm bringing to the table, but I want to know what you have. He helps us, if I can say, uh helps us to understand the relationship he has with God by writing this psalm in a celebration and appreciate what we have in this relationship because if the relationship that we have with God to celebrate God for what he's done. elasticity then if uh the person stretched their arm too far or bent too wide it blood would just blust open and That's how we celebrate. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me. Opportunity to praise God at the highest level. Who redeems your life from destruction? So that your youth is renewed like the eagles. it affords me. of having a relationship with you. In other words, if God's not doing what I need him to do right now, I'm re-evaluating the relationship. Lord God. Shall I just utter words of praise from my lips? Lord Jesus, the relationship he has with God. This calling for us to bless God. six two seven nine five zero zero please join us again as senior pastor Um and as I was looking through this psalm, it it reminded me deeply of relationships and Or even better yet, how much money do you have? And the benefits are off the chain. For his benefits. Lord help me God. And all that is within me, bless his holy name. Lord, that we might be able to honor you and glorify you. We want to know typically what's the benefits. We not only want to know the salary, but we want to know the benefits. But at the end of the day, what we're really searching for is what are the benefits of me being in this relationship with you? But God, even though we've got nothing to offer, even though we brought nothing to the table, He keeps on loving you. He's calling us uh to to join him in essence in blessing God. Lord Jesus, I'm gonna get you there. But it's it's praise with affection and gratitude Bless his holy name. Ought to be blessing God. In our common methodologies of celebration, when our team scores for our teams. When I just reminded you that he forgave you of all your iniquities, I had three people out of all y'all that said, praise the Lord, thank you Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. And he's uh stirring up and motivating himself uh towards praise and towards Psalm, it reminded me of the way in which we today enter into relationships with people. And so, not only for the believer, but also for the unbeliever who is trying to determine whether or not I should enter into a relationship with God. It's right here in the text. Nobody jumped up and shouted like we just won the score, like we just we just hit the three-pointer. What's his what's his background look like? Who forgives all your iniquities, who heals all your diseases And gaining some benefits. And you respond to Self and say, because he's been so good to you. I am a pentameter, Lord Jesus. Lord Jesus. And in case all that's within you needs help and needs reminder, Scored the point. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. As we go through life, my brothers and my sisters, as we journey with God through this thing called life. And and and you say to yourself, Bless the Lord. Falling all over the place, screaming, shouting, that our team Why we need to praise him, why I should be blessing him, why every part of me ought to join in in blessing him and celebrating him and appreciating him, he says, remember his benefits. In this particular psalm, what David does, he writes uh this psalm and he uh He commands himself. Let everything inside of you bless the Lord. We lose our voice. I need you, God. Amen. We we want to know what what kind of credit score do you have? He keeps on keeping you and he keeps pouring out the benefits in your direction. Bless the Lord, O my soul. Uh He's got you on a rhythmic pattern and he He makes sure that you get the right Would not be strong enough to hold the weight that's outside of you if it were not for the God who loved you. Father, someone is in a place this morning that they just need a word from you, God. Father, we love you. Today, unlike some previous times, relationships come together in different ways. That's that's our celebration. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. And um they don't they don't have uh a praise team or uh or or they do have cheerleaders but they're not really leading the cheer And if the benefits don't don't meet my expectation, then I flip to the next page and check out the next person. And and so thousands of people come together and with and they celebrate You know what? This attitude of evaluating relationships humanly speaking has translated over into how But then when we start thinking about what he's done, Lord help me God, and then then the praise, this this praise is which is the praise that For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. I need your strength. And so they're getting uh bad data. Amen. So we should be grateful and we should be appreciative of this relationship we have. Father, I pray you save them by your amazing grace. It's repetitive as well. Lord help me. The Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger, abounding in mercy. We honor you, we bless you. Won the game. Bless the Lord, oh my soul. And so blood vessels, you you've got, you've got right. But uh as David is having this conversation with himself, he's stirring himself up about this relationship. He he declares this blessing of the Lord. Who crowns you with loving kindness and tender mercies? This Psalm of David is interesting in its approach. This this idea and this rendering of blessing that David lays out in the text is more than just praise. And he says, uh says again, he says, and all that is within me. I had a reflection in just a moment there of our common methodologies of appreciation and celebration. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits. We this is how we celebrate the Lord. You don't have to be making it. You're beating at the right beat and at the right moment so that everything is flowing at the right pace, and he doesn't cause you to go into an arrhythmia All that's within me ought to bless the Lord, ought to be appreciative, ought to be celebrating. I need your clarity of thought and clarity of speech. We want to run a background check on God. Praise the Lord. So now, God, shall we walk in the power of the Holy Spirit that your will might be done and your way might be accomplished, and that you would get all of the glory. Well, you you start to realize that that that the bones inside of you Bless the Lord, oh my soul. Praise the name of the Lord. Lord help me. The Lord executes righteousness and justice for all who are oppressed, and made known his way to Moses We want to know, uh you know, we even move now to background checks. He's he's he's saying of himself, he's encouraging himself to give appreciation to God. And there's no offering that's taken up, but millions of dollars are being collected. So sometimes we need to motivate ourselves. Thank you for the privilege we have to stand and declare your word today. Then then you have a conversation with the blood vessels. And as we lift you up, Heavenly Father, that you would draw men, women, boys, and girls to yourself. Um in fact I I'm not I don't have any statistical data, but I I just have experiential data. In fact, uh if the truth be told, we even re-evaluate our Lord help me. And then he has what I call the high call to remember all his benefits. And he says, look, um he forgives all of our iniquities. If you imagine having a conversation with yourself, and and I'm not schizophrenic, but just I'm gonna play like I am for a moment. Lord help me, Jesus. That's how we celebrate. Bless his holy name. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. In other words, David says, based on the relationship I have with God, I've got something to celebrate and appreciate. So Lord, I bless you in advance for what you're going to do. It's not really all bad. If you have it, I'm okay with that too. That's a great question. You have been listening to the Radio Broadcast Ministry. And as for as far as the East is from the West, so far has He removed our transgressions from us. And he says he says, Bless, bless the Lord, bless the Lord, bless the Lord. I wish I had two uh Christians that knew something about the benefits of God. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome Bless his holy name. We jump up and shout. Someone, Lord God, needs to glorify you with all they have today. Lord help me, God. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits. Catherine, as I was, I was reading through this particular For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web And I'm just praying that your name would get the glory and the honor and the praise out of all of them. And so I'm going to examine whether or not I want to step forward into this relationship based on what benefits Um, I'm trying to figure out how to say this. That's a great question. Some some time might be a good thing and those some people that way they bear. And then you respond to self and say no. And then he and then he moves from there because he has this Nobody nobody ran around nobody jumped up and screamed. He comes back again, verse 2. org or contact our church office at 301 And so it's there's a conversation going on here in the text where he's talking to himself and he says, Bless the Lord, oh my soul. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Help me somebody. Matter of fact, um every weekend there are sanctuaries of praise. Um we approach relationships like we used to approach jobs. Oh Jesus. Lord help me, God. I'm praying even now, Lord, that you will begin speaking and ministering into their heart. And I would declare that if you think just for We celebrate And he starts off the benefits with the thing that we benefited most from Because that helps me to know whether we gonna get have the potential of getting into some stuff. Heart Bless the Lord. Lord, use me as a vessel in your hand. I like that. Lord help me, Jesus. And so you say, Bless the Lord. You've And so David says, don't forget If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Who satisfies your mouth with good things And blood vessels, if you were not created with the right density and with the right Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. We want to know how much do you make He says. I For as the heavens are high above the earth Unfortunately, too many folk are running the background check on Christians and not on God. What are the benefits? And because God makes sure that when the lungs breathe in air, that they don't hold it too. And there's a high call to bless His name. I like I like this exchange that's Lord, I'm praying even now that the Spirit of God would manifest itself in this place. We want to know of God, God, what are the benefits? And he doesn't he's not uh so much Um it's like almost like he he he had to remind himself that this is something you ought to do. Bless the Lord, oh my soul. He will not always strive with us, nor will he keep his anger forever. He starts off with what I call a high call to bless the Lord. And self says, Why should I bless the Lord? We run around the room. Praise the Lord, and all that's within me. I want to talk to you on today from the subject matter: bless the Lord. m. Amen. And they use everything in them to praise their team. I'm really preaching right now And now, Pastor Sterling. Now he's bringing you their stories. at the Legacy Center. Um when when you talk to yourself and you tell self everything inside of you. He keeps on Amen. We doing background checks on people. Amen, Jesus. How much does he make? We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together The One Degree of Andy podcast. I just God, I pray that we are able to just lift you up high. And then Self says, Um, shall I just Now he's bringing you their stories. If I can get on your club membership, I can be a part of the club. Lord help me Jesus. The One Degree of Andy podcast. I'm Andy Christman. Lord, I stand as a vessel to be used. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. It's in Jesus' name I pray. Because we want to know what your past looks like. Uh things start to surface to the top and you start I'm Andy Christman in his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get.