Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Entirety. And now stay tuned for the conclusion of last week's message. And so on this morning, I want to close this series of messages in our theme and in our series entitled Passing a New Way in this text here in Luke's Gospel chapter twelve. I want to talk to you on today from This sixth and final part of the series of the message from the subject matter getting rich a new way. Now I don't know who came in the door this morning, but I'm just curious as to know, is there anybody in the house on this morning that came in and in the back of your mind you're thinking it sure would be nice to learn how to get rich. I know I got some sanctified folk that don't want to be rich, but is there any other Real people in the house that wouldn't mind knowing how to get rich. I'm talking about a legitimate way. I ain't talking about nothing off to the side a legitimate way. Here's a key point I don't want you to miss out of this tax In this text, when this man begins to prosper, the prosperity is a direct result of God's hand. The text says in verse 16, the ground of a certain rich man yielded plentiful. Now, it wasn't the ground that made him yield plentiful, it was God. First of all, who put the dirt there? It was God who rained on his crops. It was God who brought the sunlight on his crops. It was God who kept the bugs away from the crops, and it was God who caused the crops To produce plentifully. And so all the blessing that he has obtained, all the blessings of his land, comes from God. But notice as he considers what to do with his. Prosperity that came from his crops that ultimately came from God, he never once considers how I'm going to bless the blessor. He never thinks about how am I gonna bless God back for blessing me how he just blessed me. This is a problem we have too Because we get more, but we get it and gather it instead of figuring out how can I bless God back for what he blessed me with. But if you're going to get rich a new way, you need to understand. You need to learn how to bless the blessor. The one who blessed you with what you have. You need to learn how to bless him back. Because if it had not been for the Lord, you wouldn't have the job. If it wasn't for the Lord, you wouldn't have the degree. If it wasn't for God, you wouldn't have the pa A check If it wasn't for God, because you know you come to work late and leave early. But God, by his amazing grace, kept you on the job. If it wasn't for him, and so you need to figure out how I can bless the blessor This man doesn't consider how he's gonna bless the blessor. But if we're gonna get rich, a new way, a new way, not the old way, but the new way. The new way of getting rich is to bless the blessor. You got to bless back the one who blessed you with it. Are y'all still here with me? Secondly, secondly, in this text, we we find the solution. This is he he just raised his his problem. This is the problem he has. The problem is I don't have enough room. I don't have enough room to store my crops. And then verse 18, so he says I will do this. I will pull down my barns, build greater ones, and there I will store all my crops and my goods. Here's his problem with his solution. So we've seen the problem with prospering. Now look at the problem with his solution. The problem with his solution, first and foremost, is that everything about his solution is selfish. Not so much unlike us, everything about his solution. What am I gonna do with what I just been blessed with? It's selfish. Watch this. First of all, it is self-derived. His solution that he comes up with, he comes up with it by himself. He says there in the text, verse number 18, I believe it is, I will do this. He don't ask nobody, he don't check with nobody. He doesn't even check with the word of God. Let me see what the word of God says about being blessed this way. He doesn't check with the word of God. He doesn't even call over a spiritual friend. To say to a spiritual friend, you know what, I don't really know what to do. God is blessing me all this kind of way and that kind of way. What should I do with the blessing? He doesn't check with nobody. He comes up with the solution from and of himself. This is what I'm gonna do. This is kind of how we do too. Man, I just got a raise. What am I going to do with it? We already got plans. Man, I just got a $50 raise. I know where I can put that. Amen. I know where I can go. And we do this too when we when we think about winning the lottery. We already got plans. But watch this. It comes from himself. I will do this. No, no counsel, no, no nothing. But he didn't check with God. If you're gonna get rich a new way, it would be beneficial to you, watch this, to at least ask God who provided you with the blessing. who provided you with the prosperity, who provided you with the more, it would be beneficial to you to go to him and ask him, how can I use what you just blessed me with? Y'all still here with me? I'm talking about getting rich a new way. A new way. I know the old way. The old way is you figure it out, you do it yourself, but the new way is I'm gonna check with God because the God is the one who blessed me. So first I'm going to bless the blessed or and then I'm going to ask the blessed or what should I do? How should I handle what you bless me with? Y'all still here with me? Thirdly, not only is this thing self-derived, selfish in its nature, but as I look at the second part of eighteen, it is self-serving. The whole mentality about his solution is about serving himself. He says, I will pull down my barns and build greater barns, and there I will store all my crops and my goods. Only person he thinking about is himself. And if you look at verses 18 and 19 I believe it is. And look at all the personal pronouns, all the eyes, all the myes, all the mine, and all this stuff is about him. This is about me, me, me, me, me. And he says, Look I'm gonna I'm gonna take this stuff. This is amazing to me. He says, I'm going, I have watched it. First of all, I need you to see he has barns. He already has barns of stuff stored. Can I make it plain? He already has closets. Of stuff. He he already has uh two shades. Not one shade He has barns already. He has closets already. He has garages already full. And then he says, This is what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna tear down what I already have So I can make room for more. Can I talk to somebody here? This is what we do. We say I already got a three-bedroom house with a two-car garage and a shed in the back But it ain't enough room here. We got too much stuff. So what we gonna do? We gonna sell this house. I know we already put 10 years worth of mortgage payment on it, but we gonna sell this house and go buy us a bigger house so that we can store more. our stuff in this house. Okay, Jesus. Let me just preach to you, Jesus. Lord, this is what we do. We confess it. We do this, Lord. We buy cars and And and when we bought the car, that's all we could afford, Lord. And so, Lord, but now a newer version came out. And I went to the dealer, and the dealer said he can put me in the SUV, and I can get the SUV with seven seats, even though it ain't nobody but me and my wife, we can get the SUV with seven seats in it, God. I know it only gets 12 miles a gallon, but we can get that, God, I can tear down what I already put in, and I can build me a bigger one. Because God prospered me. Hmm. It's all selfish. It's all about Him. He gonna tear down what he already has that watch this already is in excess. You already can't sleep in all the bedrooms you got. Some rooms you don't even go in. And you ready to tear down and go buy a bigger one, talking about that's gonna give me a better tax break What about the kingdom of God? What about God who blessed you with it? Why can't you think beyond yourself? Maybe God is blessing you not so that you can go buy bigger bonds. Maybe he's blessing you so that you can open up your bones and bless somebody else. This this guy he he's is is he's everything what he's doing is all about He's is for serving himself. But if we're going to get rich a new way, we've got to focus um our serving on serving others and have others in mind in terms of serving others and not just serving ourselves. Y'all stay here with me? It's not only self-derived, self-serving, it's self-evaluating. Listen to verse 19. Verse 19, he has evaluated this whole thing himself. He says, I will say to my soul, soul. You have many many goods laid up for many years. Take ease, eat, drink, and be merry. Listen to this. He talked to himself and said to himself, You have enough You've now put it away, but guess what? He says, You got enough for many years. Watch this. But he doesn't know how many minutes God's gonna let him live. But he's already said his self-evaluation of his whole life and his whole circumstance, he said within himself. I got enough for years and I'm gonna be good, eat, drink, and be merry. You don't even know if you're gonna live for the next second But you're planning and preparing for years, and you haven't consulted with God. This man, instead of evaluating his life and his circumstances, and the wealth that God is giving him, he needs To consult with God and say, God, how long am I gonna be here and how much do I need for the time I'm gonna be here? That's what I need. No, no, no. But if we're going to get rich a new way, we've got to learn how to let God evaluate our time and evaluate what we need instead of letting people tell us this is what you need and this is how it's going to go. Don't get me wrong. I'm not against financial planning. I'm I'm I think that's a good thing. So some some people need to learn a little bit about that. Maybe you need to buy that series I I taught a couple weeks, months back. It'll bless you. But watch this This guy, he has just made all these determinations with him in himself. He's evaluated his own retirement plan. And he's evaluated based on me having all this stuff that God has blessed me with. This is my plan for me, for my retirement. He has nobody else in mind, completely selfish in every aspect of what he's doing. Lastly, it's self-satisfying. He's done all of this so he can say to his own soul: take ease, eat, drink, and be merry. He only wants to satisfy himself. It's all about me. It's all about what I'm gonna be able to do. And so he says, I'm gonna take ease. I'm gonna get to the point where I can kick back, have my retirement. I've got my retirement pension. I'm gonna travel. I'm gonna do this. I'm gonna be at ease. I ain't got to worry about nothing. I'm gonna maintain my net normal status of living. But how can you do that when you don't know how long you're gonna live? What this reminds me of, it does remind me of us because we have a tendency of stacking a whole lot of stuff. We stack money in our bank accounts. We stack Stacking stuff in our stocks and bonds, we stock stacking stuff in land holdings, we stacking stuff in 401ks, annuity plans, stacking stuff in IRAs and and thousands of millions of dollars being packed away. Very selfishly idea motives that are behind all of that. And we're saying this is what I'm gonna do so that I can be prepared for the time that it comes. And when the time comes, I'm gonna just live up my retirement in happiness and peace and I'm gonna eat. and I'm a drink and I'm gonna be merry. Here is the problem with your theory. The problem with your theory is you don't know what's gonna happen to you the day after you retire. You might retire one day, have a stroke the next day, have a catastrophic illness that wipes out all of your savings. You may have saved a half a million dollars and your financial planner said If you put this away, you're gonna live out your days and ease. But the problem is your financial planner is not God. He's the one that knows what will happen to you. And if God can feed a sparrow and a sparrow ain't spent a day at work and he'll take care of him to the last of his days. Sure enough, he'll take care of you Yeah, yeah, this this guy he he's got it all worked out. He's got it all figured out. I'm gonna just lay back, take it easy, I'm gonna be good Everything's gonna be wonderful for me, but if we're gonna get rich a new way, we have got to let God be the one that's being satisfied instead of us being the ones being satisfied. If he had per uh how do I say laid his perspective on that I want to make sure that God is happy with what I'm doing with what he gave me then he wouldn't have to have the problem that he's getting ready to encounter right now That's the problem with his solution. It's selfish. It's self-derived. It's self-serving. It's self-evaluating. It's self-satisfying It has as this mode of satisfying self. It has no intention of satisfying God. But if you're going to get rich a new way, you need to have the intention of satisfying God. This is getting rich a new way. I know the old way, but we're talking about a new way. Now I want to satisfy God Here's my last point now, out of your way. We've looked at the problem with prospering. We've looked at the problem with his solution. The last thing, the problem with God. This guy has a problem with God. Verse 20, but God said fool. I didn't say it. I'm just reading. God said, fool. This night your soul will be required of you. Then whose will those things be which you have provided? Fool. Your selfishness has proven you a fool. You have thought of no one but yourself. You have given yourself answers. You've provided for yourself. You've stored for yourself. You've served yourself. And you are a fool because you thought Nothing about your eternal destiny. You've taken none of the resources, none of the blessing, none of the time to take care of that which was most important, which was your Salvation of your soul. You said, I'm gonna tell my soul, so we alright. We good to go. But tonight, your soul is gonna be required of you by God. You've got to give account tonight. But you spend all your time building barns and storing stuff and collecting goods for yourself. And tonight when you have to stand before God, you fool. I'm just talking about the man in the text. Whose stuff will all that be? And let me say this to you and I It comes back to why Jesus started this thing. He wants to push our attention to that which is of the utmost importance Getting rich a new way means focusing on that which is most important. Because nobody cares how much money they have down here when they're standing before God up there. When you're looking at the determination of eternal life or eternal damnation, going to heaven or spinning it in the lake of fire, who nobody cares about how much money we had down here. It's just not important. And for this guy, he gave all his attention to the worldly stuff, but thought nothing about his eternal destiny. And so God calls him a fool. Because all the energy and all the time that you've wasted trying to gather stuff for yourself, you did nothing to prepare for this day when you inevitably are going to have to stand before God and give account for the soul he gave you. He says, You're a fool. Then he says this in verse 21: So is he who lays up treasures for himself. And is not rich towards God. Getting rich a new way is getting rich towards God Has nothing to do with the material possessions of this world. It has to do with when I stand before him in that last day. Will I be rich towards him or will I stand before him bankrupt? When I have to give account for my soul, what do you do with the life I gave you? Did you give it back to me or did you live it foolishly? Do I say to the Lord, Lord, here is what I've done. Here is the energy that I've invested in what you gave me, the strength. that you gave me. I didn't just go by the church. No. I was a member of the church and and I served you in the church and I served you in the community. I wasn't just one who passed by occasionally. No, God, I gave my energies to you. And when you bless me, God, I blessed other people. God, I kept doing what you told me to do. I sought you for wisdom. I didn't just Come up with the answers myself. No, I sought you, I prayed, I sought your face, and you gave me wisdom as to how to handle what I had And when I meet him face to face, am I ready to meet him or do I stand there bankrupt before God with an empty account and then therefore have to be cast into the lake of fire to burn forever because I did nothing. With the time he gave me, but wasted it away. Will God call you a fool? If we're going to get rich a new way, not the old way. The old way didn't work. Doesn't work. And all that you gather, and all the wealth and all the stuff that you accumulate, when you die and have to stand before him, somebody else is gonna get your stuff. And can I say this? The people you think you're leaving it to won't care nothing about what it took you to get it. The average inheritance is burned through like a hot knife through butter in ninety days. And most of the stuff that you spend all your time and energy saving and collecting, your kids don't even want it. They're gonna put it at a garage sale and sell that $5,000 table for 50 cents. I don't know why mom had this. This is junk. You done collected all kind of stuff, all them knickknacks, talking about China and all that. They don't care nothing about none of that. I'm sorry for busting your bubble. But when you're standing before the Lord and He's saying, give account for your soul, you won't care about it either. It won't have any value. If we're going to get rich a new way, we've got to bless the blessor. God's the one that's blessing us. You got to bless him back. If you want to get rich a new way, we've got to seek the solution to the new wealth. What he's giving me. What do I do with it? Seek it from the one who provided it. If we're going to get rich a new way, we've got to seek that, uh to be rich serving others, not just serving ourselves. To get rich a new way, we've got to let God do the evaluating. How much do I need and how long do I need Because he knows we don't. When it's a rich new way, let it be that we're satisfying God and not trying to satisfy ourselves. Because at the end of the day, I want to hear him say, well done. Thy good and faithful servant. You've been faithful over a few things. Come on in, and I'll make you ruler over many. He's made it possible for each and every one of us to stand before him in that great day of judgment. He's made it possible by shedding his blood on Calvary's cross and providing for us. the opportunity to have everlasting life by solely repenting of our sin, placing our faith in him, inviting him into our heart and being saved. Once we've done that, our salvation is secure. But beyond that, even after I'm saved, I want to be found faithful with this life that He's given me. And then I want to stand before him, even with the life. I said, Oh, I got eternal life, but where and what will be my rewards? But my rewards will be based on how I have lived this life in Christ. And so we have an opportunity to do just that. But it all begins by putting in front of us that which is of the utmost importance. As opposed to arguing over inheritance, like this boy was doing in the middle of Jesus' teachings, we've got to set our hearts and our minds on what is of the utmost importance. One day, each one of us is going to have to stand before him. That is of the utmost importance in your whole existence. How will that day go? Favorable because I've given my heart and my life to him, or not so favorable because I didn't. That's what's a higher and a holier and a more important wealth that we need to have. We need to be rich towards God and poor towards sin. Are you hearing what I'm saying? Father in heaven, thank you for your word today. Thank you. for just the privileged opportunity we have of sharing. I'm praying that if there's anybody here today that has never trusted you as Lord and Savior of their life, that today would be the day that they'd give their heart and their Life to you. Father, we want to be rich in a way, and not rich and that wealth comes from being rich to God. And so, Heavenly Father, as we become rich towards you, we realize, and even as your word displays Richness and wealth is not in the possessions that we acquire here on earth, but richness is in that relationship with that We have with the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. Father, if there's any that are not saved, save them. Any that have drifted in fellowship, draw them back. Any who are struggling on this issue, bring them God. A place and a point where they can commit to get rich a new way in 2017. Have your way even now, God, that we might put that which is most important on the forefront of our mind. And the way we live towards you. It's in Jesus' name I pray and I thank you. Amen. Praise the Lord. You've been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building for a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web. Please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together, and we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services. Sundays at 8 a. m. or 11 a. m. at our new edifice called the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlboro, Maryland. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301-574-3515 Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. If you want to be like most people, you could trust someone else to protect your money investments in retirement. If you like those large firms that manage thousands of accounts and can't remember your name unless you answer a password question. Then this is not for you. At Tradeway, we help you get involved in your investments. Our team will get to know you on a personal level to understand your goals. Then we'll help you learn how to make your own investment decisions and reach those goals. Even if you have no clue where to start, we'll walk you through it. You're not like most people, so Tradeway won't act like most firms. Understanding your investment May seem like a big goal, but small steps can get you there. To learn more, call 877-9- Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you Their stories. On Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The one degree Breathing Indy Podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts.