Where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor Buchus Sterling III And he said, Your name shall no longer be called Jacob, but Israel, for you have struggled with God and with men, and have prevailed. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. He's been to Padam Haram Haram. Get out of town, go somewhere else, go get a wife from Padana Ram, and you know, go there. And he's on his way back, and in this process, he actually is going to find out, and as we walk through this text, and I just want to kind of glean from it, he's going to find out that all that God told him in that dream, that When you are driven by destiny, if you look here, the second word of verse 24, it says, Then Jacob. But watch this, just because that's what you were in the past is not going to hold you hostage for your future. You've got two nations wrestling in your womb. The reason why a whole lot of people don't want to be alone is because they know that their past is going to worry them and troll them. I'd wish I had some people that knows what it's like to go through hell and high water, to struggle all the way through. Tell the devil, devil, you are a liar. I'm not six feet under. Jacob said, I'm not I'm not gonna let go. I know we don't like that part, but trust me, that's the really good part. They're going to open up a book. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together and we invite you to join us for one of our Spirit-Fill Worship services, Sundays at 8 a. At Kettering Ministries. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. at our new edifice called the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlboro, Maryland. Voices behind the song. Just to kind of give you an up to where we are in the text, Jacob has already kind of been going through a lot, if you will, in life, and he is a tricky kind of guy. tricked his brother and tricked him out of the birthright and then his mom said you need to get out of town. And on his dream, God is standing at the top of a ladder. And I'm not going to allow anything, why says that says I'm going to I'm not going to leave you, I'm not going to forsake you until I've brought you back and fulfilled everything that I said that I was going to do for you. And so he says, Oh yeah, work seven years, I'll give it to her. Everything God is blessing him is multiplying in the land. I'm trying to help somebody. Now it's gonna affect his life, don't get me wrong. Some other driving force to lead your life, which is working against and wrestling against the destiny that God has ordained for you. Helping the trickster that she named Trickster. The challenge and the struggle that we have is when we're left alone with our past. Life cycles and life struggles and even issues of past, and some of us still present because we don't know what God destined us to be. And his mother went through all this trickery and all this stuff to get him to be that, which God had already declared he's gonna be. But Jacob is being driven by destiny. So he says, verse number twenty-three, twenty five, twenty-five, I'm sorry. He says him let me go. The man who's wrestling with him says, man, let me go. See, Jacob says, I'm not letting you go. Till I get my blessing. let go of my belief in him I live in him I move in him I have my being because of him I'm here and I'm not locked up I gave up. See, your past struggles can't hold you hostage, and your current struggles won't cause you to give up. He said, Jacob. And so we take off over here. And then somewhere along the way you say, you know what, this ain't so fun after all. your bad self thought you had it going on you struggled and you wrestled but now you're my child I'm gonna give you my Holy Spirit to dwell inside of you and I'll give you power me go back over there and so you keep going at it and you keep going at it and somewhere along the way you meet a man named Jesus and he'll remind you that your destiny was not By destiny, can I talk y'all? Where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Pastor Sterling. And the socket of Jacob's hip was out of joint as he wrestled with him. born and according to that he should not have had the birthright, but nevertheless, by the help of his mother, they treat his dead and Her name is Rachel. He comes back and tells us a second thing. So God gives him this great promise, gives him this great kind of picture of his journey and his destiny. And gives him these promises. She's fine and fine, sweeted and sweet, all that bag of chips and change. And so Jacob's a little bit anxious about that because his brother, you know, he didn't leave on good terms. When you're driven by destiny, your past struggles cannot hold you hostage. When you're driven by destiny, what happened to you in your past can't hold you hostage. Some of you got some names that we picked up on the block. And his brother came home hungry one day, asked him for some stew. Father was getting ready to die. Firstborn blessing to him, tricking his father and his brother out of the birthright. Let me say this. you from getting to it. matches that you had, trying to do things your way other than the way God had ordained it to be, they have left you with some scars. Amen. It won't make you give up when you're driven by destiny. you wouldn't forsake me. Because just because I'm struggling now doesn't mean I'm giving up. Yeah, God, he didn't come through for me. to walk on over here where I destined you to be. take you through some things so you can appreciate it when you get there. That's what our destiny is. been for the Lord who brought me out and if I had done it all by myself I'd stand up in the pulpit Sunday after Sunday and I'd preach about me and I'd tell you about me. Praise the Lord! All the families of the earth are going to be blessed. Rachel was. ends up. Then Jacob, Jacob, his name, means trickster. Are you driven by that which inevitably is going to happen to you? He doesn't know what his destiny is, but the text says Jacob was left alone with this man and oftentimes Jacob is behaving like a trickster because his name was trickster. Before he was born, when his mother was having hard labor pains, she inquired of God and asked God, What's going on inside of me? It's impossible. But divine destiny is gonna put you at odds with that. He touched his socket of his hip, and the socket of Jacob's hip was out of joint as he wrestled with him. Nobody knows that. you and not leave with a blessing. you bless me. God until I get my blessing. I wouldn't struggle as much. And our own power says we're going over here. Rich, you're driven to be rich and not poor. Saved by the grace of God, because he rescued my soul from a sin, sin-filled stained hell, I can give glory every Sunday morning to the king. Of kings and the Lord of Lords, it's not because of me, but it's because of him that I'm driven You go stand before his throne. Either it is or it's not. He checking, are you covered in the blood of the Lamb, the one who died for you? Walked away from it. was left alone, and a man wrestled with him until the breaking of day. Now I want to try to just break open some things here. Now, as a result of his name, he began to live his life like his name In other words, Jacob is not going to be held hostage because he was born a name trickster. This is what's his past. And so he's left there alone. But even though God had already told the mother what the destiny of Jacob was gonna be, he still got named trickster. And with men, and have prevailed. But as we look at this text, we want to join Jacob in looking at this wrestling match that he has with this For the day breaks. Destiny is defined in so many words is that which is inevitably going to happen to you. Jacob the trickster in his past has been living a tricky life. You lived according to the name that was given to you. Is the driver of his past. Divine destiny is gonna put you in a wrestling match with what you used to do. You look like you got it going on. But destiny says, I know I'm healed in the name of Jesus. See, we want to go through life with no struggle. There, but I destined you that you would be with me over here. You ought to let your destiny drive you to get in the presence of God and give him all the glory that's due his name. That we've got to stand before the King of Kings and Lord of Lords and give an account for the life that He's given us Man, this angel, as he wrestles with this angel, and the Lord declares to Jacob what his ultimate goal is for him, where he's going to push him. Was God's declaration, if you will, of his destiny. Trying to struggle, wrestle our way through what I used to be, who people think I am, and what God is telling me I ought to be. I would not know how to worship God for bringing me out of drugs. And I'll tell you how good I am. Comes judgment. So your current struggle won't cause you to give up on the destiny either. To holiness. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. I don't care how smooth you are, how bad you are, how tricky you are, how great a liar you are, somebody gonna outlie you, somebody gonna out trick you, somebody gonna out finagle you. I gave up because I was struggling. And your hips have been put out of joint by the th by wrestling against the destiny that God had for you. And so with that, I kind of want to look and dig into this text a little bit and talk from a subject matter driven by destiny. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. You know why? I'm not letting you go. So he gets tricked and he ends up working for Laban for twenty-one years. Eyes are goddamn couldn't see very much. I'm talking about your past now. And he said, your name shall no longer be called Jacob, but Israel. He's head over heels in love with her. You've been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III. See when you're driven by destiny, you can have more bills than money, but you'll hold on until the money comes. No longer having a desire to please self, but wanting to please God with your life. He's wrestling. And in that book, everyone who has accepted Jesus Christ is their name is written in that Lamb's book of life. I know you've been wrestling a long time, but hold on. org or contact our church office at 301-574-3515. Matter of fact, some of us are not just looking at our past, we're looking at our whole family's past, and we're saying that sure enough can't be because my whole family always was What that means is all of us are destined to appear before the throne of God. God says to him in essence, I will give you this land on which you are laying. See, all the issues of his past are because he doesn't know what he was destined to be. Thank you, God. It's a struggle, but it's your destiny to be like God. He says, Your descendants, Jacob, are going to be like the dust of the earth. Because I believe you have been wrestling just like Jacob is wrestling against the destiny that God declared for your life. And over here we get into all kinds of stuff. He was sent there by his parents after he had tricked his brother and his father out of the first birthright. If you don't come up with the right amount of money by January the 5th, you're gonna be put out. Oh no. But here's the good thing about God. We're gonna keep on wrestling until I get my blessing. Brother comes in from hunting, his brother was a hunter, he was a cook. He's going through and I'll say this throw this out just for good measure. Every single one of us. Either you have given your life and heart and committed to him or you haven't. I'm getting ready to go back and deal with my brother. Jacob said, I'm not, I'm not letting go. But watch this. Everything is going wonderful in the land. But he said, I will not let you go unless you bless me. And then he finally says to him, look, I'm going to be with you. Y'all know this story, right? I ain't don't get too deep too heavy, but just a little bit and hopefully it'll bless your heart. Here's the problem with Jacob and his name and the way he's behaved You told me you was always gonna be with me. I just gave up on church. I'm talking about when you were smooth. The older is going to serve the younger. And I'll tell you how good I always been. And from the ladder, there are angels ascending and descending up and down the ladder. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. You smell good too. I'm on my way to the place that God said to me. Mother said, Okay, your brother's out hunting. Last movement of this text is that your struggles will lead you to fulfill your destiny. So while he's there, he's alone, he wrestles with this man until the breaking of day. And it's gonna be a struggle. I will not let you go unless you bless me. Just a moment. But am I ready for my destiny? I can be getting ready to get put out, but destiny says I'm not going to let go because God said He's going to bless me And because of you, I'm not letting go. He said, I'll give it to you if you give me your birthright. And so the trickster gets tricked. Because God says we're gonna end up over there by that door. Because over here looks better than over there. But when you're driven by divine destiny, you're not going to let go no matter what the struggle is. I'm trying to help somebody here. Believers and unbelievers. He worked seven years and dad gives Leah. I'm trying to get my way and ease my way out of here. And he becomes tricky with his father that he puts on some wool skin on his arm because his brother was hairy and he was smooth. Everything he did was about tricking folk. So now when he saw that he did not prevail against him And I don't want to let none of that get away from me. Now you gotta keep on holding on till he blesses you. But struggle leads you to your destiny. I gave up on God. Oh, I'm gonna rest. It's gonna be a wrestling match. God just says, this is where I'm gonna get you. I'm just glad that I've gone through some things. But in chapter 25, verse 23 Y'all know about it. And then God says it's time for you to go back home where you came from. But he tricked his father by putting on the wolf skin and he went and he sat and he talked to his father because his father couldn't see who it was. I wouldn't know how to worship God for bringing me out of alcoholism. I want to tell you about all of your destiny. Mom and dad probably didn't name you that name, but you picked this name up, and you have been living in your past When you're driven by destiny, whatever happened in your past can't hold you hostage. And we can disguise what struggle we're having right now. Oh no, you're gonna give me a blessing. That's a great question. You know, he don't know what his brother's gonna be up to you know when he comes back. Your blessing is coming. So God had already told the mother what the destiny of Jacob was going to be. And you said you were going with me. And so he goes there, and on his way there, he falls asleep. Because even when God says, I'm taking you here, you're looking at where you've been and you're saying to yourself, I can't, there's no way. And that's what's going to happen to you. Brother went out hunt, hunted, fish, all that kind of stuff. I don't care if it's daybreak, afternoon, I'm holding on You still got to appear before the throne. Am I driven by that destiny? Every once in a while, can I help somebody here? I gave up on worship. But finally, finally, verse number 27, he says, So he said to him, What is your name? Now, that word right there is the beginning of what can teach us a lesson about being driven by destiny. Because his dad asked, I need some of that some of that venom that you I want some of that meat. One who trips or grabs the heel. In your past, some of the wrestling I'm not gonna let you go. I'm going to keep you. Matter of fact, what I did was I died on the cross to make sure that you ended up over there, but you got up with. But if I had not gone through the struggle, my worship over here would be hindered. You thought you were supposed to be a thug, but destiny says I've set you apart as holy. Now when he saw that he did not prevail against him, he touched the socket of his hip And that's what's happening here. And I'll tell you how wonderful a gift I am to the world. I wish some of you would not give up. And while we're going through all the stuff, it started out fun. And during this time he's growing, his families are growing, his children are growing, his flocks are growing. But yet when you get in the presence of God, somebody needs to get in the presence of God tonight and tell the Lord, I'm not going to leave until. I know I got one or two people that got some past struggles. Because destiny won't let it happen. We're left alone to struggle on where God wants us to go versus on where we've been and we're all by ourselves. This is my version of the story. I'm gonna give this land is yours to you and your descendants. And so Jacob If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. He said, Man, I'm famished. So there's some of you in that same spot. And this is really what I like. And so he goes to her dad and says, Hey, your daughter, this is my version, is to die for. In you and in your seed. So can I have her? Oh no, I'm not letting go. That's your destiny And he said, Let me go. And it was all driven because his mother and father named him trickster. Have you committed your heart and your life to him? And Leah wasn't all that as Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. Gotta tell God I'm not gonna let go. He was born a twin. He even tried to trick Leban, but Leban tricked him. So therefore they always hang out with people and they never want to be alone because they don't want to deal with the struggle of their past. I didn't come this far and go through this much mess and this much trouble to get a hold of God and get my hands around. The word of the Lord reads as follows, then Jacob And there, as he's sleeping in this vision, in this dream, God speaks to him And that's what happened to Jacob. I ain't letting you go until you bless me. You thought that you were gonna live a life that had no struggles at all, but God said, I'm gonna. Confessed your sin. I'm going to bring you back to this land. And some of us are struggling with I like that. Judgment is coming to us all. Nobody could possibly know what you're going through. Now he goes into Badamaram and he ends up meeting this woman that he can't help himself. He's wrestling with all of that in this art, in this, in this wrestle with this man. For you have struggled with God. They've left you with some limps. I know it doesn't look like I'm gonna make it, but destiny says I'm gonna get there. This is my version of the story. Or have you acquired I gave up on religion. Brother's mad at you probably gonna kill you. You told me you were bringing me back to the land and you were gonna bless my listen. But it doesn't tell you how you're gonna get there. But watch this If I knew exactly every component of how I was gonna get to the destiny. For the unbeliever, there's gonna be a book check Jacob, the name, verse number 24. He was already destined to be the ruler over his brother. Believer and unbeliever, that's what ought to drive us m. I'm trying to help somebody because just because they named you something or just because you didn't know that you had a destiny doesn't stop Nobody knows that. Too many people are giving up And that's where I'm going to make sure that your life Now, divine destiny will always put you at odds with your past. I'm about to die. So he said to him, What is your name? He was the second He was rough, rugged kind of guy or 11 a. You just don't know where you're supposed to be. And now, He don't know if they're gonna sabotage him or what's going on. No matter what I'm going through right now And but it's hard because now I'm hooked. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. For additional information, go to our website Believe in your heart God raised him from the dead. This next passage. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. You're gonna bless me But then by the time he gets to verse 26, he says to him, Let me go, for the day is breaking. Because he was born a twin and he came out holding his brother's heel. It's always somebody out there. I I gave up on reading my Bible. We all have a destiny. Because if I hadn't gone through some things, I wouldn't be as strong as I am. And so we're left alone. m. You need to break out some oil and anoint yourself in the name of Jesus. Life and our own intellect Now he's bringing you their stories. Somebody ought to give him glory because he's been too good. But your current struggle won't cause you to give up. I don't care about a birthright. And God said to her Till he blesses you I'm not talking about today right now, I'm talking about in the past. I'm gonna give you this land But it ends up hell I'm not gonna let go of my faith. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Your match is out there somewhere You don't know what your destiny is, you don't know what's driving you Surrender. When you're driven by destiny, the doctor can say, ain't nothing else we can do. And I'm let me help you there. And so he sends him out to hunt. I wish I had some people would know what it's like to get your hands wrapped around God. But after all these years, after 21 years plus, he goes back You thought you were supposed to be poor, but destiny says you're gonna be. I got an addiction. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. And he said, Jacob. Now But because that ain't the truth, because I'm a sinner. I'm Andy Christman. Give me some stew. I gave up on Bible Amen. Then Jacob was left alone. Just like the scripture says, Have you done that? When you get left alone, that's a good place to be Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Because I wouldn't know how to worship God for bringing me out of hell. I like it. And when his father issued the blessing, he issued the His mom steps in the middle. Yes, Lord. I gotta have her I'm not gonna let go of my God. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. So he gave it to him. I'm not letting you go. I like doing that. And I'm not letting go of the promise of God. You're supposed to be holy. Staryade All this is going through. I like oh yeah, I like all let The Bible says after death. You told me you wouldn't leave me He destined you to better. If it had not I'm not gonna let You're driven. And .