Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling the Third Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. I want to invite your attention to 1 Samuel chapter 16. We'll begin our reading in First Samuel chapter sixteen at verse number eleven on this this women's day. I feel compelled of God this morning to disrupt our ordinary order of things. And ask of you if if you came here on today and you feel in your spirit That you really need something from God. I just want you to come to the altar. Father, here we are We've pressed our way to this altar on this morning. And God, as we stand here on This special occasion. God, we first confess we we're sinners, we haven't done everything right, we've we've messed up, we dropped the ball, we We need your forgiveness, God. So forgive us first of all. And Lord, as we stand here as in a collective body. Crying out unto you, we come acknowledging you as God. There's nobody like you. You're the King of Kings, the Lord of Lords. Holy is your name. There's you are above everything. There's There's none above you. You're the first, you're the last. You're the alpha and you're the omega. You're the beginning. You're the end. You're the reason why we ex exist and consist and is you God that's holding us together even right now and so God we glorify you Spirit of the living God As we stand and as we kneel and as we bow around this place called altar, God, we've come To petition you this morning. Father, in the name of Jesus, I feel that there's a presence that we need To defeat this morning, there's an enemy who felt comfortable enough to carouse his way right into the sanctuary this morning. God, bind up the spirits That's not like you. I pray God in the power of your might that you would Evict them from this place that you would remove the strongholds that you would clear the ears, God, this morning of your children, that they might hear from you. Somebody needs you, God, today. They didn't come to play church. They didn't come to go through rituals. They came to meet with God and on this morning. God, we come to bombard your throne of mercy. And to say, God, move in our midst. As the word is declared on today, God, we give you permission. To speak to our hearts, God, we give you permission to change us from the inside out. Hallelujah. God, we give you permission To mold us and shape us, and if you have to, God, break us that the aroma of the living God might rise up from this place. And that the power of the Holy Spirit might manifest itself that we know we've been in the presence of God. Have your way, Jesus. Father of that That son, that daughter, that father, that mother, that that brother, that sister who came Desperately needing you today. Speak a word, God. Speak a word. Even as I surrender myself to you, use me for your purpose. Let nothing hinder The clarity of what you have to say to each one who's gathered at the altar. Change their life, God. If they don't know you, save them. If they've drifted in fellowship, God draw them back. If they're broken, heal them. If they're lonely, comfort them. Whatever their need is, God, I'm putting it before you asking that you would work a work, even now, in the powerful name of our Savior and our Lord, Jesus Christ. All the people of God said amen. Amen. Amen. First Samuel. Chapter 16, beginning at verse 11. The word of the Lord reads like this. And Samuel said to Jesse, Are all your The young men here. And he said, There remains yet the youngest, and there he is keeping the sheep. And Samuel said to Jesse, Send and bring him, for we will not sit down till he comes here. And he said, sent, and they brought him in, and now He was ruddy and with bright eyes and good looking. And the Lord said, Arise, anoint him. For this is the one. Then Samuel took the horn of oil and anointed him. In the midst of his brothers, and the spirit of the Lord came upon David from that day forward. So Samuel arose and went to Ramah. But the spirit of the Lord departed from Saul, and a distressing spirit from the Lord troubled him. This morning, I want to first of all say happy Women's Day to all of our women and thank God for you. Excited to see you all adorned in your denim and pearls. Amen. Looked like we'd robbed the whole sea of the pearls. As I prayed about what to bring And where I would find myself preaching on this morning, my mind took me to a lot of places. A lot of texts that in my intellectual self thought this might be good, this might be appropriate. But the Spirit of the Lord led me to this passage in 1 Samuel, and I don't believe it's by accident, but that God has A life-changing eternal purpose for us being here. And so in this passage of 1 Samuel, we get to hear the beginnings of David's. Story as he ascends from his anointing to the position of king of all Israel And as I read through this and thought through this passage, I had a question that rose up In my heart that I want to pose to you on this morning, ladies, uh, and men. As well, it's ladies' day. Yes, we're addressing the ladies, but men, you we we're not leaving you out either The question that I have is in what phase of your anointing are you walking today? The ladies have a theme, uh, women walking in the power of the Holy Spirit, which is in line with the theme of our church, walking in the power of the Holy Spirit. But the question I was curious about as I was reading through this passage is, I wonder if we have an answer. To the question, what phase of your anointing are you walking in? Now, I I I I hear some saying, well, you know what, wait a minute, Pastor, I I don't even know if I've been anointed at all. And then others are saying, um, does anointing have phases? And so I you know I hear different questions that will rise up um about this and s others would just simply say, well I because I don't know. I I don't know w what phase I'm in. I don't know what's going on. I just know I'm going through hell. I just know things are tough. I just know if somebody don't do something, I'm gonna lose my mind. I just know, you know, you know, I'm sorry, I'm just talking like y'all talk. Uh I anybody ever got to that place where you just say, you know, something won't change? I'm a lose it, I'm a break. Uh I'm I'm at that place, God, and so I don't know what phase that happens to be. So Um but so I that those are the types of answers I anticipate that I would get. But as I look in this text on today I want to uh kind of expose to us um the phases that we see in David's progression from his anointing the full circle of reaching the kingship that he's anointed to be in. So I want to speak for the time that we have in front of us from the subject matter. You are already anointed. You are the one, uh, Samuel said to David, when they were looking for uh the one to anoint, and they had gone through all the brothers of David. And the Lord was in control, and the Lord was the one that said, no, not this one, no, not God's rejecting every one of them. And then finally, is anybody left? And his father almost reluctantly says, well, you this this little one, David, the one out there with the sheep, he's ready, he's good looking. Bright eyed little thing, but he says go we'll go get him and bring him in because we're not going to sit down until we fulfill the anointing purpose that God sent us here to accomplish. This is Samuel talking. And so they anoint David. The Lord says, This is the one. Anoint him. And so they anoint David. And And as as as king of of Israel and David is only sixteen years old Y'all still here? And for you and me, God has anointed us For purpose in his kingdom. Watch this, so that he can get glory out of your life Wow. Um perhaps as you deal with the trials and the tribulations of life As you uh came in, perhaps today. Perhaps you came in feeling like, you know what? I'm just beat up, I'm beat down, I'm tired. Pastor, if you really just want to know the truth about it, I'm tired. And I've I I don't feel no power of God. I don't feel no anointing. I'm worn out. I'm pressed to my limit. And I'm not even sure if I have any kind of anointing, all that stuff you talk about is way over my head. I want to assure you that you have already been anointed. I know you're not gonna listen to me, so if you can help me by telling the person around you you've already been anointed, can you just grab them and shake them and say look, you've already been anointed? They didn't believe you. Can you just turn turn to tell somebody else because they didn't they wasn't listening to you You already anointed you you're already anointed. God has already anointed you. Now there's a group of people, I know this how this works. There's a group of people who while we were doing that, so I'm not telling nobody nothing. Even in your stubbornness, can I tell you something? You're already anointed too. Y'all need to hear what I'm saying to you in the weightiness of what I'm saying. When God sent Samuel to David's house God had from eternity past already determined that there was an anointing set aside for David. Help me, Lord. And when you accepted Jesus Christ as your personal savior and Lord. Before you came up with any uh uh analysis of theology, before you understood and comprehended even what happened to you, God already had an anointed purpose. For your life, and at the moment that you accepted him, your anointing took place by the power of God. Can I tell you something? And the anointing was for his purpose and his glory. See, I know a lot of us we want to be anointed for us. Yeah, anoint me, Lord, so I can get a big paycheck. Anoint me so I can live on the top of the hill where I can have these houses and cars and all that. The glory does not belong to you. The anointing is for him so that he can get the glory. Y'all still here with me? But when God anoints you, Lord help me, Jesus. I'm trying to trying to stay in this thing. When when God puts the anointing on you, there's something on you. Lord, help me, help me, God, help me, Jesus. But I want you to know if you are born again, you're already anointed. There there is the the the the spirit of God is is living inside of you. The Holy Spirit has come to take up abode, to live in you, and to dwell in you and to empower you to accomplish the assignment of God. Jesus. And so you've got to understand the weight that you have as a child of God. I think We have somehow dismissed the power of God and misunderstood the giftedness of God and the anointing of God for a whole bunch of other stuff. And we're we're running around like chickens with our heads cut off, and we've got the power of the created uh essence of God living inside of us. We've got the God Who stepped out of nowhere, stood on nothing, spoke everything into existence, holds everything together. We've got that God's power dwelling inside of us. And and and we're living in uh less than uh the power and the authority that he has given us. Help me, Jesus. Um in the text there is first As I broke it out in phases, there is what I call the when the where the anointing is administered. That's the first phase, is when the anointing is administered. When the anointing is administered here in the text, we we we saw that they go get David, they bring him in. The Lord says, this is the one. He's the one. And so Samuel took the horn of oil. anointed him in the midst of his brothers, and then the Spirit of the Lord came upon him from that day forward. Watch this. I was looking at that, and there's there's some things I want you to I want you to know about the administering of the anointing. When the anointing is is administered, first of all, it's It's administered unexpectedly. David had no clue when he woke up that day And went out in the field to go take care of the sheep. He had no clue that today I'm going to be anointed at the age of 16. To be king over all Israel. He he had no idea. It was completely unexpected. In fact, it was not only unexpected by David, it was unexpected by all who were around because David seemed to be unqualified. To be king. Let me talk to you. The anointing that's on your life, you're unqualified for. Can I disarm somebody? You know, I I'm not qualified for that. I'm I already know. God already knows. The anointing that we have on our life we're unqualified for, just like David Not only is David unqualified for it, David seems to be unnoticed. He's not the one that all of the family and everybody else thought should be the one. Nobody in the family said, what about David? He's the one that's unnoticed, and you probably are living your life thinking the same thing. I'm just the unnoticed one. But God notices you, and God has already determined this anointing that I'm going to administer or that I have administered on you, I'm administering on you, knowing that you're unqualified, knowing that you're unnoticed. Because it's about my glory and not yours. He seems to be just the unlikely guy. This is like who who anoints a king? Who anoints someone to be king, first of all, that is 16 years old and out in the field taking care of sheep? Okay, first of all, you don't need to know something about shepherds. Shepherds are the rejected group. Shepherds smell because they stay with the sheep. They sleep with the sheep, they eat with the sheep, they smell like the sheep, and they do things to the sheep to take care of the sheep that are just nasty. And so shepherds are to reject the group. Who would think, who would qualify David to be king over all of Israel? Nobody but God. Who would anoint you for the purpose that you have anointing for? Nobody but God. So the anointing is it's unexpected. It's It's um it's administered unexcitedly. It's not just administered unexpectedly, it's administered unexcitedly. There's nothing exciting about this anointing. There's no there's no parade. There's no big celebration. There's there's no you know no band playing or nothing. It's just Samuel. His seven brothers and his father gives up the servant, anoints him, and peace is out. That's it. Nothing exciting about that. And in fact, after David is anointed, you know what he does? He's just been anointed king over all Israel. You know what he does? Goes right back to taking care of sheep. I'm talking this is why you need to understand there are phases to your anointing. Are y'all hearing what I'm saying? You have been anointed, but you haven't, you haven't, you haven't, you haven't fulfilled it yet. Lord help me God. You might have been anointed and God said now go back to the sheep. And you might not feel very anointed. But you may be just in the administering phase. And in the administering phase, sometimes you get you get the anointings on you, but you got to go back to doing what you were doing. hasn't manifested itself yet. But you're still anointed. And and remember when When David's case, when he was anointed as king over all Israel, the anointing came with the Holy Spirit coming upon him. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at kettering ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301 six two seven nine five zero zero please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.