Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. If you have your Bibles with you and you should, I want to invite your attention to Psalm 22. We'll begin our reading there at verse 1. The word of the Lord reads as follows: My God, my God Why have you forsaken me? Why are you so far from helping me and from the words of my groanings? Oh my God, I cry in the daytime, but you do not hear. And in the night season, and am not silent. But you are holy, enthroned in the praises of Israel. Our fathers trusted in you, they trusted, and you delivered them. They cried to you and were delivered. They trusted in you and were not ashamed. But I am a worm and no man, a reproach of men, and despised by the people All those who see me ridicule me, they shoot out the lip, they shake the head, saying, He trusted in the Lord. Let him rescue him, let him deliver him, since he delights in him But you are He who took me out of the womb. You made me trust while on my mother's breast. I was cast upon you from birth, and From my mother's womb. You have been my God. Be not far from me, for trouble is near, for there is none to help Many bulls have surrounded me. Strong bulls of Daciam have encircled me. They gape at me with their mouths like a raging and roaring lion. I am poured out like water. All of my bones are out of joint. My heart is like wax. It has melted within me. My strength is dried up like a pot sherd My tongue clings to my jaws. You have brought me to the dust of death. For dogs have surrounded me, and the congregation of the wicked has enclosed me They pierce my hands and my feet. I can count all of my bones. They look at me and stare. They divide my garments among them. And for my clothing they cast lots. Would you pray with me this evening? Father, thank you for your word on tonight. Lord, help us to open up this scripture in such a way. That we can return to Calvary. Help us, God, to put aside all of the distractions of this world to be able to go back over 2,000 years ago. And walk with you and see what you did for us. Spirit of the Lord, I need your presence that you might use me as a vessel in your hands or accomplish your will. But in doing so, God, I need clarity of thought Clarity of speech. I need your Holy Spirit to take over and have its way in and through me. That if there's anybody that doesn't know you, Lord, that you'd save them. There's anybody who's drifting, you draw them. To anybody who's in need of encouragement, you encourage them and edify this body. But Father, above and beyond everything else, we need to glorify you, for this is your day. What you did for us is unimaginable. But we're thankful that you are our God. Have your way now, Lord, in the name of Jesus who is the Christ I pray. Amen. When we come to this text here in Psalms 22, this text is a thousand years before the crucifixion. He speaks through the writer David as a psalmist and through the inspiration of the Holy Spirit to cause him to write these words and to lay out for us the picture and the image of the crucifixion. Before David and in his time even knew what crucifixion was. When this passage was written, Israel had no concept of crucifixion. It didn't exist. It wasn't until hundreds of years later that the Romans came into power and they began to perpetrate a crucifixion as a result of their mimicking another culture. But this text speaks clearly of Christ's crucifixion, but it speaks of Christ's crucifixion through his eyes It allows us to see what he went through, and as we celebrate Good Friday, always in the preceding days of the resurrection, we celebrate this day and these events Good Friday is the actual day that humanity catches up with what God has already prophesied. That it would prove to be of great significance to every part of creation that He Himself created. This is not a day that mankind has ever seen. This is not a day that humanity nor creation has ever experienced where God, who has wrapped himself up in flesh, gives his life. So that not only humanity could be saved, but that creation can be saved. For the work that he did on this day satisfies the absolute requirement for sin. That only he could pay. It's a holy day that God had ordained for himself, where Satan no longer would reign over God's people. Where God would have the ability to reconcile man to himself, and we would have opportunity to be called children of God and have all of our sin washed away. This day God has set aside before He stepped out of nowhere and stood on nothing and spoke everything into existence. God already declared that on that day Redemption would take place. And he set that day aside to be holy to him. I want to talk to you from the subject matter this holy day of sacrifice for you. As we look through the eyes of Jesus in this text, what we initially get to see is his cries to his father It picks up right away at verse 1. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Jesus here cries out to his father and this cry rings through the years that will yet follow and it rings even all the way to Matthew chapter 27 where he records his recollection of the events and he records that he heard Jesus say my God my God Why have you forsaken me? It's powerful when you think about it that he could declare the day before creation existed, a thousand years before it happened, and then when it happens, he says exactly what the text says. And he cries out to his father and he asks this question: Why have you forsaken me? Jesus, he is God wrapped up in flesh, so he's very God and he's very man at the same time. And so as we hear him declaring and crying out to his father, he's not crying out as God the Father to himself. He's crying out as human flesh who's suffering and who's going through and who's taking on the burden of sin for us. It's the humanity that's crying out to deity. I know it's difficult to comprehend. How can he be God and sitting on the throne and man suffering in the flesh, but yet God in the flesh at the same time? That's what consecrates this day as holy unto him. Because no day could happen like this for you or me. And the reason he has been forsaken is because he's taken on our sin. At the moment of his cry, every sin, every single one of them were put on him. And for that reason, the holy God could not stay with him And so he forsakes him in a sense. And he cries out in a sense because he's been forsaken because he's carrying your sin and my sin. And sin separates us from God. But Jesus has, watch this, he's bearing our sin, not his own Which causes separation between him and his father. And so he says, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? And therein lies the answer: why are you so far from helping me? And from my words of groaning. Here I am in the garden of the Gethsemane groaning. Here I am on the cross groaning. Why are you so far from me? Okay, I get it that I'm taking on the sins of the world, but why won't you help me? The answer is because the sacrificial lamb has to bear the sin alone. For those of you who've been walking through the Old Testament Leviticus with me, you understand that when the sin had to be paid for, the priest would take the sin offerings, and he'd take and he'd do the sprinkling of the blood, and then he would and symbolically he would place the sins of the people on the head of the ram. And they'd have to lead that ram out. One as a scapegoat, but another to the slaughter. But no one else and nothing else could bear the sin but that ram. In this case, as we look at the crucifixion of Christ, he alone has to bear our sin. He's humanity bearing all of humanity's sins by himself. And he's crying out to his father because his father says, you've got to do this by yourself. And he goes on and he says. Oh my God, I cry in the daytime, but you won't hear me. And in the night season and I'm not silent, but you are holy. So Lord, why are you not responding? Why are you so far from me? Why are you not helping me? Now here's the answer, verse 3, because you're holy And because now I've taken on everybody else's sins, I'm all by myself. But you are holy and you're enthroned in the praises of Israel. Our fathers trusted in you, and they And and you delivered them when you when they cried out to you and they were in trouble. But here I am, I'm in trouble, Lord. Why won't you help me? Because what you're going through now is not something you can repent from This is a payment that you have to make. This is a redemptive work that you're on assignment for. When Israel sinned, they could repent of their sin. And God would come and He would deliver them. If you read through the book of Judges, you hear that Israel would have the forgiveness of God and they'd go get in trouble again, and God would come after they repent. God would come and he'd rescue them But Jesus, this isn't this is not a repenting issue. Because you can't repent for someone else's sin. Since it's an issue of payment. That's why God has to leave him by himself. Jesus, you're here as a role of a deliverer. You're working on the cross to deliver all humanity So his cries go out to the Father. Verse 6 picks up and says, I am a worm. I am no man. This is the way people look at me. As I hang on the cross. And after all that I've done for all of these people, they look at me as if I'm a worm. I'm I'm a nobody. Even as Isaiah 53 had declared, I'm despised and rejected by men, but it's the very men I came to save. It says here in the text, a reproach of men and despise by the people. All those who see me ridicule me. They shoot out. They shake their heads saying, he trusted in the Lord. Let him rescue him. Let him deliver him, since he delights in him. If he had so much confidence in his father while he was here, while he was walking the earth, while he was healing the sick and raising the dead, while he was feeding us Miraculously, even though he died for everybody's sin, even though he paid the cost for all of us to be saved, we still he he he's not White enough. He ain't black enough. He ain't conservative enough. He's not right wing enough. Left wing enough. He's not this. He's not that. I need a Jesus that's more this over here and more that over there. He didn't come to satisfy you, he came to satisfy the price for your sin And we're still ridiculing him and still mocking him. But I declare to you that he bore everybody's sin. Even the ones who are talking out the side of their mouth about him. But let me tell you something about this Christ. He might not be this or that enough for you, but he's a man of sorrows, acquainted with grief. He knows what you're going through. He's bore the weight and the penalty of sin. And he knows the anguish that we all experience. He's a God who is not sitting on a throne and say, yeah, everything is wonderful, but no, he's a God who came down and lived it for you. He satisfied every requirement of the law for us so that we could be saved from the penalty of sin that is yet to come As we move through these latter verses, we get to see a perspective of his crucifixion. It's an image of his crucifixion through his eyes. And through the reality of the depth of sacrifice he made for us. The imagery that we have of him being crucified is really not that bad. But when we read through what really happened through the eyes of Jesus, this is a bloody, horrific scene. And we get to see through the eyes of Jesus what it literally looks like. Jesus expresses, first of all, his inseparable connection with his father. Here in verses nine, picks up and says But you are talking to his father. You're the one who took me out of the womb. You made me trust while I was on my mother's breast. I was cast upon you from birth. In other words, I'm just you wrapped up in flesh and you've been my God. Be not far from me, for trouble is near. For there is none to help. He's accepted that. I'm not going to get any help. And if I can merge this imagery into what you might be more familiar with. He comes up out of the garden after praying while great sweat like drops of blood are running off of him And the one who has betrayed him, Judas, comes with a mob. And they've got swords and they've got bats and clubs. They've come to get him. And Judas comes and he gives him a kiss because he had already given them a sign, the one that I kiss, that's the Jesus. And in essence, thank you for the 30 pieces of silver that you paid me for turning them over to you. Jesus responds to them and says, while I was In the tabernacle and in the temples with you, teaching with you every day. But today you come out against me as if I'm some malefactor with billy clubs and and with swords And so it brings us to this place where he talks to his father and says, I know that the time has come and I won't have any help. And he describes the text, he says, for Many bulls have surrounded me. The strong bulls of Basham have encircled me. They gape at me with their mouths like a raging and a roaring lion. They've been trying to get me for a long time. And every time they tried to get me, I would slip away because it wasn't my time yet. But Jesus realizes it's now my time. This is the day. This is the time that before there was or was God already ordained that things gonna happen on this day. And he doesn't try to escape He stands there and he he's ready for it and and while he's ready for it and they come after him, Peter pulls out a sword and takes off one of the ears Jesus says, Hold up, hold on, Peter. And he picks up the ear, he heals the soldier, puts his ear back on, and he says, if you live by the sword, you're gonna die by the sword. But Peter, this ain't a day for swords. And it's not a day for others' bloodshed. This is the day I've got to shed my blood. And so they take him and they run him through the kangaroo courts, and he goes on to find to us how they've They're shouting and jeering at him, and and they take him and they turn them over to the beatings, and the Romans have their way with him as well, and they they whip him and they beat him and they scourge him. And scorging is a process where they take this these latches and they wrap it around you and pull the flesh off of you. Some of you have seen the Passion of the Christ, and there's a scene in there that lasts about maybe five seconds And it's hard to watch. That's five seconds. Imagine it happening all night. Why is he going through that, Pastor? For your sin, for my sin. He has to shed blood. Because the life of the flesh is in the blood, and I've given it to you on the altar to make a sacrifice and atonement for your sin. So here he is on the altar, being the atoning sacrifice for you and for me. And they punch him and they. Say to him, Now prophesy, you're a prophet, who hit you? And Jesus says, they gape at me with their mouths like raging and roaring lions. And after all of this beating and after all of this whipping all the night long, he says, I'm poured out like water. I've lost a lot of blood. They've pressed a crown of thorns in my head. I'm losing blood every which way. He says, All of my bones are out of joint. When they nailed them to the cross, the process of crucifixion had been mastered by the Romans in such that they mastered how to inflict pain in you without actually killing you. But what they would do is they take and they nail you with the twelve inch spikes in between the tibia and the fibia, and because if they put the nail in the palm of your hand The weight of your body literally would rip off the cross. So in order to make sure you stayed on the cross, they put it in between those two bones. And then they would tie you on this side, and then they would stretch you to the other side, and in the process of them stretching you, they dislocate you. He says, All of my bones out of joint, my heart is like wax. It has melted within me. Jesus, in essence, can be speaking Two different ways. One, he could be speaking metaphorically, that these people that I came to save and these people whom I loved all these years. And these people who have called up from Abraham even to now and have done everything for them, these very people that I love so dearly are crucifying me And my heart melts in love towards them. That's metaphorical. But physiologically, the loss of the excessive amounts of blood, the lack of fluid intake. And the pressure of the sun and the heat of the sun being bore down on him as he's on this cross stretched out with dislocated joints bleeding internally and externally The heart would swell and feel as if it's going to burst in your chest. Because the heart is trying to pump blood to feel the vessels that are ripped open by the scorching. This is a bloody, bloody scene. My strength is dried up like a pot shirt. My tongue, it clings to my jaws I don't have any salvation in my mouth. I've lost all this fluid. My mouth is dry. I've had nothing to drink. They've helped me no kind of way. And when he says, I'm thirsty, they think it's funny, so they they they grab some vinegar and water and they reach it up to him. Vinegar and water would only make him more thirsty. While he's on that cross with a crown pressed in his skull, blood running down his face, his body mutilated. Unrecognizable. His face would have been beaten by six-foot Roman soldiers, and they would have punched him with all of their might. To blacken his face, to brutally beat him, and make him experience all the pain that a body could experience. He's unrecognizable on this cross. He's a bloody, ugly mess. He says, you've brought me to the to the dust of death. I'm right at the death's door. Dogs. Have surrounded me. This dog is always a reference to Gentiles, because that's how Gentiles will refer to. The congregation of the wicked has enclosed me. All of the Jewish leaders are there, and the Romans are there. They pierce my hands and my feet. I can count all of my bones. The reference to this picture here is one that begs explanation. What do you mean you can count all of your bones, Jesus? What do you mean they've they've pierced your your hands and your feet they've nailed you to this cross and you're stretched out and your your body is dislocated. You you can't You don't have any salvation in your mouth. You're weakened by the loss of blood. Your heart is about to explode in your chest. But I want you to see this with me for a moment. As he's on that cross He looks down at his chest, and all the flesh has been ripped off of his chest. So all of the bones of his chest are exposed. And I can count all of my bones of my chest. That's the imagery that Jesus paints through the eyes of his own experience on the cross. But why are you doing this? Because I love you. Did you have to go through it? Did it because I love you. And I want you not to have to go to hell. I want to redeem you from the judgment that's coming on your life. I'm paying the price because the wages of sin is death, so I'm dying in your place. I've taken on all your sin and I'm paying for your sin. Watch this. Even if you don't want me to pay for it, I'm paying for it anyway. Because I love you. They look at me and they stare. And he does all of this as horrific as this picture is Because he loves you. And here's the part that also blows my mind. When he died, the scripture as we would pick up from the gospel writers would be and let us know that He gave up his spirit. Father, into thy hands I commit my spirit. Nobody took his life He endured all this beating. He endured all this suffering. He endured all of this pain, but no one took his life. He laid it down himself. And when the hour was late, the scripture says they came and he was already dead. And they marveled that he had already he was already deceased. But the other two malefactors, they broke their legs and took them down and But the soldier thought it interesting to pierce him in his side. It gives positive proof that he definitely is dead. Because there are those that even today say he didn't really die. That's why he was able to get up on the third day because he wasn't really dead. No, he was dead. The proof is in the physiological blood and water running out. And they take his body and he put it in a tomb that's close by. This wasn't an ordinary day. This was a holy day that God ordained for himself, that he would on that day pay for your sin and my sin. So that we would have an opportunity to have all of our sin covered, so that on the day that we stand before Him in judgment, instead of Him seeing our sin. He would see his own blood. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now Pastor Sterling. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. New podcast, One Degree of Andy. He sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to A one degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts