Where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. What's the cause of the delay? But the prince of the kingdom of Persia withstood me for twenty-one days, and behold, Michael, one of the chief prince, came to help, for I had been left alone there with the kings No, there's war going on in the spiritual atmosphere to interrupt the plan of God, to interrupt the answers of God, to hold back the answer of the prayer that you sent up two weeks ago And the answer is coming. So you came in this morning and you know you're walking through hell. And you said, I'm doing wonderful. And so when the angel touched Daniel, he got strengthened. God never told you to give up. Thank you, God. Praying God for that one who's been walking through hell. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together and we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services Sundays at 8 a. Angel of the Lord, I'm I'm tired. My fuse, I'm I'm going and deal with this thing in an ungodly way. To worship God while they putting you out the house to worship God and still celebrate and have joy in spite of the situation. Here in the text, he says, Be strong, Daniel. Voices behind the song. Interrupt the flow of the messages of God. This morning, Kettering. I just want to know, are you even aware that there's a spiritual realm over you where warfare is taking place every day? I know it's important, but I can't do it right now. Somebody with a Bible and knows the word of God. I'm sorry y'all is is getting to me but but the message you gotta get a message of comfort regarding the delay a message God loves you so much that he wants to make sure that you are consoled despite the fact that there's a delay in the answer to your prayer. Who stood before me, my Lord, because of the vision, my sorrows have overwhelmed me, and I have retained no strength. He goes on in verse 17. Suppressing all of our concern, one because we're afraid. He says, well the vision I saw of what's going to happen to them, that troubled me. He said, I'm tired. One of them pressure cookers, old folks call them pressure cookers, young people call them crock pies. Can't do it no more. Pressure gotta go somewhere. Comfort you. In his consoling touch. I heard the message from God, the stronger I got. I can handle the thing. That even though the message was delayed, there was a message in the message. Father, I thank you. From you. The delayed in the answers to prayer, but today they understand it. Not bitter. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. And now, stay tuned for the conclusion of last week's message. Humbled yourself before God, your words were heard, and I was sent because of your words. To speak to you because of your prayer. Of Persia. that the devil has set up to mimic the spiritual realms and authorities and positions that God has. And these demons are, they're assigned to a position. And to interfere with the prayers in your zip code there. Too many preachers speaking. And when the man of God has determined to bring the message of God, he's gonna get interference from spiritual wickedness. She's spitting up green puke. You walk in your child room and they float in the middle of the air, you oh Pastor, what's it called? Of warfare causing the delay. Oftentimes when we're going through hell, we're suppressing all of our pain. How come I'm still dealing with this bad marriage? But what it is, I'm concerned about releasing this pressure, releasing this answer to somebody who may judge me or somebody who can't help me. I mean, I'm preaching to these people, and I've been preaching to them while they were in Babylon, and now they're free from Babylonian captivity, and some of these people won't even go back. I'm preaching these people Sunday after Sunday, bringing message after message and laying it before them and they still acting a fool. And I'm exhausted. If you keep putting stuff in the pressure cooker, but you don't release any of the pressure, see this little valve on the top, let it up let the little pressure off But if you don't let no pressure off, you're gonna blow the whole thing up. But you're not letting nothing off. And so God knows that. In the message that God sent to him, there's peace in the message. The world gives, but the peace that only God can give, the peace that surpasses all understanding, the peace that allows you to smile when everything is falling apart. Every Sunday because if I don't get there Sunday, I'm gonna fall apart. I am to walk through this fire, the more able I am to keep on going on. I'm getting stronger as you speak. through this thing to stay in it. what he wants to do and when he decides to do it he's going to do it and when he says I'm sending a message he'll get you the message might not be when you want it but I swear to God it'll be Right on time, just when you need it, even though there's a warfare going on to get you this message, you need to understand that God knew what you need, and He knew when you needed it, and the message. It gets through right on time. And the messenger's getting ready to break through to give you the answer that you've been waiting for. Lord help me here. You had already given up. Upper Marlboro, Maryland. archangels and and he's as ministering angels and he's got different levels and rankings and files of angels. The prince of the kingdom of Persia withstood me. There was a demon, his rank is prince, but his assignment was Persia. Satan has assigned demons to your zip code. To get through with you for 21 days, I've been fighting to get the message to you, but I've been held up This is why you need to be praying for your pastor and supporting those who preach to you By spiritual warfare. Because they are messengers. Spirits and entities are working hard to keep the preacher from bringing the message that God has sent. So that they can get a crowd and they preach motivational messages and they preach prosperity messages and they preach feel-good messages because they think that's what's going to make the money come in and they think that's what's going to fill up the pews, but I didn't come to preach prosper. People call and talk about Pastor. So I can get to the message of God and bring it to the people of God. I don't care how good you can hoop. Work to the people of God. This angel who's speaking, we believe to be Gabriel. So now Michael's fighting with the spiritual wickedness so that I could be free to come give you the message. With carnal folk. Oh Bubba, he got big old arms, he got big guns and all that. One of the best ways to console someone is to touch them. What happens here in the text, and this is the way in which the Lord begins to console Daniel through the message, despite the fact that you've been going through hell, despite the fact that your answer to prayer has been delayed. He sends the angel to touch him first and he touches his lip. Because part of the problem that you're dealing with while you're walking through hell is you're not releasing the pressure on the pressure gauge. Daniel begins to spew out everything that's been troubling him and why it troubles him. Now, let me say this. And he releases that pressure. Greatly beloved. I'm gonna turn into something you never seen before. God is strengthening me. To you, Daniel. That will strengthen you while you walk through your hell. And he heard you three weeks ago, three months ago, three years ago, but on this day in the Catherine Baptist Church Legacy Center, God sent a messenger to give you a word. Deliver someone today. To you, the devil does. God is not listening to your prayer. And so what happens is they turn their back and say, Okay, I give up on waiting on God. The message that the preacher preached, I declare it was just for you. Strengthen your heart. You came to set them free. Again, as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence God, I don't want to hear it. And suddenly one having the likeness of the sons of men touched my lips. Let me talk to somebody. Wow. And these demons are always working to hold up the messenger of God from getting the message to you. To keep the message from you. And for 21 days I've been wrestling, he says, I've been fighting. By Michael, because no one else could relieve me. You're walking through hell and and the answer to your prayer is delayed. Standing over the trapdoor of hell. And kings and positions of authority of the Dharmonic realm. All my help comes from the Lord who made heaven and earth. On the Lord, it might take 21 days, it might take 21 years, there might be a delay, but the answer's coming, and while you're walking through the fire. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. I didn't come to preach feel good. I'm trying to console you. Now I understand God. I don't have no strength to keep fighting in it. God, I'm praying right now that you draw them to yourself. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. I'm praise the Lord. I'm a self-made woman. What this text is literally talking about. God has sent messengers and He sent answers to prayers, and He's assigned messengers to get answers to you, but there's interruption in the spiritual atmosphere I'm tired. I'm sick and tired of being sick and tired. The angel touched Daniel, consoling him. He's with you all the way. Bless your people in the name of Jesus Christ I pray. He says, How can I talk to such a one as you? And when God touches your mouth in consoling you, he allows you to let it out and let out all the pressure that you've been holding inside of you Then he affirms again, don't don't be afraid. Why is it taking so long? It's okay to stand up on Sunday morning and just speak from their heart. Just don't give up the faith. And so in his answer, he says, I know you've been going through the delay, but I'm going to console you by letting you release that pressure. And God is saying, let me just touch your mouth. When the angel touched him, Daniel began to feel strength. And this is why you didn't show up on that Sunday at church when the message was for you. He starts laying it out. I'm gonna try to make this as plain as I can. I'm ready now. And so Daniel, he touches Daniel's, he touches Daniel's mouth. I'm good. If you can't release it to somebody you feel comfortable with, release it to God. I came because God loves you. I thank you for the message, God. When I'm walking through hell, I want a word from God. If you in trouble, you realize your situation is spiritual. You had already thrown in the towel. I got a hangnail. I don't know what's going on. He says, in fact, I'm so tired. You're not talking to nobody about what's going on in your life. And let me help you right here. And from the first day that you set your heart in order, that you humbled yourself, God sent a messenger, and the messenger was on his way. The delay is not because God doesn't love you. I understand the message. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. Be strong. I don't want motivation now. And you was lying right out the cracks of your teeth. I can do this. I need to hear a word from God because if God don't speak, I'm gonna lose my mind. And whispers in your ear, give up, quit. God never told you to throw in the towel. Wait, I say, on the Lord. From the first day I was on my way, but I ran into this principality, y'all hear. I've been on my way. You came and gave your blood. Somebody needs to say preach on Pastor because I'm getting stronger as the message comes. You're just gonna have to deal with this one by yourself. God, I'm praying that you draw them into salvation. I am a messenger of God, and I got a message to bring to you. He's this is what's going on, this is what I feel, this is what's hurt me. I don't care how good the organ is. How come I'm still dealing with this money problem? He's going to bring you out. I came to preach the word of God because it's the word of God that's gonna help you walk through this hell We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. I can't afford to be interrupted. Yes, be strong. And what we see happening in our culture, what we see happening in our community, what we see happening in our world is that these demonic Gabriel said, While I was fighting and I was wrestling for 21 days, he says, Michael the archangel came and relieved me Can you come to the hospital and deal with my hangnail? I got this. And so we've got to hear a word from God because the more I get the message from God, the stronger I get. This is why some of us can't afford to skip a Sunday from church. She's floating in the middle of the air. And he he says, Look, I'm not even worthy to be talking to you, but the more you talk, the more I get strong. Remind someone today that you love them and you care. God, I'm praying that today they come humbly before your throne and give you glory for the answer that they've been waiting for. He can't do nothing with a demon. And he said, Oh man, greatly beloved, he reaffirms to him, in spite of the fact that the message was delayed, that God still loves you. Here's what he says here in the text. Final message that's in the text. Your life is a mess, your marriage is a mess, your job situation is a mess. I don't care if you're in Upper Marlborough or whether you're in Bowie or whether you're in Sacramento, there's a demon assigned to your atmosphere. I'm tired of trying to make the marriage work by myself, Pastor. Here is what he's literally saying. You better speak to me now, God. I wasn't negligent on my job. I know you do want Pastor Stone. If I let this out, how are people going to judge me and what are people gonna think of me? I don't have no strength left. Anybody familiar with a crock pot? I'm done. God, and and then they've been frustrated by the delay in the message they've been frustrated by He has demons, he's got princesses in your zip code. Don't be telling me I got my best life right now. Let me let me just open you up today. He says, For as for me, there's no strength that remains in me now, and there is no breath left in me. God, if you don't show up tomorrow, if you don't show up today, if you don't speak to me how to deal with this thing right now, I'm going to work tomorrow. That's what's happening in some of your lives. Lord help me here. You had already said it ain't gonna happen for me. I receive it today. You love them, God. No, but sooner or later that the top is gonna blow off of the pressure cooker. I came to give you a message from God that will allow you to realize that I'm done. When he touches his lips, what it does, it frees Daniel to release all the pressure of the stuff that he's been carrying around. If I don't hear from God, Lord have mercy. He's not talking about carnal princes and kings that are weighing crowns. Lord have mercy. I thank you, God, even though it was delayed, it's a message for me. And then he transfers to him peace. I'm done. I came because God heard you. Amen. Kettering, get them on the phone. The delay is not because God's not able. You're not doing good. Strength is being transferred to Daniel in the message. And you say, But I done gave up now. God said, wait on me and be of good carriage. The transfer in the message that the God has sent through the angel was strength for Daniel But here's the good thing about our God. In fact, what I saw God getting ready to do to them, it troubled me so much that I'm overwhelmed. They a little bit different. He's going to bring you through. And I came to give you strength so that you can keep on on your journey. Here's the last thing I want you to hear this. And he says, I came because of you. It picks up verse number 16. That man, that woman, that boy, that girl whose life is on the edge of destruction there That's a great question. The second message to Daniel, there was the message of comfort regarding the delay, but secondly, there's the message of warfare causing the delay. I don't care how motivational you are. You go look for somebody spiritual. This is what bothered me. And they're working hard to make sure you don't get what you need so that you can glorify God. How come my sickness is like it is and the doctor can't fix me? Then he comes back again and he touches him again. And in the process of consoling him, when he touched him, he said, He strengthened me, and he said to me, And so the message brings Daniel peace, not like I'm praying that you draw them to yourself today I can't afford for the demon to hold me up. You ain't calling no carnal help for that. All the way. Verse number twelve. We're suppressing all of our worry. He's literally saying, I was on my way, but while I was traveling through the atmosphere to get to you. You're walking through hell. I don't have no breath left. You ain't talking to nobody about the thing that's bothering you. And see, the devil already knows that his prince was losing. And so the devil has mimicked that in the form of princes. I was getting to you. Bid of the Lord, maybe there's someone here today that didn't know that you loved them. His assignment was to watch over everybody in Persia. I can't be there all the time. In this text, beginning at verse number 16, Daniel says. Let me just allow the pressure to be relieved because I don't need you to act like that. Put stuff in a crock pot, lock it down. Because I need to release this pressure. And this is why many Christians give up just before the answer comes. Too many preachers being interrupted. And don't be telling me I'm good. The vision is stressing me out. God, I got to hear a word from you. Can I talk to anybody? Out of the darkness, into the marvelous light. Praise the Lord. I come to tell you this afternoon that the Lord loves you, Kettering, that the Lord's message might be delayed, but it's not denied. There's warfare going on But it you can blow the top off of it He says, Dan, don't be afraid from the first day that you set your heart to hear and understand I can't come to the hospital to deal with your hangnail. The pressure keeps coming and the stuff is keep you keep putting stuff in the pressure cooker. God sent a messenger And then your friend called you said, girl, you should have been at church today See, you can't do spiritual war Peace be to you If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Somebody, say I need some spiritual help here. And you're trying to figure out why hasn't God answered me I'm tired of of being the only one that's bringing in money. And this is the message of consoling despite the delay. God don't care about you. So in other words, what God has I was on my way to you. Daniel begins to talk and he says, I'm tired. He's going to bring you over. Because here's what happens while that warfare is going on, and the enemy realizes I'm getting ready to lose. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. The delay is because there's a spiritual war going on to get the message to you Hey, listen, I'm tired. He sends another messenger. While you're tiptoeing around thinking everything is wonderful And so I've got to use some help that can free me up from being interrupted Lord have mercy. I'm overwhelmed, I'm tired So he's he's able to have joy and peace, and the peace is transferred to God. I came in spite of the delay. All the way Our God Whatever it is, you've been walking through hell. Pastor, can you come over and bring some oil? Everything wonderful. Then I opened my mouth and I spoke, saying to him, Verse 18. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. org or contact our church office at 301-627-9500. I ran into this demonic realm. But if your heart is desperately wicked, we don't want to hear your heart. I don't care how cute you are. I feel like I've just been wasting my breath on these people God wasn't gonna answer, but you were not listening to God I'm gonna And what he says here in the text, he says, I was on my way because of your words, but Because by the time the message broke through and got there for you, you had already walked away We're supposed And so therefore they stand up From the day that you prayed in Upper Marlborough, I was on my way, but there are demons who are set in place to block. You calling spiritual help for that. So he touches his mouth. m. But there are demonic realms that is working against me. Everything comes to try to interrupt and block my study time. I've got to get this work And that they will make it through this. Sometimes I've got to have Pew or Williams come and deal with this thing that's trying to interrupt me. No, I need a word from God right now He says, Then again, the one having the likeness of a man touched me and he strengthened me. So when the when he spoke to me, I was strengthened. or 11 a. He's talking about the hierarchy of the spiritual realm of the demons. And so therefore, we don't tell nobody We need to come get a message from God The top is gonna blow off of you Wait. You holding it all in. And so Daniel says to the angel, keep on speaking, because I'm Thank you, Jesus. Hear me I came for your words. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. m. He's not like man. How come I'm dealing with that? I don't care how many people you got in your pew. Somebody greeted you at the door. You ain't calling Bobo and Bubba to come help you. at our new edifice called the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway. My daughter's neck is turning all the way around. The peace that allows you to have joy, unspeakable joy, to worship God while they take in your car. I need you to hear this Preach on Pastor because the word of Now he's bringing you their stories. Am I right about it? I came to give you a message from God. Somebody ought to thank them today. I need you to stay focused. I ran into interference and I've been warring, I've been battling, I've been struggling to try. But when the angel touches his lips I'm tired of going out to work every day. And I will Oh, you tough. Maybe there's someone here today who thought you walked away from them, but they walked away from you. The One Degree of Andy podcast. And Gabriel says, Look, I got relieved You pray over your own hangnail or call somebody else because right now I've got to get away. Lord help me here. They said, How are you doing today But yet you I'm fine. Can I help somebody here? Let it off. And so Daniel, Daniel says, I'm getting stronger now And then the angel said, Do you know why I came? So that's why he sent you a message so that you can walk away from the message that's coming. I'm the man. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. Thank you, God. There's a demon assigned to wherever you are, and they're in place to block and interfere. They still worshiping false gods I'm trying to He's God. This too will pass. If you're not bringing the message from He says to him I'm Andy Christman. I'm man. Verse number 13 No, you ain't fine The more able I am to deal with this mess, the more able I People at the job don't appreciate me. I'm going, I'm going to blow my top. Express it out. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. The more the message came, the more I got strengthened. God didn't cause you to walk As I'm walking through hell, I understand why the message. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. No, I don't care how strong he is. And nobody can stop him from They're gonna come out on the other side better. All they do is complain. Father, save someone today. I'm going back home and I'm going to blow. But I'm just tired of it. For a copy of Please join us. The more I