Where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. You've scattered the sheep, and the problem God had with the whole thing was nobody was looking or searching for his sheep. And for the Christian who has isolated himself from every believer, you're outside the will of God. Your fire can't burn the way it needs to burn because you're trying to compromise to accommodate them. So how can there be any commonality between the two? When the devil was about to sell you down the river to an eternal hell and destruction, it was Jesus who paid the price to redeem you from the slave market of sin. Under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence, we pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building for a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. And tangled up and yoked together. of Gethsemane and tell his father, Father, if this cup can pass from me, let it pass nevertheless, not my will, if he was willing to surrender to the will of God. Voices behind the song. I want to invite your attention to 2 Corinthians chapter 6. Part two of our series began in Acts chapter three. But we want to assure that we revive the reputation of the church, that the church knows that there is a difference and that this is a place of refuge and a place that they can come. And as we addressed the shepherds, we wanted to address those who have leadership over others. Secondly, they did not tend to the needs that the sheep had as a shepherd ought to. I've been open with you. Uh to turn back and be good shepherds, as the good shepherd is. Or even to the extreme to say we have right to rule ourselves and we'll check with God later. Because even though we're born again, we still have a flesh that wants to sin. And the reason why they yoke them together is so that they can work together for one common goal. to think that the believer and the unbeliever could be yoked together and work together to accomplish God's plan. And the lawless means to be full of iniquity, to be in unbelief. And ultimately Satan himself. Please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. Sundays at 8 a. Sits down with the voices behind the song. Oh yeah, I must be valuable to him. There is absolutely no way modern-day church that we can be effective and powerful and do what God has called us to do without power and presence and the dependency of the Holy Spirit. On last week as we were together, we went to Ezekiel chapter 34, and in Ezekiel chapter 34 we spoke from the subject matter Revive the Shepherds. To the Corinthians through the validation of his apostolic ministry and his love and his care and sincerity for them. In order to do this, Corinthians, you're going to have to reject and turn away from and separate yourselves from the idolaters and the false The church from the world. doctrine teachers who have infiltrated you. By accepting such false doctrines of inclusion, the false doctrines that there is no total depravity of man, false doctrines that say that somehow we can be equal with God, or that we can be our own gods. and how you talk. Sold out to living for the devil. Do not be unequally yoked together with unbelievers. And he wants to take us in a certain direction, and we're yoked together with unbelievers like oxen in a field. So he says, don't be yoked together. The truth, if you've isolated yourself, you've got the keys to the kingdom, and you've isolated yourself from them, and all you have is saved people around you all the time, then how will the unbeliever ever know Jesus? and Satan. And expect that they're going to plow the field. There's no fellowship. The absurdness of it is to have a believer and an unbeliever connected together. It just can't happen. Latter part of verse 15, he says, what part has the believer with an unbeliever? And idols. But they came to worship in the temple because in the temple was where the presence of the Shekana glory of the omnipotent living God was He doesn't just come on Sunday morning, even though you might act like it on Sunday morning. side of you. And I am who I am because he loved me. Crane Highway, Upper Marlboro, Maryland. with unbelievers. And what accord has Christ with Belial? For you are the temple of the living God. When we began this journey in a series of messages, summer revival for the modern-day church, we began in Acts chapter 2, speaking from the subject matter. On this morning, I want to talk to you from the subject matter, come out and be separate. Changing your lives to the extent that you can line your life up with Christ Himself and the plan that He has for you. There ought to be a difference between a child of God and a child of Satan. In fact, if you're a yoke with an unbeliever, either you're compromising or they're compromising or both of you are compromising If they're enemies of the gospel and we're servants of the gospel, in order for us to coexist, there's going to have to be compromise. And the reality is for the unbeliever, there's no need to compromise at all. So the unbeliever is not gonna compromise to do right because they don't have the spirit of God that provokes them to want to do right. Even if it looks like it's right, it has bad motive. If I looked at this idea and I thought about this idea of compromise that we have to struggle through, I believe this is why Proverbs 12, 26 says to the believer, the righteous should choose their friends carefully, because the way of the wicked is going to lead them astray. But I believe God knows better than we do. Now, are you exposing them and sowing seed to them? He does not say do not have contact with them. He doesn't say don't have contact with them. Don't be tied up with them that their actions dictate your actions and your actions dictate their actions. We as a church, we as the Christians, we can't avoid having interactions with them and we shouldn't. We've been left here to go out into our community to minister to those around us and about us. What if every Christian says I'm not never gonna deal with and have no association with and never come in contact with unbelievers? So it's not separation to that extreme that he's talking about. Then he comes back and he says, For what fellowship has the righteous with lawlessness? That are going to draw out most clearly a distinction between the believer and the unbeliever and how obnoxious it is to think that they could be hooked up and tied up. What share, what participation, what fellowship has the righteous with the lawlessness? What fellowship, what share, what participation has the righteous, and when we talk about the righteous, we're talking about those who've been justified by Christ to be right with God. You can't have light coexisting with darkness. Because when you turn on light, dark flees. Has Christ with Belial. They're diametrically opposed. Stand firm where you are as a child of God. There is no difference. And a child of Satan can hook up together and things work out. They passing you the drink. There's none. Therefore, come out from among them and be separate, says the Lord. Come out from them, let there be no yoking. The Old Testament, there was a temple that was built with all specifications. Nothing trumps that. You will always see God get furiously angry when idols are introduced. As God has said, I will dwell in them and walk amongst them, and I will be their God, and they will be my people. You are the dwelling place where the Shakana glory of the powerful, omnipotent God who stepped out of nothing and stood on nothing and called everything to existence. Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, even on Friday, Friday night, Saturday morning, Saturday evening, and Sunday morning. And everywhere I go, he's with me. Them. He is your God and you are his child. Who is in you whom you have from God and you are not your own? you want to do you are owned by somebody holy spirit god in heaven has purchased you with his own precious blood pastor how did he do that he went to Calvary 2000 years ago with you on his mind Then we can come out and be separate and let revival take place. If God looked from eternity past and saw you and saw me and thought it was worthy enough for him to come and save me To save my soul, I must be some value to him. has so befriended the world. Come out and be separate and let there be no yoking between the believer and the unbeliever is what the Apostle Paul says in essence. To the point where we're on fire for God, to the point where we're praying to God, to the point when there's opportunity to share the gospel Nah, I know, I know what you said. If you will, or what accord has Christ with Belial? Of Scientology or Jehovah's Witness or something else and try to blend it all together and say we all just the same. Yes, he did. Therefore, come out from among them and be separate, says the Lord. that we share it without fear or trepidation to the place and point that nobody has to provoke you to worship to the place and point where we are ambassadors for God and we know that we living it out in order for us to get to that place of revival. It is going to be essential that we not yoke ourselves together with unbelievers. When we talk about communion, we're talking about fellowship, we're talking about coming together. They cussing and you cussing better. No, there's no part. Do you remember in the Old Testament when they brought idols into the temple of God? How do you bring Buddha into God's house? I know you think you're a Smith, you're a Johnson, you're a Miller, you're a whoever. But you are the temple of the living God on Sunday, Monday He dwells in you. If we understood who we are, revival can explode amongst the saints of God. So watch this. Now, fast forward to the New Testament, and the word here says, You are, you, you, you, born-again Christian child of God, you are the temple of the living God. There is no accord. God was grieved when they brought idols in his temple. No, we're not the same. Come out, be separate. You are the temple of the living God. I'm trying to help us get to revival because if I understand who I am, maybe I won't act the way I act sometimes. Hallelujah, Jesus. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. So therefore, glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which is God's. It is God who walks amongst his people. There is nothing that we have in common. And then while you're in the middle of that, bring some other ridiculous doctrine Maybe your attitude would change. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. It's no commonality. I've been tender hearted with you. In fact, if you really want to watch God get angry, read through the Old Testament and see what happens when they begin to worship idols above him. I mean you might say, you know what, I'm the executive vice president, I'm the president of the organization, but none of that trumps you are the temple of the living God. m. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. You ought to know the difference between someone who loves God with all their heart, soul, and mind, who has turned their life over to him, you ought to be able to tell the difference between that person and the person who has First of all, it told us, come out, let there be no yoking. Belial is a word that is used to ultimately identify Satan himself. Let me read this passage in 1 Corinthians chapter 6. There's no share. or 11 a. Come out, church. There is no agreement between Christ and Satan. I know what you're saying. No, no, Pastor, I got some unsaved friends. You cannot have darkness coexisting with light. So what accord, what agreement has Christ with Belial? Why would someone want to be a Christian and y'all all the same? For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations, you won't hear anywhere else. For what fellowship has righteousness with lawlessness, and what communion has light with darkness That's called being unequally yoked. He walks amongst you. We've become so accepting of the world that those who are the enemies of the gospel Y'all both leaving the same hotel going back home to your husband or wife. This doesn't make sense. m. I mean if he was willing to allow the Jews and allow the Romans to whip him and beat him and crucify him, if he was willing to go through all of that, if he was willing to go to the garden. So as we try to initiate revival in the modern-day church, I come to encourage us to come out and be separate Maybe your walk would change. You're gonna have to separate yourselves from those who are enemies of the gospel. They're working against each other. Last thing, I'm out of your way. As I look through these verses, verse 14 says, do not be unequally yoked together with unbelievers. Let there be no yoking in and amongst the believer and the unbeliever So he asks these five rhetorical questions. at our new edifice called the Legacy Center, located at 6909 It is impossible for the modern-day church to experience revival to the true extent that God wants it to be revived. It's not the same. Come out, for there is no commonality between the world and Satan and God and his church If you just knew who you were, if you just knew the power inside of you. And in the same way, I want you, Corinthians, to be open to receiving the message that I have for you. He also does not say don't interact with them. Come out from them. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. And I believe if God says the way of the wicked will lead you astray, I believe that's what's happening. We spoke from the subject matter reviving the reputation of the church. Well, we can make it work. Why would they want to be a Christian? There's no participation between being righteous and being lawless. You are the temple. And I am special in the eyesight of God. As God has said, I will dwell in them and walk among them. When you turn off the light, darkness comes. But if you understood who you are, if you understood whose you are, if you understood who's living in org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. Or what part has the believer with an unbeliever? We're not, shouldn't have any connection. There's no commonality. You act holy and sanctimonious on Sunday morning. But secondly, come out, for there is no commonality between the unbeliever and the believer. That's what he says here in the text. Perhaps you are. There's no fellowship between the two. It is God who dwells from heart to heart and breast to breast. They have no communion. What happens to darkness when you turn on the light? He says, So do you not know that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit We'll begin our reading at verse 14. I'm leading them along. He's talking about being yoked together with them like two oxen who are plowing in a field Well, in order to make it work, you gotta compromise. It doesn't make sense. Maybe revival would take place and we will begin to live for the living God. Okay? And if we do not, and if we fail, then the good shepherd will be against us, and he will remove from us those who we he has entrusted us to shepherd. Look at verse number 16. And so if we're gonna have revival take place in this modern-day church, we've got to come out and let there be no yoking. And thirdly, he accused them of scattering the sheep, and he says, as a result of your negligence And then we will be able to see a difference between the church and the world, the Christian and the non-Christian. Something's wrong. And in the temple, the temple was a place where people came and to worship, but they came to worship in the temple, not for the purpose of the temple. And that's why he uses this terminology of being unequally yoked here in the text. Satan is always working against God, and God working on the opposite direction of Satan. He makes it very clear. That's a great question. But are they causing you to compromise if you got to be their best friend? Come out from them finally and realize who you are. You are the place that God dwells Whew, thank you, Pastor. This is the word that God declares to them. But regardless of that standard, that name may have given you, you are the temple of the living God. You're not your own. Righteousness means I've been set straight and right with God. And as we saw in Ezekiel, the problem was, first and foremost, as God accused the shepherds, that they did not feed the sheep, that they were feeding themselves. They're going to be my people. Do we have any part? We've been left here for that purpose. Moving on. Paul lovingly pleads his case. God brought judgment when they brought idols in his temple. It's improbable. They don't have a spirit that wants to do right Verse 16. What happened? He says, For you are the temple of the living God. That's a great question. He doesn't say that. Because how will they know It comes back. When has Christ and the devil gotten together and hung out and said, hey, let's just go sip on some martinis together? Y'all see what I'm saying? It's improbable. And I've got the living God inside of me. And you know, a pastor, you know, I didn't write Proverbs. He says, look, it is absolutely absurd. You act like you really do have the Holy Spirit, some of y'all, on Sunday mornings. Praise the Lord. And so he encourages us So what agreement has the temple of God with idols? Lay Buddha under the cross. I will dwell in them and walk amongst And there ought to be a difference more than just in the spiritual realm. There is none In fact, everything Christ says to do, Satan says don't do. You doing the same stuff they do. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. God has plans for us. And in fact, the reason why it's it's more likely that we're gonna compromise We've been left here to be ambassadors for the kingdom of God. Well Paul is going to do, he's going to give us five rhetorical questions. Light and dark cannot sit down at the same table and eat a meal. He says, No, there's no accord. He says, what part Do we have any connection? You've been bought with the price. And he says to them What part, what connection has the believer with an unbeliever? It's not going to happen. You can't do what Amen. So we can't be separate in the sense that we never have any dealings with them He says, secondly, what communion has light with darkness? Don't be hooked up, tied up, tangled up with an unbeliever. That's why the scripture says, come out. We were clear and we understood that the church in the world has a bad reputation. He says don't be yoked together with them Let me take you back to the Old Testament I get to keep my unsaved friends. And when Paul says, no, don't compromise, stand your ground. It's absurd because it doesn't happen. You've been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kattering Baptist Church If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. And what agreement has the temple of God with idols? And so he's using all this to pound home the improbability. When you talk about Belial, it gives you the idea of worthlessness, unprofitableness, wickedness. What agreement has the temple of God with idols? It just doesn't happen God knocked the idols over We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together, and we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services. org or contact our church office at 301-574-3515 Darkness goes away. There is no agreement. Y'all both in the same club. The devil has fooled you, he has convinced you that you are not so special. God's word reads as follows: Do not be unequally yoked together. Well, I realize that the church of today, the modern day church It's like trying to hook an ox together with a donkey Well, because we've adopted all the principles of the world, now it's difficult to tell And if you are yoked together with an unbeliever, the common goal is going to be the goal of the devil. In fact He says, look, Everything about the unbeliever says, let's do what the enemy says do And now, Pastor Sterling. It is God who is amongst us all the time, 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Whose way is going to prevail? Then guess what? Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. Remember, we need the Holy Spirit. There's no accord, no agreement between Christ and Belial. And if God has plans for us. You got to come out from amongst them and be separate, says the Lord. And oh, what a price. I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Yes, they are. Maybe if I realize that I am the holder, I'm the cup that the Holy Spirit is living in. There is no commonality between Christ There's no harmony. I've got the omnipotent God inside of me. Now he's bringing you their stories. First and foremost, he says. And when light goes away, what comes? Unbelief and sin and iniquity have been removed by the blood of the Lamb. We will be able to uplift holy hands, realize that I am somebody in Christ Jesus. You and I wouldn't be saved. We've been left here to spread the gospel. And so they're leading you astray. There is no accord. The One Degree of Andy podcast. I want you to be open to None. Y'all getting real quiet. Now he's bringing you their stories. There's no community. The answer: there is no agreement. What agreement? You are the place where the Spirit of God lives all the time. There ought to be a difference in the manifestation of how you walk. Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. The One Degree of Andy podcast. I'm Andy Christman. There is no agreement between Christ and the devil. He paid for you. And if a child of God There's no connection between the temple of God. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. We've been left here so they can see that there is a difference. He dwells in you. Darkness. What accord here Now notice this I've got the Holy Spirit of God living inside of me. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. You've been bought with the price. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your But if we keep compromising and blending. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy.