Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now Pastor Sterling. Job chapter 1. The word of the Lord reads as follows. There was a man in the land of us whose name was Job. And that man was blameless and upright, and one who feared God and shunned evil. And seven sons and three daughters were born to him also his possessions were seven thousand sheep, three thousand camel, five thousand yoke of oxen, five hundred female donkeys, and a very large household, so that this man was the greatest of all the people of the East. And his sons would go and feast in their houses, each one on an appointed day, and would send and invite their three sisters. And so it was when uh the days of feasting had run their course that Job would send and sanctify them, and he would have been a little bit of a rise up early in the morning and offer burnt offerings according to the number of them all. For Job said, It may be that my sons have sinned and cursed God in their hearts. Thus Jaob did regularly Now, there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the Lord, and Satan also came among them. And the Lord said to Satan, From where do you come? And so Satan answered, and he said to the Lord, From going to and fro on the earth and walking back and forth on it. And the Lord said to Satan, have you considered, my servant Job, that there is none like him on the earth, and a blameless An upright man, one who fears God and shuns evil. So Satan answered the Lord and said, Does Job fear God for nothing? Have you not made a hedge around him, around his household, around all that he has, and on every side And you've blessed the work of his hands, and his possessions have increased in the land. But now stretch out your hand and touch all that he has, and he will surely curse you to your face. And the Lord said to Satan, Behold, all that he has is in your power. Only do not lay a hand on his person And so Satan went out from the presence of the Lord. And now there was a day when his sons and his daughters were eating and drinking wine in their oldest brother's house, and a messenger came to Job and said, The oxen were plowing and the donkeys were feeding beside them. And when the Sabaeans raided them, they took them away, and indeed they have killed the servants with the edge of the sword, and I alone have escaped to tell you. And while he was still speaking, another also came and said, Fire from God fell from heaven and burned up the sheep and the servants. And I and consumed them, and I alone have escaped to tell you. And while he was still speaking, another also came and said, The Chaldeans formed three bands and raided the camels and took them away. Yes And killed the servants with the edge of the sword, and I alone have escaped to tell you. And while he was still speaking, another also came and said, Your sons and your daughters were eating and drinking wine in the oldest brother's house, and suddenly A great wind came from across the wilderness and struck the four corners of the house, and it fell on the young people, and they are dead. And I alone have escaped to tell you. Then Job arose Tore his robe, shaved his head, fell to the ground, and worshipped, and said, Naked I came from my mother's womb, and naked shall I return there The Lord gave and the Lord has taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. And in all this Job did not sin nor charge God with wrong. Pray with me, please. Father, we need you on this morning that you might declare a word clearly in our heart and in our hearing. I pray, Father, that you would save someone who's lost in their sin. That you would reclaim the drifter from their waywardness and their backsliding state. I pray, eternal God, that you would speak into the chaos of our lives on this morning, perhaps to bring some clarity to what we're going through. I pray for strength for those that are weak. Those that are ready to throw in the towel. I pray, God, that you would lift them by your hand of power. Hold them up. I pray, Spirit of the God, that this word would be medicine to our soul, food to our spirit. Have your way, Lord God, as I stand to declare your word. I need your power, I need your strength, I need your ability to say what thus saith the Lord. In a way that everyone who's hearing can hear that God is speaking. Spirit of the Lord, have your way in this place. And we will forever give your name all the glory and all the honor and all the praise, for it is in Jesus' name that we pray with thanksgiving and expectation. The people of God said together, Amen and Amen. Praise God. This story of Job, Job has this unbelievable day. We all can probably attest that we've had some Job-like experiences Where everything seemed to just come undone. It was one thing after another. We dealt with situations such as, you know, family problems and problems in our our our finances and problems with our friends. It just seems like everything is is It's just coming apart. I I just don't feel like I ought to be getting all of this stuff that's coming my way. I don't know if anybody ever been there before. But this is the Job-like experiences of life when you feel like God is being unfair and the enemy is winning the battle, and I'm ready to give up because God This is just not right. I want to talk to you on this morning from the idea and subject matter, understanding how to face tough times. First thing that I could not ignore was the coverings of Job. As I looked in the text, what I saw first is that Job kept himself covered. So, what I mean is that Job did the things that kept him out of trouble with God. The text is there's this man in the land of us whose name was Job, and that man was blameless. Job remained blameless so that he wouldn't be in trouble with God. Job was not only blameless, but the text says he was upright. He did those things that were right before God. He also was one who shunned or stayed away from or avoided evil. Job did all the things that we are systematically told and theologically told that we ought to do to stay on God's good side. Job was a good guy. He was a good dude. He was living right before God. I mean, he went to church on a regular basis. He paid his tithes. He he he served in ministry. He he he helped the poor. He did He did all these things that would keep him in straight line with God. He loved his family. He took care of his children and all these things. He was a witness for the Lord. Also, uh he's got all these possessions and all this things. Verse 4, his sons uh would go and they'd have these feast in the houses, and each of them on their appointed day, and they would send and they would invite their three Sisters and they'd eat and they'd drink and Job would go before the Lord and he'd offer sacrifices on behalf of his children because Job said, just in case While while while they were drinking and smoking and talking and partying and having a good old time, just in case my children got beside themselves, just in case they acted like they didn't know the Lord. Just in case I'm gonna cover them by offering sacrifices on their behalf. He covered his children. And the Bible said he did that regularly. So you better be praying for them too. Cover your kids. He not only sacrificed, but he sanctified them. The Bible says he would go and he would sanctify them. He set them apart. And it goes on, the text says there's this day when the sons of God and They're presenting themselves before the Lord, and Satan came also among them. So there's a meeting in heaven. And the angelic host and sons of God are coming together, but Satan shows up. And so the Lord says, where you been, dude? What's up? This is my version. I'm sorry. And Satan said, I've been doing what I do. I've been walking back and forth, and I've been checking people out. I'm looking for whom I may devour. And then comes this part that messes us all up. Verse 8. And then the Lord said to Satan, He says, Have you considered my servant Job that there is none like him on the earth, a blameless and an upright man, one who fears God and shuns evil? This particular verse is is problematic to me, I should be problematic to you, cause Here is a man who's doing everything right in our sense of rightness he's covering himself by not violating the laws of God and the requirements of God and He's taking care of His children and making sure they're covered and that that that even if they did mess up that He's covered them in some offering of blood and sacrifice and and so He's doing all the right things and in fact God himself declares this is an upright man. He's doing the right things, but yet God offers him up to say. Verse 9, Satan says, Job's not fearing you for no reason. Job is is walking like he walked. Job is acting like he acts. Job is prosperous as he's prosperous because you are blessing him and you're covering him. Listen, the devil wanted to take you out. The devil had plans for you, but God put a hedge around you. You're not here today because you were careful. Because you were smart, because you was at the top of the class. No, you're here because God put a hedge around you. He kept the enemy at bay from you. When he wanted to take your life and take you out, God hedged you up. It was the hand of God and the hedge of God that allowed you to get where you are right now. Help me, Holy Ghost. We need to be able to wrap our mind around that that I got where I got and I am where I am because of the hand and the grace of God. When stuff starts falling away, you'll realize how you got here You'll stop feeling like, oh my God, all this that I achieved. No. All that God gave, all that God protected That it was the Lord who was doing this. The fact that God offered up Job to Satan lets us know that Job had been prepared for what was coming. And he's going to prove that he's covered. God sometimes needs to prove, not to himself, but to you and me. That I've prepared you for the mess that's in your life. I've I'm protecting you as you're going through the mess that's in your life I'm the one who prospers you and I'm the one that prepares you and I'm the one that protects you. I'm going to prove to you I got you And so for you and I, we need to know we have to have some Job type days and some Job type experiences so that we can know that God is really a God of His Word and He is there with you. The second movement of the text is the uncovering of Job. So we know we got it, he's he's covered, he's protected. Listen to what happens. Verse 11. But now stretch out your hand and touch all that he has and he will surely curse you to your face. This is what Satan says of Job. And God responds and says to Satan, behold, all that he has is in your power. Only do not lay a hand on his person. So Satan went out from the presence of the Lord. After the revealing of the fact that God has his hand of protection and favor on Job, this uncovering takes place And as the uncovering takes place, Satan says, he says, now, God, he puts this challenge before God. He says, now, God, you put your hand on his stuff. But God refuses. You know why? Because God is not going to curse what he's blessed. Job is blessed because of God, and God's not coming against Job for no reason. But that's what Satan wants. It's a provocation of Satan to get God into an action, watch this, that erases his deity. Because now if God starts Cursing folk for no reason. Now he ain't God no more. He's not qualified. That would be an unjust move on the part of God. He's really not after us, he's after God. Because he don't want your position. He wants God's position. And so it's revealed right here in the text. What he's really after, he says, put your hand out. And touch all that he has, and he'll curse you to your face. And the Lord refuses to do it. But this this is after he's assessed. The ability of Job to endure what he's going to get ready to allow. God allows What he's already tested us and prepared us and tempered us to endure. He knows how much and how far you can go. And and and so when he says of Job and he says, Go forward, Satan, everything he has. It's it's it's it's in your hands. It's under your power. Use your power to do what you want to do, except don't touch his body. This is how it works for you and me too. Before it comes your way, God already knows how much you can take. We're thinking I can't I can't take it, I can't deal with that. And in fact, if God had told you I'm sending it your way, you would have said, Oh no, you better now. I can't, I ain't no way I can deal with that. So then Satan begins to attack Job's possessions, and Job starts to suffer losses. Under the power of Satan. Now as I walk through these losses, I notice something else as well. So Job lost his oxen and his donkeys, and he lost servants. But he lost them under the power of Satan. And who was it that was under the power of Satan at the moment? It was the Sabaeans. So a whole nation, a whole army is now under the power of Satan. The text moves from human agent to agents of nature. Look at verse 16. Verse 16 says, While he was still speaking, another came and said, The fire of God fell from heaven and burnt up the sheep and the servants and consumed them. So wait a minute. So what that means is that Satan had control and power over the fire that was in heaven. Absolutely. I want you to understand that we we're dealing with a very powerful agent when you talk about Satan Under his power, he's able to pull down the fire from God in heaven to consume stuff on the earth. I need you to understand that the devil has imitating powers that God has. But more importantly, that when you're uncovered, what you're vulnerable to. If I've got no relationship with the King of Kings and Lord of Lords, I am fully under the power and the authority of Satan with no restrictions. And if I belong to God, God puts restrictions because I'm His property. So this is the uncovered state, and so in this uncovered state, Satan moves back to humanity again, and he takes care of the camel and he kills the servants with the Chaldean. A whole nother group of people. All under the power of Satan, this is happening. And then he moves back to nature again. And the wind came across the wilderness and struck the four corners of the house, and it fell on the young people. All of them die as God uncovered Job to allow this to happen so that Job and all of us would read this would understand Whatever you do, I've already prepared you for it. Not prepared him for his children dying, but prepared him to endure what just happened. Now, the last thing I want you to see in this text that we've read on this morning is the response of Job, and this is what helps us to understand how to face tough times. First of all, if we understand the dynamic between us and God, it'll help you to face tough times. If we understand who the enemy is and what he's after, it'll help you to deal with tough times. But if we watch Job's response, we'll also learn a great lesson that will help us to endure and face tough times. Job's response, verse twenty, is Job arose Tore his robe, shaved his head, and fell to the ground and worshiped. When Job gets the news that his oxen are gone, his sheep are gone, his servants are gone, Job doesn't react at all until his children Most of our tough times we go through is because we lose stuff. Because we're so attached to stuff, and stuff has us instead of us having the stuff. But Job was in a position Where Job had a lot of material possessions, but the possessions didn't have him. But when he heard that his children had been killed, then Job rose up Tore his clothes, took the time to shave his head as an expression that I'm grieving the loss of my children. And after he does that, the very next thing he does is not what we would do. First of all, worship is not what we're thinking about at that moment. We're broken. We're shattered. We're crumbling. We're a mess. We're crying uncontrollably We can't get it together. We can't think right. We're trying to figure out what I'm gonna do. Why is this happening? What what how unthinkable, how unimaginable? What do I do with this? Job knew exactly what to do, and it's gonna help us. Job fell down and worshiped God. Pastor, why is that important? Because when Job went down It's an expression of humility to the one who's in control. Lord, these things have happened upon me and my things, my possessions. But Lord, I'm still humble before you. I'm still worshiping you because you are the reason that I exist. You are my God. And so I I still give honor. I still give worship. I still give admonition to you because you're God. And so he puts himself in the a physical position of humility before the God whom he knows is in full control. And when we go through what we're going through, listen to me. You can get mad at everybody you want to get mad at, but God is always the one in control. And so while I'm confused, and while I'm hurting, and while I'm going through chaos, and while I'm struggling, and while I'm stressing, and while I'm not sle Sleeping at night while I'm crying on my pillow, I need to invite the presence of God into my situation. That's what worship does It invites God into the presence of your situation, and his humility, his humbling, his falling down was the position of humility. And he was in essence saying to God, God, I accept whatever it is you decided to do. This ain't about me. It's about you, Lord. So if that's what you chose to do, you're sovereign. I accept your sovereignty. I accept the fact that you chose and you decided to take my loved one at this particular time. I accept that, God. It hurts, but I accept it. Because you're God not me. Because you made them not me. Because you had a clock already set in eternity past and you held their time in your hand. You were in control of all of that. And so Lord, I I humbly I humble myself and I I worship you because right now I need you. Job said, my life is not about this stuff. My life is not about how many sheep I had, how many oxen I had, how many camel I had, how many servants I had, how many children I had. My life is not about that. I came into this life with nothing. And the fact that I have anything is because of God. He said, the Lord gave. And he has the right to remove and take away. The more my focus is on him, the less my focus is on the stuff. So Job helps us in what he does by putting his focus on God. And he gives glory to God because God, even in my Job-type moments, is still worthy to be praised. Turn to your God and bless your God. Worship your God. That's how we make it through these tough times. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at kettering ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301 six two seven nine five zero zero please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the songs. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations, you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.