Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, stay tuned for the conclusion of last week's message There's three things that I want to draw out that he actually literally says here. He says to Joshua, Joshua, meditate in it, meditate in it. Hold it in your mouth. Joshua. Chew on it. Joshua, chew it. Keep chewing on it. This this idea of meditate is to spend time in. It's to draw from it's the same idea and concept of a cow who chews his food and then swallows it and then regurgitates it to chew it again could and what he's literally doing is he's chewing his cud and chewing his food. He's chewing it in order that he might extract from it every ounce of what it has in it that it might provide nourishment for his body. Y'all don't hear me say what what what I what Joshua I want you to do, if you're gonna walk through hell, you need to meditate in the word. You need to Watch this, chew on the word until you exhaust all the nutritional value in it. Chew on the text until you exhaust all the flavor out of it. Chew on the text until you exhaust the meaning of it. Chew on the text. until you've gotten the application of it. Chew on it, Joshua. Meditate in it, Joshua. Get it in you, Joshua, until you extract all the value out of it that's going to help you on your walk through hell get everything out of this word because you're gonna need it for your journey now watch this watch this if I don't know where I'm going Then it may change my diet. Okay? Let me let me give you an example. When I'm running What I know about me is if I get up in the morning and eat a full-blown breakfast, I mean grits, eggs, sausage, bacon, toast on the side, you know, juices and all that stuff. I'm not gonna be ready to go on a three-mile run because I've put too much Food in my body. But I also know that I can't just jump up and go out in the heat of the day and run the three miles without Putting some water and some liquid in my body because I know that my body is going to exhaust itself of fluid and I would find myself laid out somewhere a dehydrated and they'd be calling the ambulance for me and so because I know where I'm going I Change my diet, watch this, because I know what I need for my journey. Are y'all still here? If I know I'm going through hell, I I can't go through hell with cotton candy, so I can't use cotton candy on this journey. And if you know you gonna walk through hell, and I'm let me tell you, you go walk Through hell. So so since you know you're gonna walk through hell, you need to change your diet to be such that you will have something that will sustain you on your journey. Are y'all still here? Chew on it, meditate on it, exhaust all the nutritional value out of it. You're gonna need every ounce out of this word to deal with every demon that comes at you from day to day Some of you got some demons at work and you need all the word you can get to deal with them demons at work. Some of them you got them in your home, some of them you got them in your community You're gonna need you're gonna walk through some hell situations. Some of our hell situations have to do with our own physical body. And you got to walk through some of those, but get all the value, meditate on, get everything out of it for the journey that you're taking And watch this. I want you to notice something really, really, really quick. He says, Joshua, meditate, but watch he says, he says, in it. Notice what he doesn't say. Which is typically what we say. We typically say meditate on it. But he doesn't tell Joshua to meditate on it. He says, meditate in it. There's a difference. See, because if we meditate on it, then we approach the Word of God as some outside, disconnected spectator. And so when we look at the word of God, we say, well, that's good, that's nice. And but that's other people and that's other stuff. And it really, maybe that doesn't really apply to me. Yeah. So we're distant. We're collect we're disconnected from it when we meditate on it. We just kind of hover on the surface of it. But he doesn't tell Joshua to meditate on it. He says Joshua meditate in it So in order to meditate in it, Joshua, you've got to get in it, Joshua. You've got to saturate yourself in it, Joshua. You've got to get wet. with it Joshua it's got to impact you Joshua it's got to get on you Joshua you've got to get all in the midst of it Joshua and if You're going to meditate in it, Ketterin. You've got to get in it, Kettering. You can't just do a six-second devotional every morning and skim the surface and say I've done my Bible reading for today. No, you need to dig down in the Word. Get in the word and let the word watch this because when you get in the word, the word will get in you. There's a difference between getting in the water than being on the water. When I go fishing and I get in a boat, I'm on the water. And some of the water might splash up on me and get on me. I just wipe that off. But when I go to the beach, I get in the water. When I go to the pool, I get in the water. And when I get in the water, the water gets in me. And sometimes it gets so much in you and so much in me when we're in the water that we got a problem trying to get it out of us because it's getting all in our ears and all the open orifices. Is y'all hearing what I'm saying? And the word of God is like that. When you're in it and you're saturating yourself in it, it'll get into places that you'll find it hard to get out of. Lord have mercy. Some places you'll you well help me here. Some places it'll get in in you that you wish you could get it out of you because it's really affecting you living like you want to live, but God is making you live another way. Because once the word of God gets in you and you get in it, it'll change your journey through hell. Y'all still here with me? So he says to Joshua, Joshua, meditate in it. Joshua, meditate in it, get into it. Get into the truth of it. Get into the meaning of it, Joshua. Get into the application of it, Joshua. Get into the effects of it. Get in it. Meditate in it. Get into the workings of it. Get it in you, and you get in it. And Joshua, don't just do this periodically. He says, meditate in it day and night. So three things he tells Joshua. He says meditate in it is meditate in it day and night. Day and all the time. The word of God. It needs to be, it's important uh that the word of God, while you're walking, while you're talking, while you're sitting, while you're sleeping, the word of God ought to be so much in you that you're dreaming about the word of God You're dreaming about the text that you are reading. You're dreaming about what you are studying. It's in you and it's day and night that you're spending time in the word of God. Get it in you, Joshua. There's enough word, watch this, to take up all your day. Trust me on that one. It'll keep you busy chewing all the time. So he says to Joshua, Joshua, meditate in it, do it day and night. Why? Because your enemy, watch this, because your enemy knows when you take a break If you're walking through hell, go back to that picture you had, if you're walking through hell, at what point do you stop being concerned about the attack of the enemy? While you're walking through hell. At what point do you pull up a lawn chair and say, you know what? Hell is getting kind of cool. Take off your gun belt and just lay back and kick it back. At what point do you do that? You don't That's why he tells Joshua, Joshua, you need to meditate in this thing day and night because where I'm taking you, Joshua, where you have to go. Your journey through the enemy's territory is going to be a 24-hour a day, seven-day a week preparation and attack on your life. You need to be ready, Joshua. So Joshua, don't let this word depart from you. Keep it in your mouth. Joshua, meditate in it all the time. And then thirdly, he says to Joshua, Joshua, if you want to be successful. If you want your way to be prosperous, he says to Joshua, do it. Just see that in the text? It's in the latter part of verse 8. He says, Joshua, uh meditate in it, day and night, that you may observe to do all that is written in it, for when then you will make your way prosperous, and then you will have good success. Joshua, do it. That you may observe. Joshua, keep it in your mouth. Joshua, meditate on it. That you may observe to do it. Joshua, the only way you're going to be able to observe to do it, in other words, know how to do it. You've got to keep it in your mouth and you've got to meditate in it. And then Joshua, it'll teach you how to do it You'll know how to do it. Um here is lies the problem with a whole lot of people. We watch this. We're walking through hell, and we may be carrying a copy of the word of God in our pocket or in the uh dash of a car, um but it's not in our mouth. We got it we got it, but we it's not in our mouth. And so we're we're walking through hell and we we we may know a couple of verses But we haven't really meditated in it. And we we need to to get in it such that we're reading it and We're not a distant observer because we need this thing as we're walking through hell. So then, watch this. It comes time to implement This word, our defense, our weapon, and we don't know how to use our weapon because we haven't meditated in it and because we haven't kept it in our mouth. We don't even know how to use it when the time comes And so he says to Joshua that you need to keep it in your mouth and meditate in it so you may know how to do it. Now if you've kept it in your mouth and you've meditated on it, now you'll know how to do it. And once you know how to do it, Joshua, doing it will make your way prosperous. Y'all still here with me? We live in this day and time where everybody wants to prosper. Everybody. Everybody wants to prosper. Because we our understanding of prosperity is financial and economic success. Much money and much stuff. That's prosperity from the perspective of the modern-day world. This is not the prosperity that the Lord is talking about. The prosperity that the Lord is referring to here is that you might be successful in your walk through hell, that you might be successful in pleasing God who's with you. Joshua, if you want good success, you want to be prosperous, Joshua, you want to watch me add to your life, Joshua, be obedient and take the word of God as you walk through hell. I love this. This is great stuff. He says, look, this is once you're once you're doing it. Uh let me is hold on. Um a lot of us have the word of God in some variation, some level of depth of form um but we're not we're not doing it amen but we want to tell other people to do it praise the Lord Lord, um, can we just be honest for a moment? We're good tellers, aren't we? We know how to tell other people what to do. Everybody that got children, you know you're telling them, I'm telling the truth. You know how to tell your children what to do, but we're not as good doers as we are tellers. Am I right? Am I right? So so we we can tell other folk um what to do. We um you now you know that that that cake is not good for you. And then you're gonna add ice cream and chocolate on top and sprinkles and nuts and stuff. stuff that's not really good for you. Don't you know you have diabetes already? You need to back off of some of that. Your clothes ain't fitting. the way they used to fit. And what you really need to do is get outside and exercise and you need to turn your plate down. You know, we good at telling folk other folk um stuff like that but we'll go to Popeye's amen eat all of the greasy chicken throw some french fries on the side give me a milk shake and put mix it up matter of fact make it vanilla and chocolate and we'll we'll eat that and drink that and then go home burp and fix something else to eat and we'll sit there at the television won't exercise nothing because we're good at telling other people but but but but but but but but what God says Joshua I I can't just have you be a teller you've got to be a doer if you're gonna walk through hell and be successful. You can't be just a teller. You've got to be a doer. Because when you walk through hell, the devil is coming at you with full force and you've got to be able to do what God says no All right, all right. I'm I'm I I'm gonna get out of your way. Um Um you gotta do it. You gotta do it. Doing it, doing this work um is going to assure success and prosperity. As you walk through hell, you'll be prosperous. God, Pastor, how do you know that that's true? I know that it's true because of the example of Jesus. Because, watch this Jesus was obedient. He obeyed this word. He had this word. in his mouth and he wouldn't let his the word out of his mouth even when people pressed him to the point that he could have said something else he always said what his father said he always said i've got to do the will of my father he always said it It is written. He always went back to the Word of God. And even though he himself was the Word of God wrapped up in flesh Guess what he always did? He always meditated in the word. He went to the synagogue. Now, if anybody didn't need to go to church, it would have been Jesus But Jesus was in the synagogue teaching and preaching and taking in what was being taught of the word, Lord have mercy of God. We've got a great example of one Who not only watched his kept the word in his mouth and meditated in the word and saturated himself with the word because all that he spoke was the word And the Bible says, in the beginning was the word, and the word was God, and the word became flesh and dwelt among us. He meditated in the word. The word was in him, and he was in the word, and he was the word, and then he He did what the word said. He did what the word said, even to the point of death. And watch this. And he walked through hell with the word so that you and I, Lord have mercy, would not die and spend our eternity separated from him. He walked, Lord have mercy, through hell of allowing them to whip him and beat him all night long. Lord help me here. He went through the hell of allowing his creation to spit in his face, to mock him, to put a crown of thorns on his head. He went through the hell of being uh mock and and and mutilated and and beaten and nailed to a rugged cross. He went through the hell of being hung up on a cursed tree he went through the hell of listening to them make fun of them if thou be the Christ Bring yourself down. If he saved others, let him save himself. He went through the hell of suffering on the cross and watching his mother, even his very earthly mother. grieve as she looked at her baby boy on the cross. He went through the hell of having blood run down his face and blood run down his throat and pushing up on the cross to say seven last say he went through the hell of dying on Calvary's cross and he went through the hell walked through hell took the keys from Satan that he might Get up on the third day with all power in his hand. He went through hell with the word of God as the word of God, so that you and I could be set free. I'm a living witness that you can make your way prosperous. I'm a living witness that you can have good success if you walk Through hell with the word of God. It's time to round them up. It's time to put on our armor. It's time to put our war clothes on, Lord Jesus. It's time to put Lord God on your helmet of salvation. It's time to put on the breastplate of righteousness. It's time to suit up with the sword of the spirit, which is the word of God and you gotta know how to use it while you're walking through your hell. You gotta know how to use it if you meditate in it If you keep it in your mouth, if you do it, you'll have good success. You'll come out on the other side saying glory. Glory. Hallelujah. Hallelujah. Glory. Hallelujah. I've come through hell. I've come through high water. But the Lord delivered me. I don't know what hell you've got to go through. I don't know what journey he has for you, but I guarantee you That this instruction he gives Joshua is sufficient to keep you. Keep this word in your mouth. Meditate in this word and do the word Because Joshua, you're going to come up against Hittites, Jebusites, and all kinds of other enemies are coming at you, Joshua But I've got a promise ahead of you, Joshua. I've got a land, Lord have mercy for you. But Joshua, you're gonna walk through and Lord help me here you've got to walk through the enemy's territory and he's gonna throw all kinds of arrows and all kinds of darts and all kinds of tricks and traps and you might even get sick in your body Joshua you You might be wracked with pain, Joshua. You might not be able to get up in the morning. You might have to suffer through some difficult times. You might have to watch some loved ones die. You might have to misunderstand and be misunderstood. I guarantee you, I've got a land. I've got a place for you. I'm trying to help somebody this morning. I don't know what you're going through, but let me tell you something. Doesn't matter what you go through down here, God's got a problem. for you for all those who believe and those who have accepted him as Lord of their life I've got a home over yonder and as the old folks say and it's mine Oh my. I might have to go through some hell down here, but I'm not staying here. I'm just camping out. I'm on my way to a better place. Thank you, Jesus. Thank you. Jesus, thank you that you walked through hell so that I didn't have to endure all the pain. Thank you, God. Thank you, God Lord, bless your people now. Let the word settle in their hearts. Let it stay in their mouth. Let them meditate in it. Day and night. Let them do it. As they walk through hell. Remind them, Lord, day by day. That they need to walk through hell with the word of God. Spirit of the Lord, if there's someone that know you, Going through hell and right now in their life. On their way to hell right now. They don't even know it. God, I'm praying that you save them. Save them by your grace. Deliver them from the judgment that is yet to come. Father, have them surrender their heart and their life to you today. You have a plan for their life, purpose for their life You love them. You don't want and desire any of them that they might perish, but they might have everlasting life. Draw that man, that woman, that boy, that girl From trusting in themselves to trusting in you. Draw them, God, by your spirit. If there be any here or any who are listening, save them today. That their life would never be the same. That as they walk through hell, their way might be prosperous and they might have good success. In Jesus' name I pray Amen. And amen. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Hettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. For a copy of Of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together and we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 8 a. m. or 11 a. m. at our new edifice called the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway. Upper Marlboro, Maryland. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301-627-9500. Please join us. again as Senior Pastor Buchan Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence.