And it came to pass, just as he interpreted for us, so it happened. and called all the magicians of Egypt and all of its wise men, and Pharaoh told them his dream, but there was no one who could interpret them for Pharaoh. Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Get your podcasts Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. Voices behind the song. And the keeper of the prison committed to Joseph's hand all the prisoners who were in the prison. Oh now Joseph has been in prison and the butler and the baker of Pharaoh have been thrown in prison and had dreams and so now he's interpreting the in Now, the butler has this dream about this vine that comes forward, and there are three branches that And he wants to understand what is this dream all about. uh uh ailing cows. and the thin ugly ones eat the fat ones. How when the Lord is with you, when you come out, he will remove the very stench from you. are eternity separated from you. Father, draw them today to ask forgiveness of their sin, to confess their sin before you, and to turn their back away from it, to repent of it. Please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. He sits down with the voices behind the song. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III And now within three days Pharaoh will lift up your head and restore you to your place, and you will put Pharaoh's cup in his hand. And according to the former manner, when you were his butler. And so thirdly, we were looking in Genesis chapter 39, and we spoke from the idea what's next when plans change. The temptation you may be accused of yielding to the temptation as Potiphar's wife accused Joseph of yielding to the temptation. Don't look at what's falling apart. Not only that you expect him to show you favor, but also to show you mercy, which means even though you haven't done everything right And then he he asked him something along the way. Listen, God's ability to deliver you and bring you is not contingent upon the memory of men Lord have mercy. So God is working while we might feel like we're suffering. And he explains this is what happened. The perfect and divine timing of God is working such that when you come out of the mess I'm trying to talk to somebody here. gift that he has been given by God. And set you up so that you can shine on your own. Your arm and bring you out of darkness into the marvelous light so you can walk around pimping and looking all primed and prippy. Gift that's in you to glorify him. Turn to you. Today. Father, someone has been looking at their life and they thought that their life situation and circumstances meant that you were not there. Amen. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. We'll move through several chapters here, actually Genesis 39, 40, and 41, but we'll begin in verse 21. The keeper of the prison did not look into anything that was under Joseph's authority, because the Lord was with him, and whatever he did, the Lord made it prosper. And now, Pastor Sterling. And as we continue to move through this uh series of messages entitled, What's Next? Then he restored the chief butler to his butlership again, and he placed the cup in Pharaoh's hand, but he hanged the chief baker, as Joseph had interpreted to them. Yet the chief butler did not remember Joseph, but forgot him. The dream goes on to tell of the f seven fine cows and the seven thin cows, if you will, and I have done nothing here that they should put me into the dungeon. which was Pharaoh's birthday, that he made a feast for all of his servants, and he lifted up the head of the chief butler and of the chief baker among his servants. Verse 1: Then it came to pass at the end of two full years that Pharaoh had a dream, and behold, he stood by the river. the seven thin ones or raggedy ones or ugly ones as the text calls them ate up the seven healthy and fine ones. Then the chief butler spoke to Pharaoh, saying, I remember my faults this day. And he goes on to say, When Pharaoh was angry with his servants and put me in custody in the house of the captain of the guard, both me and the chief baker, we each had a dream. Now there was a young Hebrew man with us there, a servant of the captain of the guard, and he interpreted our dreams for us. And there is no one who can interpret it, but I have heard it said of you that you can understand a dream and interpret it. In part two of our series, we were in Genesis chapter 37 as well, and we talked from the idea what's next when you have to serve your haters. when you resist temptation. Casting her eyes on Joseph over and over again. As a result of resisting the temptation that was thrown in front of him. He had favor. Because God is with you. Through this journey, and so God extends mercy and favor to Joseph in the text. Yeah, you still in prison, but you in the top position in the prison. The Pharaoh has a a little issue with his butler and his baker, and so he throws them in prison, and then they get to know Joseph. Come out from the vine, and when the branches come out from the vine, there is a budding and a blossoming of the of the branches, and then there is clusters of grapes that come Off of these three branches. The interpretation of dream belongs to God, and so I'll seek God for the answer to your dream, and God will give the answer to your dream. So he has good news for the dream of the butler, and he says to him, verse 14, he says, but when you get back there, he says, I have a request of you. Baker and hung him and the birds ate him. Joseph. It just happens to be two years for Joseph, but in two years, then what the fault of the butler is remembered, and the butler tells Pharaoh, I know a guy And when he tells him about that, he says, look, this is the dude, he can interpret dreams. Calls for Joseph. He moves in his perfect timing such that the residue of prison is washed off of Joseph you he'll take the smell off of you he'll clean you up he'll wash you up he'll prepare you for your next Fiery furnace. part of your journey. that you might utilize the gifts that he put inside of you. Seven years of plenty followed by seven years of drought and famine. thing that I'm gonna pull out of this text that happens when the Lord is with you is that favor prevails We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled worship services, Sundays at 10 a. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. The Lord was with Joseph and showed him mercy and gave him favor in the sight of the keeper of the prison. Dream of the butler. Make mention of me to Pharaoh and get me out of this house. And then as you move down to verse 8, now it came to pass in the morning that his spirit, that is Pharaoh's spirit, was troubled, and he sent And so when we were last together, we spoke here from the idea in the fourth part of this series from the subject matter, what's next? Even though you resist temptation, sometimes you still may be accosted by temptation. Verse 23, but the chief butler did not remember Joseph, but forgot him. them back. six two seven nine five zero zero please join us again as senior pastor Chapter 40, verse 12. Then Pharaoh sent and called Joseph, and they brought him quickly out of the dungeon, and they shaved him and changed his clothing, and he came to Pharaoh. It is not me. Well, as we've been walking through this journey with Joseph and through the life of Joseph, we began in Genesis chapter 37, and we talked from the subject matter: what's next when you are the favorite? Which means he held back from Joseph the justice he deserved. You know what that tells me? If not, he would not have needed mercy. Do you realize that man cannot undo the doings of God? Because when Potiphar put Joseph in prison, he put him in the king's prison. They both go to sleep one night and both of them have a dream in the same night Because the Baker only decided to let Joseph interpret his dream because the butler's dream interpretation was good. It's right here in the text, first chapter 41, verse 9. And shaved him and changed his clothes, and he came to Pharaoh cleaned up. In one night. And you will put Pharaoh's cup in his hand according to the former manner when you were his butler. Please make mention of me to Pharaoh and get me out of here. Alright, so just because they forgot doesn't mean God has forgotten. I know a guy who can interpret the dreams. To cause this thing to happen. And it's a good interpretation. We gotta save, put some stuff aside, and then and then when people need, they'll come to this person and they'll that person will be responsible because you you the king, you ain't got time to be doing all that. Give Joseph whatever he needs. And he's been in the king's prison in a dungeon running the prison and now you want to put this dude I'm I'm just in my sanctified imagination I'm thinking about the thoughts of the folk that are on the board In these verses here, the latter part of chapter 39, it lets us know that the Lord was with Joseph and showed him Mercy and gave him favor in the sight of the keeper of the prison. For him to show you mercy and give you favor. Now Joseph is in prison and he's the chief man in prison and he's got his nice position and everything's going well. But his was basically you gonna have your head taken off and the birds gonna be eating you. While the butler has forgotten. I know most of us is are mad about now because we've been in prison for two more years while this dude forgot, but I need you to hear this. You need somebody to handle this, and he gives the king the advice. Father in heaven, have your way in our invitation time. Father, someone is lost and drifting in this world, seeking a way, seeking an answer. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Verse 12 he says to him, This is the interpretation of the dream. Matter of fact, the text even goes on to say the keeper of the prison didn't even look into anything he did. Because what's next when the Lord is with you is that you're favored by God, sometimes forgotten by man, but also God will cause faults to be remembered. You need to put somebody who's gonna be over chop top of all this so that during the seven years of uh plenty, they you don't eat up everything. The king says to Joseph, this is my version. No, Pastor, wait a minute, wait a minute. What's next when the Lord is with you is that his favor prevails in your life too? Because first of all, you interpreted my dream. Of one of the officers of Pharaoh's wife Joseph is in authority in prison. So what what what I'm gonna do, Joseph, is I'm just gonna put you, you go, you the man. Maybe they never turned their back on the world and the sins that they had committed. Speak to them, God. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchanus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. But Spirit of the Lord, have your way. After Pharaoh has a dream of the seven uh healthy cows and the the seven That you're still there, that your favor is still available to them and for them. You're a God who created man. See, for some of us we can't come out of the mess too fast because we won't be ready for the next leg of the journey. Others, God, who may just be in need of you today, I'm praying that you're drawing them and encouraging them and filling them with what they need even now They threw them in there and they walked around, but because they were with the Lord, I'm trying to help you to understand something when the Lord is with Joseph gets cleaned up and shaved up and washed up and he comes before Pharaoh, watch this, to utilize the And he was charged with attempted molestation or attempted rape Draw them back to you. I'm trying to tell you what God will do. Joseph said to him, This is the interpretation of your dream. I mean the he calls them ugly in the text. Father, I know according to your word, you said you'll save them. It tells me that though the Lord was with Joseph, Joseph still had some judgments that could have come on him. Now let me help somebody right here. People will forget you. Verse 14. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. I know you're going through some stuff and you are anxious to get out of the mess that you're in, but He and I each of us dreamed according to the interpretation of his own dream The dream I had and the dream that the baker had, and and everything happened just like he said For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Expect God to extend mercy on your behalf. And then he dreams that all of a sudden he has the king's cup in his hand and he squeezes the grapes into the cup. Everybody. Catherine, if you have your Bibles with you on this morning and you should, I want to invite your attention to Genesis chapter 39. God will give Pharaoh an answer of peace. Joseph had been in the house of Potiphar as he was there in the house, his wife. And then finally, when she had opportunity, she grabbed hold of him. Because listen, and I know you might be still in the prison waiting for the two years for the people to remember you, but God is doing something in preparation while you're in the prison. Lord have mercy. Second of all, you already have a plan. Joseph said to him, this is the interpretation of it. And so God showed him mercy, and he was with him such that Matter of fact, oh my now I remember my fault. So Pharaoh sent and called for Joseph, and they brought him quickly out of the dungeon. But in addition to the interpretation, what Joseph also does is he gives Pharaoh advice as to how to manage what's getting ready to come. Don't get mad at them. Look with expectation to God, who is with you, and expect that God will show you favor. Speak to their heart. So Spirit of the Lord, draw men, women, boys, girls who may have never, ever repented of their sins. No. Everybody's still listening to you. Joseph uses his gift and he interprets the dream. Here's one of the things, and and I'm I'm moving into the second the second point. Save the lost person. When the Lord is with you, you should expect I need you to catch that part. Have your way, God. He cleaned you up and washed you up and set you up This dude just came out of prison yesterday. But the chief butler got back to his position, handing Pharaoh the king his cup. Gaunt cows they call them and and they're the they had these fat cows and these thin ugly cows. And nobody could interpret the dream. And when he gives the king the advice, the final He didn't take you off the street. Joseph is over everything in Egypt. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. And he says, The three branches are three days. Don't get angry. Then the chief butler spoke to Pharaoh, saying, I remember my faults this day. Someone needs you, someone needs your presence, someone needs a reminder today. God is preparing you for the next step in his plan for you. When Joseph comes in and sees him, Joseph says, Man, why y'all so sad today? That's a great question. Can I help somebody here? You're a God who loves us such that you gave your life for us. I don't need to hire nobody else to come up with a plan, and your plan is a good plan. Now Joseph might say, well, man, I'm still in prison He'll give the interpretation. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome And he restored me to my office, and he hanged him. Even hell itself can't change the doings of God. Two years later, God's still working. On this morning, I want to ask the question: what's next when the Lord is with you? And you've got freedom in the prison. God doesn't just clean you up and wash you up Maybe they've never asked you, God, to forgive them. Okay, this is my version. Reclaim that drifter today. But remember me when it is well with you, and please show kindness to me People forget So he says, look, you need somebody to manage this. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web Let them know that you're not a God of man's creation. Lord, help me here. I don't know how many people can probably say you told some folk, don't forget about me. org or contact our church office at 301 That's a great question. Kipping down to verse 20. He didn't take the alcohol out your mouth. In Jesus' name I pray. And that's that's when the butler said, I know a guy. I was supposed to tell you about him two years ago. You just this is my version. He will He will He will elevate you, He will raise you up. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Chapter 41 I skipped the baker's dream and all that and what happened. But three days later, when Pharaoh threw this party, he lifted up both of them and he restored the butler and he took the For indeed I was stolen away from the land of the Hebrews, and also When everything around you is falling apart, Then Pharaoh goes. So he gives them the dream, gives them the interpretation, and Whatever they did there, it was his doing. And when Joseph interprets the dream, Three branches are three days. Because first of all, when what's next when you the Lord is with you is you're favored by God, but watch this, you may be forgotten by men. And she put all the temptation right in front of him. He had that much confidence in him because the Lord was with him. And when you're in the king's prison, you got the favor of God. It's like the three Hebrew boys, y'all know, when they went into the God showed Joseph mercy. When God causes the fault to be remembered, If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. God's word reads like this. And so as chapter 40 picks up and begins to lay out for us while he's there in prison running things And not only may you be accosted by God is at work. You've got to expect that as you walk You the man, handle that. Now it came to pass on the third day And within three days, Pharaoh is going to lift up your head and restore you to your place. Causes Pharaoh to have a dream So save them by your amazing grace. So Joseph answered, saying to him, And listen, and the keeper of the prison gives everything into Joseph's hands. No, he saved you, he delivered you, he washed you that you might use that So he said, yeah, but let me tell you mine He didn't take that drug needle out Dude, you so smart. But you're still there, showing favor and drawing God was working in his perfect timing m. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. So Joseph was arrested, thrown into prison. And so, you know, he said, Well, we had a dream and it's troubling us. Now he's bringing you their stories. at the Legacy Center. When God promotes and God positions, can't nobody change that. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. The One Degree of Andy podcast. To each man he interpreted according to his own dream Please don't forget me. And Pharaoh said to Joseph, I have had a dream Wait a minute. Now he's bringing you their stories. That we may not have to die and spend But Joseph resisted The One Degree of Andy podcast. I'm Andy Christman. And they forgot about you. And he forgot all about Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. And so he says, Well In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. I'm Andy Christman in his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. You need somebody. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you go. This is good news.