And and and and and invite you and i to be partners with him called his own children adopted into his family surely you wouldn't rob the person who adopted you I was reading back and I saw the priest and the people, they didn't reverence God, they didn't respect God, they were afraid that God wasn't going to fulfill the promise, but yet they were not afraid that God was going to bring judgment. Well, here's the deal. And in that day of judgment, you will become my jewels. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together, and we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 8 a. And in their disobedience, they already knew that in our disobedience, we're going to be cursed. The idea here is in this statement that it's the whole nation, it's that so much of Israel is involved in the the robbing And the people were following in their actions and their behaviors. These things have brought a curse on you. picks up and says, then those who feared the Lord, see there were some who feared the Lord and and feared the Lord, spoke to one another, and and the Lord listened and heard them. And the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. Keeps clothes on your back, shoes on your feet, car in the driveway, half a tank of gas at least Voices behind the song. That he gave his only begotten son, that whoever would believe in him would not perish, but ever have everlasting life. What do we do? Tithes and offering. Well, you know, my salary is uh you know somewhere around thirty thousand after I pay everybody. marriage if you want a blessings in your covenant marriage covenant faithfulness in marriage reaps covenant blessings in marriage y'all still here yeah I know y'all rather talk about money now right him. to the faithful there is if you will a reward that god says i will give to those who have remained faithful yeah yeah yeah yeah thanks And the text says that God listened in on a conversation of the saints, and the saints, if you will, the faithful ones, were communicating with one another. I don't know how it happened, but God made a way that my child is in college. Go ahead now. That that I've been faithful to God and I've been giving and honoring God, and and even though there was a layoff on my job, guess what? Wouldn't be alive. That will be his jewels and will escape the judgment that is yet to come. called Father. called the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlboro, Maryland. is for us. Draw them to. Go to our website at Kettering Ministries. Personally, now he's bringing you their stories. Is your backstage pass. Now keep in mind before you take this too personal. He's coming, I'm coming. I'm coming. Y'all see that? Leviticus chapter 27 verse number 3. It belongs to the Lord, so we give it back to him for his glory. And then there's another group of folks that say, well, Pastor, do I tithe on my gross or do I tithe on my net? It's first fruit. As a result of their robbing God that they have been cursed with a curse. Now watch this. Curse, but I will tell you if you're struggling in your financial area, it might have might have something to do with a curse on your finances. to the covenant. of the Lord and in the this unfaithfulness to God, not just in the giving area, but also in the multitude of other areas, because the priests uh had left the abandoned God. to do if you get pick up your Bible after church today since you left it from last week. through eighteen is the reward of the faithful remnant. because I want you to know that everybody was not unfaithful to God. While everybody else was struggling, God was taking care of them. Now, for you and I, we it it paints a picture. And I hear God listening in on their testimonies of faithfulness and how God had blessed them and how God was keeping them and they were concerned about those that are going on around them. I feel Jesus all over me. God is not real. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Live on the earth, die a brutal death, be buried in a borrowed tomb, raised again the third day, and Matter of fact, sometimes they y'all look better than mine. I mean I might rob you if you give me a hard time and you know when when it's time for me to get something you say nah we can't afford it but when it ever time for you to get something you get what you want then I might rob you then That's the response of reality. But when God is constantly ever loving us, nah, we wouldn't rob him. He is ever watchful and he is loving us all the time. I just want you to know if you are a time tither, you would have to tithe, let's see, 18 hours and 38 minutes of every week to the Lord. And then on the other hand, you can also choose to disobey me, and then there's the mountain of curses. Son who serves him. not be room enough for you to receive. They knew that God would open up the windows of heaven and pour out such blessing that they did not have room enough to receive. For those that are faithful, God remembers our faithfulness, but it gives us the imagery, if you will, that there is a book of remembrance that is ever in the front in the presence of God when the day of judgment comes, that He will remember that you were faithful. The more the faithful talk for God. In the office place, when they start saying that you can't have your Bible on your desk, I hear the faithful sing, For God I live, and for God I die. The more you talk, I'm gonna stay on my knees. And said, Yes, God is real. Give their heart, give their life to you. Because he holds me. from destruction. Where he doesn't say, watch this, this is what he doesn't say. John chapter 3 verse 16 says, for God so love the world. Because I I felt y'all tighten up when I when it when I read the word when I read the word you when I when I read when it said yet you have I I I felt y'all tighten a little bit. Is rhetorical because he's creator, he's owner, he's preeminent, he is the I am, he is omnipotent, omniscient, omnipresent. Cattle and livestock from the stock and wheat and corn and seed from the field was commerce. Y'all still hear? comes from covenant obedience. So so a book of remembrance was written before him for those who fear the Lord and who meditate on his name. They shall be mine, says the Lord of hosts. That he would take off his royal robe in glory, wrap himself up in limiting flesh They figure God was had gone to sleep, he's not paying attention in essence. And Malachi says, even though you don't think judgment is coming, if you look back with me to verse number three, and I'm gonna read a couple verses there, Malachi says, judgment is coming. and against those who turn away an alien, because they do not fear me, says the Lord of hosts. Y'all still hear? Holy to God. It belongs it's holy and it belongs to him as holy. Amen. Your employer is gracious to you to take up take the tithes, I mean take the tithes for the government off for you. That means salvation is not based on what we do, but his mercy towards us. It still takes the mercy of God. Especially not after they paid that kind of price. He's talking Israel. When Abraham gives ten percent of his first fruit of increase to Melchizedek before the law even starts. 18 I don't think I don't see no tide titles because I don't see y'all. In him I move and have my being. He loves us anyhow. Then the offering of Judah and Jerusalem will be pleasant to the Lord as in the days of old in the former years, and I will come near you for judgment. of the first fruit of your commerce increase. But today we don't farm. Now, for those of you who say, I heard that before, that's old testament, that's the law. Amen. That message was to the unfaithful to try God. They knew the blessings of God. I've been honoring God, and I didn't have much, but God supernaturally caused me to have enough when I got home. The more the faithful taught. Spirit of God, if there's one here under the sound of my voice that has not trusted you as Lord and Savior of their life, I'm praying even right now that they would abandon the ways of the world and that they would come to you. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. He will purify the sons of Levi and purge them as gold and silver, that they may offer to the Lord an offering in righteousness. Amen. And we're not. For the children of Israel, he says, because you have robbed me, you are, and in this area of tithe and offering, you are cursed with a curse. So if I'm faithful to the covenant, I can expect the covenant blessings. He says, look, I'm gonna put their name in a scroll or a book of remembrance. I'm gonna remember your faithfulness. Father, in your name, speak to every heart, speak to every mind. But can I use my imagination for just a moment? He keeps on blessing you and loving you and pouring it out every day, even when we don't love him. God said I'm coming. Because remember, he did say judgment was coming. I can hear another one saying, Well, you know what? Leviticus chapter 27, verse number three says that the tithe is holy to God. Might. Remember I said first fruit of commerce, but just in case you are a time tither. Nobody brags on what they get after taxes and after after you know after allotments and all the other stuff. The Lord had set before the children of Israel. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. It's it's 10% of the first fruit, that's the first part that comes in, of your commerce increase. I was looking at the text and he says you're mine and on that day I will watch this, I will spare them. Are we guilty? What do you mean by that? Here's the great picture here is that once again everybody was not robbing God. Have your own way in this time and in this place in Jesus' name. Praise the Lord. You've been cursed. You've given the best you had. The One Degree of Andy Podcast. Now, let me walk us through just a little bit of a little teaching here. You can't tithe talent either because the talent ain't yours. First fruit means before the first part that comes in and I'll call it your bragging salary. And again, remember we're talking about Israel. That means it is set apart, sanctified. Y'all know that, right? Father, I'm praying that today that they would surrender to you. Listen to this. Y'all catch that one later. I'm shooting y'all down. I'm not saying every financial picture is a curse. I saw and so um for them they were cursed with this curse big and and again covenant blessings But there was a fateful remnant and watch this. I will be a swift witness against sorcerers and adulterers and perjers against those who exploit wage earners and widows and orphans Through Malachi, he lets them know that judgment is indeed coming. I hear the faithful saying. Can I point out one more thing, y'all, and I'm out of your way? Yet you have. I hear the faithful say, oh yeah, he's real, he's real, oh yeah, he's real because he loves me. And so the the the tithe is ten percent of the first fruit of commerce increase. I'm not gonna read it, but Leviticus chapter 27 verse number 3. They were marrying foreigners, and God had told them not to marry foreigners. And so now, watch this. Despite all the reasons why you shouldn't have robbed me, Israel. And even today, those who are faithful to the Lord's word, they know the blessings of God. And the Lord is not asking for that because time ha is is in his hands, not in yours. Then you shall again discern between the righteous and the wicked, between the one who serves God and the one who does not serve him. Y'all already know that. So they asked this question, how? He will sit at as a refiner and a purifier of silver. I can see it. Because he tells me that I'm his own. I'm Andy Christmas. But the law was just a standard to keep us at the big basics. Father, here in our text, they were robbing you of tithes and offering, but maybe someone's robbing you of the privilege of being But you say in what way have we robbed you? It's he is that's they that's and again remember tithing has nothing to do with your talent. Because you know it does rain on the just and the unjust. On that day that I make them my jewels, I will spare them as a man spares his own sin. They knew this. So he sa he says to them, Y you you're curse with a curse, for you have robbed me even this whole nation. See, they were living there in Israel like judgment wasn't coming. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. org or contact our church office at 301-627-9500. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts That's just the love and grace of God. Okay? I'm I'm working and I'm a single parent. He doesn't say because of your faithfulness, you'll make it in. In light of the rhetorical question, there is a response of reality. You died on Calvary's cross. He's still got to forgive you. The rhetorical question, response to reality, reward to the faithful. Okay, okay. Y'all got that memorized. I wish I had somebody here that's not ashamed of the gospel because when they start talking about Jesus And so now what what I what I hear and I get a lot some folks say well you know what pastor I give I give some money but I tithe my time He had set before them a mountain. I'm gonna remember what you've done. Let me back up. While everybody else was trying to rub pennies together, they had dollars and they had spare change and they could bless other people. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. Keep that in mind. Now this this is not just the covenant as it relates to the covenant of giving and and and offerings and and the other things, but even the covenant of There there every single individual was not unfaithful to God. I could just imagine that one faithful saint says to another saint. It's it's not that God is going to forget. I'm taking this rug from under your feet. You'll become precious to me. And God said, I've got a reward for you. Um the the we we've looked at in this text, we've looked at the rhetorical question. Now the answer comes back to them in tithes and offering So Titan is the Tithin is the first fruit of your commerce increase Talk about him as much as you please And even after adopting you, he keeps waking you up in the morning, keeps feeding you. Tell your neighbor this ain't personal. Not saying that. It belongs to Him, is holy. And so therefore, I get it, it's a rhetorical question. I can feel him in my feet. The more the wicked talked against him and said he doesn't know what he's talking about, the more the righteous stood up See, in the old testament, fruit from the tree and Just you know write that down. Now what typically happens with this passage when people preach the passage is that they go to try me now and see if I won't open up the windows and pour you out such blessing that in my You can write this down because you I want you to check me, because I know y'all, you know, this is a subject matter y'all gonna be checking. I don't see y'all that much. He said that they say two mountains. And so, you know, I believe that's what allowed them to get to the place where in the text he says, yet you have. But here's the deal. I can't live without him. Amen. That's a great question. But it might have something to do with it. You you bled, you suffered. Tithe means 10% And what Malachi comes back to them and reminds them: because of your unfaithfulness to God, you've chosen the curse. Draw them, God, as only you can. This is the responsible reality. I know y'all want to know this too, right? Okay. And the Lord says, Yeah, judgment is coming. So I asked why They were doing all kinds of things. I hear the wicked say They they want to know what you're talking about, Willis. Amen. And so they had a choice in terms of walking in obedience. There was a remnant of faithful people. I looked at the text and I saw in the text No, you bread, I'm sixty-five thousand a yeah, I w I make a hundred and forty thousand. Um it's it's just it's in there and it shows you and lets you know all the things that they were doing that were anti and against God and God said But the faithful were already trusting and trying God. Praise the Lord. He's still got to remove your sin. Now I don't have a whole lot of time to lay out for you all the ways in which folk even today are being Praise the Lord. I'm gonna watch this. Ain't no cattle ranches in here. If if I want the covenant blessings of God, I've got to obey the covenant of God. That He reigns on the just and the unjust. We ain't under the law. Then there's another group of folk that say, well I ties my talent because I sing in the choir. The faithful already knew that. And if you read back in Malachi, you know, take a little time, read back through Malachi this week, you ain't got nothing else. I'm going to preserve you. And the Lord says that every gift and every talent that's given is given for the benefit of all. It's your responsibility to bring the tithes to the house of the Lord. While everybody else didn't have enough, they had what they needed. Question is as I close, are we guilty? So that helps me to understand why this question But I've been faithful to God in giving to God, and last year, when my child had to go to college. Watch this, here's another one I want you to know And I hear another saint saying, God does not forget If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. I got some neighbors don't never go to church. So now I asked the question why, but as I kept reading the text, they asked the question how? I'm going to remember your faithfulness. It's untouchable. Let me say this. They had robbed God, and God said, You've robbed me in time. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. 18 hours 38 minutes will be what will be required of you, even if we were accepting time tides. All the more the wicked talk You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III. It's not personal. And I'm going to judge, and I will separate, and in that day I'm going. Make it clear what your will Now, what John is saying is that he is loving us, and if he's loving us to the extreme. I ain't gotta preach that to them. I gotta give glory to him. For additional information If you honor God, I will say this: God will take care of you. On one mountain is blessings. Just in case you wanted to know. The more that the the those that were evil talked against God Father, there are others that are struggling here with multitudes of issues. So that we would be able to be called the children of God. Andy Christman of 4Him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist person. It's not personal. m. You're right. And what I want you to look at in verse number 16 and org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. And for those most of the who would probably say that, not that talented anyway. or 11 a. Even though we're still faithful, that doesn't get you a ticket to heaven And so it will be 18 hours and 38 minutes, will be your requirement of time tithing. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. And if God is loving us that way, you wouldn't rob a person who's loving you. Grace says I can do the basic and then some. It's His. I can feel him in my hands. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. And now, stay tuned for the conclusion of last week's message Nobody Watch this Then the text goes on. We don't we don't go to a safe way and exchange a chicken for a loaf of bread But when the rain comes down, it rained on their yard too. We're not under the law. Verse 16 m. Everybody in here not robbing God. They knew that they would be blessed because of their obedience. I was the last one to come, I should have been the first one to go, but they kept me in my job. Now um the the I They already know that, but there is a promise at our new edifice. If you do, if you keep my word, if you're faithful to me, I'll bless you. They were not reverencado, they were not respecting God. The response of reality is, yet you have robbed me. We've looked at the response of reality. Now he's bringing you their stories. Now, the text doesn't tell us what they were saying. It's because of him that we'll be able to receive the reward that he talks about in the text. And I know that we want to get out from under the law and you are out and you are free. I'm gonna say it one more time. The One Degree of Andy podcast. But this is not law because this begins before the law is even instituted. How can I put away his word if it wasn't for his word? That's what they used to buy and purchase. They had money in the bank. I'm praying you'd It says, yet you have robbed me. I usher the door. But it's not personal, this is Israel. I know y'all Alright, alright, I'm gonna leave y'all off. But are we guilty? Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. The reason why I add the word commerce because I want you to know we're talking about money. Everybody will know for sure who's mine, who's not. I'm Andy Christman. And God says through Malachi I've got to be faithful. Last thing I want to talk about Yeah, that's what the first fruit And Lord says, Don't be concerned. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. They they had better than what they had when they were hustling. That's a great question. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. It's the mountain of blessings. I've got a reward for you. If you love Christian music, this is