Where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. Then Ziba said to the king, According to all that you, my lord, the king has commanded his servant, so will your servant do. That he can show the kindness of God to. We would still be walking the way we used to walk. It doesn't matter. And we want to promote you to this executive position, even though you haven't finished college, even though you've never been to school. He could bless them a whole lot better. He'll do what he wants to do, how he wants to do it, when and where he wants to do it. Is there anybody left after he saved the New Testament saints? Pastor, I messed up my finances, doesn't matter. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together and we invite you to join us for one of our Spirit-Fill Worship services, Sundays at 8 a. At Kettering Ministries. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. at our new edifice called the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlboro, Maryland. Voices behind the song. And so the king said to him, Where is he? To Ziba, Saul's servant, and said to him, I have given to your master's son all that belong to Saul and all his house. So Mephiboshev dwelt in Jerusalem, for he ate continually at the king's table, and he was lame in both feet. And you shall bring in the harvest, that your master's son may have food to eat. As for Mephibosheth, said the king, he shall eat at my table like one of the king's sons. I want to help somebody here this morning that David's not the first king that had a covenant to keep. Mahiboshev right now is in low to bar. face down before the king to honor and reverence the king who is getting ready to bless him. clap. I know my position, servant. This when you lost your job, you might have thought you lost this when they repossessed your house, but I know I got a few witnesses in the house that can say God can give it back to you, He can restore it all. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Pastor Sterling. The word of the Lord reads, Now David said, Is there still anyone who is left of the house of Saul that I may show him kindness for Jonathan's sake? So David said to him, Do not fear, for I will surely show you kindness for Jonathan, your father's sake, and will restore to you all the land. They've taken the young son of Jonathan, Mephiboshev, and run away with him to get him out of the way of destruction. The courting of it all goes from chapter 9 through chapter 20. But every king needs to know that there's a king higher than him. I want to talk on this morning from the subject matter. Because the reality of it is, when I look at this picture theologically, every single one of us came into the world lame in both feet ugly. God in the middle of all that, even though right now, in the middle of where he is right now, in Lodabar, the king still says, I want to go there and I want to bless him and show him kindness. I want you to imagine for a moment that God decides to show you favor and he sends your boss to you and says, you know what, you've been working hard, you've been doing your job, you've been doing what you're supposed to do. And guess what? Doesn't matter what your past is, doesn't matter what your present is. When Mephibosheth was called to the king, he prostrated himself. You've got to position yourself in the position so that God can get the glory out of the situation. to you all the land of Saul your grandfather and you shall eat bread continually at my house. That your daddy lost, I'm gonna give you everything that your granddaddy lost. Because I want to show you kindness. And he wants to show you kindness, but it doesn't have anything to do with your past. And he bled until he couldn't bleed anymore. And the king said, Is there not still someone of the house of Saul to whom I may show the kindness of God? of Saul your grandfather, and you shall eat bread at my table continually. And there was a servant of the house of Saul whose name was Ziba. And Zebba said to the king, There is still a son of Jonathan who is lame in his feet. had come to David, he fell on his face and prostrated himself. The people transitioned from being under the leadership of King Saul. The problem with Saul was that Saul had no respect for God, for the laws of God. Saul did what he wanted to do. David is in a position where he has made a covenant with Jonathan, Jonathan whom he loved, Jonathan who protected him. Kings has a covenant that he wants to keep. Doesn't matter if your daddy was an alcoholic. When the king wants to show you kindness. Pastor, what you talking about? Some of us have been through maltreatment. Yes, he is. bless you the king wants to show you kindness but your past Because you would think that if if you were coming into kingship and it was this grandson of the person that tried to kill you, you wouldn't want to show that person kindness. When the king wants to show you kindness. Lodabar means the place of no hope. Where is Mophiboshev? Because of all they've been through and all they've seen and all they've analyzed and all they've determined about God. He can't take care of himself. Where you are today, I want you to hear this. Some of our right nows, our right nows look like I'm self-sustaining. And we look at them and we say, oh, they always looking good. The king knows you cry yourself to sleep at night. For Mephiboshev and calls him out of Lodabar. Well God, I done got kind of comfortable. I'm kinda comfortable in this two-bedroom apartment where the water only drips in sometimes and the hot water does get cold uh most of the time. He wants to show you favor. Come out of your presence because I want to show you high and blessed favor. When he calls. They would start stuttering and stammering and would probably say, I'm not qualified to take that role. Now, your past doesn't matter when the king wants to show you kindness. Here's where we get stuck. Can I help us here? And it might be some appreciative saints in the house who would say, I don't know why he saved me. And he decided, I'm gonna send my son, my only son, Jesus, who is the Christ, the King of Kings, the Lord of Lords, he's gonna show kindness. To this generation of people whose lives are messed up, who are engaged in sinful behavior and activity, and while they're still sinners, I'm sending my son to die for them To die in our place. cheat, every whoremonger, every drunk, every witchcraft, every one of our sin, every covetous attitude, every negative attitude, every wayward person, every cheater, every robber, he Died and shed blood until all the debt was paid. He can show kindness too. Then King David sent and brought him out of the house of Nikur, the son of Amiel from Lodabar. What is your servant that you should look upon such a dead dog as I? And by the time we get here, David is now transitioning into his kingship. Of the house of Saul, because I've got a covenant to keep. He says, is there still yet anybody left of the house of Saul whom I may show the kindness of God to? Ziba said, He's in the house of Mekir, the son of Amiel, in Lodabar A place of no hope. But the fact that you got it all together, you got your hair fried, dyed, laid to the side, you got all that going on, you got your nails matching your toes, you got your pinky rings and toe rings, you got everything all blended and and And you're ready for the king to call you out. Sometimes because we evaluate ourselves in our present state, we tell God whether or not we are qualified to receive the blessing that He wants for us. You say, well, no, that's too much. who is lame in his feet. And there was a servant of the house of Saul. look like qualified candidates to be blessed by God. The one who's lame in both feet. for destruction because everybody of Saul's linen should have been destroyed so that there'll be no threats to the kingdom of David. That's the problem. Here we go. Prostrated himself before the king and listen to what he said. Jesus, if it had not been for the Lord who is on your side, you wouldn't be here today. King, I came to serve, not to give. As I. That was least worthy of anything that the king had to offer. The greatest kindness that God ever showed was when he sent his son. Your father doesn't matter. Kindness of God. Yes, Lord. And then after you decline, they bring some other dummy in who don't know nothing and now they're your boss. Strong. This passage of scripture from 2 Samuel chapter 9 is the beginnings of the transition of kingship from King Saul to King David. Is there anybody here today who has had enough of living at McCure's house? Why? Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. He's the one we ought to get up and wave our hands. When the king wants to show you kindness, it doesn't matter what your past looks like. My fibers chef, your past doesn't matter. Some of us were whoremongers. Can I talk to you today to let you know it doesn't matter who your grandfather was, doesn't matter who your daddy was. Verse 5. So now Mephiboshev comes, son of Jonathan comes, he came to David, look at what he does. I I I know I didn't deserve it. Doesn't matter. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. The kindness of God, it blows the imagination. It's not that the king is not calling you out, it's just that you won't come. Because I want them to eat at my table like sons and daughters. I want to uh invite your attention to 2nd Samuel chapter 9. He's a way maker. When the king comes, you've got to acknowledge him as king. But Fibishap likened himself one unto a Gentile, calls himself a dog, but he likened himself unto the lowest position. And the people said to God, God, we want a king just like the other nations, so they chose their own king, King Saul. Your past doesn't matter to the king. And so David says to him, Don't be afraid, don't be fearful, for I will surely show you kindness for your Jonathan, your father's sake, and will restore The blessings come down. org or contact our church office at 301-574-3515. He will be disqualified for being priest. So the king sent and brought him out of the house of Mekur, the son of Amiel, out of Lodabar. I'm trying to help you to see that when we came into the world, none of us had the ability to walk in the righteousness of God. He thought he could step in and even act in the role of a priest. He does what he says he's gonna do. When King Jesus looked out over the generations, he looked on a people who could not save themselves. Praise the Lord. Because the reality of it is just because you look good on the outside doesn't mean that you ain't tow up on the inside. Why would God do what he does? And the King of Kings, his name is Jesus. And Zibb said to the king, Indeed, he is in the house of Mekura, the son of Amiel, in Lodabar. David said, is there still anyone who is left of the house of Saul that I may show the kindness for Jonathan's sake? He's in the place of no pasture. Doesn't matter if your mama never went to church. His name was Ziba. And even though some of you have been blessed to be delivered from it, you still walk them the same way. Some of us were thieves. We've been through all kinds of stuff, but it doesn't matter what your past is. He's in the place of no hope. That's too much responsibility. So don't don't disqualify yourself because of your present condition. And you get mad at somebody else because God blessing them. Doesn't matter how lame you are in both feet when the king wants to show you kindness. Doesn't matter that your your grandfather was Saul, and Saul chased me down, tried to kill me, threw spears at me, wanted me dead, tracked me all over the country, trying to wipe me out. The king knows that you don't know where your next meal is coming from. He wants to call you out of your load of bar. They always got it together. This whole worship ain't about you. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. I'm trying to talk to us right here. I messed up in my marriage, it doesn't matter. You've been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III. The one whom I may show kindness to today. I mean this bed ain't that hard. Doesn't have anything to do with your present. When he allowed sinful man to whip him, beat him, crucify him, nail him to a cross. He said, Here is your servant. And so by the time we get to chapter 9, Saul has been killed. And he made a way where there was no way. So when Ziba had come, they called him, and David called and asked him the same question. God wants to show you kindness. He still wants to show you kindness. Is there anybody left? So the king said to Ziba, where is he? Maybe the reason why you haven't got your blessing is because you haven't given them no praise yet. Some of us were liars. Nobody will want him to be the king, even though he had a kingly succession. I know I wasn't worthy of it. He's in the place where because he's lame in both feet, he can't walk And in this discourse, what you will find is the process of David establishing his kingdom as See, this child was the son of Jonathan, but he was the grandson of Saul. Where is the one whom the Lord is looking for to show kindness? I don't want to I don't want to be responsible for people. And in my fibers, you gonna sit at the king's table like a son of the king all the days of your life. Because I want you to understand something. I have a good government job. The king, King David, sends But Mephiboshef, your master's son, shall eat bread at my table always. And the first act of David as king is he wants to show somebody from the house of Saul the kindness of God. The king wants to show you kindness. That's on the outside. Only because he wants to show you kindness. I've got to bless somebody in the house of Saul. Doesn't matter what your family history was. Some of our past is hurtful. Your present doesn't matter when the king wants to show you kindness, but your prostrate position does matter when the king wants to show you kindness. When the king wants to show kindness Yes, he will. That's a great question. He showed his kindness to us all. The King of Kings wants to know: is there anybody left that I can show kindness to? But the king wants to show you kindness. Because he will put you in places you ain't supposed to be. Some of us might have even been murderers. It ain't about me. But it has something to do with your prostrate position. And so when they had called him to David, the king said to him, Are you Ziba? Then David said to Mephiboshef, and he answered and said, Here is your servant Mephiboshef had a young son whose name was Meccah, and all who dwelt in the house of Zibah were servants of Mephiboshev. There's another king I need to talk to you about on today as I parade through the story of David. Saul was the people's choice. And and even when God had told him utterly destroy all of the nation, he said, now I'm gonna hold some of this for myself. He wants to call you out of your situation. Your present doesn't matter. You can't be going around and saying, I got lucky. Well, they giving him all the glory that's due to his name. After he did it all, is there anybody left that I can show kindness to? As we look into our past, some of our past doesn't make us It is the place of no pastures. Watch this. We'll begin at verse number 1. I mean why I wanna live in all that big old house with four bedrooms and it's only eight of us But God did it. Until all sin was paid for. Your past doesn't matter. But the king knows what's going on on the inside. The king knows they're about to repossess your car. Here's where we get it all twisted. He said, I'll never leave you, nor will I forsake you. We want to put you in this position most folk God doesn't care about your present condition. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Matter of fact, I wasn't even looking for him. Pastor, I'm I'm a mess right now. And the king called He had no obedience to the ways of God. I have a good contractor's position. You know what the problem with a whole lot of us is? And he wants to know, King, why are you considering me? The question is, are you gonna come? So then he bowed himself and said, It's about the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. How did he do it? He came with a right attitude before the king He positioned himself to show reverence to God. It doesn't matter what your past is. He fell on his face, prostrated himself, and then David said to Mephibosheth, he answered and he says, Here is your servant. Some of our past is But yet look at Only because he loves you so much. When the king wants to show you kindness, it doesn't matter what your past is, it also doesn't matter where your present He prostrated himself, laid down Listen what Mufibushef says. And now that Jonathan has been killed and Saul has been killed, David just wants to know, is there anybody left? And Ziba said, there is still a son of Jonathan. I already know I got a few witnesses in the house that know that God can do it. I'm so glad that the king looked out over generations and saw we couldn't do this thing by ourselves. You therefore and your sons and your servants shall work the land for him Some of us have been abused. Your past doesn't matter when the king wants to show you kindness. Where is he now? They're in the place where they don't believe there's no hope of a future. Now when Mephiboshef the son of Jonathan, the son of Saul m. Even where you are right now. I'm okay with my little GS2 But it ain't because the king didn't show you kindness. He does it because he's a miracle worker. And then he said, Is there anybody left after he saved the old testament saints? When the king wants to show you kindness, he just wants to show you kindness We sit up in church like God owe us a favor. He still wants to show you kindness. He just wants to He wants to know: is there anybody left I can show kindness to or 11 a. And now, org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. For additional information, go to our website He would have disqualified from all that. They're about to put you out of your house. He wants to call you out of your mess. And and watch this. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. He's the one. I got a good retirement pension. We want to promote you But but it wasn't because God didn't offer you the opportunity. When the king wants to show kindness, he's just looking for somebody When the king calls, we don't want to leave. No, you got to give the glory to the one who showed up to give it Who am I? m. Saul was a renegade, if you will. He'll do it They position themselves to get the blessing from God. He came looking for me. Now he's bringing you their stories. But if it had not been for the kindness of the king, we would still be lame in both feet. Some of us have been misused. Doesn't matter. Where is Mophiboshev? Mufir Chef got in position As a servant. Only because he wants to pour out on you all the favor that he has. He was tall, handsome. Some folk they cover up on the outside to cover the pain that's on the inside. The One Degree of Andy podcast. The king knows all about that. She's in Why are you looking on such a dead dog Every lie, every Now Zibah had fifteen sons and twenty servants Jonathan has been killed. I'll bring you out in your time of struggle when the king wants to. And we got to position ourselves. He's the one we ought to fall down on our face to. I'm a servant of you, King. When the king has offered you the favor, In fact, he should have been desperately Here's something, I'll say this really quick. Listen, listen. But the image in this picture is that your past doesn't matter. And even right now, he's speaking to you saying, come out of your situation. And David the King said, 'I'm gonna give you everything back, not just It looks like you got it all together. He just wants to know, is there anybody? We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. We got our arms crossed, our legs crossed, like we somebody. I'm Andy Christman. Some of us, our parents gave us up for adoption. I need you to understand that the king of But he still, even in your right now mess, wants to show you kind. You may have thought you lost this in your divorce settlement. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Why And he said, At your service. Why did he do it? I'm a servant Because when the king wants to show you kindness, I'm not leaving. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Saul thought he could do what he wanted to do. I declare, if God had more worshiping people, Because he's a covenant-keeping God. Because when the praises go up. He does it because he's a promise keeper. He's the one we ought to get up on our feet. Doesn't matter I'm gonna stay right here. Some of us have been through abortion. You might have thought you lost You ain't nobody when Is there anybody?