That we're supposed to love each other, right? So that we can act like him, look like him, and respond like him, and love like him. Chapter two verse seven is where I'll pick up from it says, And the Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life Um looked at one of the aspects of life which we find ourselves both enjoy great pleasure from, but also great pain from. Eight point two four billion people in the world because you were created by God and in his likeness and after him And have dominion over the fish of the sea, the birds of the air, everything that's living in and all that. at the Legacy Center located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Voices behind the song. And the Lord God commanded the man, saying, Of every tree of the garden you may freely eat, but of the tree of knowledge and of good and evil you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat of it Uh he put man whom he had formed. On this day, Lord, I find myself as always in fervent need of you. I pray that you would strengthen my mind and my body and allow me, Lord, to clearly articulate what you have placed in my heart. and become one of your children. or the foundational establishments of relationships, it might help us as we get further into the relationships. of relationships. What color your skin is, who your parents are, what side of the railroad tracks you grew up on, what your zip code is, what your immigration status is, what your health or wealth is. We're common with God, we're common with each other. Reflecting the glory of God, and he failed in his mission of reflecting the glory of God, and God creates humanity that humanity might now reflect the image of God as they walk That's our purpose. And if you get jump over to uh I think two twenty-four, he says to them in two twenty-four, he says, uh the man shall leave his father and his mother, be joined to his wife, that's the whole relationship thing. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Chrisman. God said, Let us make man in our image according to our likeness, and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, over the birds of the air, and over the cattle in its entirety, and now Pastor Sterling. And over everything that moves on the earth, and God said, I have given you every herb that yields seed, which is on the face of the earth, and every tree whose fruit yields seed, to you it shall be for food You will surely die. That they might repent of what has separated you from them. Even in church relationships and in so many of all of these, uh and and on and on. with the other family, extended family, aunts and uncles and cousins and the merged in family members, you know. That's how God created. As it relates to us that we have. I got four, four foundational pillars uh of relationships that I want to kind of hit on this morning. Let us make man in our own image according to our likeness. or commonalities, but I'm I'm gonna throw out a third one just so I can get that off the books um today. the commonalities between God and man and the commonalities between man and man. And we're created in his likeness, and so we're created like him, but we're also created like each other. Dad, we got the same mother. Or items of worship or uh partners for our pleasure or for procreation. Throughout the earth, and he says, Now be fruitful and fill up the earth with my image because I've created you in my image. A threefold cord is not quickly broken. It's for the purpose of help. It's not for us to be alone. Y'all y'all catching up? First, in order to have the relationship with each other right. And then love your neighbor like you love yourself. Be fruitful, multiply. Two shall become one. Praise the Lord! please visit our website at kettering ministries. And man became a living being. Over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. And then God blessed them and said to them Be fruitful and multiply, fill the earth and subdue it, have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the air. honor you and bless you. Are inescapable. There's there's struggle that we have in dealing with these relationships. Because we have all these issues in relationships. to one another. In Genesis, it helps us because we find out that what happened here was first and foremost: the Lord made us in his image. uh is that we're like him because we are made in his image and we're made in his likeness. That was the commonality. And so the third commonality is in verses 28 and 29, where God blessed them and he said, be fruitful and multiply and subdue the earth. of his image in his creation. Verse 2728, it again, and I'm just repeating, God created us in his own image, and after his likeness, and he created a male and female, and then God blessed us, and then he said, Be fruitful and multiply. Y'all still here? So we're supposed to be reflecting the image of God and the likeness of God. Because they have a good reward for their labor. For when he falls, for he has no one to help him. Extensions of God that were all over the place. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. Minister in the Spirit of Excellence. Don't get in a relationship. That today, God, they will be drawn to you by the power of your Holy Spirit, that they won't be able to resist your draw, but they will surrender to you today, God. is housed in relationships. find ourselves having to engage in and involved in. And so guess what? Focus our our relationship therapy on, but I just want to throw it out here, and that is the commonality we have with the rest of God's creation. The purpose, if I can say this in this, um, and I'm moving to purpose in a minute, um, but it it's so that we can have some food. Them. Here's the purpose. Okay. unto God and I'm dead we cannot sink up. Don't get in a relationship. But most of us are probably struggling in one or more relationships that we have. To talk to you today from the subject matter foundational pillars of relationships. Okay. my stargazers and for my tree huggers and for my pet parents. So let me keep building, let me keep building. Now, in relationships with each other, sometimes that doesn't happen. I'm going to make him some help because so now God put y'all know the story puts him to sleep, breaks off a rear from the rear, makes a woman that she might be his helpmate. Y'all still here? But who who who can uh who who can one warm with alone? I'm gonna make you a helpmate that is comparable to you because those fish, those animals, those dogs, little foo-foo with the pink outfit on and the hat is not like you So they can be unified like we're unified. After you've told me for about an hour all the problems and all the reasons why the other person that's sitting in the other chair is all jacked up and messed up and why their life is twisted up, then I would say, Well, what is your relationship with God like? Both of them, both people. If I'm not in sync with God, I'm not gonna be in sync with you. So he's communicating and he says, look, this is what I want you to do. I want to state the obvious out of the text that I just read. Under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III. Wives and husbands and boyfriends and girlfriends. frustration when these relationships are not managed well. So we've got some commonalities with with each other, and we have commonality with God, and we have commonality with each other regardless of Didn't take the bone of the the skull, didn't take the bone of the foot. You need a relationship with God. In fact, Jesus broke it down this way. He says, watch this. Step back and become write them out very specifically, very detailed I knew you were no good. We have friend relationships and co-worker relationships and co partner relationships where you know you may be owning businesses together and co-owner relationships. Of course, sin destroyed that, and we get to that in a minute. We struggling. Men, we need this conference. I know that's man's best friend, but no, you need a helpmate that's like you. Let us create man in our image and in our likeness and so they can be connected like we're connected And and watch this. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship Services, Sundays at 10 a. Make it plain. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. And he created us two, so that's what we have in common. No, we're not supposed to worship them. I don't need nobody doing this all by myself. I can be in sync with you because I'm in sync with God. This morning's um subject as I look in the text that I've shown and read for you uh on this morning, I want to use those verses and this the um the infancy of scripture But no, no, no, no. It's not for us to be alone. We're all difficult because we've got a sin nature. I'm gonna probably say this is probably the number one issue that most people are having. If we follow the model of God, God communicates his expectations. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. Because relationships are hard. You need a helpmate that is like you. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family In other words, let me say like this. So we're we're connected and we're like each other and you you have commonality with eight The number one problem that I have found in 40 years of ministering with people in terms of relationship issues is poor or no communication. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. He's communicating his expectations. So what do they have in common? Y'all still hear? I know. For the series as we go through this and for uh our biblical uh examination, I want to look at actually two correlations. That's what connected us. We were created in his image and after his likeness and his the his his purpose is that we would we would become multipliers. We struggling. It ain't good for us to be alone. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III That's part of the relationship purpose that we might reflect the image of God and and that everybody might see the image of God and we might see all throughout all of his creation God's imagery and God's glory might be seen. Two seventeen, I think it was what I was the other one I was looking for. Would you pray with me on this morning? And in advance and with great expectation I say Amen and Amen. The God-to-man purpose is out of love and a desire to duplicate and multiply the image of God. Not his footstool and not not his head. Psalm 127:5 says, Happy is the man who has a quiver full of children. I know I know what you're thinking, but Pastor, you don't know. You can't escape being in a relationship. And so the the objective of God was that we would be in sync with him and then ultimately in sync with each other. Now, here's the third foundational pillar. People go through bad relationships. There it is, I can't live without him. Doesn't matter what we look like right now, we have that in common. So now, so we got the commonalities. I pray for those who perhaps are drifting in their fellowship, God, that you would draw them back unto your side. From the Bible, the Bible helps me to understand that we are created in the image of God. I'm talking about relationships. If your expectations are broad and unspecific. Uh chapter two, verse fifteen picks up and says, And the Lord God took man and put him in the Garden of Eden to tend it and keep it. I'm just talking about a relationship foundational principles. As I look at that as it relates to this is uh the first relation uh ship Verse 4. And they'll know that we are his because we love one another. Those are the two important principles of relationships in all of that we have. It's so that we could eat them. I knew you were never gonna do this. The word relationship literally means it's the way that two are connected or intertwined or interrelated We were made in his image and his likeness. We are like each other. And you need other people too. Now there was one called Lucifer who had the responsibility of reflecting The Lord says in chapter 2, verse 18, it's not good for man to be alone. He says, when they asked him, What's the what's the greatest commandment? And then communicate them. Father, we honor you. So they can they can have harmony like we have harmony. Because if my relationship with God is messed up, out of order, it stands to reason that I can't have a sync relationship with you. We need help. He's communicating his expectations. For if they fall, one will lift up his companion. Then God blessed them, and God said to them. And I pray, God, that they would grow in grace to be stronger as children of the living God. But the foundation of this begins with what I call the commonalities of relationships. This is the race relationship therapy. We need help. Okay? The man-to-woman relationship purpose was out of need for help. Up. People get on your nerves. And as as as we interacted with each other, even as even as even as we see here in the New Testament, we find out Um amen. Can I can I just throw this out for therapy purposes? We sync up when we sync up with God because we were created in his image and after his likeness, and we have his breath in us. I can't love on my own. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message He can't he's not gonna be cold. He took the bone of the rib that she might be beside him, that she might be his helpmate, and she was created like him. We need help. And you're trying to do it by yourself. We bless you. So God created the birds and the fish and all that stuff and and the the grass and trees and all that. Now let me move on to the next one. Again, if two lie down together, they will keep warm. Genesis chapter one, beginning at verse twenty six, God's word reads as follows Then Everybody's in relationship some kind of way. And so I want to start a series of messages entitled Relationship Therapy. And the Lord God planted a garden eastward in Eden, and there We've got relationships with parents, moms and dads, we've got relationships with We've got relationships with exes and O's. It was for food. And so we're supposed to be acting like God, responding like God, talking like God, loving like God, giving grace like God, but org. God is talking. But the other relationship is our or commonality is our commonality with each other They make you mad and you say, I don't need nobody. What I didn't even know you never told them you expected it of them And he says, I've given you all this herbs and everything to eat. If you're in sync with God. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Don't write them down and put them in a book and hide them for the day when that person doesn't meet them and say, I knew it. That was part of the purpose. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. So if you don't if you're not not ready for it, don't don't go don't go and jump in and hook it up with folks that you ain't ready. Purpose of relationships. My husband, my wife is difficult. That's a great question. Thank you for this occasion that we have to stand and declare your word. And I think if we begin Old Yeller might be a good friend, but he ain't like you. Be fruitful and multiply. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. He's not letting man figure it out by osmosis. So God created man in his own image, and in the image of God he created him. So it is unfortunate that relationships Next one is really the purpose of the relationships. I mean, that's what the scripture is saying. And we he we have his we had his breath of life that made us alive to him. This might help some of us who have misdirected our relationships onto some other creations of God. Uh he says, but of the tree of knowledge and good and evil, you shall not eat, for the day that you eat of it, you will surely die. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. I know we don't like to consider that because I think we're spending most of our time trying to figure out how we're different from each other. However, for In Ecclesiastes chapter 4, verse 9 through 12, it reads, Two are better than one. Communicated expectations of the relationship. Life creates But I'm really gonna focus our whole time in the series on He said, love God Use me, Lord, in a way that might honor you, that might give you glory. Communicated expectations of the relationship. The foundational pillar that watch this. But if I don't if I'm if I'm not alive to God, I have no ability to sync up with you and if you are synced up with God. And let us have dominion over, let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, the birds, the air, and every creeping thing. And then it was for us to have dominion over. I need God to love through me. We have all kinds of relationships that we And so every time somebody sees us, they ought to see the image of God. And so he he create created help for us that we might have help. Um it it's not so that we can make them family members Though one may be overpowered by another, two can withstand him, and And and but you need God. org or contact our church office at 301-627-95 CV. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message No, no, no. And so God makes the woman and he makes her out of need because it wasn't good for man to be alone, so he made him a helpmate that was like him. Fill the earth. We were purposed to be connected. If I'm in sync with God and you're in sync with God, we're in sync with each other. I want to take kind of a high-level uh view of relationships and and deal with it on kind of a high level So our commonalities with God And so we struggle with this and we we wrestle with this How did this all come together? So they will be able to stand with him against his enemies at the gate. Here's the next one. He's communicating with them what his expectations are of them. And so the first one, literally from Genesis chapter 1, 26, where I read, God said We're all difficult. Have dominion over these things. And in reality, all of us came from Adam, so therefore, we got the same That's all it's all about. As I was looking at this this these passages and what has brought me here is that I'm a firm believer that if we can first of all understand some of the foundational issues I pray, Heavenly Father, in the preaching of this gospel, that if there's anybody who doesn't have a personal and intimate relationship with you, That's why that's that's that's why it's all been laid out Um if we were having a counseling session, I probably would say, What's your relationship with God like They can either drive you to happiness or they can drive you crazy The m the married in people. They just happen to have been created like us If you don't know what your expectations are of the relation of a relationship Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. God created other than us by ourselves because we needed help. But if And so as we went out and ful fulfilled and multiplied and filled the earth, it would be like little Some food, all that. This is big, this is big. This is all foundational stuff. Matter of fact, people get on my nerves. But woe to him who is alone. Right? Y'all still hear? The two relationships. Watch this. Um Uh then you got you know relationships with your siblings and That's a great question. Now he's bringing you their stories. They just they just part of the family 'cause they married into the family. m. That one, we need God, and two, we need each other. Okay? So see here's a third commonality, which I'm not gonna f So we got commonalities of relationships, we got to understand our commonalities The One Degree of Andy podcast. Father, let all that is done in this time of preaching Our relationship with God, our relationship with each other. Male and female, he created them. In chapter 1 verse 28 Like God is connected. But so we need God and we need each other. Amen. Now If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. You don't even know what you want. We are connected to each other. To hear this message again on the web I'm Andy Christman. We need help Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. The commonalities. These are God's expectations. But watch this. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. They ain't really family. But you have to have the relationship with God straight. He's laying out expectations. If you're born again and you are alive. Now he's bringing you their stories. The One Degree of Andy podcast. He's