Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. The word of the Lord from Psalm 121 reads as follows: I will lift up my eyes to the heels. From whence come my help. My help comes from the Lord, who made heaven and earth He will not allow your foot to be moved. He who keeps you will not slumber. Behold, he who keeps Israel neither slumber nor sleep. The Lord is your keeper. The Lord is your shade at your right hand, and the sun shall not strike you by day, nor the moon by night. The Lord shall preserve you from all evil, and he shall preserve your soul. The Lord shall preserve your going out. And you're coming in from this time forth and even forevermore. Amen. Lord, here we are broken vessels in need of you Lord, you know every situation, you know every anxiety, you know every fear You know each one standing in the sanctuary, as well as those that are standing in their homes and sitting in their cars. And you know what they need on this morning, but God today we look to the heels From whence comes our help. Because we know our help can only come from you. So Father, we lay our need before you this morning. Our hurts, our pains, our fears, our anxieties, our sicknesses, our disease, our concern for family, friends, and loved ones. Our grief, our bereavement, we lay it all before you, God. Our uncertainties about tomorrow, we lay it in at your feet. Our hope. Our peace, our need for you, God. We lay it before your throne of grace and mercy. And Father, as we pray this morning, if we're touching someone else, Father, see about them I don't know what they're going through. We don't know what their struggle is. We don't need to know, but we just we come to stand and pray for them too. That together as a body we might have concern for one another as we cry out unto your holy name. Now, God, as I stand to declare your word, speak through this word. Word of life. Hope, joy, contentment, wisdom, understanding. Father, have your way in all that is done, and all that is said. I need you, God. I need you to use me in a way that only you can. I surrender you, surrender all to you this morning As a vessel in your hand, speak through these lips of clay. Allow my mind clarity of thought and my lips clarity of speech. And when it is all said and done, we'll give your name all the glory and all the honor and all the praise. Thank you, God. For hearing our prayers, not only for us, but for the person we touch. Thank you, Jesus. And we say amen and amen. I want to read a couple of other verses. Habakkuk chapter 2, verse 4 says, Behold the proud. His soul is not upright in him, but the just shall live by his faith. When I flip over to the New Testament, I find Romans chapter one, verse seventeen. And it says, For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith to faith, as it is written, the just Shall live by faith. I kept on flipping and I got to Galatians chapter three and verse eleven. And it says, but that no one is justified by the law in the sight of God is evident. For the just shall live by faith. And then over in Hebrews chapter 10, verse 38, it says, Now the just Shall live by faith. But if anyone draws back, my soul has no pleasure in him This message of the just living by faith is repeated. Over and over and over again in Scripture. And it just keeps popping up at the most I will say opportune times as you're reading the Word of God. But I don't believe that God is Repetitive because he has a stutter. I believe that the repetition of the passage is For our saturation and our application. In other words, he needs to get it down in our head and down to our heart That it is of essential necessity that the just shall live by faith. Now in order for us to better understand what I'm getting at, I think I need to define some terms. First of all, when we talk about the just, the just is those who have been justified by God and set apart from sin by the blood of Jesus. I'm just trying to define who the just are. It ain't just us. It ain't like that. No, it is the just. Those who are just or righteous or declare justified before God. Then the text uh says that the just shall live. Lord, help me here. If I can expound upon that for you, uh the just, those who are justified, should uh be informed in the way they live. Lord help me God. They should their actions and their thoughts and their reactions are governed by or should be governed by their faith. Y'all still hear? The just, those who are justified, those who have been washed in the blood. Of the crucified one. Those who are his and have his name, those who are righteous before God, shall live, shall be informed, shall be governed by their faith. Well, all of that sounds great, except and until you understand what faith is. Faith is the substance of things hoped for and the evidence of things not seen. Help me Lord. So in other words, faith we are to live, the just shall live, shall be informed, shall shall act out, shall react based on watch this Our faith, which is the invisible, tangible evidence of God Lord have mercy. Let me say that again. The invisible, that which I cannot see, tangible, that which I can feel, even though I can't see it. Evidence that God exists and I'm his. That's what uh allows the just To live the way they live and the reason why the way the just live is different from the unjust I'm trying to get us there. So the just are acting and they're thinking and they're reacting based on the invisible, tangible confidence that they have in God. If I'm confident in God, it changes the way I act and the way I react. Some people right now today are in a state of panic because they have abandon Their faith. So the way they're living, acting, and reacting is because they have abandoned their faith in God Stay here with me. They have drifted from faith in God to faith in job. They have drifted from faith in God to faith in finances. They've drifted from faith in God to faith in marriage and faith in husband and faith in wife and faith in children and faith in government and faith in political party and faith in all these other things But their faith is not in God. Pastor, how do you how'd you get to that conclusion? Because if my faith is in God, who is immutable, that's a fancy word that means he does not change. And if my faith is in God who is omnipotent, another fancy word that means he has all power. And if my faith is in God who is omniscient, which means he knows everything. Then the stuff that's happening around me does not shake me because my faith is not in what's happening. My faith is in God. But when my faith has drifted to believing that my job or my money or my circumstance is what's sustaining me, I'm experiencing a rude interruption. Of my faith. Because I'm learning that what I put faith in was the wrong thing. There's another group of people right now who are going through a panic. And the reason they're going through a panic is because they're not just. Sink in, sink in. The just are those who are justified by the blood of the Lamb. Those are the ones who have been adopted into the family of God. Those are the ones who are born again. They have the Spirit of God living in them. That's the just But if I'm not just, then my faith is in all the other things. Because my belief is I don't need God because I've got the things. In 1929, when the stock market crashed, people lost their lives because they jumped out of windows because their God had failed them. I'm just trying to get to us this morning to help us to understand something. There's no reason for us to panic. There's no reason for you to jump out of window. There's no reason for you to cut your wrist because your God is still on the throne. The just live by their faith in God. The unjust live by faith in the gods they create. And the drifter Will drift from faith in God to faith in stuff. And it's a bad place to be, but times like this wake us up Times like this is a good time for us to realize how far we've drifted. I want to talk to you this morning from the subject matter: the just shall live by faith. The message of faith says you are safe. If you help me to get this message into the person around you if you would just turn to them and tell them you are safe. You're safe. If you live by faith, you're safe. Psalm one twenty-one is one of the psalms of ascent There are from Psalm 120 to 134 are the Psalms of Ascent. These are you typically short Psalms. And they were sang by the children of Israel as they progressed from the various places, and they came at the appointed times of year to go to the house of the Lord. And they are shorter psalms because they were singing them as they were climbing the mountain or the hill to get up And so you didn't want to be singing a long song like that extended remix version When you're walking uphill, because you're bro you're short on breath. And so they would have short psalms that they would sing and they're labeled the Psalms of Ascent. And on this particular Psalm, it starts off by saying, I will lift up my eyes to the heels. Lord my God, from whence come my help, for my help comes from the Lord. I want to start off by telling you that the just live by faith, and the message of faith says you are safe because the Lord helps you. As the pilgrims would be making their way, and they've been carrying the burdens of their sin and of their sorrow and of their hurt for usually a period of about a year before they could Make this migration to Jerusalem to go to the temple. And so they've been carrying that all along the way. And when they get and travel through the lowlands, they look up to the heel of Jerusalem and they see that the house of God is on the heel. And so they they declared with excitement and enthusiasm I'm lifting up my eyes to the hills from whence come my help because they knew when I get to the temple of God, I can unload my heavy burdens and I can give my cares to God. Lord have mercy. I I wish I could say this like I feel it, but I I need you to understand that that that's the way that they experienced it. But for you and I We now have the same, a similar experience because our Savior came into the world, lived a perfect life. Died, was buried in a tomb, got up on the third day with all power in his hands, 40 days later, ascended to glory, and right now he's making intercession for you and me. And so we too can look up to the hills above the hills but from from whence our help comes because we know we have a savior who's praying for us Lord help me, Jesus. While I'm praying and while I'm trying to struggle through all the issues of this life, I've got a God who's praying for me. He's helping me pray I look to the heavens for us and to the hills for them because they knew that that's where their help is. And I need us to wrap our minds around this truth of the text that our help comes from the Lord. I I know that We have become conditioned to getting help from social programs and we've been help getting help from mama and we still you still taking money from grandma and all she got is a social security check But we we've been used to getting just help from everywhere and we think that that's where your help comes. No, no, no, that's not where your help come. I know we have become uh economically stable and We become middle class and upper class and and high class and all that when we used to didn't have no class and now we We didn't we got fancy cars and and leather them all up and got all the bells and whistles and all that but guess what None of that, none of that uh is your help, Lord help me, Jesus. Um when you get sick and you're in your bed when the doctor comes and he looks over you and he's just shaking his head. None of us are running out to our Lexus or Mercedes and rubbing ourselves in the seat because the seat Leather or the bells and the whistles are gonna help us. No, we're not doing that. We're not running to our 401k and and massaging ourselves with the numbers from how long we've been uh contributing to our our our our retirement package. None of us are doing that. But when trouble comes, you better learn that your help comes from the Lord. As a matter of fact, I think some somehow naturally we have a tendency. Even the ones who don't know the Lord have a tendency to call on him when trouble. comes and if they don't know how to call on him, they'll come to your destiny and say, can you pray for me? A lot of you have become the office pastors this past week, haven't you? Everybody coming to you. They know you go to church They want you to come and anoint everybody and pray for everybody and all that 'cause they know help comes from the Lord. And so as We delve into what this psalmist says. It's not just any Lord. It's the Lord who made heaven and earth. Help me, Lord Jesus He is our help. And if he's the one, I really need you to just let this kind of sink in your brain. If he's the one who made heaven and earth, How did he make heaven and earth? He just started speaking. And the heavens and the earth and the planetary arrangements came into existence. And they flow and function at his word. I'm trying to show you the expanse of the help we have. And so if he can do all of that, if I need help with Whatever life throws at me, I have at my disposal the omnipotence of God I have at my disposal the one who made everything by speaking it into existence. We really want that to sink in on you because The devil's been lying to you, causing you to believe somehow you don't have no help. And somehow your help left with some political party or with some judgment on the heel or some decision in the office. No, your help never was there. It never was. It wasn't in your regular government paycheck. The Lord is your help. He's our helper and he has all power and he can handle anything. I I hear Pastor, you could say that Because you got a job. Ain't no executive orders coming your way. But let me tell you about my job. I've been in full-time ministry for 30 years, I think. Full-time ministry. I've been in ministry for 40 years. I've been in full-time ministry for 30 years. So for 30 years, I depended on God. to move on the hearts of people to voluntarily give their money so that I could feed my family. So every time my pay comes, I say, thank you, Jesus. I realize that my help comes from the Lord. I depend on him. So guess what? So when you I could logically think, well, if your congregation starts losing their jobs. And that means they can't pay tithes, and that means they can't they can't give that means I'm gonna lose money. That's if I was depending on the system of the world to provide for me. Because I read it in his word that he caused a raven, which is a buzzard. To feed his prophet by the side of a brook. And he caused him to stay at the brook until the brook ran dry. And when the brook Grand dry, he led his prophet to another place that he might continue to be fed. I just stop by to let you know I know the Lord is my helper And if he can take care of a prophet by the brook with a buzzard bringing him bread and food, he can sure enough take care of you. He's our helper, and you are safe. Second thing here in the text, it says, he will not allow, verse three, he will not allow your foot to be moved. He who keeps you will not slumber. Behold, he who keeps Israel shall neither slumber nor sleep. For the Lord is your keeper. He's your shade from the sun and the moon. Lord, help me here. The just shall live by faith, and the message of faith says you are safe because the Lord helps you, but secondly, because the Lord keeps you. It's the Lord who keeps you. He will not allow your foot to be moved. Lord, help me, God. The place where God has planted you The earthquakes of the world cannot move you. Whether that earthquake is death in your family. Or the loss of a home, the loss of a car, a bad report from the doctor that says you've got cancer or this is going on or that's going on. God is your keeper. And if he planted you, he's the only one that can uproot you. He doesn't slumber and he doesn't sleep. He's a God who's always awake, always paying attention to keeping you. Do you realize that God doesn't miss anything that happens in your life? And at the same time, He doesn't miss anything that happens in my life. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he said Down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations, you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.