Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling the Third Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling The word of the Lord from Daniel chapter four, beginning at verse twenty-eight, reads as follows All this came upon King Nebuchadnezzar at the end of twelve months. He was walking about the royal palace of Babylon, the king spoke, saying, Is not this great Babylon that I have built for a royal dwelling? By my mighty power, and for my honor, and of my majesty. And while the word was still in the king's mouth, a voice fell from heaven, King Nebuchadnezzar. To you it is spoken, the kingdom has departed from you. And they shall drive you from men, and your dwelling shall be in with beasts of the field. And You shall make they shall make you eat grass like oxen, and seven times shall pass over you until you know that the Most High rules in the kingdom of men. and gives it to whomever he wills or he ever he chooses. That very hour the word was fulfilled concerning Nebuchadnezzar. He was driven from men and ate grass like an oxen. His body was wet with dew. of the heaven and till his hair had grown like eagle's feathers, and his nails like birds' claws And at the end of the time, I, Nebuchadnezzar, lifted my eyes to heaven, and my understanding returned to me, and I blessed the Most High, and praised and honored him who lives forever. For his dominion is an everlasting dominion, and his kingdom is from generation to generation. Amen. Would you pray with me this morning? Father, we need you on today that you might declare a word in this place. Speak a word, God, that may draw someone out of the darkness and into the marvelous light. Father, speak in such a way that those who have come in discouraged might leave encouraged. I pray, eternal God, that you would draw someone who's drifting in their fellowship back to you. That they might restore and renew the broken fellowship. Spirit of the Lord, let the preaching of the gospel edify this body. Let your name above and beyond all other things be glorified in the midst of it. Father, I stand as a vessel, an instrument to be used in your hands, will accomplish your will. But in my frailness of flesh, I need your power, I need your strength. So preach through me, God. Speak through me. Use me as a vessel in your hands to accomplish your will. And when it's all said and done, I'll give your name all the glory and all the honor. And all the praise for it is in Jesus' name I pray with thanksgiving and expectation. Amen. This text that we have in front of us Tells the story of King Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, who gets filled with pride and self-aggrandizement as a result of the grandeur of the kingdom and the growth of Babylon. And he fails to acknowledge God's part and God's role in it all. In fact, he takes the credit for himself, thinks that he did it all by himself. And as a result, of while he's speaking those very words to praise himself, God strikes him, and the the word comes from heaven and Uh the kingdom is removed from him, and a declaration is given unto him that he would be in this beastly scenario for seven years. In an effort to explain this theological context, many have moved to cite psychological teachings or how can I say this? Uh the teachings of psychology to explain that uh what we are reading is not really what was happening. And so they have said that perhaps King Nebuchadnezzar had fallen to some psychological disorder like Boanthropy, which is when a person believes that they are a bovine, some kind of cattle, oxen, beast. Or perhaps that it was zoanthony, where a person believes through some mental disorder that they are literally an animal of some sort. And then others have declared that it is perhaps this process of a psychotrosis that transpired as a result of the dream that he had. And as a result of the dream that he had, he was moved into some psychotropic uh psychological scenario that is called lycotamy, which is similar to uh Zoanthony, uh it is again believing that you have become an animal. As a matter of fact, I haven't witnessed it myself, but I am told that there are some, even in our school systems today, that and in our workplaces that think that they have become animals I'm I haven't seen it. I've just I've just heard about it. Um they are experiencing some kind of uh psychotic event. Or perhaps it's just because we've moved to a time and place in the world where people say you can do what you want and be what you want. And some people have decided I want to be a cat. And others decide I want to be a dog. And you got kids sitting in the classroom with your kids and they're in there meowing and barking. I'm sorry, this is what I heard. But rather than try to explain away the biblical text I, as a pastor, student of the word, theologian to whatever degree I have, I believe that we ought to just take the word of God for what he says. God didn't say he moved some psychotropic event to happen upon the king, but rather I gave him a heart of a beast. And I caused him to be removed from his kingdom. And I literally he his hair grew like feathers and his claws like that of an eagle, and he ate grass like an ox. I mean I just believe what the word said. How about that? But I believe as we look into this text, what we'll discover is that there's a lesson here that the king learns that we don't have to go through to learn. And so as I looked into this text and as I uh expound upon it on this morning, I want to talk to you from the subject matter, a lesson in humility. A lesson in humility, honor the king. For this is in essence, I believe, the what's happening in this text is that uh there's a lesson that King Nebuchadnezzar is learning And the lesson that he has to learn is that the the king deserves the honor. Are y'all still here with me? And so I say this uh even as we celebrate this 55th anniversary that we don't fall prey to the same kind of pride that Nebuchadnezzar falls into and and then we have to learn it a whole nother way. And so I think that we can learn from him and lesson in humility of honoring the king. The lesson begins here in verse Verse 4, if I can go back all the way to verse 4. It begins back in verse 4 where the king is is literally uh rehearsing for us. The experience he has. He's telling, and he's gathered the kingdom together. And he's telling the kingdom of the experience and how he came to the place where he was. He begins out by literally, he's glorifying God and giving God glory. You might think, well, how is he giving God glory and he has to go through this? Well, he's He actually is giving God glory, then he's going to tell the story of how he what he went through. And so he he he gives God the glory and he's lifting up and exalting God, and then he comes back and begins to tell the story uh of this troubling dream. And so this story, this teaching begins with a troubling dream. It's a very troubling dream, which Nebuchadnezzar says the dream was so troubling it scared him. He was afraid and he called for his uh his soothsayers, his magicians, his people. Uh he wanted somebody to interpret the dream, and they sent Daniel to him to help interpret the dream. And Daniel comes. Uh and he uh he gets the dream and interprets the dream. Now the dream that he has, in essence and simplicity, I won't go through it all, but I'll give you my version of it. The dream that he has is that there's this tree that grows up in the middle And the tree grows up all the way up to heaven, and the tree is so big. And the tree is so big that it provides food and it's got all kinds of fruit on it. And It's got beautiful leaves on it and and it's got big strong branches and and the the animals and the beast are finding shelter underneath it and shade underneath it and The fruit is feeding all the people, and the birds are finding nest and rooms to nest in the leaves and in the branches. And everybody seems to be being satisfied by this one tree. And as he's enjoying the dream of the tree, a word comes from above from heaven, and the voice speaks and says, Cut down the tree. And the tree is chopped down. And when you chop down the tree, I want you to put an iron band around the stump of the tree and just leave that stump on it for seven years. And this dream becomes extraordinarily troubling to Nebuchadnezzar. And he he he he's searching and he gets Daniel, and Daniel comes and he interprets the dream and he says uh to the king, King Nebuchadnezzar, you are the tree. And God is going to chop you down. And on you will fall this dew for seven years. And You're gonna eat the grass like an ox and and all this he he lays it all out for 'em. And and so then as the story progresses and as you continue to read through All these things come and all this this the fear and the anxiety of the dream is haunting Nebuchadnezzar. Now I'll say that uh as verse twenty-nine picks up and it says, Now at the end of twelve months All these things that were in the dream start to come to pass. Now let me say this to us because I think this is beneficial to us. I believe that there are Always warnings from God when we're out of place and doing what we ought not do. Now, stay with me. I believe sometimes the warnings might come in a dream, like they come or have come to Nebuchadnezzar. Sometimes it's a troubling dream. Now don't go off and say every dream I had was some troubling dream from God. Because sometimes it's just what you ate or what you watched on television. But I do believe God warns us in dreams, and I do believe that God warns us, but not not just in dreams. Sometimes the warnings of God will come through our devotional time when we're spending time with Him in the Word of God. Uh and he'll trouble us with his word that'll address the issue of our life that's drawing us away from him or causing us to sink deeper in sin or leading us away from the pathway of righteousness. And and so sometimes those warnings come in dreams, but sometimes they come through devotional lessons, and other times they come through sermons like this one on this morning. Where the preacher has labored in the Word, and he's declaring to you the very Word of God, and through the Word of God the warning of God comes to you that says, Beware, and Learn the lesson in this case a lesson of humility that we ought to honor the king. Y'all still hear? Now in the process of Nebuchadnezzar going through his his dream and as Daniel comes to to give him the advice About the dream. Nebuchadnezzar is all rooted in pride and thinking so highly of himself. And and you know, I as I was thinking about this, I thought, you know, Nebuchadnezzar's issue was pride As God was dealing with this issue, and the issue that he had was an issue of his heart. Y'all still here? It was something that was buried in his heart, but watch this, but was not fully manifest until he opened his mouth. I'm preaching way better than you saying amen right now. I'm coming to you. I'm coming your way. Um Nebuchadnezzar's issue might have been pride, but your issue or my issue might be jealousy. I can't look at you and tell you're jealous, but when you open your mouth, your issue or my issue might be hatred, it might be anger, it might be unforgiveness. It might be selfishness. And as I looked at those variety of issues and those variety of concerns that could be issues of our heart. I couldn't help but see that every single one of those issues still had in its roots an issue of pride that we somehow were above God. And that God was not king. Stay here with me. When I'm jealous, it says that somehow there's something available Stay here with me that I don't have that I wish I could have. But wait a minute. Your father is the king of everything He owns everything, and so if your father is the king, how can you be jealous of something someone else has when you have everything that your father has? You're a joint heir with him. When you have hatred in your heart, it's an issue that says, I have a right to hate you who were made in the image of God and in the likeness of God, just like ours. But I've got to write somehow above what God has said to hate you. Anger in my heart I've got anger in my heart to be able to come at you and to be frustrated with you because you're not perfect like I'm not perfect. But I've got a right to do it because somehow I think myself higher than you, and I've got a right to be angry at you, to be frustrated with you, to be jealous of you, or to be selfish with you. Because somehow I've put myself above God. I'm trying to get to us here. I want us to understand that this troubling dream was just a warning about what was in his heart. And this morning I want to speak to us about what perhaps might be in our heart. And I want us to think through what might be in our heart that might be drawing us away from the righteousness of God. Maybe people can't see it. Maybe you mask it well. You dress it up on Sunday, nobody can tell. But in your heart. There's this thing that has caused you to think that you've got a right to do what God said don't do, which means you put yourself in a position higher than God. And that God is not king, but you are. God doesn't sit on the throne, you do. That's where the troubling dream begins with Nebuchadnezzar and He begins to the the text begins to gradually draw that out. I think even as a church we have to be careful in this Because as a church, we're here celebrating 55 years, and we're thinking, oh wow, look what we did. We are so good. We're so great. And then we start comparing ourselves with other people in other churches. And we start saying, you know, our church is better. And our church is bigger. And our church is more. And look what we did. And I'm keenly aware of how you like to put it on me. Pastor, look, we got the greatest pastor in the world. Now, in my foolishness, sometimes that does feel good to hear you say it. Okay. But but I'm I'm I watch this. I'm not I'm not foolish enough to let it go to my head. Because I realized that can I just be for real for real? I never wanted to be a pastor. I didn't sign up for this. I was supernaturally drafted and could not escape. So, and I realized that nothing that I do is of me. What's done through this vessel is God. And so I have to give glory to him, and I'm always careful to give glory to him because I know it's him and not me. And I've had many to say, well, how what are you doing? How are you doing what you're doing? I'm just obeying God and following him. And he's doing what he's doing. And I get out the way and let him be God. And I be the under shepherd. I be the pastor. And I just follow him But we as a church have to be careful because we can get puffed up in our own pride and think that somehow we got to this 55th year by ourselves. And nobody helped us. And nobody was there for us. But the reason why I was so determined to make sure that I got to these three churches Because I know that if it had not been for Kent Baptist, for Berwin Baptist, for Land Over Hills, Kettering would not even exist If it had not been for them serving the Lord sacrificially, if it had not been for them in 1969, when budgets didn't look like budgets look today, when churches didn't have memberships like they have today they took members and sent them over to Ketteran they took money and sent it over to Ketteran and they invested in the kingdom of God Are y'all hearing what I'm saying? They invested not in, they weren't trying to make a name for their church. They were making a name for the kingdom of God, and now here we are 55 years later. I'm not interested in making a name for Ketheran Baptist Church. I'm interested in making a name for the kingdom of God. When I invest in them, it's investing in the kingdom of God. This ain't about us. This ain't about Kettering. It's not about how big we become or how expansive we are. It's about expanding the kingdom of God. And I think we really need to get that. I think even in church life, we become so so separated, so individualized that we have forgotten we're on the same team, working against the same enemy, trying to accomplish the same assignment. And pastors and first ladies, I know that there are times in your lives that you feel like you're struggling and you're doing it by yourself and who else cares? We serve this great and mighty God, and we're watching all these ministries building housing programs and senior citizen stuff and community centers right next to community centers. And we're wondering why doesn't that resource come to a place where we need it. And you're struggling. I know how it feels. You're struggling to try to make it and you're thinking, God, where are you? I'm working for the kingdom. Why doesn't the kingdom have resources enough to help us? And I want you to know God has not forgotten you. God knows what you've been going through. God heard your prayer. God put it in my heart to say, this is what I need you to do for the kingdom. Are y'all hearing what I'm saying? And it's about building a kingdom for him. Because if you start looking at yourself, we fall into the trap. That Nebuchadnezzar fell in. Where he got up one morning, walked around his valander, looked out over the expanse of all of Babylon and all of its beauty and all of its expanse and said, Hmm, look what I did. And God said, Oh yeah? You did that? I never want to be in that place. I never want to have that those words come out of this mouth because I didn't do it. It's been almost eight years now. Um December will be eight years. That we've been here. I still drive up to this building in amazement. In amazement of what God has done. Some of you know, some of you don't know that even parts of what we have here in this 51,000 square foot facility, the banks told us you can't do. They said, oh, you gotta do this in phases. I said, no, God didn't show me phases. He showed me one plan. And we did it in one plan. And they said, oh yeah, yeah, we're gonna give you this 20-year loan, a 30-year loan, and you can you can extend it and you can do this and you work I said No God's we got another plan. And I didn't tell everybody because you can't always tell everybody the plans of God. But God had already told me I'm I'm done with this in seven years. And it didn't look like seven years. We hit a pandemic, it's all Lord, all the people that ain't coming to church, oh, you know. But through all of that, God was faithful And he fulfilled what he said he was going to do So this troubling dream came to Nebuchadnezzar to warn him. Nebuchadnezzar, you're filled up with pride. And Nebuchadnezzar, this is what's going to happen to you. You're going to have to go through this judgment. You're going to have to go through this chastisement for seven years. You're gonna have to go through it. But then as I keep moving my way through the text, I move from the troubling dream to the tragic declaration. It comes up in verse 30. Because after 12 months he's walking around in the royal palace of Babylon, verse 29, the king spoke and said, Is not this great Babylon that I have built? For a royal dwelling by my mighty power and for the honor of my majesty. That's a tragic declaration. It's tragic in a lot of ways. It's tragic in that he pointed only to himself. He did not acknowledge God. He declares with arrogance and pride that he, apart from everybody else, did build this kingdom. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the Radio Broadcast Ministry. Of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship services Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. On Andy Christman, in his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he said Down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.