Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. The word of the Lord reads as follows from Habakkuk chapter 3, beginning at verse 17. Though the fig tree may not blossom, Nor the fruit be on the vines, and though the labor of the olive may fail, and the fields yield no food, Though the flock may be cut off from the foe, and there be no herd in the stalls, yet I will rejoice in the Lord. I will joy in the God of my salvation. The Lord God is my strength. He will make my feet like deer's feet. And he will make me walk on high heels to the chief musician with my stringed instruments. Amen. Father, we bless you in advance for what you're about to do. And even as we've sang this morning, have your way. Father, I need you that I might be the vessel for this hour to speak clearly. To your people. Father, I pray that as I stand to declare this word, that you will prepare the hearts of those who will hear it Someone may need to be saved today. Someone may be lost and on their way to a Christeless hell. But today, God, let this word open up their eyes and their understanding. That you have a gift for them called Eternal Life. And I pray, God, today will be the day they accept your gift I pray for the edification of this body, for we've come to be edified. We need to grow. We want to learn of more of you and how we might love you, worship you, serve you, and be like you. So, Lord, edify this body. I pray, God, that those who have drifted in their fellowship with you, perhaps they at one time had a nice and sweet relationship, but as they've drifted away, I pray you draw them by the preaching of this gospel back to you today. Lord, in all that is done and all that is said, it is my prayer that your name will get all the glory and all the honor and all the praise for you alone. are worthy of it all. So we yield ourselves to you, God, in expectation of what you shall do. Have your way, Jesus Have your way. It's in Jesus' name I pray with thanksgiving and expectation. Amen. On Friday, Brother David Fraser came early. He got here before Joshua got here, before any of the other esteemed musical talent arrived, because there was some heavy hitters here over the weekend. And so he and I got to talking and he was telling me he was writing all this music and all this stuff. And so I began to ask him some questions because I had uh the day before been involved in a conversation about AI and music. I wanted to get his slant on AI, uh, who which now has this ability to create music. Um, lyrics and uh melody at everything. Just you know, put in what you want and it pops out. So I wanted to know because uh you know you you can get uh opinions from people. Who don't have the vested interests. But I felt like this was my chance to talk to somebody who was of a real, genuine, real life, writing music. I'm not just music, writing hits. Amen. You know, for the whole gospel industry. I said, man, this is my chance. I wanted to know what his opinion was and what, you know, his views were as it related to this subject matter So one of the things he shared with me as we were talking was the way in which music is written that comes out of the experience of the writer. And because a computer doesn't have experience of life, it doesn't have the capability of writing with the passion and the connectivity that someone like himself and others do. In this text that we're reading on and we've read in and you've probably heard um some time before this is a a prayer literally a prayer of Habakkuk who has been going through a very perplexing and challenging time With trying to comprehend and trying to understand why God would use a absolute heathenistic nation. As Babylon to come and serve as the rod of correction to God's chosen and holy people. Uh Habakkuk is struggling with this things, such that as you move through chapter one, you'll get to hear his anguish and his uh frustration with this and yet his desire to know and get an answer from God and his patience because I'm gonna wait God to hear your response. Here's my complaint, but I want to wait. I can't wait to hear how you're going to respond. And so Habakkuk is going through this experience of pain and the witness of the children of Israel being dragged away. From their homeland, from the promised land, and he's dealing with the experience of all this and the hurt of his own because he's been prophesying, because he's a prophet, he's been prophesying to them, and yet they wouldn't hear God. So he's uh loaded down with the the emotion of all of this and he brings all of his writing and all of his thoughts into this letter we have here called Habakkuk. And by the time you get to chapter 3, chapter 3, verse 1, it says a prayer of Habakkuk the prophet. on the Shigonoth. Now, there's some there's a combination of things and y'all pray with me because I'm I'm still working this out while I'm standing here. There's a culmination of things that happen in the midst of chapter three that I think is important to pull out for us. One, Habakkuk has gone through a struggle and he's gone through some experiences and he's wrestled with it and he's got some response from God And now Habakkuk comes in chapter three and he begins to articulate a prayer. Watch this. And a prayer is a petition to a God. Who you know has the ability to respond to your request. Stay here with me. In other words, he's not just shooting uh words up in the air. No, he comes to the table with a level of faith That he has already decided and figured out that that it is of necessity for the righteous to live and to walk by faith. That's why in chapter 2, verse number 4, which is the pinnacle verse of the whole book of Habakkuk, which is also one that we carry over into the New Testament, Habakkuk says, the just shall live By faith. In other words, Habakkuk has come to the conclusion and the understanding that I can't live based on what I see or what I'm experiencing, but I've got to live this life Based on faith. So Habakkuk comes to chapter 3 and he writes this prayer of expectation towards God, as he says here in verse 1. He offers this prayer on the shugunoth. Now the shugunath is instrumentation. So he's taking a prayer and he's putting music to the prayer. Lord have mercy. And so I know that David Frazier is an awesome musician and music writer and all that, but so is Habakkuk. Habakka takes a prayer and makes it into puts music to it and he offers it up, watch this, to the chief musicians. It's at the end, last verse, to the chief musicians with stringed instruments, so that this this prayer becomes a song. And the song becomes a melody, and the melody becomes music in your heart, and it becomes a fuel to your faith. Are y'all still here with me? I would venture to say, and and I'm sure there are some here in the um listening uh purview that would say that there are some songs that minister to your spirit in such a way that they increase and they strengthen your faith. In other words, every now and then we go through some stuff and the stuff weighs us down so much that and I don't know if y'all ever been here before, but that you open up your Bible and you start reading the Bible and it just doesn't seem to be having the same impact. But then you turn on a song and the song seems to reach you in a way that Lord help me here. Your faith has now grown back to the place where the just can live by faith. Are y'all still here with me? The challenges of Habakka bring all this about, and the challenges that he goes through helps Him understand the need to lean on his faith. And at the end of the day, and I've said this many a time before But at the end of the day, for Habakkuk as well as for you and for I, God is constantly putting us in circumstances and bringing situations in our life to ask us one question: Do you trust me? That's it. That's the whole of it. If I could add a verse into Ecclesiastes where Solomon is asking all these rhetorical questions and laying out all this backwards and forwards, um I would throw those words in the midst of Ecclesiastes, because at the end of the day, the question looms for you and I. Do we trust God? Now I know that we say, yes, you know, I've trusted him as my savior and my Lord, but do I trust him for my life? Do I trust him for my food? Do I trust him for my substance? Do I Trust him to help me when I don't have no help. Do I really trust God when the rubber hits the road? Is it God that I turn to or is it somebody else? Every challenge in life asks you this question, do you trust God? I hear the whisper in my ear time and time again when I grow in my frustration and I'm trying to deal with stuff and trying to deal with things and things are not coming together the way I want them to. I hear the whisper in my ear, do you trust me? I want you to hear that today. That whisper in your ear. I don't know what you're going through, but I need you to hear the whisper in your ear. Do you trust me? Do you trust me? And because Habakkuk has come to this conclusion in the text, and because Habakkuk has finalized and codified these great words of the just shall live by faith. I want to encourage you in this text, if God will help me to make it through it, I want to talk to you from the subject matter. Hold on to your faith. We're living in a day and a time where everything is is coming at us. Some things are coming hard and fast and some things are coming subtle and it's piling up and our faith is Uh being challenged is is sometimes even if we be honest with ourselves is weak. Like right now, I just don't seem like I have a lot of faith. Pastor, I need my faith is broken down. I'm losing my faith. I've heard all kinds of statements such as that and Some of it is for just the if I can say this the the constant rain of stupidity of the world in which we live in. If you understand what I'm saying, some stuff that's happening in this world is just stupid. It's just but it keeps coming And it's just wearing us out. Like I'm I'm tired of this stupid stuff. Like this is just stupid. And it's wearing us out. And it causes us sometimes to ask God, God, what what's happening? What are you doing? And Lord, where are you? Why are you letting this? We we kind of become like Habakkuk asking God all these questions of what's going on, what's happening. But I want to encourage us on this morning, regardless of what is happening and how the enemy may be coming at you, I want to encourage you to hold on to your faith. Hold on to your faith because the way in which the just live, that is, us who are justified by the blood of the Lamb, is by our faith. Y'all still here with me? This text opens up uh that I've shared in your hearing. In verse 17 it says, though the fig tree may not blossom, nor the fruit be on the vine, though the labor of the olives may fail and the fields yield no food. Well it doesn't take a genius to figure this out that This is a degrading scenario to be in. This is a very challenging place to be a spot. This is you in a spot. If you got all this going on, this is a spot. Um and so I'll uh as I as I pull out for you, I want you to hear this that the this is a this is picturesque of an attack. On your faith, the attack on your faith. And Habakkuk is writing this because Habakkuk is experiencing the attack on his faith Though the fig tree may not blossom. And what he literally does in this verse is an ascending series of progressively worsening conditions that he lays out for us in the text. as his faith is being attacked. And can I just pause here to say to you that this is oftentimes how the enemy will come at you He will slowly and progressively keep hitting you with one thing after another after another after another that are progressively growing worse, but they are progressively eating away at the faith that you have in God. Lord help me here, Jesus. And as we walk through those progressions and as we deal with those hurts and those struggles, it causes us to ask The question, God, God, where are you? And our faith that we had at one point that was unshakable now becomes shakable. For those who perhaps woke up This morning in North Carolina, in in some of the parts of Florida, and up the coast that have dealt with this storm that we only experience on television, but they're exactly experience it every day and will for quite some time. They're probably asking God, God, where are you? And their faith Perhaps that was strong before the storm has been shaken by the storm. I wish I had somebody that understood what I'm trying to say this morning The enemy will keep coming at you progressively and building on the attack of your faith. The fig tree does not blossom. There are six actually literally progressions that all begin or at least are issued in by the word though. So in in fact, and despite all the other things that have been going on, he he comes back and he says, though this fig tree does not blossom. Now the the fig tree not blossoming and not bringing forth figs This is minor. Okay, this is the low end of the totem pole because figs for Israel, uh being able to have that, that's just a luxury. Y'all still here with me? Th this is like not being able to have your your strawberry um shortcake or your pineapple upside down. I know it's getting to be about that time of day, but you know, this is like this is this is this the dessert part. This you can live without figs. That was a luxury. But watch this, but as Habakka lays this thing out. He says, look, when that's lost. And he then he comes back and he says, and there's no no fruit on the vine. That's the next progression. No fruit on the vine means you're now going to have to be dealing with not just the loss of your luxury, but now it's a little bit of an inconvenience. Because the fruit of the vine produce wine for drink and juices for drinks. Well uh i if you're not a winer, you can live without wine. It's just that's just the inconvenience not being able to have your your glass of wine at night. Or to help wash down your rare steak. So that's that's just an inconvenience. But it keeps building, and he says, though the labor of the olive may fail Now, I need you to understand something about the olive in Israel. To us, it's not as significant, but to Habakkuk, what he's literally showing us is that things are progressively being taken away. I've lost my luxury and I've now been moved to an inconvenience, and then though the labor of the olive fails. Now that's a problem because the olive produces an oil which you cook with. It produces the anointing so that you can anoint the sheep with. And if you're a shepherd you've got to anoint your sheep. And it's got a whole lot of capacities that are useful and helpful and necessary in the progressive life of the Israelite. In fact, even The oil that is put in the tabernacle so that the light can keep burning is of necessity if Lord have mercy. So you've got to have the fruit of the of the olive tree in order for that Fire in the house of God to keep burning. Y'all still hear what I'm saying? It it's progressively growing worse, uh as as Habakka lays it out, and so he says, though the labor of the olive. May fail, which has now moved us into some uh more um how do I say uh dangerous situations of our stable uh elements being removed because he doesn't just l lean on the the olive failing. He says also the fields yield no fruit. Or no no vegetation or no if the field stopped producing. Now we've lost our staple food. Rice and grain. Now we are really starting to feel the pinch of pressure coming in. And it was okay when you just took away my luxury. I was okay, Lord. I I still had faith when you had removed my conveniences But God, how you gonna take away what I need to live on, what I need to eat, what I need to survive? I can't live without these things. So it's progressively hitting at him and he keeps building and keeps building and keeps building and he says it doesn't stop there. He says though the flock is cut off. From the foe, the livestock, and there be no herd in the stalls. She's progressively moving this thing to the point where now we have nothing This is not only an issue of food. This is an issue issue of wealth. So now you you've not only not provided us food and you've not provided us the staple products that we need, but now you're hitting in to the livestock who watch this, who we use to plow the field with. The livestock, whether this the sheep or whether that's the the oxen or what have you, they have great value to the the financial stability of the whole nation. And so now, God, you're removing all of that. You're attacking my faith. My faith is under attack. Now I know most of us don't have cattle, most of us don't have um figs, we don't grow no crops, we just buy stuff. Well about earlier this week, it wasn't none of y'all, just just I heard about this. Earlier this week when the people said they was going on strike. On the docks. There was some people who got out their Costco cards and the Sam's Club and BJ's and you went and bought up everything. You got enough toilet paper to open up your own dock. Amen. Because you thought that it was about to fail You thought we were getting ready to go into a catastrophic situation. And your faith was under attack because You didn't trust God, you trust that what you can put in your house as some storage. And so, what I'm trying to help you to see is that this is a reality of what we deal with every day. Our faith is under attack. And the question is still in front of us. Do you trust me? Habakkuk said, even though all that happened. Even though my faith might be under attack, he says, there's rejoicing in my faith. It's right here in the text. I love it. I love it. He gets to verse 18 and he says, Yeah. I love it. I love it. He says, I will rejoice in the Lord. And I will joy in the God of my salvation. Satan, you might attack my faith. You might tear it down. You might Attack me on every front. I might be hitting hit every which way. And it's getting worse every day. But I've made it up in my mind. Can I help somebody here? The only way you're going to get to the place where Habakkuk is right here in his psalm and in his prayer. The only way you're going to get here is you make it up in your mind before you get there. You've got to have a determination in your heart, a determination in your mind that I am so in love with Jesus. That I don't care what happens, I don't care what you take away, I'm still gonna trust him. You've got to have it made up in your mind before the storm comes. Lord have mercy that I need him more than I need his provisions. Lord help me God. A lot of us are so in love with the provisions of God and we're not interested in the presence of God and therefore we get shaken up when the provisions of God get moved out to way But let me help somebody. When you've got the presence of God, you've got everything you need. When you've got the presence of God, you can say yet. Will I trust him? Yet will I rejoice? Yet will I have joy in the joy of my Lord? But this don't come easy. This comes by a faith that's unshakable. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he said Down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations, you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.