For women will will pursue women. And when I say purpose, I mean divine purpose. If we're going to reprioritize our lives, we've got to first reprioritize the pursuit, but you've also got to reprioritize the place that you're pursuing. We're still looking for more. What's the price ring? For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Voices behind the song. uh how do I say fruitless and uh non-gratifying results that brought frustration and depression and pain and anxiety. You need to uh reprioritize the pursuit. uh the kingdom of God. Uh he says, look, that it's it's it's out of order. As long as you had position, you would pursue being in place. We already got the garage full. the offer. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. website, whatever means by which they may be tuning in, even through the radio broadcast. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Uh verse 33. Father, I pray that you would rescue someone from the destruction that is yet to come by saving their soul on this day. Father, through those that might be sitting here in a sanctuary, those they may be viewing via livestream, YouTube, uh, Facebook. Spirit of the Lord, I stand in need of you because I'm just a vessel, Lord, that you decide to use, and so I'm standing in need of you today. Accomplish and say what you desire to be said in Jesus' name. And all the praise. And I matter of fact, I'm not telling on my mom, but my mom and my my she used to tell me you better learn how to cook for yourself. We've put that into even our children and and the ideology is take care of yourself because no one is going to take care of you. And the CBS report said that in the pandemic or during the pandemic, uh nearly three million women left the workforce. In other words, you gotta make sure that the pursuit is a priority because some people aren't pursuing anything. Uh intentionality. Lord help us here. Uh is it food? Let me see. And they pray and ask God all these things. Say amen, somebody. pursuit ought to be for the things of God. Earthen things, Pastor, why is that? Y'all still here with me? If we evaluate what we already have and what we're still pursuing, we've got already too much of it. Does the world have to offer? three kids and he's saying Lord how come you ain't give me four we ain't never satisfied we're always looking for some more of stuff that the world has For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. What else can the world give me? And now, Pastor Sterling. We are waiting on your presence to come that you might preach through these lips of clay. That you might lift up the hurt heavy hearts and encourage the broken spirit. It runs through Matthew chapter 5, all the way through Matthew chapter 7. He's talked about a number of things, and in the middle of where we find ourselves in the text this morning, he turns a conversation in the fact that God can and will take care of you Do I have a witness in the house that can testify that the Lord can and will take care of you? Y'all still here with me? Uh we in our priorities we we we've um set things such that we gotta make sure I take care of me and and so we work towards that and in our working towards that we find ourselves There are others who work and work and they're not getting paid overtime, but they they work overtime and they give the extra time. Matter of fact I even heard somebody say I'm glad that I don't have to go to work now because I don't have to spend an hour trying to figure out what I'm gonna wear. You know everything had to be right and you had to go to the hairdresser and sit there and let her burn you and fry you and twist you and turn you and During the time, and they realize, you know what, I'm not going back to the rat race, chasing after that which does not really bring satisfaction in the first place. The values of heavenly gifts and treasures, and then he comes back and he talks about how those who are of Gentiles, and when the text talks about Gentiles, he's talking about heathens, those who don't believe in God, how they seek after all these things. the the priority is is is is messed up. Because you've been seeking after food and clothes and things of the world, but Okay? Now, not things, not not stuff, not not not food, not clothes, not not houses and cars and land. Options of pursuit. Love not the world nor the things that are in the world. Lord help us here. subject to. Uh, vessels of clay that are subject to sin. We see on earth. By today's message. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship Services, Sundays at 10 a. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. Down with the voices behind the song. And that's a good subject matter. Stay here with me. first. Every week I was given away a day on the road. And since it's Women's Day, can I talk to the women for just a moment? Flip you and flap you and all that. I c I matter of fact, can I just I'm meddling just a little bit more. Amen. a passion for education, we'll pursue education. Uh in the middle of all this chaotic stuff we've been going through, he's been revealing what people's true pursuits are. Those that you store up in heaven or those you store up on earth? I'm just preaching to you, Jesus. Matter of fact, you give him lunch when he comes by. six two seven nine five zero zero please join us again as Senior Pastor In our text this morning, we find ourselves in the midst of Jesus' Sermon on the Mount. And how much more are you to me than they? Can I talk to some parents this morning? Because ain't nobody gonna take care of you. Amen. Doing crazy things. I told you it was gonna sound crazy. While we when we didn't have to get up and get in the car and drive the beltway and fight people, go down the metro and shift buses and all that. Um but for women your priority pre-pandemic had something to do with your clothes I'm not going back to try to do it for myself when God has already done more than enough for me. And instead of letting the pursuit be driven by passion, let the pursuit be driven by purpose And so if we're going to allow our lives to be reprioritized, we've got to reprioritize the place of our pursuit. Now, the kingdom of God is the place that we ought to be pursuing. A place called the kingdom of God. Y'all stay with me here. The Kingdom of God. The kingdom of God and his righteousness and all these things They know you, Lord. If you will, dealing with avoiding worry into a conversation on reprioritizing life. Jesus says there are birds that are flying about, and they don't sow, nor do they reap, but yet I take care of them. We're driving and commuting two hours a day, sometimes more, four hours a day for some, two hours each way, putting fifteen to twenty hours And you didn't miss it. Nearly 3 million left the workforce, many of whom will not return. Some folk don't even want to go back to work no more. He says you need to seek first. If you had a position in the church and that was your passion, you would be in your position. He wants us to understand that if we when we arrange our priorities poorly, what happens is that we put ourselves first. Of taking care of us. Um on jobs and we never take the vacation they give us. In just commuting. To the job. Because God was in our mind, somewhere in our mind, He was not capable of taking care of us. I'll do it. But if God is not your passion, then you have no desire to pursue Him. He says, seek ye first a place. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. All that those were priorities. A Women's Day message, reprioritizing your life, a Women's Day message. And so um one of the things that I I'm I'm realizing is that God is revealing He's talked about the uh the law and himself, how they compare to one another. You was holding up a spot for the young folks. You've got diamonds on four fingers and you're trying to figure out how can I get one that'll fit on the fifth finger. Shall be added to you. As we look into this text, we find that Jesus helps us to see something, and that is that poor prioritizing comes from a lack of faith. Hair just went wild, fingernails were broken off, toes didn't even see no color. To help us focus on reprioritizing our lives. All right, let me stop meddling. Amen, somebody. And so on this morning, this Women's Day morning, I want to talk to you from the subject matter, reprioritizing your life. Because if your pursuit is in the right order, the thing that you will pursue first is what matters to God. And so we engage in arranging our priorities so that we take care of self first. But there's some that that that you know they they they're working and they're s you know stacking vacation hours and they never take it. Priorities have shifted. So whatever we have passion for, that's what we pursue. Hmm. Now, in the text as we read here in Matthew, I already let you know we were in the middle of the Sermon on the Mount. We we never stop seeking out. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. It's in Jesus' name I pray with thanksgiving and expectation. I'm just telling the truth this morning. Your priority was on your hair and your shoes. Can I say this? We are beings that are fracture in our in our our composition. Can I get some more of that stuff? But he says, seek ye first. If we have a passion for helping people, we'll pursue helping people. And remember to reference the title or broadcast date. Is it clothes? And so the reprioritizing begins with reprioritizing our pursuit. So I want to suggest on this morning that we are standing on the a cusp, the brink of decision-making time. And so he says, seek ye first the kingdom of God. What is it that you're pursuing? It's time to reprioritize your life. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now it doesn't sound crazy when we were doing it, but now it's gonna sound crazy this morning when I say it. Because we had as a priority to take care of ourselves And watch, so many of us are are wrapped up, tied up, tangled up in pursuing They've come into that relationship, but they've walked away. And so we're always driven to not pursue a place called heaven, but we're driven to pursue the things that we see on earth. How much else can I get? If you allow divine purpose to be what you pursue, you will always be satisfying to God. You didn't think about it like that at first, but I'm just see we s we start thinking about stuff after we we had time. You are either pursuing earth and earthly things or you're pursuing heaven and heavenly things. If you look earlier in the text, verse 19, Jesus says that your treasures are either Can I go on on I'm I'm gonna walk off on a tangent just for a little while. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. And so since God's not doing it, and maybe God's not able to do it, we don't have faith enough to believe he will, so we put ourselves Now think about that. That most often pursuits or rather are driven by passions And we put ourselves first because we believe that God's not going to do it, so we have to do it. And I'd got to do this for me. Praise the Lord. Is it is it is it money? Whatever it is that you have a passion for, that is what you typically pursue. The shed is full. You had to do all that. And then Jesus says, but I already know God, the Father already knows what you need. I'm glad you act. Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. They're changing. We probably as parents have even told our children, you need to take care of yourself. Our priorities have led us to meaningless, empty pursuits with And the word of the Lord from Matthew 6, 33 reads, But seek first. Amen. Y'all sit down and sup together. And on this morning, we find ourselves in Matthew chapter 6. They not, I'm not driving the beltway no more. Let your pursuit be driven by divine purpose. The closets are already full. Now, now we only have literally two, if I look eschatologically at the scripture, we only have two I'm really I'm really meddling right now. That's a whole nearly a whole day worth of just commuting. And Amazon truck is stopping at your house every day. I know she's listening. Um but the the key here is we've got to re prioritize the pursuit I wish I had some folk that were pursuing God this morning. What else can the world give me? No, if we've got to reprioritize our lives. You had to go through all that stuff getting your fingernails right and your toes right. In other words, let your pursuit, your pursuit needs to have priority. Would you pray with me, Father? Adultery and divorce, prayer, and heavenly wealth. And so he says, in order to reprioritize your life, he says, first of all The reason is because uh we are we are uh objects It's right here in the text. And he says what you really need to do is in order to get your life reprioritized, you've got to prioritize the pursuit. And because they're subject to sin, the lust of the flesh and the lust of the eye, the pride of life is always driving us to look for stuff that. We already got the 401k, we already got the insurance policy, we already got an investment plan, and yet we're still looking for more. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor What's on the vocabulary? I'm gonna get into the text in a minute. Let the pursuit be prioritized. Is it men? You know that was high on your list. We got two cars in the garage and three on the street. And when it is all done and said, we will give you all the glory and all the honor. If we've got a passion for men, we'll pursue men. Uh there are others who uh pre pandemic I'm trying to help us to see that God has shaken things up a little bit. For the things in the world are passing away. She'll get me for that one later, but uh, you know, we we've engaged and and we've He can take care of us. And now we start thinking about those things, but we were doing these things to take care of ourselves. So Jesus says, right, look, if you're going to reprioritize your life, you first need to prioritize your pursuit God, I'm praying that your word would speak to them in an extraordinary way. I mean UPS man knows you the mailman knows you. Is it women? Stay here with me. There's brokenness in the fellowship. And when the pandemic hit and now they say time to go back with it, I'm out of here. But when there was no church, you wouldn't be in Christ. Uh many people retired. It says, seek ye first. I'm just meddling, okay. We uh stand in need of you this morning and That's a great question. Now I was reading a CBS report that was published in February of this year. But I'm meddling a little bit more because some folk you could have been retired. Is it power? And if you dig deeper into the Bible, you'll find that John, in his first epistle, says to us Amen. What's on the list of the things that you're pursuing? And so, for example, if we have a passion for art, we will pursue art. Um and I do want everybody to understand, even though this is Women's Day and uh we addressing the women, this this message really uh is impacting to everybody. I'm not doing that metro thing no more. I've already got a wife and you're looking for another. I think I'm really talking to somebody this morning, and we need to be reminded that we're more valuable to God than the birds of the air. Lord help us here. And here in Jesus' Sermon on the Mount, he's addressed a number of subject matters. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together That's a great question. Those that are honest this morning would say amen. We pray that you have been richly blessed Lord help me, I'm I'm I'm still meddling. I'm meddling. Lord help us here. But what I need you to understand is if You've got shoes and neckties. You work five days and you commute it the sixth day. Is it position? org or contact our church office at 301 That your will might be done in all that is done, and all that is said, that you might give us direction for our lives. You know why? Y'all text say that? They know you by heart and you And so I'm praying, God, today, that you would restore the broken fellowship. Y'all still hear with me? You know you had to have the shoes to match the shirt and the If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Y'all see that? What I'm aware this morning Can I help somebody here? The storage unit is already full. That's the place we ought to be pursuing. Um the reality is that And amen. He's proven it through his uh taking care of everything around us that's less valuable than us. I know some of y'all say no I take all my vacation We had a year to think about stuff. And he says We already got too much, but yet we still looking for more. Words of life that might change someone's eternal destiny. That the first thing of your pursuit is the kingdom of God. But he says, rather I love our passion are We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. Um but those were priorities pre-pandemic. Because they figured out my priorities were messed up. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. He's already he's laying out this whole idea of Now if your per if your passion was position Screw all that stuff off. They just existing. Is it fame? If we've got a We're in sin and we've got If we've got a passion Everybody, because you're ordering everything, and we never get enough of this stuff Seek ye first. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. It's it's time, it really is You already got a husband, you're looking for another. Familiar passage of scripture. If they can't let me work from home, I don't want to work Seek ye first is is where I want to focus. But Jesus, in the midst of this Sermon on the Mount, wants us to understand that he is more than capable. They said, you know what, what have I been doing? What is it that you've uh established as your life pursuit? Y'all stay here with me? It says, seek ye first the kingdom of God. If you allow your pursuit to be driven by divine purpose, you'll stop chasing after stuff that doesn't matter. But as he digs deeper in this text You've got everything and you're still looking for more. You don't know what kind of wife you're gonna get. No, the pursuit ought to be So so we do stuff like this. And what you do will matter. Because Christ wasn't your passion, it was the position that was the passion. We m. I pray, eternal God, that you would speak clearly to that one who's drifted in their fellowship. But the pursuit has to have He We had to do all that. at the Legacy Center. Now he's bringing you their stories. Okay? I'm retired. Just want to read one verse here. The One Degree of Andy podcast. God, use me according to your will He's talked about reconciliation. Now he's bringing you their stories. Now during the pandemic folk wasn't doing none of that. You're not satisfied with the boyfriend you got, the girlfriend you got. So now we had time to think about that. So a lot of folks checked out We are still seeking out what else Wasn't priority. Amen, Jesus. What you do will last because only what you do for Christ will last. The One Degree of Andy podcast. We work She might not be able to cook I didn't really need to be doing what I was doing. And it's coming, he's coming to the You're still looking what is what's gonna be on sale. I'm Andy Christman. You've got to make the pursuit of the kingdom first. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. That's a place. We've got a million and we're still looking for more. What are you after? I'm Andy Christman. All that time In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast. What are you going after? In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. You got And so Can I get it on Amazon? You've got to What are you chasing after? We've got a hundred and we're He said