The text goes on to say that he was a man who feared God. Father, someone may be here today, someone may be listening today. I'll sanctify you. Come into their hearts, save them, seal them, fill them with your Holy Spirit. You don't have to worry about him not showing up at your concert. Pastor Sterling. uh the dangers of judgment that are yet to come. Voices behind the song. Father, that the word of God that goes forward might be one that encourages those who are discouraged on today. But more importantly, God, let your name be glorified in the midst of all that is done and all that is said. In a way that brings you the most glory and the honor and the praise. And so Job's example of a father is an excellent model, if you will, for fathers to follow. And so I want to talk just for a little while this morning from the subject matter, Job, the model father. Uh Job didn't curse, he didn't mistreat his wife, he didn't abuse her, he didn't talk about her, he didn't call her names, he never belittled her, he didn't cheat on her. He didn't treat his neighbors bad. Their father, a man who rejected behavior that opposed the character of God I'd rather I'd rather be at home with my family and my children. yoke of oxen and five hundred female donkeys and a very large household. It's one thing to have a whole lot of stuff, but it's another thing to manage your stuff with character. He was declared the greatest man in the East because of how he managed what he had. And they would send and invite their three sisters to eat with them. Job had taught them the importance and the significance of being sanctified. And I'm just so convinced that that time is so valuable in the life of a family. Job said now, each one had the party on his appointed day. Job would sin and sanctify them because Job wasn't naive to think that the party was just all clean. This is why Job is a good model parent. And offer burnt offerings according to the number of them all. The fact that God is important, and it's important to live a life that's in line with God. The ministry that you do in providing for them, God will bless you as a result, and your children will rise up and call you blessed, and they will favor you because you sacrifice on their behalf. That we're sin against God. that he's given a good example. I'll be your father. Job called his sons and daughters to a place of repentance to come away and come apart from the sin that they may have committed. and burial in a tomb, but early in the morning he got up just like Job to sacrifice for you and for me so that we could stand before our God blameless of sin blameless of anything that we have done wrong. A Father who loves us when we're unlovable. And his sons would go and feast in their houses, each one on his appointed day, and would send and invite their three sisters to eat and drink with them. For Job said, It may be that my sons have sinned and cursed God in their hearts. under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor Buchus Sterling III. So it was when the days of feasting had run their course that Job would send and sanctify them, and he would rise early in the morning and offer burnt offerings according to the number of them all. And so Job, chronologically speaking, would probably be in the early part of the book of Genesis, in terms of when it actually occurred, his story and his life and who he is. The man who suffered greatly. And all they saw of him was a father of blamelessness as it related to the standard of God His children saw a man who served and loved God with all his heart, with all his soul, and with all his mind. They saw in their father a man who stayed a distance away from evil, who avoided lying and the foul and immoral behaviors of other men. to the services on Sunday, still smelling and reeking of the smells of the night before. too embarrassed to let his friends know, no, I don't hang out there. in all of his wealth. As Job's children modeled him and followed him, they learned the importance of celebrating feast days. But you can have great stuff and be a lousy person. Life was not just going to church, but life enjoyed having some fun. Only appointed day, and they would send and invite their three sisters, and they would eat and drink with them. learned from their father that it was alright to celebrate, it was alright to have fun, it was alright to have feast days, and they came together and they learned the importance of sanctifying time together as a family. The text says that Job's sons would have parties at their houses and their seven sons, so they would rotate around from house to house. We are such a busy group of folks. And this girlfriend and that boyfriend, but we're not spending a whole lot of time together as family. children don't know who we are. Managing his possessions with great character. Spend time just with family. Even though they saw an upright and a blameless man, even though they saw a man who feared God, and they saw a man who shunned evil, and he set the great example before him Now, I noticed in the text, Job didn't say nothing. He was okay with his children partying together, having the celebration together, and as much as he was not naive to think that they were just having a nice, clean, fun time He would pray for them, but he would also send to them and declare to them, all right, now y'all have had your party time. Back in order with God. And as the priest of his family, Job led his children to be set apart, to be sanctified to God. for his children. God. Sometimes I know you don't want to get up early for that football game or that ballet lesson or whatever it is, but you've got to sacrifice for your children and and let me help you with this one the sacrifice you make for your children the sleep that you lose for your children the father didn't make the sacrifice but I declare if you as a father if you as a dad is you follow the example of Job and make the sacrifice of time and sleep for your children they'll greatly appreciate it But Job gets up early and makes the sacrifice, even though his children were partying, even though his children were having feasts, even though perhaps his children were doing things The text says he rose up early, and he'd offered burnt offerings according to the number of them all. Now, some believe that Job only made the sacrifice for the sons, but I believe the text seems to indicate to me that he did it for them all. For the last seven days, or however many days they've been going from house to house. Oxen took his choice sheep and then took it before the Lord and slaughtered it. in order that his children might be set in order and that they might be right before God. About making sure that his children are right before God. The sacrifice of his money so that they would not be out of line with their God. He was a perfect and an upright man. Who did what he did for the purpose of his children to make sure that you and I had everything in line with the Father? For us, but he was a God who came and sanctified us. Or sin in our life, He not only did He sanctify us and set us apart and pull us apart from the wickedness of the world, but He sacrificed His self for you and for me. Job is a model of the Father that we all ought to have. care of you even got nobody in your corner Jesus is the Father that you never had he's the blameless one he's the perfect one he'll never leave you nor will he forsake you you don't have to worry about him doing you wrong He's just modeling the very image of Christ Himself, who gave his life for you and me. Amen. He'll be there when you're well. Do or ever could do, he gave his life for us. Where to go. The word of the Lord reads like this There was a man in the land of Uz whose name was Job, and that man was blameless and upright, and one who feared God and shunned evil. Five hundred yoke of oxen, five hundred female donkeys, and a very large household. Perhaps become bitter in their relationship. Fathers in scripture. father in scripture, but we have more detail of Job's parenting and fathering skills than perhaps any of the earlier The text says that Job was a blameless man. Was a father who was blameless, he didn't abuse his children, he didn't call them out of their names that they weren't given They never heard Job use the name of the Lord God in vain. cursing and drunkenness and whoremonging and pornography and the worship of idols and As an example, a man who managed his wealth and his great possessions with great character was above reproach. was blameless, a father who feared God, a father who shunned evil and managed great possessions with great character. These aren't the feast days of the Levitical era. Even though their dad was respectable man, an honorable man, a holy man, they learned from their father that And so not only was he a great example to his children, Job sanctified his children. varieties of events, perhaps birthdays or anniversaries or things of that nature. And at the celebration they not only ate at the party, but they drank at the party. As they would rotate from house to house, they would invite their three sisters in, and all ten of them would be celebrating in the house. Job's children spent time together, just them. Job's children saw and learned the importance of having sanctified time together. Job didn't get bent out of shape because his children had done something, perhaps, outside of his teaching To catch his children. to be put back in order with God as the priest. He's the religious or spiritual leader of the home. Job gives us an example of rising up early for his children. I can't tell you how many people I've spoken to, how many people I've counseled, and they told me over and over again, my father was never there. You gotta keep in mind, the reason Job is getting up early is because his children were partying, perhaps doing some things contrary to what he wanted them to be doing. For you and me, we probably would have had an attitude because they was doing stuff anyway. Which means all ten of his children. was a good example for us. Setting a perfect example for you and I that we might know how to live. The text says Job did this regularly for his children. You only had to do it one time. And more. A Father who gave the sacrifice of blood, not only for the sins that we did in the past, but for the sins we shall do in the future. No good to them and of no value. Come apart from the sins of the world. Save someone today by your amazing grace, God, as they invite you into their heart, as they ask you to forgive them of their sins, forgive their sins, cleanse them of all their unrighteousness. And seven sons and three daughters were born to him. Amen. He was a man who feared God. seven sons and three daughters that were born to him, but also his possessions were uh seven thousand sheep and three hundred camels and five hundred 31 says that he was a wise counselor, an honest employer, a hospitable and generous man. In being a good father, it involves sometimes the sacrifice of your time and your sleep. Just in case they had sinned in their heart against God, not in their lips. Life, whose pretense of this text mirrors that of our Heavenly Father in that He Himself When they got a runny nose and they can't sleep and they having nightmares and they need somebody to rock them to sleep. On this Father's Day, I thought it would be good to look at the perhaps oldest detailed account of a father that we have in Scripture. He's not waiting for mama to do it. Of coming together and sanctifying time where family alone would be together. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Maybe there was issue between mother and dad, but we we don't know the reason. Praise the Lord. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Verse number five says, So it was and the days of feasting were done, and of course Job said and sanctified them, and he would rise early in the morning. Eternal God, we thank you for this day and for this opportunity and privilege to preach your word. If you have your Bibles with you, Ketterin, and you should, I want to invite your attention to the book of Job, chapter one. He didn't let the wealth have him, but he had the wealth. Invite me into your life. And I know y'all can't stand each other, but sometimes it's just good just to be together. I know you out there doing something, and perhaps you've gone too far, but I need you to set your life, I need you to set your heart back in line with God So God, I'm asking that you would call that one, that woman, that boy, that girl today to give their heart to you, to repent of their sin, even as you Chapter 29 says that Job's character was one of a highly respected man. He'll be there when you're depressed. Now every now and then you need to just bring your family together and say this is just time we're gonna spend together And there's something else to notice about this thing. He knows that he sanctified his children. I'll justify you. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchan Sterling. Even though they saw all of that, Job wasn't naive to think that when his children were partying, that they may not stray from God He's not waiting for mama to take him to church and mama to teach him the Bible. But Job gives us an excellent picture of a good father. I pray that the relationship will be restored through the preaching of the gospel. We're always running here and running there and going to this person's house He sanctifies each one of them, and he sends them to repent and to set their life right back in order with God after the party time is over. That is that Jesus Christ himself coming through 42 generations lived on earth for 33 years. The example he set for his children was one that they saw a man who was unselfish, he wasn't arrogant, he wasn't rude, he was blameless and upright. Perhaps he wasn't even around. Job makes the sacrifice to get up early anyway. Jesus Himself, when he walked the earth, he was without blame and perfect in all of his ways. That no matter how many times we sin, our sin is covered by your blood And so Job got up early in the morning after his children have been celebrating and turning it up. Invite me into your heart. Set themselves in order with you today. You don't have to worry about him not being there at your ballet. Father, I'm praying that your word would go forward in such a way that you would restore the broken fellowship for that person who's walked away from you and And the text goes on to say that and his example to his children, not only was he blameless, and not only did he fear God, but also his children saw in He gave his life to the point of death, death on the cross He didn't entertain evil on Friday night and Saturday night and then come in They've never accepted the perfect Father in their life. These aren't the feast days of the law. He didn't call his sons up and say, I know y'all over there drinking a Hennessy. A Father who understands that we're not going to always do right. You can let the stuff take control of you. So it was when the days of the feast had run their course, when it when party time was over. And this is another great example of a good motto of a father. The children didn't invite Job and his wife either. For Job said, It may be that my sons have sinned and cursed God in their hearts. Yes, he will. He called us out of darkness and into the marvelous light. And so it was when the days of feasting had run their course that Job would send and sanctify them. He's the one that takes the lead on making sure his children are in line and set apart unto God. It's the perfect model of a father who cares for his children, where he sacrifices for them. I'll glorify you. I'll cleanse you of all of your sin. No, I can't go to that club. They did not allow for outside influences and outside interruptions Do it today, God. But God, what I'm thankful of today is that your arms are open wide to all of your children, regardless of who they are, your arms are open to them saying, Come unto me. Allow for clear articulation of thought and speech that you, God, can be glorified in this place. Job had a healthy, balanced respect for God. His children saw an example of a man who shunned evil, a man who feared God, a man who was blameless. And Job got up early and went out to his barn and took his choice He's a model of Jesus Christ, the righteous one. Why? Maybe he was an alcoholic. Also, his possessions were seven thousand sheep, three thousand camel. But but he makes absolutely sure that every one of his children have a sacrifice of his time, a sacrifice of his resources. Job was a great example of a man who managed his wealth well. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. The word sanctified just means to be set apart. And then we probably would say, why would I get up early and sacrifice my sleep because they was partying all night He'll be there when you don't know what to do. That's a great question. Because he loved you, and because you meant so much to him. It was a man who had a reverence for God. And fathers who are good model fathers will make the sacrifice of their time and their sleep for their children's. Your blood has already been shed to cover all of their sins. And Job takes the lead on that as priest of his home. Let me read the text. But the thing his children saw in their father, Job, was It's important, Lord God, that you get the glory and the honor and the praise. That is, he was without accusation. So Job didn't set them apart again unto the Lord. He was indeed a great example to us. I believe not only when they're children, but I think the time is still valuable when you get older. But you, because your blood was perfect. No, he takes the lead and leading them into being set apart unto God to be understanding of See, a lot of people want to be great because they have stuff. It shows you the the level of intensity that Job is serious I'll be to you everything you need. That you could have a feast, that you could have a celebration In the name of Jesus who is the Christ, I pray No. The text says that, verse number four, his sons and his daughters they would go and they'd feast in their houses and each on their appointed day. We're spending too much time apart. Job is a model father whose example, whose He'll be there. Maybe he was a drug addict. No, I I know it's happy hour, but I So he's given up his time and he's given up his wealth and resources And he didn't get an attitude about that Job got up early, and then he began to offer blood and animal sacrifices for each child. Let us pray. I'm praying, God, that even now that you would sustain my physical body, that I might be able to declare a clear word in the midst of the hearing of your people. You can let the stuff be more important to you than your own family. Maybe you'll stop hating each other if you spend more time together without outside influences. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. So that this man was the greatest of all the people of the East Father, let this body of believers that are listening be edified by the preaching of the word First of all, Job sets an example for his children. Job's children saw a man who stayed away from evil. These are feast or celebrations of It says his sons and daughters would go in their houses and each one I hear you today calling your sons and daughters to come away Thus Job did regularly. Job's children. I'll set you apart unto God Now it's time to set yourself And when he gets up early, he not only sacrifices his time, he sacrifices his resources. Father, thank you for the Word of God today. A word, Heavenly Father, that may save someone who's lost and draw them back from And so the children had learned He makes a sacrifice of these animals for each one of the children He'll be there in every situation. Job's children saw in him a man whose character But Job's children learn the importance and the significance. A good father serves as priest of his home. They've wrestled and they struggled with their earthly father, and perhaps he was As I look in this text of Job, and I know we most often think only of Job as Sometimes it ought to be the daddy. And I declare we've got a heavenly father that can do what no other earthly father can do, and no other earthly father will. Now looked at the text. He's a model of the Father that even if you have no father, even if you've got no daddy to take He wanted to separate us from sin and make sure that we would not have sin in our heart Maybe he just was lost and didn't know Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. He was a God who came not only as an example We don't even know who our children are. And so I'm praying with them and praying for them that they would make that decision today to give their heart and their life to you And he sends and he sanctifies his children. Sometimes, fathers, you gotta be the one that gets up early with the kids. We can learn a lot about sanctifying time with our families. He was a man who Begin reading at verse number one. He was straight. And so, as we look at the example of Job as a model father He was a fair and an honest judge. My father didn't care about me. He'll be there when you're sick. Now he's bringing you their stories. He didn't call them. Thank you for being perfect, Father. And the Bible says that The One Degree of Andy podcast. And so, eternal God, now use this vessel of surrendered clay. He was a man whose children grew up The father knows But Job's children had a perfect example of a father who If you look there with me in the first few verses, He didn't show up. I'm Andy Christman. Job also sacrificed. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. It's in Jesus' name I pray. Job He wasn't He didn't crash the party In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. All the children saw of Job. Verse 2 says he had And now Job is not the oldest. Amen.