Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now Pastor Sterling. I want to invite your attention this morning to the first epistle. Of John, 1 John chapter 1. The word of the Lord reads as follows: This is the message which we have heard from him and declare to you That God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. If we say that we have fellowship with him and walk in darkness, we Lie and do not practice the truth. But if we walk in the light as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another and the blood of Jesus Christ Christ, his son, cleanses us from all sin. If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. If we say we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us. My little children, these things I write to you so that you may not sin. And if anyone sins, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ, the righteous. And he himself is the propitiation for our sins and not for ours only but also for the whole world. Now by this we know that we know him if we keep his commandment Commandments. He who says, I know him, and does not keep his commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him Him. But whoever keeps his word, truly, the love of God is perfected in him. By this we know that we are in him. He who says he abides in him ought himself also to walk just as he walked. Amen This passage in um this epistles from the Apostle John is written to the saints to express his loving concern for them Them. John is concerned about their fellowship with God. He's concerned that perhaps as false teachers have come in That they are luring the saints of God away from fellowship with God. John is pouring his heart out, saying, I know you're born again, I know you're saved, but I'm concerned. Concern that your your fellowship with God is being affected, and I want to draw you back into fellowship with God. And in this particular passage John actually challenges us in what I'll call a self evaluation of where we are in our fellowship. Let me pause for a moment to throw out a few things. I need for the purpose of this particular message to differentiate between Between relationship and fellowship. Once we confess our sin and repent of sin When we invite Jesus Christ into our heart, then we become part of the family of God. A relationship with God is established. We are grafted into the vine. And that vine being Christ Jesus. I need you to understand that the relationship is an eternal one. The relationship is one that cannot be affected by new sin. The reason being is because when you came into the relationship, you were in sin in the first place. I believe Romans says it something like this, in that while we were still sinners, Christ died. In other words, Jesus gives us the calming assurance that once we're in a relationship with Him, that relationship is secured not by our actions, but by His blood. That's good news because if it was up to you and I to maintain the relationship, we would be repenting every day. Thanks be to God for the Son Jesus Christ who has assured us eternal salvation. Once you become a child of God, you are a child of God until eternity. But the issue this morning is fellowship. Are we in fellowship? Has our fellowship been affected? Now, as we look at these verses that I've read and you're hearing this morning, what I want to do is I want to talk to you from the subject matter does your fellowship of talk match your fellowship of walk? In other words, you say that you got it all together. That's your talk. But if we followed you around, if we were able to go with you home this afternoon And all the places that you have a tendency to visit throughout the week. Would your walk line up with your talk? Now, you don't even have to be born again to learn how to talk like a Christian. Praise the Lord. I'm doing fine. Blessed and highly favored. Glory. Hallelujah. Everything alright? Oh, wonderful, marvelous. Marvelous. Hallelujah. Hallelujah. Got the talk down. It doesn't take long to learn how to talk the talk. And we can talk a good talk. But the issue is Do you walk? How you talk? I'm a little concerned, as John is, that the false teachers of today. The strange doctrines of the day, the attitudes of society today are causing the body of Christ to become Very challenged in their relationships, or rather, in their fellowships with God. In other words, what I see happening is we become very callous, we become very comfortable in just saying we're Christians, but we're We're really not living this thing out the way God intended us to live it out. Fellowship is broken. We've gotten Kind of tolerant of a whole lot of stuff, and because nobody holds you accountable, then you have a tendency to do what you won't do. We're migrating to the ways of the world and falling away from The fellowship with God. And the thing that troubles me most about it, um Karen, is that we're we're comfortable and we're all right with doing it. It bothers me when you talk to the young people and they say, Why Should I live this Christian life when my mother and father ain't doing it? They up in church faking. When unsafe folks say, Why should I want Jesus Christ? As my personal savior. When I'm watching other folk and they live in like worse than I am, fellowship issues. That troubles me. And so as we look at this I want to know, does the fellowship of your talk match the fellowship of your walk? Only you could answer this question. And only you can allow the Lord and the Word of God to examine you this morning. John begins his encouragement and his challenge to the saints. By laying down the whole premise of his whole argument of fellowship in the first place. This is the message which we have heard from him and declare to you that God is light and in him Is no darkness at all. And if you look back earlier in uh this epistle, this letter, John says uh we we didn't get this from somebody else, we were there. We were with him. We handled him. We heard from him. We touched him. We walked with him. We're giving you firsthand information. We heard him say. That he was the light and in him is no darkness at all. That's a powerful statement. That that ought to just rivet you. And cause you even off the front end to examine whether or not my fellowship with God is in order. John says to us this morning here in this first epistle, God is light, and in him there is no darkness at all. As it relates to fellowship, what that helps me to understand, I can't be in Fellowship with him and in darkness at the same time. I can't be holding on to fellowship with him and then go fellowship with my boys in the world. I I can't do both. I've either I'm in fellowship with him. Because in him is no darkness at all. Or I'm in the well surrounded by darkness. That's the premise of the entire argument that John is going to pose this morning in this text. This passage of scripture, you'll see John jump back and forth between what man says and what man does. Look at the if we say verses verse six. If we say, verse eight, if we say, verse ten, if we say, chapter two, verse four, he who says, chapter ten, verse six, he who says John is adamantly aware that folk got a tendency to talking a lot. And uh what you see them do is contrary to what they say. Does that bother anybody besides me? Is that just a passage? After thing. John says there's a difference between what we say and what we do. As we look at this, the first thing he says, if we walk in the light, that's the first thing he He he really hits us with. But watch what he says first. He says, uh, verse number uh six, he says, if we say that we have fellowship with him and walk in darkness, We lie and do not practice the truth. In other words, not only are you lying, but you're not a practicer of truth. Let me see if I can fix this up. If out of my mouth comes the words, I have fellowship with him. But if my life example says that I love darkness more than light Somebody's lying. If I don't want my deeds exposed, if I'm concerned with people knowing what I'm doing while I'm sitting at my computer in a home or on my job and I say I have fellowship with God. John says you're a liar And the truth is not in you. If I'm concerned, my language ain't what it ought to be. And I'm saying I'm in fellowship with God. Somebody's lying. Matter of fact Um, John, he he ain't scared. He says you are a liar, and you do not practice the truth. You're in the habit of not practicing truth, therefore, you're not in fellowship with God, you're lying It's not what you say, it's what you do. John comes back in verse number seven. He says, But if we walk. If we walk in the light as he is in the light, there are benefits, watch this, to being in fellowship with God. Here's the benefit. First of all, if we walk in the light, we one have fellowship with God. That's the first benefit. Secondly, if we walk in the light, we have fellowship with one another. In other words, if I walk in the light, I'll have a better relationship with folk around me. Part of the problem while we come to church and that all sedity and treat folk wrong is because we have problems with our fellowship with God. It's not the relationship, it's the fellowship. If I've got problems with my vertical relationship with God and my fellowship with God is out of order. It makes sense that my horizontal fellowship with you is gonna have problems. That's why they're sitting in the corner talking about you. That's why They talk behind your back. That's why you've got these little clicks going on in the household of faith because fellowship issues are affecting us. But the Bible here says if we walk in the light, then we'll have fellowship with one another. I don't have a problem fellowshipping with you if I'm in the light and you're in the light because we don't have nothing to hide. If I say I'm walking in the light, Um this benefit for me because I've got fellowship uh with you. My ability to fellowship with the brothers and sisters in the body of Christ uh then comes in order. My fellowship with God is in order. But look listen to this one It says, and the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanses us from all sin. If I walk in the light. There's benefit. Now, can we be honest for a moment? Walking in the light is not always sensually satisfying. In other words, what I'm trying to say is my flesh is not always happy with walking in the light. Matter of fact, some people would translate it this way. It ain't no fun being a Christian. That's what people would say. But but see here's the problem. They miss The basis of Christianity is not what God can do for your flesh. It's what God can do for your soul So so here we are, we're struggling with with what what the flesh wants and we're struggling with trying to be happy but walking in the light is It's not designed to satisfy your flesh. Walking in the light is designed to encourage your soul. It's designed to encourage your spirit. It's designed to make sure that you have what you need. So he's Says, look, if I walk in the light, I have fellowship with God, I have fellowship with uh with my brethren, but I've got the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleansing us. From all sin. As long as I stay in the light, there's this fountain of blood that keeps on washing me. As long as I stay in the light, there's this fountain of blood that is running from Emmanuel's vein, and I can continue to Stay under the blood and be washed from my daily sin. I can be washed from my daily shortcomings, be washed from my fallings down and get back up again. But I've got to stay in the light. See, see, if it was up to you and I to maintain and keep ourselves pure, we'd have to continue to confess and repent and confess and repent. But if I stay in the light, guess what? The blood is always running Washing me, keeping me clean. And so he says, Look, we've got benefit. There's benefit there. Walk in the light, and as he is in the light, and we shall fellowship with one another. We shall, and the blood of Jesus Christ, his son cleanses us from all sin if we walk in the light. Second point here is he says second thing that we need that that that he says that this is a due issue is is found over there in verse number nine. It says, if we confess our sin. Well, what does he say? First of all, verse number eight. See, he hits us first of all, he says, if we say, because it ain't about what you say. But he says, if you say, We have no sin. That is, we don't have a sin nature. We deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us If you walk around talking about you know what I was born saved, and I never have any sin touched me. John says you deceive yourself. Because the Bible says we were born in sin and shaped in iniquity. You are not that good. Matter of fact. Uh, you don't even really have a desire to do good. We were all like sheep gone astray, everyone to his own way. We didn't seek God, he came and got us If it wasn't for him coming to get us, we'd still be in the club. We'd still be on the street. We'd still be smoking dope. We'd still be drinking liquor. We'd still be selling our body. We'd still be Still be doing all kinds of crazy stuff. He came and got us because we had a nature to sin. We sinned because we liked it. It was by nature and by choice. But he says if you say that you don't have a sin nature, you deceive only yourselves and the truth is not in you. But watch this. Here's here's the converse. But if you confess So we talk about staying in fellowship with God. It's not about saying I'm in fellowship. It's not about saying I don't have sin, so I'm in fellowship. No, it's about confessing. But if we confess our sin, sins with an S, that's our acts of sin. If we confess the things we do, he is faithful to forgive, and he's just to forgive God is faithful in forgiving sin. Did you realize that? If we confess our sins, He is faithful in forgiving sin. If we pretend that it ain't really sin and we say, Lord, I apologize, I confess that I wasn't the best person, you ain't doing nothing but Smoothing it over. He didn't say confess the generality. He said confess the sin. Call it what it is Lord, I was out there drunk and I had no business drinking that 40. I know I should have been home studying my Bible, getting ready for Bible study. Lord, it was just a Look, God forgive me for that that little white transgression. No, it wasn't no little white transgression. It was a lie. You lied. You was deliberate in trying to Deceive. Confess it. If we confess our sins, he is faithful to forgive. He is faithful to forgive. As long as we confess it, he is faithful. In other words, he will never fail in forgiving. Confess sins. Isn't that good news? There's no sin you're gonna bring to him and he's gonna say, you know what? That one I can't forgive you for that one. He's there's no sin. that way. And you know what? And even if you've brought it to him many times before, because you confess it, he's faithful. You can depend on him to forgive it. He's not only faithful, but he's just in forgiving. In other words, he has the qualifications to forgive sin in a justifiable way. How can he forgive sin? Well, because he lived a life without sin and he died and shed his blood on Calvary's cross. for sin, so he is just in forgiving sin. So no matter what sin you bring to him, he can look at sin And because of his blood, he can justifiably wipe it out and forgive it. He's faithful in it and he's just in it. He's not gonna cheat you. He's not gonna rob you. He's not gonna short you. He will forgive sin if you confess it. And in my confession of sin, guess what? It brings me in fellowship with God. But if we say that we have not sinned, we make him a liar. And his word is not in us. If we say we have not sinned, I've never sinned. I am the perfect child. My mother told me so I've never done any wrong. I'm a good person. Kept all of the laws of God. I'm just wonderful. I'm just. I'm perfect. If you say you have not sinned, then you are saying that God is a liar. Because God says in his word, Romans 3:26, all have sinned. And come short of his glory. So either God is a liar or you're a liar. And his word is not in you. His word can't be in you. You can't be in fellowship with him if you are saying you have never sinned. Doctrine comes along and says, you, what you do in your flesh cannot affect your spirit because your spirit is in Christ Jesus. So it's okay to go ahead and do the sin, and it's not counted as sin because your spirit is in Christ Jesus. Another doctrine. Comes forward to say. You can sin as much as you want because you're born again, and the blood of Christ covers all of your sin. You never have to worry about anything. Do what you want to do. You already guaranteed a place in heaven. John says, I'm concerned. You're missing out on the fellowship. Because when you sin, you're out of fellowship. And if you say you have not sinned, you're saying God is a liar. And his word is not in you. John comes back in chapter 2, beginning to verse 1, he begins to say to these here, he says, look, little ones that have been just little newborn babes. In Christ. Little babies that need nurturing. He comes back and he says to them, These things I write to you that you may not sin. And if you do sin, John says, I want you to know something. You've got an advocate with the Father You've got someone standing up there pleading your case. His name is Christ Jesus. He's the righteous one. And every time the charges come up for your sin, because you've confessed them, he's standing there saying it's. covered by the blood. So guess what? He's your advocate. He's Jesus Christ, the righteous one. Ain't no better attorney to have in glory but Jesus. He paid the price to cover all the sin charges. He did the time that we deserve to do. Romans chapter 6 Says it this way that the wages of sin is death. We deserve to die. But guess what? Because he is such a good God, John comes back to let us know that not only is he our advocate, but he's our propitiatory offering. He's a Substitutionary offering for sin. You and I were the ones that deserved to be nailed to the cross. You and I were the ones that should have been beaten beyond recognition because of our sin. You and I were the ones that should have been Left for dead. You and I are the ones that should have pierced in the side, but he stepped in place of you and I because we deserve to die. But because of his love, he died for us. Died in our place, shed blood until there was enough blood to cover all of the sins. But we've got to confess it to remain in fellowship with him. The Radio Broadcast Ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's Message. Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building for a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. We hope that you have enjoyed Our journey together, and we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services Sundays at 8 a. m. or 11 a. m. at our new edifice called the Legacy Center, located At 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlboro, Maryland. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office. At 301-574-3515. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family. Minister in the Spirit of Excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman in his new podcast. One Degree of Andy. He sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations, you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass: the One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy. Priya Vandi wherever you get your podcasts