Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now Pastor Sterling. Uh chapter one, we want to continue our series. Began on last week uh walking through Ruth. Uh Ruth chapter one. We'll begin reading at verse 7. The word of the Lord reads as follows. Therefore she went out from the place where she was. And her two daughter-in-laws with her, and they went out, or they went on the way to return to the land of Judah. And Naomi said to her two daughter-in-law, Go and return each to her mother's house. The Lord deal kindly with you as you have dealt with the dead and with me. The Lord grant you May find rest each in the house of her husband. And so she kissed them, and they lifted up their voices and wept. And they said to her, Surely we will return with you to your people. But Naomi said, Turn back, my daughters. Well why will you go with me? Are there still sons in my womb that they may be your husbands? Turn back, my daughters, and go, for I am old, I'm too old. Uh to have a husband and if I should have uh hope, uh if I should have a husband tonight and should also bear sons Would you wait for them until they were grown? Would you restrain yourselves from having husbands? No, my daughters, for it is it grieves me very much uh for your sake that the hand of the Lord has gone out against me. Then they lifted up their voices and wept again. And Orpah kissed her mother in law, but Ruth clung to her And she said, look, your sister-in-law has gone back to her people and to her gods. Return after your sister-in-law. But the roof said, entreat me not to leave you or turn back from following after you. For wherever you go, I will go. And wherever you lodge, I will lodge. And your people shall be my people, and your God, my God. And where you die, I will die. And there Will I be buried? The Lord do so to me, and more also, if anything but death parts you and me. And when she saw that she was determined to go with her, she stopped speaking to her. Would you pray with me this morning? Father, we bless you and we love you in this place. We need your presence even now. God, that you might begin ministering into the deep recesses of our hearts and our minds and our lives. God, we want to leave here today changed by the power of your presence. And so I'm praying that the power of your presence would manifest itself through the preaching of the gospel. Lord, I stand in need of you. I'm just a vessel, an instrument that's yielded this morning to be used to accomplish your will. God, I pray for anyone who might be listening who or who will listen later, who's not come to a relationship with you. I'm praying, God, that this might be the day. that they surrender their lives to you and they become part of the family of God. I pray, God, for those who've drifted in fellowship who have Not walked with you continuously, who have not clung to you continuously. I pray God you would draw them back to yourself, Heavenly Father. I'm praying, eternal God, that as we go through the preaching process on this morning That you would edify this body for we need to grow to know of you and learn of you and learn how we might live better for you. So, Spirit of the Living God, I pray this morning that you would have your way. I yield myself as a vessel in your hand to accomplish your will, Lord Jesus. And I need you. Lord, I need you. So have your way in this place. In the name of Jesus I pray. Amen. And amen. And so on this morning, as we continue to delve into and walk through this text of Ruth, It kind of opens up and continues the journey of Ruth from this place where she acknowledges that she's out of place. And so she has uh, if you will, decision to make Do you realize that for the average adult, we make anywhere from 33,000 to 35,000 decisions a day From thirty-three to thirty-five thousand decisions a day. And that's just the average As we go about our day-to-day assignments, we are making decisions about simple things. Like, which way am I going to go to work today? What am I going to eat? What am I going to wear? And for some of you that adds to your decision-making number because you got so many choices. Amen, somebody. So you go into your room that you call the closet, and you got 33,000 choices of shoes. And ten thousand churches choices of dresses and outfits. So that adds to your decision-making number. So you way over thirty-three thousand by the time you get up in the morning. But there are simple decisions that we have to make and Things as simple as that and you know eating and wearing and what we're gonna drive, you know, we got multiple cars nowadays, so we decide which car we're gonna drive and all that. But there are so also some more complicated and some in depth decisions that we have to make and that we make and those might be along the line of Taking a particular job or maybe even retirement. You decide am I going to retire this year or am I going to hold off till next year or Am I just fed up with these people and I'm just leaving today? I'm just gonna turn in my resignation letter where you know wherever we might be. It might be, you know, something as serious as um a surgery that you have in front of you a decision about that. Will you take the surgery? Will you uh go forward with that? Um you know uh am I gonna sell this house and which house am I gonna buy what neighborhood I'm gonna live in and uh you know kids going to college. You got all kinds of decisions that we're making and you know we've got to decide am I gonna follow Jesus this morning and am I gonna Serve him sacrificially or is is today gonna be about me. Um we got so many decisions that we're making and uh decisions are critical in our life and Even as we make these decisions, each decision we make has consequences, and hopefully we are evaluating our decisions. Based on the consequences that come from the decisions that we make. I'm gonna get y'all there. As I was looking at this text, this text was laden with decisions that were to be made. By Naomi, by Ruth, by Orpa, decisions to be made, choices in front of them and they've got to decide what are we going to do what how am I going to respond? What am what is my action based on what has already occurred? And so uh I I I want to on this women's day um talk to you from the subject matter decisions decisions Now I need to lay something out in front of you before I get started, before you begin to critique my English. Um, I will say that my my points that I will reference on today, I'm gonna say it out front, it it's not good English, but it's good Bible. Are y'all here with me? The points that I'm gonna make, I need to say this twice because somebody wasn't listening. They're gonna say he shouldn't have used that word, he should have used another word. I know already. It's just not good English what I'm getting ready to say, but it's good Bible. Are y'all still here? So as I delve into this This text talking from this idea, decisions, decisions. The first of all is a decision Here in the text, if I can read once again verse 7, therefore she went out from the place where she was. And her two daughter-in-laws with her, and they went on their way to return to the land of Judah. There is here in this verse a decision to leave the place where she was. But I want to make this personal, and I want to say to you that there is a decision, you need to make a decision to leave the place where you was. I here it goes. I knew. For the people that didn't hear me two times now they say but what is that don't sound right. I already know. There needs to be a decision to leave the place where you was. Watch this. Naomi came to the decision That she was out of place, first of all. She came to the reality, she acknowledged, I'm out of place. I'm in Moab and I'm not where I'm supposed to be. I'm in the land of lust and I should be in the house of bread. And so she the text says so uh she decided therefore she went out from the place where she was. Y'all still here? She made a decision to leave the place where she was. No, help me, Jesus. She was in Moab and her husband died. She was in Moab and her two sons died. She was in Moab, the The land of lust, and she realized that she was out of place. She should have stayed in the house of bread, and she got word that in the house of bread, God was feeding his people. So she decided to leave the place where she was I'm getting ready to get in your business. Because too many people have not left the place where they was Help me, Lord. Some of you are still struggling with the place where you was. And is hindering you from being where you are and where you need to be. Okay, I I I um I know it's women's day, but I'm gonna try to make this applicable to everybody because this does apply to everybody because it ain't just women that are stuck in the place where they was There's some men that need to be reminded that you was 30. It's time to leave. Matter of fact, it probably was time 35 years ago Are you hearing this one I'm saying? There are some people who are stuck and they're mentally and emotionally being impacted because they have not decided to leave the place. Where they was. And then sometimes I think you we just need to run it through our mind. I I was a cheerleader. Several pounds ago and several years ago I was the prom king, the prom queen. I was most likely to succeed. I was. That's the place where you was. It's not the place where you are. You was 17. And a whole lot of people, help me Jesus, a whole lot of people need to understand you're no longer 17 and you need to stop acting like a child You need to make a decision to leave where you was. Because you're not there no more. You was poor. You was hungry. You was broke busted and disgusted. You're not there anymore, but listen to me. There's a lot of people who have now made much wealth But they're still living like they're poor and they're scared to go back to being poor. Lord Jesus. They won't spend a dime. Because in their mind, they're still living in that house where there was no running water, where they were hungry for days on end. And even though they're making much money now and they can they can eat, they're still living in the place where they was. Y'all still here? This becomes very uh ingraining in our life when we can't leave those places where we was. You was married Stop following him on Facebook. Stop asking his friends and her friends where she doing, where she going, who she with. That's where you was. You ain't married no more. You are single. Y'all can stop singing the Beyonce song. You ain't single no more. Uh oh. Use married now, colored purple. So stop hanging out with the single ladies. Stop. Oh Lord, help me Jesus. Stop carrying on these conversations with the single people. You ain't single no more. That's where you was. It's time to make a decision to leave where you was and move on Yes, you was abused. Yes, you were mistreated. Yes, you was cheated on. That's where you was. Let's move on. Emotionally, spiritually, there's some folks that are tore up by what was. And they've passed what was by many, many years, but it's still tearing them up every day. They're still wrestling with it every day. But in the text, you we we see Naomi decides, she makes a decision to leave where she was. Because where she was was full of death. Her husband died. Both her sons died. She was dying inside. It was death, death, death. It was judgment of God. And she says, I don't, I don't need how I'm not staying here. So she made a decision. To leave where she was. If you stay where you was You will hinder where God wants you to be. Let me dig in some more. She went out from there, from the place where she was. And there were two people with her, two daughter-in-laws, and they they went on the way to return to the house of bread. Naomi had sense enough to leave the place where she was Physically. But what we're gonna see as we keep digging deeper is that emotionally And psychologically, and maybe even spiritually, it was still ripping her up. The verse 8 picks up and it says, And Naomi said to her two daughter-in-laws, Go and return, go back to your mama's house. And may the Lord deal kindly with you as you have dealt with the dead and with me. The Lord grant you that you may find rest and each in the house of her husband. So she kissed them All wept together and they said Naomi would say y'all y'all can go now. See y'all later. Peace. Get out of my face. Get away from me. This is this is Naomi. And so they they cry and then they come back and they say, Well no, um verse 10. No, surely we're we're gonna return with you. Uh we're going with you to to your people. Both both of them said it. Ruth said it and Orpah both said it. But now as I move to this Next segment of the text, there is, watch this, there's a decision that needs to be made regarding the coercion to stay in the place where they was. And you have to make a decision regarding the coercion for you to stay in the place where you was. Listen, listen to me. The devil does not want you to leave where you was. And so he's going to send people And means to coerce you to stay where you was, because where you was, you was dying And the enemy came to steal, kill, and destroy. So his objective is being fulfilled as you're dying in the place where you was, and if he can keep you there long enough, you'll literally die. Y'all still here? So he's going to utilize what mechanisms he can to coerce you to stay where you was. Watch this. The person in the text that's used to do the coercing is Naomi herself. Watch this. Because Naomi's got some issues going on. Remember, Naomi left the house of bread, which is watch this, which is the place God has given to Israel. It was the land flowing with milk and honey. She left that with her husband to go to the land of lust, and they went to the land of lust thinking we made it, we good, we we've escaped the judgment of God, only to run into the judgment of God. And so her husband dies, and so they kind of gather themselves and they think they're going on, and there's ten years to go by, and her two sons die. And so now Naomi's in this place, and Naomi is bitter, but she's also grieving. And watch this. What Naomi does is what some of us do when we're in a bad place and we don't feel worthy. To have folk around us, or we don't want people around us. We try to push people away. So Naomi is trying to push her daughter-in-laws away. And she's she's kind of aggressive with her coercion methods, if you will. So she's trying to uh sh she's gonna try to push them away. She doesn't she I don't want y'all going with me. Go go back home And some of us do the same thing when we're in a bad place or space. We just we we'll we'll start fights with people just to make them leave us alone. I know I'm I know I'm telling the truth. Just because we don't want to be bothered. And we feel like sometimes when we're going through our our stuff, we feel like nobody understands. What I'm going through, and ain't no need you hanging around smiling and expecting me to minister to you or be some benefit to you when I can't be a benefit to myself. And so she pushing her daughter-in-laws away because she's experiencing her own pain and she's experiencing her own perhaps anger and she doesn't want them around and she starts pushing them away and pushing them away. Even as some of us do. And she's so she says, now watch what this is what she does. She says, she she utilizes as a motivation of coercion to her daughter-in-law's. Relationships. So she she says in essence to them, go back to your mother. Go back to a relationship that you have that's better than the one you could possibly have with me You ever heard somebody say to you, you can find better people than me to hang with? Sometime that's probably you saying that. Yeah, I'm I'm not the best friend type. Find somebody else. Or somebody says, you know what, I I care for you, I love you. No, don't don't don't do that to me. I'm I'm gonna I'm gonna disappoint you. And we push them away. Push them away. Push them away. Naomi says, go back to your mothers because your relationship with them is stronger, it's safe. I'm gonna help you make the decision to stay where you were Go back to your mother because that's a safe relationship. Go back to that old dude that was beating up on you because that that's what you were familiar with. Go back to that girl. Yeah, you liked her body, but she was a mess. She was messy. Go back because that's comfortable. It's a relationship you're comfortable with, and it's better than being with me. Give me give me a little grace, y'all. Since this is women's day. I know sometimes women some of not every woman. Not every woman. Not every woman Some women have been praying, God, send me a man. Some, not all. I know some of you have already made up your mind, I don't need no man. Leave me alone. I ain't fooling with no woman I already know. So it ain't every woman. Some have said, God, I'm looking for a man. You already told the Lord all your requirements as if you were God. I already know. And God sends you the man And you push them away because you're broken just like Naomi. And you say, I'm not good enough. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he said down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.