Mm-hmm. That you're thinking the same thing. And his sons would go and feast in the their houses each one on the appointed day, and would send uh invite the three uh sisters to eat with them and drink with them. Voices behind the song. But now stretch out your hand and touch all that he has, and he will surely curse you to your face. And so Satan went out from the presence of the Lord, and now there was a day when the sons and daughters were eating and drinking in their oldest brother's house, and a messenger came to Job and said, The oxen were ploughing and the donkeys were feeding beside them, and when the Sabaeans raided them and took them away, and indeed I have uh they have killed the servants with the edge of the sword, and I alone have escaped to tell you, and when he was still speaking. and killed the servants with the edge of the sword, and I alone have escaped to tell you. In the oldest brother's house, and suddenly a great wind came from across the wilderness and struck the four corners of the house, and it fell on the young people, and they are dead. um that have been going out and we've kind of scheduled some time where they'll come back and share some things with you. We don't like it. I want to open up this text on this morning, and as God will give me strength and grace to do so and talk to you from the subject matter, God knows your struggles. There's nobody like him. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. The roof is fixed. Praise the Lord. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And a very large household, so that his that this man was the greatest of all people in the East Now there was a day when the sons of God came and presented themselves before the Lord, and Satan came also among them And the Lord said to Satan, From where do you come? Uh have you not made a hedge around him and uh around his household and around all that and everything on every side, and you have blessed the work of his hands and his possessions have increased in the land Then Job arose and tore his robe, shaved his head, and fell to the ground and worshipped. Someone is lost, Lord God. And make it such that they would know that it was you speaking and not me. uh undeniable to me that God was moving because of the things I saw happening. And we were we were in a a very a very po impoverished area and we were walking through and And generally what would happen is if our you know parts of the team would be sharing, other people would want to know what's going on and so they kinda start gathering around and And so one lady, one of part of our team was sharing, and one lady um came up and she was like, What's going on? They don't know nothing about not eating, not not having this or having that. Do I have to go through this struggle? Um multitudes of resources and servants and all that. I mean Job is even getting up in the morning offering sacrifices on behalf of his children just in case they sinned against God. Y'all still here with me? And so now his struggle becomes demonic. Some of our struggle is deeply rooted and it's been coming at you for a long time because Satan doesn't just come and leave. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And I know right now it's kind of hard getting into a therapist chair because everybody got mental health issues right now. down with the voices behind the song. And now, Pastor Sterling. And so it was when the days of feasting have run their course that Job would send and sanctify them, and and he would rise up early in the morning and offer burnt offerings according to the number of them all. It may be that my sons have sinned and cursed God in their hearts, thus Job did regularly Blessed be the name of the Lord. I want you to move us on today, God, that we might have a face-to-face encounter with you. And then we get to the end of our life where we're struggling either to continue to live, or we're struggling to separate ourselves from this flesh that we might go home and be with God. We've made it too easy on our children. And in his texts, we see even some of those that come about in the text because Job's friends think that his struggle is punishment. And they say, Job, God doesn't God's not gonna bring all this on you for nothing. But his wife thought that his struggle was permanent. And so from that point on, now Job, whatever struggles he has, now they shift from struggles of flesh and blood to now he literally is struggling against spiritual wickedness in heavenly places. Your average mediocre Christian life is not going to bring you through this kind of struggle Sundays at 10 a. or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. That there is none like him on the earth, and a blameless man, an upright man, and one who fears God and shuns evil. And he said, Naked I came from my mother's womb, and naked shall I return there. causes you to to rethink the life that you have and the things that you value. And they didn't get tired of worshiping God. I mean Job I mean things are going well with him. Until God says to Satan, have you considered my servant Job? And you're you're you're falling deeper and deeper into this thing. And the servants and consumed them, and I alone have escaped to tell you. Words that would penetrate the soul and all the barriers and fences and walls we've put up. For your word, and we thank you for this occasion and opportunity we have to declare your word on this morning, Lord. And amen. They didn't have two cars and choices how to get there. As our team went through these villages where there are just these people that were, and from our perspective and from a human perspective, I would say people who were in abject poverty. But yet, when we offered to share Christ with them, they would pull up a chair and say, sit down, we will listen. That everybody says yes. And one of the ladies that was there, she said, it's better than food. The problem that I see with it is that we don't want struggle. And as I look into this text and I watch the struggles of Job, I realize that And I'm gonna argue with God and prove to God that I'm not guilty of anything deserving of what I'm going through. This struggle is not what I deserved. Some of our struggle is directly spiritual in nature. Because that's the hour of spiritual warfare. I don't want to cause you to be too afraid that oh my god I can't the devil is after me. They didn't shut the door on us. If I can say it this way, this kind of struggle you're only going to overcome if you get on your knees and get in the face of God. Some of it is coming from places and spaces that we're unaware of, but yet it's there every day. And the reason why I say I don't want you to become too fearful and give too much power to that is because, as we see in the text, God places limitations on that struggle. And seven sons and three daughters were born to him also. Another also came and said, The fire of God fell from heaven and burned up the sheep. I saw people who didn't have doors on their houses, but yet they welcomed the gospel. They let us go into the school and I shared a gospel in the school, and every child in the classroom gave his life to Christ. And when I shared the gospel, every single one of those fishermen gave his life to Christ. Lipstick. As we try to understand what's going on, we come to premature decisions about what God is doing, what he's up to, where he is. But then Job thought that his struggle was presumptive of guilt. I'm innocent. If you're struggling, you're living in grace. Struggle can be demonic and it can be spiritual. If not him, definitely from some demon from hell. And there's depression that's kicking in, and you're sad, and you're measuring yourself by everybody else. Why why my car keep breaking down? We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. And Lord, even as I stand here this morning, use me as a vessel in your hand to accomplish a real. It was uh literally uh an amazing um experience there. That all struggle isn't bad. But struggle is a part of life. Like Job and his friends and his wife, one of our problems is we have bad theology about struggle. We don't understand what the purpose of struggle is. Help me, Jesus. It might have come through your mother or your father or your some other person in your life, the sin that was in their life, and now it's been transferred as an issue to you and you're still struggling with it, and this struggle is spiritual. Not an earthly therapist. My my heart was burdened for the struggle of the people, but God showed me something about this process. I I think some of what's wrong with our society right now is that we've eliminated too much struggle. Hour after hour after hour stressing about the struggle. Places where, if I can talk to you for real, for real, where you cry, sometimes and no tears come out. That's what struggle will do to you. Why have you abandoned me? The devil is in charge, so he's going after high-ranking officials. Some of our struggle is spiritual, some of it is demonic, some but don't I I wanna help you here because I don't want you to give too much power to the devil. And then as he walks through life, he we perhaps some would say we struggle all of our life with one thing or another. Struggle also can make you better. Help me Lord. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. We don't invite it. Struggle will make you angry and bitter. That God is being unfair. And the reason why I know this was God moving in an extraordinary way because everybody I shared Jesus with, every single person gave their life to Jesus. God, I can't wait to get to heaven. Struggle causes us to isolate, to lose sleep, to be up. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now the air conditioning breakdown. He's an upright man. Help me God. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. And as I walk through this experience and and we watch God just do miraculous things. Now the direct struggle in Job's life becomes Satan himself. I have nothing against therapists and I guarantee you that some of us need to go sit in f at the in the chair. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. In fact, from birth, a child struggles to come into the world. Struggle will put you in some bad spaces and places, and it'll it'll make you uncomfortable. They've drifted in their fellowship. As I dig into this, I realize that struggle could impact us in a whole lot of ways. Can I qualify that? They didn't run away. And I thought to myself how vile we are to love things more than God. Before I get into this text this morning, I want to again just thank everyone for your prayers as we were away, and for those of you who didn't pray, that worked too. In fact, Job is so bent on his presumption that this is presumptive of guilt and that somehow I'm innocent of it. m. Everybody else seemed like their car working. We've made it everything is so easy. In fact, we avoid it as much as we possibly can. at the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. We're walking the street and and there were these fishermen preparing their nets and they were working on their nets and I felt like I was back in Jerusalem. The word of the Lord from Job chapter one reads as follows There was a man in the land of Uz whose name was Job, and that man was blameless and upright and one who feared God and shunned evil. And so Satan answered and said to the Lord, From going to and fro in the earth, and from walking back and forth on it. Amen. And I want to help somebody here on this morning. Our theology about struggle is wrong, and oftentimes we want to know, God, where are you in this struggle? He he fears God and shuns evil. I'm gonna fix the air conditioning down the refrigerator to breaking down. And so we're we're wrestling not against flesh and blood, but against these demonic spirits in heavenly and angelic places. I can't wait to have a conversation with you. This kind of struggle you're not going to overcome just by just by doing the things you used to do. You need a God who is capable of changing the spiritual atmosphere in which you're living. God knows your struggles. They know they sit sit and tell us this story. But these people were hungry for the truth. Why am I left here all alone? Some some of our struggle is is demonic, some of it it is it's spiritual. Most of them walked there or caught a taxi or some other means and but they didn't get tired of worshiping God Draw them back to yourself. He's the greatest man in the East. I mean and then when God offers him up to Satan, then things begin to change. And I want you to understand something that the strategy of the devil doesn't change a whole lot. Why, God? But they recognized that the gospel was more valuable than silver and gold. They mad at the world and ready to kill somebody. Struggle will put you in a place where you can't talk to nobody or you think nobody understands. She said, do you still hold on to your integrity? We see here in the text that everything is going well with Job. You did something wrong. I don't mean you're not important. I'm preaching way better than you saying amen And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship Servic But but I I just want to share a little bit and we've we've had got s have had several um mission teams and we've got another one leaving this week, I believe. Everything is so give it to them. And in some senses, you're right, because all we really deserve is death and hell. And there's stuff happening, and you don't understand why. It's a part of what we have to deal with. It is demonic. And you're wondering, Lord, why me? And while he was still speaking, another also came and said, Your sons and your daughters were eating and drinking wine Lord, have your way in this time, and we will give your name all the glory and all the honor and all the praise for you alone, God are worthy. Why? While you're walking back and forth in the earth, seeing who you can tear up, seeing what you can mess up, seeing what you can kill, steal, and destroy, have you considered my servant Job? Some of your struggle is spiritual, and listen to me, you can't win this kind of struggle with physical things. That's not really us. His possessions were seven thousand sheep, three thousand camel, five thousand yoke of oxen, five hundred female donkeys They didn't have a four-bedroom house. And all this Job did not sin, nor charge God with wrong. They s but struggle is is inevitable and and we really ultimately can't avoid struggle because it's going to happen. Because God, I'm not deserving of what I've been going through. Anybody ever been there? That's a great question. Everything is going wonderful for Job until God offers him up to Satan. But listen to me, even though the therapists they do their part, there's this kind of thing a spirit a therapist can't help you with. Why me, Lord? And while he was still speaking, another came also and said, The Chaldeans formed three bands and raided the camel, and they took them away. Guide my tongue, speak through this vessel of clay, words of life. It was it was an experience where it was undeniably You are important. And Lord, all the people that I helped, how come nobody's here to help me? I surrender all to you. I want to help somebody who's listening and who might listen later on to understand that some of your struggle is not against your brother or your sister or your mama or your daddy. It might literally be from Satan himself. What's going on? I need to help you understand something that um being on this particular trip like so many others That's a great question. And I was like, God, this just doesn't happen. Now he's dealing with the demon, he's dealing with Satan, he's dealing with the power that comes from the anti-God Spirit. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome Give it to them. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. We don't want difficulty. It's not all bad. This punishment. But I just want to share just a little bit of the experience that I had on this trip to Ghana. You might as well curse God and die. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. Lord, others are just in need, perhaps, of a word from on high. Amen somebody. For I went to worship with people who have nothing. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. They were hungry for the gospel. It's a part of what we go through on a regular basis. Give it to 'em. Why didn't you let it happen to somebody else? Job argued over and over throughout this text and throughout this book. He's one to consider. And the Lord said to Satan, Behold, all that he has is in your power, only do not lay a hand on his person. God, I want you to shake us on today. I don't know if I'm talking to anybody. What are they giving away? I mean I done repe I done replaced the roof now We need to talk to some therapists. This is punishment. Spirit of the Lord, someone may need salvation, and I'm praying on this morning that you would save them from the judgment that is yet to come. Do you realize that struggle is inevitable in this life? But struggle pushes us to uncomfortable places. It'll cause you to hate people and hate God. He wants to take out presidents and world leaders. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. He's got ten children. Have your way in and through me. They don't know nothing about struggle. But yet what made you so strong, what made you so powerful, what made you withstand the Job is not by himself because there's some of you that might be listening to me right now. You are important. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. So Satan answered the Lord and said, Does Job fear God for nothing? More likely than not, if I can be very honest with you, more likely than not that the devil is not after you because you're not that important. I I don't I don't know if I'm talking to anybody. Are they giving away money? First of all, I want to tell you that struggle can be demonic and it can be spiritual. Is there all the time? You just not that important And now when their phone doesn't work or they can't get the right They were welcoming of the gospel and they invited the gospel in. And everything up until that point in Job's life is going great. Amen. Um Why do I have to go through this? The Lord gave, and the Lord has taken away. Because this is a permanent thing. God, I've been serving you, God, I've been worshiping you, God, I've been doing all the things right. He's got It's better than money He sets a trap and it might last 10, 15, 20 years to get you to fall. Somebody Now he's bringing you their stories. In the name of Jesus who is the Christ, I pray. In fact Are they giving away food? But it'll cause you to believe that for some reason The One Degree of Andy podcast. Why my children ain't like everybody else's children? Now he's bringing you their stories. At 3 a. He says in the text, I can't wait to get my day in court before God. And then the Lord said to Satan, Have you considered my servant Job? And I alone have escaped to tell you The One Degree of Andy podcast. He's got enough demons to handle us. Would you pray with me, please? Speak a word, God. m. I'm Andy Christman. you wake up. Because they don't have it. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. I'm Andy Christman. I didn't do anything wrong. org. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Father, we bless you Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast. Amen For Job said In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. Yes Y'all still hear But so, God, why? org. He sits