Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Kettering Baptist Church Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church, where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. We want to encourage your attention this morning to Genesis chapter 12. Beginning at verse number one. The word of the Lord reads as follows. Now the Lord had said to Abram, Get out of your country from your father and from your father's house to a land that I will show you. I will make you a great nation. I will bless you and make your name great. And you shall be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you, and I will curse him who curses you. And in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed. Amen. The portion of uh scripture that I've read and you're hearing this morning. Is that of a story of Abram's call from a God he did not know. Abram was an idol worshiper. He was unaffiliated with the living God. And he receives a call from the living God, and he responds to the call by faith. The call is such that it says to Abram, a man of great wealth, a man. of great uh possessions and people and he's got servants and he's got a wife and uh he's kinda established and and comfortable where he is but it's a call to Abram to leave Your comfortable zone. And not only is it a call from a God he doesn't know, it's a call to a place that the God won't tell him where he's going. And Abram responds to the biggest thing. In route to Canaan, and en route to Canaan, he stops and they settle down in Haran. Now, the interesting thing about this is that this is not where God needed Abram to be. Abram becomes you know wealthy, gathers his wealth and his establishes himself there, and he begins to get really comfortable there. And kinda like some of us who perhaps have come into this place On today. Abram is in Haran, not because he chose to be in Haran, but he's in Haran because his father left him there. His father led him there and left him there, and there he became what he was up to the point when God called him, and he had become comfortable there. Many people who walked in the door this morning You're where you are not because it's where God told you to go, but you're there because somebody left you there. You're there because this is as far as folk in your family go. You're there because this is what's exceeding Expected of you. You're there because of somebody else's vision for you, but not God's vision for you. And you've grown comfortable in that place. This place that I'm talking about is not necessarily a home, but it could be It could be a relationship, it could be a state of mind, it could be an emotional status. Maybe somebody left you in a wrecked up, messed up emotional state. And you're there, but watch this. But you become comfortable being there. Because you do know that we have a tendency and the capability of being comfortable even in our chaos. Because it's your chaos. This is my chaos. I'm comfortable with my chaos. I know when I'm gonna cry. I know I'm I'm I know this is gonna be all night, Friday night, drinking, smoking, doing whatever, eating a whole barrel of ice cream, because this is my chaos. You're comfortable there. But this morning I want to talk to you from the subject a call to leave your comfort zone. In fact, I think even hearing this idea is it it probably brings some sense of nervous anxiety and tension to the room. Because most of us have established some level of comfort where we are. And I'm not saying again, it's not that it's always the best. Scenario, but it's your place, it's where you are, it's what you've become accustomed to and comfortable with. And that's kind of where Abram is in the text. But in this text, what happens first of all, the text says, Now the Lord had said to Abram, get out of your country. What I want to kind of point to, first of all, as we look at this call to transition There's a call here from God to Abram to transition from what you are accustomed to and comfortable with. I can't bless you the way I want to bless you where you are. Where you are, man of God, woman of God, God wants to transition you to another place because the blessing that He has in store for you, He can't give it to you where you are. And so there's a call to transition from where you are. You've got to leave Abram. You've got to leave Haran. You've got to leave there because what I have for you, I can't give it to you in Haran. And so he calls him, but I need you to focus on one thing real quickly: that this call comes in verse number one from the Lord. This call has to come from God. I say that because far too many people make a move out of their comfortable zone or out of where they are because somebody else called them out. I need this to be clear to you that this call out of your comfort zone needs to come from God because nobody else can tell you what they have in store for you. But God. And only God knows if you get to this place, what's going to happen in this place. Some of us know because we followed the crowd that things looked like it was going well at a season And then you followed the crowd and found out that the crowd was en route to an off-the-cliff experience in this call to transition. We need to assure that the call comes from the Lord. The text says that it came from Adonai, that is the God who has authority to call you out of your comfort zone to a place that He has for you. And so the call comes from the Lord, and the Lord says to Abram, Abram, he says to him, Get out of your country Now I can't kind of imagine God coming and saying, Get out of your country, but this is what he says to Abram. A heathen, a one that doesn't know God, hasn't spoken to God, hasn't had an exper Experience with the living God, he says to him, get out of your country, get out of the place, get out of the position, get out of the routine that you're used to. That might be talking to somebody here this morning Get out of your country, get out of what's normal for you, because I need to transition you to a place Where you can be in position to receive the measure of blessing that you cannot get where you are. Then he comes back and he says, not only get out of your country, get out from your family. Get out from the folk that you hang around. One of the reasons why we hang with family is because there's a level of dependence on family, and because we depend on family, we have a tendency to not depend on God. God needs to get some of us to a place where our dependence is not on mama and daddy and brothers and sisters and auntie and uncle and cousins, but no, our dependence is on the living God. He calls Abram to a place to get out of your country, get out of your comfort zone, get away from your family. Abram, I've got something I want to do to you and through you that I can't do where you are. And he says to him, Abram, I want you to get out from your country, get out from your family, and from your father's house. You need to leave mom and daddy's house and go to a land that I will show you. No, there's a great degree of discomfort here because I know how we are as Christians, we are okay Lord, let me pray about that. And while we're praying, we want to know Lord, okay, when are we gonna get there? What's the accommodation like when I get there? Who else is gonna be there? We get all kind of questions for God. And we not move until we get answers to our questions. And that's why sometimes because we haven't moved Out of our comfort zone. We haven't walked into the blessing and the favor of God. Abram is going to step out on faith because he has nothing to measure what God just said And he's going to step out on faith and accept God to transition his position from Haran to wherever God's leading him. I'm trying to talk to us this morning because I believe God is calling some of us out of our comfort zones. Secondly, after this call to transition, there's a promise for transforming. Picks up verse number two. He says to Abram, I will make you a great nation, I will bless you. And make your name great, and you shall be a blessing. I will do it. The promise that comes here to transform Abram com in the authority of the voice of I will. Now, just in case you don't quite comprehend the level and the depth and the power of the voice of the I will. The I will is this. When God says I will, there is nothing that God wills that doesn't take place. If I can take you all the way back to when the firmament and the deep were floating around and there was nothing, the Bible says God stepped out of nowhere, stood on nothing, and began to wheel the worlds into existence. Whenever God wills something, there is nothing that can contradict or hold back the will of God. And so God says in the authority of I will to Abram, Abram, I will make you a great nation. Now, y'all need to keep in mind, Abram's got a wife, she's doesn't have any babies, she can't have children, and Abram's thinking, yeah, sure, you're gonna make me a great nation And I know that Abram doesn't have any idea of what God is saying to him, nor the magnitude of what God wants him to do. Because when we're in our comfortable zone we really can't see too far beyond where we are. Amen. Let me paint this another way. There are some of us who have grown up in families and folk in your family have only done certain amounts And they've only gone so far. And so you can't even imagine going beyond what has happened in your family. That's your circle. Some of you, even though you in certain families, you're in certain circles. You've got certain Partners that you hang out with. You've got certain people that you hang out with, and because they haven't gone any farther, you can't even imagine yourself going any farther because you've already assessed your pecking order in the group And if this person you view as being better or smarter or what have you than you are and they haven't gone anywhere, you can't even imagine that you can go any farther than where they are. But that's with man. This is a God call here. This is a God call to Abram who says to him, Abram, I will make your Name great. I'm gonna make you a great nation. Abram is getting ready to become the father of the nation of Israel. Israel doesn't exist at this point in time. God is calling him out to be the beginning of the nation of Israel. And he's calling him out to that. And I don't I just believe in my heart that Abram didn't have a clue what this is all going to encompass. But I'm going to make you a great nation. Now, in Abram's mind, he probably was only comparing what God was saying with what he saw and knew that great nations were. But what God is saying here in this text is way beyond what any great nation of Abram's day represented. And I will bless you. Now, up till now, Abram has what he has by chance. He's wealthy, he's got servants, he's got some resources, but he hasn't by chance. In fact, he just happened to be born into the right family. He's got you know his father's got stuff, he's got stuff transferred to him, and so he's kind of got these things by chance. He doesn't have a relationship with the living God, his father doesn't have a relationship with the living God, his father's an idol worshiper, he's an idol worshiper, so he's not living in the blessings of a Of the eternal God. He's living by the chance of man. It could have been Abram, it could have been somebody else. But God says to Abram, Abram, I'm going to move you from having what you have by chance to having what I want for you by my choice. There's a big difference in having some resources by chance and having the favor of God by his choice. When God says, I choose to be the one. That decides what you're gonna have. I choose to be the one who sets the level and the standard and the height and the depth and the breadth and the width That you're going to impact the world and what you're going to possess when God says, I'm going to be the one. Well, I'd rather have the choice of God than the chance of man And God says to Abram, I will bless you. I will make your name great. Now, for you and I, a great name is quite different from what it would have been in their day and time. In our day and time, a great name means we get some tennis shoes. You got a great name because your name is on the shoe, your name is on the shirt, your name is on the jacket, your name is on the billboard, and when everybody shows up, your name Amen. That's what a great name means to us. A great name is just, I mean, everybody knows it, everybody wants it. Your product is out there, or whatever it is, your reputation is out there Uh as being great in the community, great wherever you are. And that's our idea of great name. But what God is saying to Abram is not that. He's not saying, Abram, I'm gonna have some Abram sandals, and everybody's gonna want your sandals Number one, Abram 1's, 2's, 3's, 4's, 5. No, that's not what he's saying. He's saying, Abram, what I'm going to do to you is I'm going to make your character great. Because a name in biblical times was not the reputation of men, it's the character of the man. I'm gonna make your character great, Abram, and Abram, I'm not only gonna make your character great, I'm gonna make your legacy great. Because here, as we're reading through this text, just before coming into chapter 12, in chapter 11, you read through these genealogies, and you got all these names of people, and names of people, and these are names that you never heard of before. But God says, Abram, what I'm going to do is I'm going to escalate your name so that in the lineage of life, in the whole history of the world, when they say Abram, this is going to mean something. Everybody's gonna flock to your name. They're not gonna just flip through the pages and read past Abram and say, Oh, he was just a man who lived and died. No, they're gonna say Abram, Father Abraham. They gonna sing about you in Sunday school. Abraham had many sons. Oh, I'm gonna make your name great, Abraham Abram has no idea that four or five thousand years later we will still be talking about him. He don't have a clue about that. All he knows is that God has called me to do something. transitioned into what God has called me to do and God says I'm going to transform you Abraham into what I want you to be And Abram, what I want you to understand, Abram, when I bless you, I want you to be a blessing. It's right there in the text. And he says, and you shall be a blessing. When I look this up in the original Hebrew structure of the sentence, what he says in essence to Abram is he doesn't say it the way we've articulated in English. In the English, it says, and you shall be a blessing. No, in the Hebrew, what it says is be a blessing. In other words, Abram, when I do for you, when I transform your life, when I transfer your character, when I transform your reputation, when I transform your legacy, be a blessing. In other words, Abram, what I'm gonna do for you, I want you to be a blessing back to the kingdom of God. Can I talk to somebody here this morning when God transforms you? Be a blessing to the kingdom. Don't bless yourself. No, don't take what God blesses you with and go bless the world with. Don't be a world seeker. No, be a kingdom builder. In other words, use the gifts, the talents, the abilities, the favor that God blesses you with, and then be a blessing to the kingdom. I think sometimes we oftentimes will say, you know what? If I had this, this is what I would do. Well, here's what I'm saying. With what you already have, start doing what you said you was gonna do. Because then when you get there to where you said you was gonna be, you know, we all do it. Man, if I had that lottery Man, I would do this and that and I would bless this person. I would well start blessing them now and just don't bless them with the all the zeros behind it. Amen. You would give them 10,000. Well, just give them 10. That's all you can do right now. Be a blessing, is what I'm trying to help you understand. When God transforms you, be a blessing. When God changes your name, be a blessing. When God changes you into a great nation, be a blessing. When God begins to transform you because you moved out of your comfort zone into a place where He could bless you, be a blessing. So he says, okay, I've got a promise. I'm gonna bless you, Abram. I'm gonna do this for you, Abram. I want you to understand what I got planned for you. I will make you a great nation. I will bless you. I will make your name great, and I want you to be a blessing. Now verse three is the final part of this Because after this call to transition and the promise to transform, there is finally there's this whole blessings of transferral. What God in essence says here in this third verse is there's this process of transferral that I want to work with you Abram, and I'm going to do it through you, Abram. I'm going to begin transferring things. And watch this. I love the way this laid out. He says, I will bless those who bless you. In other words, Abram, because you stepped out of your comfort zone and you're walking in what I've called you to, and you've transitioned from where you are to where you need to be, and I've done the transformation in you. Abram, when people bless you. I'm gonna transfer a blessing back to them. We need to be looking out for folk that God has his hand on We need to understand that when we bless that person, we'll never come up short because what God is going to do is transfer the blessing back to you. So you'll never come up short by blessing the one whom God has his hand on doing the work of the kingdom. Watch this. And then he comes back and he says, But Abram, for those who curse you I'm gonna transfer a curse back to them. But watch this: they cast a curse at you, Abram. But God says, I'm gonna cast the curse back at them. Now, which curse is worse? That when they cast a blessing at you, Abram, God says, I'm going to out of my treasures in heaven, I'm going to cast a blessing back to them. Which blessing is better? So we need to get this thing balanced here that when you bless those, God's gonna bless you. When you curse the anointed of God, God's gonna curse you. I believe that's why scripture says, touch not the anointed. I'm not going to mess. That's God's anointed. Because if I mess with that, it's coming back to me in a God-sized way. So he says, Look, I'm going to transfer the blessing to those who bless you. I'm going to transfer the curse to those who curse you. Watch this. And in you, all the families of the earth shall be blessed. Abram, in you and through you, I'm going to transfer a blessing to all the families of the earth. Now, what this really literally is, is it's a prophetic statement. That is letting Abram know that Abram, I have now positioned you to be in place that I'm gonna bring the Messiah through you. The Messiah is coming through you, Abram, and that Messiah is going to come and give his life as a ransom for all He's gonna die on a cross, shed blood for all, and pay the sins of the entire world. Why? Because Abram accepted the call to move out of his comfort zone And he let God transform him. But when God called Abram, Abram had no clue of how great and how awesome and what spectacular things God had planned. When you step outside your comfort zone and God decides to make your name great Nobody's gonna walk past your tombstone a hundred years from now and not know who you are When you step outside of your comfort zone and God begins to transfer into your bosom Blessings that you can't even comprehend because nobody in your family, nobody in your social circle has ever experienced you're gonna witness God transferring from generation to generation, even after your God, He's gonna transfer blessings because you were faithful. To a call he had on your life. I need you to understand that 2000 years ago there was a call on Calvary's cross, and it called us to a place Of transition. I need you to move from where you are to where I want you to be. I know you're just used to living and dying, and that's all it is to you, but God said, I've come. That you might have life and that you might have it more abundantly I need you to move from where you are to a place I can't tell you about yet, but I'm going To prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I'm coming back again to receive you unto myself. Watch this. And if you accept my call I'll transfer to you holiness of God. I'll transfer to you the kings Keys, I'll transfer to you a new deed on some property, a mansion in the sky, not made with hands. I'll exchange your sin for For my salvation, I'll exchange your unholiness for my holiness. There's a transfer going on with God. I want to transfer to you that which you can't comprehend. I want to bless you in a way that you can't even fathom. I want to put your name down in the legacy of life so that when we open the book Of the Lamb book of life, your name will be in the book. I'm trying to transfer to you Blessings, but I gotta get you to move from your comfort zone. There's a call to move out of our comfort zone. If you stay there, yes, you'll live at the level that you have. But if you accept the call to move outside of that, God will blow your natural mind With what he can do. Praise the Lord. You've been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III. where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together, and we invite you to join us for one of our Spirit-Fill Worship services Sundays at 7 a. m. , 9 a. m. , 10. 45 a. m. , and 12. For service locations and/or additional information, contact our church office at 301-336-0 7150. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buca Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Are you drowning in IRS tax debt? I owe the IRS thirty-seven thousand dollars. Get Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down. with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.