Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. The word of the Lord reads as follows from Numbers chapter fourteen, beginning of verse five. Then Moses and Aaron fell on their faces before all the assembly of the congregation of the children of Israel. But Joshua, the son of Nun, and Caleb, the son of Jephane, who were among those who had spied out the land, tore their clothes And they spoke to all the congregation of the children of Israel, saying, The land we pass through to spy out is an exceedingly good land. If the Lord delights in us, then he will bring us into this land and give it to us, a land which flows with milk and honey. Only do not rebel against the Lord, nor fear the people of the land, for they are our bread. Their protection has departed from them, and the Lord is with us. Do not fear them. And all the congregation said to stone them with stones. Now the glory of the Lord appeared in the tabernacle of the meeting before all the children of Israel. Would you pray with me on this morning? Father, we bless you for today. We thank you for the occasion and opportunity we have to declare your word. Speak clearly, eternal God, in this place. that we might hear from you. Remove any obstacles that might hinder us, Lord, from saying yes to your will. Father, I let Your will to be accomplished in this place. I'll let the Spirit have its way. Move from heart to heart and from breast to breast. Father, someone may need to be saved today. Save them by your amazing grace. Someone may need deliverance, God. We know you are a delivering God. Someone, God, today needs a word. They've been struggling and wrestling. Since January and they've they've come into the house God because they know they need a fresh word from you. Speak, Lord. Into their heart, into their life, into their situation and circumstance. Remind them that you have not abandoned them. But Lord, declare your word in this place. Lord, I bless you. And I need you, Lord, as I stand to declare your word. Help me. Stand up in me, Lord. Preach through these lips of clay, words of everlasting life. Have thine own way in the precious And powerful name of Jesus who is the Christ, I pray. Amen and amen. Bless the Lord Ketherin, we've been on a uh journey preaching through a series of messages uh which is our theme for uh 2025. Uh And the theme and messages that we've been preaching on uh is it's time to sow. It's time to sow. We began on New Year's Eve. Coming into the new year from Ecclesiastes chapter 3, and we spoke there from our thematic idea, it's time to sew And then last week when we were together, we were in Galatians chapter 6, verses 6 through 9. And I was just sharing with you some things to know about sowing as we walk through Galatians chapter 6. Verses 6 through 9, we found out that you need to sow back into the sower. So if someone's sowing into you, you need to sow back into them Amen. That's what the scripture said. I didn't make that up. It was already there when I got there. And so we want to sow back into the sower. Secondly, you will reap what you sow. Whatever you put in the ground, it's going to come up. You're going to sow seeds of hatred. Hatred's coming back at you If you're going to sow seeds of joy and peace and love, then that's what's going to grow up. Whatever you sow, that's what you're going to reap. You also will reap from the field that you sow in. The scripture there in Galatians encouraged us to sow unto the spiritual. field and not unto the fleshly field. From the fleshly field we would rup reap nothing more than corruption. In other words, what you sow into the flesh is not going to last. It's not eternal. It's temporary. It will decay. It will Pass away. But if you sow into the spirit, those are eternal things. You can sow into sow into spiritual things into the spirit. And so those are the eternal things. And so we are encouraged there that And reminded there that you will reap from the field that you sow in. The high encouragement is that you uh sow into the spiritual field, uh, because the fleshly field does not bring fruit of eternal life nor eternal benefit. Finally, we said that sewing is hard work. I probably should have started with that, but the text just didn't have it in that order. So, but we do want you to know sewing is hard work. It is a work that most people are probably not going to just sign up to do. Amen. Because it's more than just throwing seeds on the ground. Amen somebody. But guess what? It's a good work that God will do through us who are willing to. to sow. Praise the name of the Lord. In this morning, um still continuing to think on this uh concept and on this idea of it's time to sow and As I've laid out for you just some things to know about sowing, we find ourselves here in this text of Numbers chapter 14, where the children of Israel have departed from Egypt. They've been in bondage in Egypt for four hundred years and God has come and delivered them from this bondage and they've moved across uh the barren land and territories of the desert and God has brought them to the footsteps of uh the promised land that He had promised so long ago. And Now they're here on the heels of the promised land, and as it's time now to move from the barren land and and coming out of captivity and coming out of bondage and move into the place of promise. Uh the idea comes about to uh go and spy out the land. And as they go and spy out the land, uh there are twelve that go in to spy out the land, and when they come back, there are two reports that come back. Help me, Lord. The ten come back and they say that the land that we've gone in to spy out, we can't take it. It's it's full of giants and the people there are large and and they consume the people around them and and so there's no way. We can't we can't take the land. And then there are two, Joshua and Caleb, who come back. Now all 12 went together, but 10 came back and said, we can't do it. Two came back and said, Oh yeah, we can take this. This is this is this is good. This is this is our land. And it creates a sense of a conflict, but The conflict is necessary for Israel and for us. Because guess what? Two people can look at the same thing and see two different possibilities of result. I I want to just throw this in here because the Lord is just sending um rapid emails to my brain To talk to us and say, there are some of you who are and have been standing on the edge of lands and places of promise, but you looked at it like the tin. And said, We, I can't do it. But then there's others of you who are standing on that place and space, and God is saying to you, I need you to look through the eyes of Joshua and Caleb. This is a land that you can you can take. And so as I thought through this text and moved through this text in our Idea of sowing. This land is a land that God had promised to Israel, and God's desire for Israel is to sow them into this land. They are the seed that he's going to sow into this land of promise. The problem is, like any other land, when you're getting ready to sow, Is that there's usually and generally obstacles in the land. Let me take you guys back, and this might help you a little bit. When I was growing up, my father used to take us to the garden. My father had gardens everywhere. We had gardens in the backyard over by St. Joseph's on 202. He had a garden plot over there. Over off of Enterprise Road, he had another garden over there. So he used to take us to the garden and after the fall harvest we would get the fruits, vegetables, or whatever we had grown Get all that harvested in and then in the springtime after the snow had fallen and and and and everything had you know gone through the fall and the leaves and the all that stuff, we'd have to go back to the garden First of all, we didn't like going to the garden. But in the springtime, we'd have to go back to the garden because it was sowing time. And by now, the garden delaying looks terrible. I mean whatever you we didn't pull up from the fall, it's still there. There's, you know, weeds and grass and stuff that's grown up. in the ground and and you can't just go over and throw seeds in on top of all that or it won't produce fruit. And so what we had to do is we'd have to go in and prepare The land for sowing. If anybody here knows anything about sowing at all, you know that the only way you can expect uh get the best benefit out of your sowing is that you have to prepare the land first. Amen. And for those of you who had the garden, like I had the garden, and my brother and sisters that went us went with us had the garden, you would understand that's the hard part of the work. Dropping seeds in the ground ain't hard. But pulling up weeds that's been growing since the fall and picking up sticks and rocks and plowing up the field and furrowing up the ground and Creating mounds and rows. Lord help me. I'm having flashbacks. That's the hard work. And so as I look at this text, I see that God wants to sow Israel into this land, but the ten came back and all they saw was the was the ground that had been left undone And the weeds that needed to be pulled up, and the rocks that needed to be removed, and the sticks that were in place, and all the leaves that were all over the place. They saw what I saw in the spring But the two they saw that this land is good land. Like my father. He saw what it was Possible or producing, not the obstacles that were in its place. I'm really talking to you this morning. Because if you're standing on the edge of land that God has promised for you or He wants to sew you into. You do have two options. You can either look at it from the perspective that this is uh this is a land we can't do nothing with, or it's good land. I want to talk to you from the subject matter, preparing the land. for sewing. As I've shared already, it is the hard work, it is the difficult work, but the text here says that after The report came back, the children of Israel were upset. They began to cry and mourn and weep and they got in their feelings and they started talking about God and They start saying things that were not righteous and they start sounding like schizophrenic people. And they start saying stuff like, man, we should have died in Egypt. And then somebody who probably was thinking, I really didn't want to die in Egypt, but it would be better to go back to Egypt. And so some of them began to complain and they say, well we we we should go back to Egypt and we were better you know better off and all that. That's crazy, but that's where they were. They were ready to go back to bondage. They were ready to go back to the slave. master whipping their backs and they were ready to go back to making bricks without straw. They were ready to go back to Egypt where they had no rights, no privileges, no potential. They were ready to go back because obstacles were in front of them. I'm talking to somebody this morning. I'm telling you, that's not that's not the proper thought process to go back just because obstacles are in front of you. Y'all still here? And so When the children of Israel complain, Moses and Aaron are grieved by their complaining and when they say they want to go back, they also are ready to fire Moses and they say we're gonna get us a new leader. This is just like church people. Just get rid of him. Just fire him. He taking us through this hard process of trying to grow and all that. Nah, we want somebody that's gonna be easy. Let's go back So they ready to fire them. Verse five says and Moses and Aaron fell on their faces before all the assembly of the congregation of the children of Israel. But Joshua the son of Nun and Caleb the son of Jephune, who were among those who had spied out the land, tore their clothes. And when they tore their clothes, they said to the children of Israel, the congregation, They said to them, the land that we pass through to spy out is an exceedingly good land. First idea I want you to see here is that it's a good land It's a good land that God wants to show them into. It's a good land. Joshua and Caleb, they tear their clothes because they're grieved by. The lack of faith that the children of Israel have as a result of coming upon some some minute obstacles This is not hard. Have you not seen what God has done over this time? How did God bring you out of Egypt? We come to these folk that are living in our land And all of a sudden we we can't do it? No. They're grieved by that, so they tear their clothes. It's a sign of recomm of their grieving and they tear their clothes and they make a proclamation to the children of Israel. They somebody's got to speak up because the children of Israel have have had a democratic vote. Lord help me, Jesus. This is the problem sometime with democracy. Democracy does not always mean it's God's will. Whoa, I'm preaching better than you saying amen Just because 10 came back and said we can't do it doesn't mean the two who came back and said that we can were wrong But the ten came back and and they they stirred the hearts of the people in a negative way, and the people bought into the negativity, and now they want to fire the leader and go back. But remember, it wasn't Joshua, it wasn't Moses and Joshua who who led them there. It was God who led them there So their firing of Moses was really a firing of God. They were saying, we don't want to be led by God. Let's go back and do it our own way. Joshua and Caleb say, look, the land is good. This is an exceedingly good land. And so the question is, how can two groups come back with very distinctively different results? How is it that ten people went in and looked at the land and said it's bad? And then then these other two come in and say it's exceedingly good. How do we get the differences of opinion? And I'd say it's because of what they focused on. Just to hear with me? And this is how we are as well. I believe that some people focus on obstacles while other people focus on opportunities Some people are saying no there's no way I can go do that. I can't I it it I can never I'll never be able to buy a home I'll never be able to do this because there's too many obstacles. I don't I don't I'm not making enough money. I don't I don't know if not the right people. I don't have an education. I can't now there's no sense of me even applying for that position And so we focus on obstacles, and so because we focus on obstacles, we live in the shades of unaccomplishment. We live in a position that is less than what God has desired for us. And so we never get sown into the fields that we need to be sown into so that we can produce mightily the way God wants us. to produce through you because you're too focused on the obstacles. You're too focused on the things that are hard. to do. And if it were up to me, I didn't get I did not get to make my opinion known to my father But if I had had a chance and he would have even considered what I had to say when he was dragging us from garden to garden, I would have suggested to him, just like the ten, this is too hard I'm only 12 years old. You expect me to pull up all these weeds? Look at all these weeds. Look at all these rocks We'll never be able to grow cabbage and taters and kale and rain. We can't grow stuff here. It's too hard. It's going to take hours to clear this quarter or half acre land. To put plants down. I mean come on dad. And I could have if I had given my opinion, I would have focused on the obstacles. But my father didn't give he didn't care what i I grew up old school. Kids don't get opinions. If you have one, keep it to yourself. Amen. I'm sorry, new generation folk. We that's just how we were raised. We didn't get no choice. We didn't mama didn't ask you, do you want to go to church this morning? You didn't have that choice You already knew that was automatic. It was part of your muscle memory. Get up in Sunday morning, bing, get dressed, grab some clothes, and be ready to go when the car is warmed up. I'm sorry. Joshua and Caleb say this land is a good land. It's a good land because what they are focused on is the possibilities. They all went in and saw the same land. They saw the same thing. They went in and they saw now some came back and said this there's fortified cities and and the people are great warriors. And and so, but Joshua and Caleb, they saw there's fortified cities. So when we go in and move them out the way, we'll have fortified cities already built. We won't have to build walls to protect ourselves. They already built it for us. They went in and they saw the possibilities of what could be, not the problems of what were. And that's sometimes again, I think we focus on what's in the land and not the potential of the land. Are y'all still here with me? We look at all the things that are in the ground or soil or in the space or the place, but we don't look at the soil itself. Because the soil itself was good. How do we know that? Because even the fruit that they brought back were oversized grapes The great bunches that they brought back, they had to put on sticks between men to carry them back. That's how large they were. That's how oversized they were. So the soil is good. Y'all still here? The soil is good, but there's some obstacles in the soil. So they come back and they say it's a good land. The land is that, in fact, they say it's exceedingly great. And I want you to always remember this. The land itself, Lord Jesus, when God wants to plant you somewhere, God has already examined the land The land is good. There might be some obstacles in the land, but the land itself is good. Y'all still hear And so keep that in mind. If God is leading you somewhere and He's trying to plant you somewhere, He's already prepared the land so that you can produce great fruit in the land. But you got to prepare the land for sowing. Y'all still with me? So they say it's it's a good land. Verse 8, let me move on. It says, and if the Lord delights in us, then he will bring us into this land and give it to us. A land which flows with milk and honey. Joshua and Caleb said, if the Lord delights in us, and he does, how do we know that? Because it was the Lord who brought you out of bondage. It was the Lord who brought one plague after another on the people of Egypt. It was the Lord who allowed Egypt to. to give you all their gold and give you all their silver when you left out. It was the Lord who brought you across the Red Sea on dry land It was the Lord who fed you in the wilderness manna from heaven. It was the Lord who allowed you to have water to drink from a rock. It was the Lord who watched over you and kept you by day, led you by day. Fire by night, put a fire all around you to protect you from the prey, from being prey to the enemy. God has already proven He delights in you. Pastor, that's great for Israel, but what about me? Did not the Lord keep you last night? Did not the Lord hold you up this morning and wake you up clothed in your right mind Did not the Lord make a way for you to make it to the house of the Lord? Tune in this morning to the broadcast. Did not the Lord keep you all last week? through the storm? Did he not keep heat in your house? Plankets on your bed? Food in your belly? Did not the Lord take you through? Bring you up out the country? Bless you with a home? three bedroom, four bedroom, two carga ride. Has not the Lord already shown you how much he delights in you? Did he not go to Calvary for you, died for you, buried for you, couldn't raise again the third day, just for you? Have you not figured it out yet? He delights in you. And if the Lord delights in you. He's bringing you not only into a good land, but watch this. It's a good land, but it's a given land. Joshua says if the Lord delights us, he'll give us this land. So the land that we're preparing is a given land. It's already given to us. I love that. I love the fact that God has given the land to us. It's hard to comprehend sometimes with when God says, okay, Israel, I've given you the land, but you just need to go in and clear it. Well, why you ain't just have it already ready? All the people moved out. Why didn't they just pack yesterday? Watch this. All of this is a process of faith. All of it is a process of faith. Listen to what I'm saying. You want it to already be cleared. God is saying if you trust me, you'll move forward to clear it. But when you get there, I'll clear it. If you stand still, I'll see your faith is not in me. But if you move forward, then you're showing and demonstrating that your confidence is in what I said. Your faith has to say, God, I trust you. I trust you to make the way. I'm just gonna walk that way. I'm gonna be moving in the direction that you called me to go. And it's up to God because if He if I get there and He doesn't make the way, then He lied to me And God's not gonna lie. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he said Down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations, you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.