Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling the Third Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling I want to share a brief word with us on tonight from Philippians chapter one. I just want to look at one verse from Philippians chapter one, verse number three. The word of the Lord reads like this. And I thank my God upon every remembrance of you. I thank my God upon every Remembrance of you. Would you pray with me? Father in heaven, we honor you on this evening. We thank you for the privilege we have to come before your people and before you to lay The word of God forward. I pray God that even in the midst of this time that you would get glory and honor and praise out of it all Pray if there's anybody that doesn't know you as Lord and Savior of their life, that today would be the day, God, that they would surrender their heart and their life to you, whether they're here in person or whether they're viewing via live stream. Let today be the day of salvation for them. Father, use me as an instrument in your hand. Speak through me. Lord, according to your sovereign will, and have your way in this time, God, not that we might be entertained, but that we might be edified. And Father, most of all, that your name would be glorified. I yield myself as a vessel for your purpose. Accomplish your will in this place, God. In the name of Jesus, who is the Christ, I pray with thanksgiving. I believe you'll do it. And the people of God said together, Amen and Amen. In this prison epistle uh from Rome, this uh book of Philippians is written actually from prison, the Apostle Paul. uh is is imprisoned at the time. He writes this letter in a spirit of joy and rejoicing. It's kind of a very unique letter. It's very personal, very passionate letter. In fact, it's kind of an unusual letter in the sense that here's a man who's in prison that is talking about joy and rejoicing and gladness and And all of that as opposed to uh someone who will be in prison, you would think they would be writing about sadness and gloom and doom. But Paul on the other hand has the power and presence of God with him, and in this letter he writes uh to the saints at Philippi uh for the purpose of thanking them for gift that uh have been provided. We want to as I look here, he begins here in verse number three by expressing that he is thankful for this gift that he has, but More in depth, he wants to express that his thankfulness is not reactive to the gift. But rather that his thanks for them is consistent and persistent, regardless of whether he had received a gift or not. I want to talk to you for just a few moments from the subject matter, thankful for you. Sometimes we are only thankful when people have done something for us. And when they've done something for us, then we're thankful. We say, you know, we'll give thanks to them or when something special has been done for us, then we turn around and we say thank you. And we're thankful and we're appreciative in those times. But I want to encourage us in this text tonight as we dig just a little deeper than the surface. I want to encourage us to not just be thankful when something is done. But rather be thankful for the people in your life whether they've done anything today or not. Are y'all still here with me? And as I looked at Paul in this text, Paul has at least three reasons to be thankful upon his every remembrance of the Philippians. And I think in those three areas of his thankfulness, I think we too can extract for our own benefit some reasons to be thankful for the people in our lives. One of the things I think we are we become more and more aware of, especially as we went through COVID, is how precious life is as we lost people who we loved. We had people who we never got a chance to tell them how much we appreciated them. We he we lost people who we saw them one week and we didn't see them the next. And as we've come out of COVID and even coming out of COVID and realizing that people have lost their minds and now folk are killing each other all on the streets and you don't know whether you're gonna see your child the next day or not or whether they're gonna make it home from school or whether you gonna make it home. We've coming to a place where we have a greater sense of sensitivity that life is precious. I've always been of the the attitude and the persuasion that you ought to appreciate people while you can, because when they're laid out in a casket, they can't hear you. And so I want to encourage you through this text to be thankful for the people in your life now. Just talk from this idea, thankful for you. The reason I think that the Apostle Paul has reason to be thankful is for the relationship. The Apostle Paul should be thankful, has a reason to be thankful for the Philippians because of the relationship he's had with them. He's got this relationship with brothers and sisters in Christ. He begins the letter, Paul, a bondservant of the Lord, to the saints. In Christ Jesus, who are in Philippi with the bishops and the deacons. He's got a relationship with them. He's got a divine relationship. In other words, they've been bought with the same blood. They're saints. of God. They have a relationship in Christ, which causes them to have a relationship with one another. And watch this. And not only the saints, but also the leadership in the The church that has been established there. And also a reason for him to be thankful for them and giving thanks for them in every occasion and every remembrance that he has of them because of the relationship that he has. Oftentimes uh we we group relationships into categories, but on tonight I want to put them all in one big category because Not only does he have the relationship with those who are in Christ Jesus, and so do we. We've got brothers and sisters who are in Christ Jesus, and they are part, we're in relationship with them. Whether you speak to them or not, whether you've seen them or not, we have a relationship with them through the blood of the Lamb. And we ought to be thankful upon every remembrance of other saints of God because we've got relationship with them. Are y'all still here with me? We're bound by the blood of Christ in a relationship. Relationships not only cover those who are spiritually connected to us. But it also covers those relationships that we have with a fan with our families and our associates. We ought to be thankful to God upon every remembrance of every every fam, every fam, every I'm sorry I got stuck there, every family member. I just had to repeat that because I know sometimes there's some family members and perhaps some associates that we might not be so thankful for. Amen, Jesus. I still believe that we ought to be thankful upon our every remembrance for them too. The Apostle Paul has An opportunity he has privilege to be thankful for upon his every remembrance, not only for those who are of the body of Christ, but also for those of his family and those who have he's associated with in ministry as well. When you consider being thankful, that includes family. That includes brothers and sisters and aunties and uncles and cousins It includes associates and co-workers and people that you don't have deep relationships with, but you have an association with. I always think of it when I was walking through this. I was thinking of it this way. Think about the people who if they were if they were gone from your life, they would create some kind of void, good or bad. Those are the people that are incorporated and those we ought to be thankful for, the Apostle Paul, because of relationships. He not only has his relationships spiritually, and these relationships that are by the blood. Um uh family members and associates, but did you realize that enemies are also a relationship Even those who are enemies, we have a relationship with them. The relationship with our enemies is a toxic relationship. The relationship that we have with our with our enemies is a bad relationship. And so I hear you saying, but Pastor, why should I be thankful upon my every remembrance of them? Because even God uses the enemies in our life to perpetuate us to be more like him. Amen, somebody. God teaches us how to love those enemies in our life like He loved us when we were enemies of Him. God uses all of that. He uses the enemies. Those are relationships too. And so we ought to be even thankful for our enemies. Some would say, our haters. Be thankful for your haters. Amen. Be thankful for your enemies. Be thankful for those who don't care about you, who don't love you. Be thankful for them too. Because guess what? God is using them to move you to where he wants you to be. Are y'all still here? And if I can say it this way, he needs you're gonna eventually need somewhere to kick your feet up on because I believe the scripture says he'll make your enemies your footstool. So I'm thankful for my enemies because every now and then I get tired and I need a footstool. Okay, okay. So he has relationships to be thankful for. Secondly, I believe the Apostle Paul has A right to be thankful upon every remembrance because of the fellowship. So he's thankful for the fellowship that he's had The Apostles Paul has had fellowship with the Philippian church. It was on his second missionary journey that he went there to Philippi and established first of all Uh Lydia and the Philippian jailer whose whole family came to Christ, and from that the church was started and initiated, and the Apostle Paul established a relationship with them. So he has a relationship with this Philippian church, even so much so that he writes letters back to them and he's corresponding to them, even from prison. He's got a relationship with them, and so because of the fellowship that he had with them, as a result of the time he spent with them, because of those that fellowship as well, he's got right to give thanks for them upon every remembrance. There are people that are in our lives that we have fellowship with that are important to our lives as well. Now what I try to think about and I try to I try to remove my thought process from just just the surface. I I try to dig a little deeper and think about Fellowships that you have and fellowships, people who are in your life, and you have fellowship with. And I realize some people that you end up with having fellowship with you don't really even know. Um I can't tell you the countless number of meetings that I've gone to, and I see some people all the time at the meeting, and I don't even know what their name is. But I see them all the time, and there's and yet we have fellowship, and sometimes we've even eaten meals Around a table or something together, but I really don't know who they are. But we've had fellowship with them. And guess what? And the fellowship was sweet, even though I didn't know their name. The fellowship, the time together was good. Even though I didn't have a have a good relationship, we had fellowship. And even though all of that was so, I still benefited from it. And so God still used the fellowship that I had. To allow me to be thankful for the fellowship. It's hard to be fellowship to have fellowship when there's nobody in the ship with you. If there's no other fellows in the ship, you have no fellowship. Are y'all still here with me? And so even those you may not know that you have fellowship with, we have a right and an opportunity, even as Paul, to be thankful upon our every remembrance. Even though Paul's fellowship was much more intimate with the Philippian church, there are many that you will have fellowship with along the way who Likewise, we should be thankful for people in your church. You probably come to church on Sundays, and there's people in the church that you don't know You haven't gotten to know their name. You see them all the time. In fact, you might be sitting next to them now on the same row or same pew and you always sit on the same pew because that's your pew. And we come together for this big fellowship of believers, and we have a great time of worship. And when you go home and somebody say, How was church? Oh my God, it was great. It was wonderful because we had a wonderful time of fellowship. And then somebody said, well, who are you fellowshipping with? He said, well, it was members of my church. Well, can you name some of the members of your church? No, but we had great fellowship. Are y'all here? A y'all catching what I'm saying? You had a great time of fellowship. You didn't know the people, but but together, collectively, we've got something to be thankful for. I'm thankful that I can come together with other members of my church and have great fellowship for to God. Because it would be kind of a sad worship time if you were the only one who showed up for worship. Because you would have no fellowship with other believers. And that's the whole idea of coming to church, just in case you were wondering, that you might have fellowship with other believers. And so Paul says, I'm thankful not only for the relationships, but I'm also thankful for the fellowships. Again, this could be church members, co-workers, friends, other people that you have fellowship with. We also have I'm trying to suggest to us that we be a little more cognitive about being thankful for these people in our lives Lastly, and I'm out of your way. I think Paul has uh a right to be thankful or an attitude of being thankful upon every remembrance, not only thankful for the relationships and thankful for the fellowships, but thirdly thankful for the partnership. What happens with the Apostle Paul is that Paul has he goes off to begin doing ministry and he's the apostle to the Jews and you know Paul's story. Paul was the one who w was killing people and killing the Jews and persecuting the church, and now he's been called out of that to be a A minister of the gospel and the one who's going to lead the Gentiles to Christ and everybody suspect of him. And Paul says, at the beginning, when I left Macedonia, nobody supported me except you, Philippi. That's chapter chapter 4. And so Paul has a right to be thankful upon every remembrance of them because they joined him. They partnered with him. To help him to become and help him to achieve what God had established as a goal for him in life. Are y'all still here with me? In the same way that we, Catherine Baptist Church, partner with churches all over the world. We've got churches in Ghana and Guyana and the Philippines and And we've got missionaries that we support all over the world. And we've got ministries that we support locally, nationally, internationally. We've got we're we're partnering together with all of these other ministries so that they can accomplish what God has established in them to accomplish. And so we have a right. To be thankful, and they have a right to be thankful for our partnership. Because without our partnership, they may not be able to accomplish what God has established for them to accomplish at the level that God wants to them to accomplish without the partnership. And so Paul is thankful upon every remembrance of these at Philippi because they have partnered with him to help him spread the gospel. They were the means by which he was gaining support, not just from the beginning, but even as he writes this letter, for thanking them for the gift that was brought to him as a result of their appreciation for him Now listen to what I'm saying by this. Because there's a whole lot of people in your life who have partnered with you in life. And you need to be thankful for those people. There are some people that we have ignored. There are some people that we have not considered. That they have partnered with us and they've helped us to become the people that we are in life. They've helped us to accomplish our God-given goal in life. They've helped us to fulfill the divine vision that God has established with us in life. And some of those people you may not have even thought about it, but I want to raise them to your mind because I want you to be thankful for them too. Because if you can read, you should probably be thankful for that teacher who taught you how to read. Are y'all hearing me? If you can do public speaking and there was some instructor or some some family member or somebody to help you Who says stand right here and practice right here and they helped you and they work with you and they were there to partner with you or someone who who helped pay for your books when you went to college or someone helped Uh offered you a scholarship, or somebody edged you along the way, and they helped you and they supported you. Maybe they just gave you a place to sleep, but they helped you to accomplish and to be who you are. Maybe it was somebody who kept believing in you when you didn't believe in yourself and they kept encouraging you when you thought you were going to fail and they kept saying no you can do this Get back up, get back in there. You can do this. And now you look back and you realize I can do it after all. That person partnered with you to make sure you can get to where you need to be. And oftentimes we forget those people. But those people are significant. We're all standing on somebody else's shoulders. We're all here moving forward and accomplishing what we're able to accomplish because someone partnered with us. Can I give you another level of partnership that probably you probably don't even realize some people have partnered with you on? And that's the area of prayer. Some of you know very, very, very well that if it had not been for the prayers of somebody praying for you, you wouldn't be here today. We heard some of the testimonies of some of the things people have been through, and they know they've got to know that somebody was praying for them. There's some of us that are here right now, and we know if mama didn't pray If daddy didn't pray, if grandma wasn't praying, if the pastor wasn't praying, I wouldn't be here. They partnered with you to make sure you were successful. They cried out to God on your behalf so that you could accomplish what you were supposed to accomplish for the kingdom of God. And guess what? Some of those people are still praying for you right now. Because they're partnering with you. And some of those people you may not even be aware who they are. But they're praying. And I know you probably haven't been here on Saturday morning at 8 o'clock to join the prayer ministry. But there's a prayer minister that meets every Saturday morning at 8 o'clock, and they come together, and guess what? They're praying for you. They're praying for your family. And you ought to thank God upon your every remembrance of them Because they've partnered with you and they're praying for you. And there's people who have prayer chains and prayer phone calls, and they've hooked up with family members, and they're saying, you know what, pray for my church family. Pray for the deacons, pray for the pastor, pray for the choir, pray for the leadership in the church, and they're praying for us. We need to thank God for them and be thankful for them too. And all I'm trying to get us to see is that there's a whole circle that the Apostle Paul has laid out before us here in the text that he's thankful for. And when he says, I'm thankful, verse 3 here. I thank my God upon every remembrance of you. Paul is including All of the people that he has a relationship with, all of the people that he has fellowship with, and all of the people he has partnership with. Because all of those people he's addressing in this letter from prison to the Philippian church. And I want to encourage us to think beyond just mom, dad, us four, and no more. And think beyond that and be thankful, really, really thankful for other people in that circle of your life who've been a blessing to you. Now, Paul does that two ways. Paul is thankful by telling God about it in prayer. So he's talking to God, saying, God, thank you for Sister So-and-so, thank you for brother so-and-so. He's thankful to God. And he's telling God about it. But secondly, he's telling the Philippians. He's telling the people who he's thankful for. I'm thankful for you. Catherine Baptist Church, on this Thanksgiving Eve, I want you to know I'm thankful for you. And as we go into our Thanksgiving celebrations on tomorrow and you meet with family and friends and loved ones, and you have your f family calls in the morning, or you meet for dinner or lunch. Take a moment to thank those people in your family, the friends, and in your circles. Take a moment to pick up your text text somebody and tell them, you know what, I thank God for you. Because you partnered with me. You you prayed for me. You helped me make it through high school. You helped me make it through college, grad school, or whatever it was. And I'm thankful to God for you. I'm thankful to God that we get the fellowship. When you leave out today and you run into some of these other people that you've been seeing every Sunday, just stop and tell them, hold on a minute, I need to tell you something. I'm thankful for you Then we get the fellowship together. I just think we need to broaden our our arms in times like these when everything is falling apart and tell people thank you. Father in heaven, thank you for your word tonight. Thank you for the grace that you've given. Thank you for every person under the sound of my voice. Lord, we love you. We praise you. We thank you. If there's anybody that doesn't know you tonight, God, save them by your amazing grace. Father, just move in the midst that if anybody doesn't know you as Lord and Savior tonight, that they will be saved. Father, we're trying to partner with them even now by giving them the gospel so that their eternal destiny can be changed. Have your way, God. Have your way. Lord, if we're struggling tonight, I pray you would just give grace to us. Teach us to be thankful, even for our enemies. For even our enemies have a role in our life. Thank you, God. Thank you that you kept our enemies at bay. Thank you that no weapon that they formed against us prospered. Thank you that you gave us spiritual eyes to know they were enemies and not friends. Thank you, God. Spirit of the Lord, have your way in this time of invitation. In Jesus' name. Amen. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church Under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship services Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. On Andy Christman, in his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he said Down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.