Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling the Third Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. Bless the Lord. The word of God from John chapter 21, beginning at verse 1, reads as follows. After these things, Jesus showed himself again to the disciples at the Sea of Tiberius. And in this way, he showed himself. Simon Peter, Thomas, called the twin, Nathaniel of Cana, in Galilee, the sons of Zebedee, and two other of his disciples were together. Simon Peter said to them, I am going fishing. And they said to him, We're going with you. And they went out, and immediately they got into the boat, and that night they caught nothing. But when the morning had come, Jesus stood on the shore, yet the disciples did not know that it was Jesus. Then Jesus said to them, Children, have you any food? And they answered, no. And he said to them, Cast the net on the right side of the boat, and you will find some. So they cast, and now they were not able to draw in because of the multitude of fish. And therefore, that disciple whom Jesus loved said to Peter, It is the Lord Now when Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he put on his outer garment, for he had removed it, and he plunged into the sea. But the other disciples came in the little boat. For they were not far from the land, but about two hundred cubic, dragging the net with fish. Then As soon as they had come to the land, they saw a fire of coals there and fish laid on it and bread. Jesus said to them, Bring some of the fish which you have caught. And Simon Peter went up. And dragged in the net to the land, and it was full of large fish, one hundred and fifty three, and although there were so many the net was not broken And Jesus said to them, Come and eat breakfast. Yet none of the disciples dared to ask him, Who are you, knowing that it was the Lord. Jesus then came and took the bread and gave it to them and likewise the fish. And this is now the third time that Jesus has showed himself to his disciples after he had been raised from the dead. Would you pray with me this morning, Father? We are in need of you that you might speak a word in our midst on today, that you might declare truth from on high Lord, I yield myself as a vessel in your hand to be shaped and used as you see fit. Lord, speak through these lips of clay words of life that would draw someone out of the darkness and into the marvelous light. God, speak a word, Heavenly Father, that might cause someone to say, I need that salvation for myself. God, I pray that you would edify this body. I pray that you would most importantly glorify yourself Lord, if there's anybody who's downtrodden on today that just needs a word of encouragement, I pray that this word, God, today would lift up their heads and encourage them in hope with you. Spirit of the living God, we yield today and we stand as vessels willing to be used by you. So God, use me, strengthen me, give me clarity of thought, clarity of speech. Allow God the Spirit of the living God that lives inside of me to speak what thus saith the Lord. And Lord, when it's all said and done, we will give your name all the glory and all the honor and all the praise for you All by yourself are worthy of it all. In Jesus' precious and wonderful name I pray with great expectation. Amen. And amen. People are angry, they're frustrated, they're lost, and they have nothing to anchor their souls. I mean at least for a Christian we got an anchor. Now I will say some of us let our anchor drift. But you have one. But for the unbeliever who's gone through all of this stuff, they've got no anchor, they've got nothing to hold them, they've got no hope, they've got no peace, they've got no thought that things are going to get better. And they've drifted, and some of us have drifted into a dark place. Y'all still here with me? Over this past period of time, we've watched and witnessed The anger of people exploding onto the scenes. Murders, mass shootings. I mean, they they they they in two, three months, more mass shootings than we normally would have had in a whole year. Road rage to the point where people are shooting each other on the road. This is worse than the wild, wild west. I mean at least if you was on the Wild Wild Rest they would wait till you got off the horse. And I mean you drive in the roads and They'll run you off the road, they'll ride on a median strip, they'll be doing all kind of crazy stuff to just where you going? No hope, no faith, dark place It's it's it's reminiscent of the signs and the symptoms of post-traumatic stress. Reminiscent and indicative of the signs of people who are going through grief. Imagine, if you will, If you were in Jerusalem three to four days after Christ died, maybe even two days after he died. For the last three years, this Messiah who came from glory was preaching and teaching and confounding the wisdom of the scholars. This Messiah, this Jesus was healing the sick and raising the dead, performing miracles all over town. Jesus. Now has been crucified. He was, in a sense, for many the hope that had come to deliver them from the Roman Empire's oppression Now he's dead. He was for others, the one who kept things stable, the one who was providing for them, who was protecting them, who made sure everything was okay for them, but now he's gone. We watched him be crucified. We watched them hang him on the cross. We we were there when they pulled him down, when the blood and the water came streaming out. We were there, we watched it, and so in that sense. The worlds of those who are in Jerusalem have been turned upside down. The hope that they had has been dashed, and now they're in a dark place. When we come to this place in the text, this is the third time that Jesus has made himself manifest before his disciples. Third time. There's two other times in the order of things that he's already manifested himself to them. And this is now the third time. But when he shows up to them this time, he finds them in a very dark place. I want to talk to you on this morning from the subject matter resurrection from a dark place. Because I would suggest this morning, and I don't think I would be wrong, that some of us came in this morning and we're in a dark place. You don't have to say amen. I would suggest as some of us have been wrestling with this dark place for a while. I would suggest that there are some who could greatly benefit from resurrection power on this morning. Because there's nothing else that has helped you to get out of the dark place, even though you've done everything you could to get out of it. In fact, the more you tried, the deeper it seemed to get. The darker it seemed to get. But perhaps this morning, God will bless you to be able to experience the resurrection power to pull you out of your dark place. Y'all still here with me? In this text, it begins with this uh idea that Jesus is showing up with them on the sea and Here's the first indicator that they're in a dark place. And I want to say to you this morning as I move through this text that you can because of the resurrection. You can stop fishing in dark places. Because of the resurrection. Now, without the resurrection, you can keep on fishing in dark places. But because of the resurrection, You can stop fishing in dark places. Listen, here's how we know that these are disciples are in a dark place. Verse 2 says, Simon Peter. Thomas, it gives you the list of the group and then the other two disciples. Verse 3 says, Simon Peter, y'all remember Simon Peter? Simon Peter is the one that denied Jesus how many times? Three times. So Simon Peter, you know you're in a dark place when the one who has denied Jesus three times is saying to you, I'm going fishing, and you decide to follow him. Okay. When when the one if if the company that you're keeping and the person that you're following Is a has a reputation of denying that Jesus is God and that's the person you're following. You already in a dark place. And in fact, if you're in that place and you're following someone who has a reputation of denying Christ And they're saying to you, I'm going fishing, which in essence is saying, I'm going to get what I need to provide for myself. And you say to yourself, you know what? I'm going with you. You in a dark place. Because if your leader denies the power of God and denies that Jesus is who he says he is, he's the author of darkness. Y'all still here with me? So they go along with Peter, and here's another indicator, they're not just going fishing on a sunny day. The text said it's nighttime. So they're going night fishing with a man who denies Jesus three times. And they're going to get on a boat. Y'all still here? They not they not fishing from the shore. They gonna get on a boat with a man who has denied the Lord three times Who's going fishing at night and they're gonna go with him so that they can get their provisions taken care of? Oh, that's a dark place. That's a dark place. It's a dark place when you trust somebody who can't supply their own need to lead you to supply yours. Lord, have mercy. Peter's in a dark place because he's been with Jesus for three years and he's experienced the benefit of having Jesus provide for all of his needs For three plus years. Peter left his job as a fisherman. He he he put down his nets and he followed Jesus, and he's been following Jesus for three years. And for three years, Peter wasn't hungry. Peter wasn't. Didn't have to worry about no clothes. You know, he didn't have to go to Walmart or nothing to pick nothing up. Jesus took care of everything. He had everything he needed for three straight years and now his source has been crucified and now Peter says to himself I need to now take matters into my own hands and take care of my own provisions. Can I talk to somebody this morning? Whenever you put Christ aside and you decide that he's no longer the supplier of your need, but you can do it for yourself, you in a very dark place. Y'all still here with me? Peter, not only I need to talk to somebody here because I need you to understand that what you do is not just affecting you. Peter decides I'm going fishing. He didn't invite anybody to go with him, he just said, I'm going. Peter's in a dark place. He invites, he says, he tells his partners, I'm going fishing, and guess what? Because he's a leader, somebody's following him. Y'all still here with me? I'm trying to talk to you because sometimes when you're in a dark place and you decide to do something, because you in a dark place, there's other folk that just might be following you. So you're leading other people in a dark place because you're in a dark place. Boy, help me, Jesus. I thought about this. Why are you going fishing, Peter? What do people go fishing for? Well, in Peter's case, you either go in for financial benefits so you can catch some fish and sell them. Or you're going for the purpose of fun. I mean you just going out fishing and have some fun. So I mean maybe maybe he was going for fellowship. Just we just gonna hang out and have some fellowship on the boat. But typically you're going to make some money, you're going to get some some food, or you're going to have fun. Or some kind of way all three. But now, Peter, you're deciding you're gonna take care of your finances, your food, and your fun. On your own, because somehow God is no longer able to take care of you because you just watch Christ be crucified. So he's cast everything aside. This is a bad place to be. Listen to me when you cast everything aside because you feel like God failed you. Lord help me, Jesus. I need you to hear this. The vision of what you've seen is never the complete vision of what's really happening. Don't be too quick to don't be too quick to throw in the towel. Don't be too quick to say God has failed. Don't be too quick to say God doesn't hear me. Don' It's a quick The thing God walked away from you, he's never going to leave you, nor is he going to forsake you. Peter feels like the Lord in some way has forsaken him. You were my social security check. You were my you were my insurance. You were my you are my Medicare and my Medicaid. You were taking care of me, Lord, and now you're dead. So I need to do this for myself. Dark place. Dark place. But here's the reality: you can't do it by yourself. When you're in darkness, you don't even know what you're doing. And I don't know how many fishermen I have out there, but if you're fishing at night, you better know what you're doing. Because first of all, if you don't if you've never been fishing and you and it it's difficult enough to to bait the hook With bait when the sun is shining. When you can see what you're doing. Less more try to bait it when you can't see what you're doing. And for those of you who don't fish and you've never been out on a boat, you got to deal with the water, you got to deal with the surroundings and all that. You want to see as much as you can see. Now six of them then got on a boat with him and followed him into this dark it at night into the darkness they going out to fish to try to get and take care of their needs. That they feel like the Lord has abandoned them on because they are in this dark place of grief and destitueness and sense of abandonment from God. And they're out there on this water and they're trusting Peter to lead them. But when you're in the darkness, you can't see. You can't. You can't navigate. You don't know what you're doing. You don't know where you're going. And what you're doing is you're kind of kind of just flim-flamming around. Just you don't. I mean, you're like a blind man. And that's where they are. They're trying to handle the things they're at their self. And the reality of it is here, some of us Have been in a a bad place, a dark place so long, and we've been fishing in this dark place so long that we have more faith in the dark place than we do in the Christ who is the light. We have more expectation that eventually I'm gonna get something. Eventually I'm gonna catch something. Eventually it's gonna be satisfying. Eventually it's gonna It's gonna do what I need for it to do. And you keep on fishing and you keep on fishing and you keep on searching, but you keep on finding them no matter what you try. To put in that God-shaped old nothing satisfies, nothing is fulfilling, nothing is food for your soul Whiskey won't do it. Women won't do it. It won't help you to reach out and try to fill it with these things. They're not going to help you. Men won't do it, money won't do it. None of those things are gonna help you. You can have all the money, all the men, all the women, all the whiskey you want, but it's not gonna satisfy that craving for your soul. When you're in darkness, you're just feeling around trying to get something to make it feel better. That's where they are. They're trying to satisfy themselves. It's not working. I want to tell you today, stop fishing in the darkness. Because of the resurrection, you can stop fishing in darkness. Because Jesus has brought the light to us. He's made it available to us that we might walk in the light. As I moved on in this text, I want you to know that you can stop fishing in the darkness, but as I keep moving on, I see that because of the resurrection, you can come out of the darkness to the God of light. Verse 4 picks up, it says, But when the morning had come, they've been in darkness all that time. But now the morning comes, now the light comes, now the sun comes. Jesus is standing on the shore. And his disciples didn't know that it was him. Because guess what? When you're spending your time in the darkness, you don't even recognize Jesus when he shows up. Lord help me God. You've been so consumed with the things that you think are fixing it for you that that's where your focus is. Your focus is now Jesus is standing right beside you saying, Come on, we I'm ready whenever you are You don't even recognize that he's there. You're not even recognizing his presence. They don't even recognize that it's Jesus. And the text goes on to say, as if they don't see they don't know who he was. So I love this. Jesus says in verse 5. Children, have you any food? And they answered, no. Jesus, what are you doing? You think Jesus didn't know they hadn't caught anything? Oh, he already knew. He knew they had been out there trying to fix it all night by themselves. But he needs them to acknowledge that in all of their efforts, they've caught nothing to satisfy them. Lord help me, God. He knew that they had been out there toiling and fishing and doing this and doing that and nothing, nothing they had caught. Now you got to understand something. Peter is a skilled fisherman. He did this for a living And he's out here at night with his boys, a couple of other fishermen on the boat as well. And he's out there with them, and they have caught nothing all night. Absolutely nothing. Jesus says, Children? And you know why that's so aprobable? It's because they're acting like children. And he needs to bring them Out of the darkness into the light. Children, have you caught any food? Do you have any food with you? I mean I know you've been trying hard to catch something. I know you were fishing in the deep water. And then you went to the shallow water and you went on the right side of the boat and the left side of the boat and the back of the boat and you've been fishing from the front of the boat and you haven't caught anything? I mean you changed the bait up because you thought well maybe they just ain't biting off of this bait today. And so you went back into your profile and you took another picture and ran it through another filter. And maybe it was because the picture that I took that it didn't show my my long flowing hair, so I need to Maybe I need to take off a little more clothes or look I need to bait the hook a little better to satisfy What I'm trying to get. Maybe I need to, maybe I need to pad my resume so that I can get what I need Maybe I need to lie on my taxes so I can supply my need. Maybe maybe I need to bait the hook a different way so I can get what I want. Maybe I need to play the lottery so I can get what I want. God says, Have you caught anything yet? Is there anything in your boat that you can say is satisfying? Have you caught anything that we can classify as life-sustaining? No, we ain't caught nothing. That's how it is when you're trying to do it yourself. You can put all the bait you want on the hook. Ain't catching nothing but dogfish. Stuff you throw back. And some of you done caught some of them throwbacks too. Throw that one back. I ain't no good. Throw that one back. Then you blame the site. It's the site's problem. I need to go to a different site. Ain't nothing but a bunch of bums on this site. Let me try this one over here. You on everybody's site. Got different names on all the sites. Fishing everywhere. Fishing in every pond. Trying to catch something anywhere you can. To satisfy you. You drinking out of every bottle. You got the the blue version, the red version, the black version, the vodka, everything. You're trying to fish everywhere you can to satisfy. Nothing is satisfying. Have you caught anything, children? Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor. Buch Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed By today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at kettering ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship Services, Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301 six two seven nine five zero zero please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. On Andy Christman, in his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down With the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.