Now, if I was talking about that little God that's on your porch or on your cocktail table or in your pocket, then you might have a reason to fear. Voices behind the song. Uh the word of the Lord from Psalm forty-six, beginning at verse one, reads as follows: God is our refuge and strength. I pray that the power of the word would permeate in such a way, God, that it would lose no steam, no matter when we listen to it, no matter when we hear it And and so this stuff is happening over and over and over and everywhere and in every neighborhood. And I don't know how y'all feel, but it feels like everybody from every direction and every company and every business is reaching deeper in my pocket to try to get more of my money. is shooting up and you don't even know why and and and it's and it's the fear, it's the stress levels are r are rising up inside of you and which dealing with all of that, um as as we're trying to figure out what's going on all around us and because we keep hearing all this stuff going all around us, eventually what we start doing is locking ourselves in the house and we only go out when it's absolutely necessary. We talked about this last week. I'm talking about the God who is who he says he is, and he is so powerful that when he when he was asked, What is my name? Lord help me, God. And you didn't have anything left. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling the Third I know sometimes we don't feel like giving him the glory, but he's still worthy of the glory. And who want to join you together and lift up holy hands and worship God and exalt his name together. Um it's exciting, it's g it's um uh it's a lot of fun, it's enjoyable to be able to worship God alone by yourself, but you it's another thing when you get together with other people who love God also. Well bless God on this morning, Kether and hopefully you have your Bibles with you. uh in this hour of preaching to show up in an extraordinary way. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. I pray for encouragement. But it might accomplish what you set it forth to accomplish. uh the principle and the law and the way in which we were supposed to do it that maybe somebody might get mad about that and decide that they're coming and showing up on our front step and taking us out because we is running rampant. the stuff that's going on all around us. If the chaos that's happening in town can't figure out what's happening in town, it kind of makes you wonder what happened if they decide to come over here. That I've been working hard to try to hold on to. It's like maybe we don't need that. Uh and so I think what happens in the process of that is that we're beginning to experience a great degree of fear. His first word, and when we think about this whole idea, he he says God, and when we talk about God, we need to understand that we're talking about the same God. So so in other words, I I'm not talking about Buddha, I'm not talking about Confucius, I'm not I'm not talking about any other Who I am. before there was a was and who will be after the will bees are done be we being willed. Who breathed breath in the dirt. But no, we're not talking about we're talking about Elohim. And that's why the word that he uses here is a high ground protector. Lord help me God. Lord Jesus, he's a place I can go into and know that I am under the protection from every enemy that would desire to come against me, not just Then he comes back and he says, not only is God our refuge, but he says, and strength. I know I got one or two witnesses in the house. Got the gun or got the poison or whatever way you thought you was going to do, and you were planning and strategizing your way out We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And though the waters roar and be troubled, though the mountains shake with its swelling. This is your time that you might speak to each of us individually and collectively, what you have ordained to be so, and I pray, God, I have found myself in the sense of your will as we open this text on today. uh on the pages of your life where you are and I believe for whatever reason he has us here Of all the things that are going on around us, we probably could say and consider that we're living in some fearful times. the culture in which we live, they say that carjackings for the car that you're paying all that money for Inflation sizing is the term that they use for putting less potato chips in the bag but charging you more for it. And many are so filled with fear that anxiety is kicking in. gives that we will not fear. small g God. I'm talking about God who is also called Elohim. I'm talking about that God. That is for all of those who belong to him. He the hour also can include those who don't belong to him. picture of what the psalmist is trying to tell us and why we don't have to fear. Ma say and it means shelter of protection. of protection from the enemy that would desire to come after us. He's our strength. You know, we need you need strength to tolerate. I I want you I want I want to take you remember when you were in school some of y'all when you were school just like I I'm ready to quit A child, a parent, uh someone who was special to you. God strength was made perfect in your weakness. Under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Sundays at 10 a. or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Down with the voices behind the song. And we all, every nation, every tongue, every tribe will be together glorifying God and giving him all that he is worthy of. Returning to make a commitment to you again today to say, Lord, I I I'm coming back to you. And we don't know whether or not when we go to the grocery store or whether we go to get some gas, whether some straight bullets gonna come our way. I'm trying to get us there. It's kind of chaotic. And so all this is going on in our mind, there's uncertainty about our futures, about what's gonna happen around the corner. I'm talking to a few people already. And what I want you to understand is that the enemy has you living in fear. First and foremost, the text says he doesn't he doesn't warm you up at all. And and I'm gonna come back to the eas because there's a whole half an hour, 45 minutes I can do on the is-ness of God. But God is our, and when the text says our, there are some variations of uh stance that you can take as to who the hour is. Y'all stay here with me? I want you to remember when you almost gave up And so we bless him in this place on today for just another opportunity we have to come together corporately and worship the Lord and to give him glory. You would do and accomplish what you desire in and amongst your people. Lord, speak a word that might change the heart and the situation that someone may find themselves in on this morning. So in other words, carjackings are up 100% from last year. For five, six, seven years, people are taking cars from you now at two times the rate that they were doing it last year. They get mad and go back to their car and come back in. Um is like a bunch of kids on the playground trying to figure out who gonna be the boss and who gonna run the show. This psalm from the Sons of Korah, uh this this song of of uh Alamath, it there's there's three strong reasons that the psalmist He doesn't say we might not fear. God, Elohim, the all-creating, all-powerful one, he is our refuge. Or I could narrow it down and say the hour is just the born-again believers, but uh you you can lean in on on it whatever way you want, but um And so um I'm praying, and I hope y'all are praying that that God is is going to clearly speak to you. Today, if we are paying attention to our surroundings Or maybe as a result of some uh fiduciary responsibility that we had on our job that we executed according to I want to talk to you from the subject matter out of this text this morning from the subject matter we will not fear. And he gives us three reasons, and I'm trying to walk through some of those with us on this morning, as God gives me grace to do, why we will not fear. Because God is our refuge. One perspective is the hour is everybody who belongs to him. Watch this, not just any enemy in terms of people or persons, but I can go in and he will protect me from all the trouble of the world. God is my my refuge. Of the protection of God, then I really couldn't say I will not fear. We are here. All around us have drastically increased. ruled against them or because they didn't get the the burger uh with the right pickles on it. uh scams. Our refuge. And so we don't have to fear. God is our strength. To keep you moving when you are tired of moving. God is our strength. We would have thrown in the towel. Like I'm this this is too much. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. I surrender all to you today. Your paycheck has not kept up with the inflation and the inflation sizing doesn't seem fair for the payment that you're paying. And you started thinking about ways that you could check out of here. A very present help in trouble. And so we're we're dealing with that and and and while we have that on our mind, uh there's wars breaking out everywhere. But because I know who my protection is, I can be dogmatic, I can be I can be aggressive, I can be sure, and I can say I will not fear. That you did an assessment of your value in the world Pinch yourself. And I I can't I haven't escaped it. Because there's no room for fear while I'm in the covering protection of God. And you came up with the conclusion that nobody really cares about me anyway, they won't even miss me if I'm gone. That you felt safe and sheltered from this kind of stuff. You was ready to give up. We go through life and life got so dark. I don't know about you, but I know I wouldn't be here if it wasn't for the strength of God. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Nobody can have that kind of power and that kind of authority. Father, speak a word through my lips that would cause someone who doesn't know you to come running and asking, what must I do to be saved? I mean things just seem to be uh just I mean it would cause us to kind of be of a bit of concern as we kind of watch and witness He's our strength. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. We will not fear. He's the place where we can run into and find relief. I'm I'm I'm at the preaching hour now and he still hadn't said anything else. And I mean we we need to be honest. He has all the power. I'm talking about the God who is omniscient, which means He knows everything. But the only escape from the judgment that is yet to come is God. I pray for edification in the body of believers. I'm not I'm not talking about any any insignificant self-created deity that you can carry around in your pocket, around your neck, or in the you know, in in the back seat of your car. He's our refuge. You you know what? I'm y'all y'all gotta see this. So the psalmist begins by helping us to understand that we will not fear because God is our refuge. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. This morning as I approach this particular text, I've continued to ask God, Am I in the right place? When when I'm facing challenge after challenge after challenge, and I'm I'm exhausted like some of you are today, um, and I don't have nothing else left in the tank. m. People are killing one another, and if they're not being killed, they're being shot. at the Legacy Center. And except and unless God gave you the strength to take another breath, you would have died from the grief that was bearing you down. I mean they not scamming you on the phone, they scamming you on your computer or they scamming you in person. That's point number one. It just I mean from I mean everybody. As a matter of fact, some of them are viewing by a live stream because they scared to come to church. But there's another way of looking at this text, because lest I cut out the the wholeness of God I'll uh this thank you, Lloyd. So have your way in and through me, and I will give your name all the glory and all the honor and all the praise. Elohim. You still here? It's overwhelming. And some some Lord help me, God. If any of these things were based on our strength, we would have given up. As you listen to some uh activity of He's the God who scooped up dirt that he made. So God, I need you. You know what I mean? Um we probably have felt it already that the interest rates have risen all around us and the price of everything uh has has gone up. I mean, while we're watching, you know, wars across the sea happening if I'm talking about that God, the God who is omnipresent, which means he is everywhere at the same time. Maybe, maybe, maybe you were going through grief of a loved one, m a a spouse. Can I break that down? You should. He goes to the extreme and the dogmatic statement he makes, we will not fear He's our protection. God is our strength. And and and you were at a place where you couldn't even catch your breath. God was your refuge when you had nowhere else to go Would you pray with me this morning? Because he is God, first of all, we shall not fear. He's my refuge. I haven't been led anywhere else. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship services And it is God who is our strength to keep us waiting when we should have given up waiting. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. Interestingly enough, he doesn't he doesn't say we should not fear. Um He he Lord help me God the the God that we're talking about here is the God who was I was just thinking now if if I wasn't sure I'm on my fifth year of a three-year program. Therefore we will not fear, even though the earth be removed, and though the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea. That's the one reason why we will not fear. I want to invite your attention to Psalms 46. Every every time you get another bill, you know what we need to go up a little bit. He's our high ground protection. That's a great question. Lord help me, Jesus. God is our refuse. Now walk walk with me for a moment. Now I know it doesn't sound like it's a whole lot here, but I'm gonna try to build on this a little bit so that we can get a great We we will not fear. Even now this frail and and fragile vessel is in need of you, God, that you might use me as a vessel to accomplish your will. They have an anxiety attacks, your blood pressure It's a loaded statement. I pray, God, that through the preaching of this foolish gospel, that someone who has drifted away in fellowship might find themselves If you're dealing in a warfare scenario, the best ground to have is high ground To give us strength to press on when we won't give up, to keep serving, to keep working, to keep tolerating. He just jumps right in and says, God is Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome He's my protector. He's our covering. That's a great question. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. Lord Jesus. God is your strength to keep you standing when you don't want to stand. He is the God of all creation, of the God of eternity, the God To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. Lord, we need you. And it used to be a time when if you lived in a certain zip code or community Some of us would have stopped tolerating the stuff that we are tolerating if it had not been for the strength of God. Amen. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Father, some are present, but others are viewing via live stream, and others will tune in later and It's heavy in what he says because first we begin with God is our refuge, but God is also our strength. He is our shelter of protection. Yeah that's a real term. I'm coming back to serve you. Because those who have not yet accepted him just have not come into the refuge yet. Praise the Lord. Break ins are up, rate is up. God is our refuge. I want to take you down a road. So I guess this is where we're gonna be. He's our our hiding place. You might even got the And I can only imagine what it's going to be like when we get to heaven. And as much as If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Violent crimes. I'm talking about the God who is omnipotent, which means he has Breathed into the dirt and the dirt jumped up and became a living being. He knows the beginning from the end, and the end from the beginning. This is your word. And if I've got God as my protector, I don't have to fear. He's our our place where we can run and be safe. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. And I mean it's just I mean it's it's pandemonium. I I would probably have to say I might not fear. Fraud is And so I can look at it from the perspective that the hour is everybody. He's our refuge. We need to go up a little bit. I'm coming back to that. Now, this word refuge from the Hebrew is the word God is your strength. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. I'm coming back to commit to you. Amen. Well, hello. Go uh it's called inflation sizing. It was like, it was like every breath was hard to catch Y'all still here with me? He's He's our strong tower. Now he's bringing you their stories. And now, Pastor Sterling. We need to go up a little bit. It is in Jesus' name that I pray with thanksgiving and expectation. Uh you know the government is in chaos. Watch this. Amen. This is my second time trying to get my GED, whatever. The One Degree of Andy podcast. He is our high place. Now he's bringing you their stories. God, work a work in the midst of our time on this morning that. Looking forward to that day. Because in him there's no fear. The One Degree of Andy podcast. It's in your neighborhood too now. Hallelujah. Because we know who protects us. I'm Andy Christman. It's They've sized down what you get but they've run up what you pay. Bless the Lord. God is the one who sustains you through all of that. He's our cave of comfort. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Amen. I'm trying to help y'all understand what what God we're talking about. I'm Andy Christman. org Praise the name of the Lord. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast. I'm not talking about that. He just said, I am. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. I'm I'm talking about org. Amen. I surrender, God. He said