Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. Colatians chapter six and verse number six is where we begin. Our reading on today. The word of the Lord reads as follows, let him who is taught the word share in all good things with him who teaches. Do not be deceived. God is not mocked. For whatever a man sows, that he will also reap. For he who sows to his flesh will of the flesh reap corruption, but he who sows to the spirit will of the spirit reap everlasting life And let us not grow weary while doing good, for in due season we shall reap if we do not lose heart. Would you pray with me on this morning, Father? I am in need of you that you might allow for my mind to think clearly, for my lips to speak clearly. For the word of God that you've given to me to come forth as a very oracle of God, to penetrate the hearts, minds, spirits of those who are listening, to break down barriers, to destroy excuses. That this word God might bring life to those who are lifeless, hope to those who are hopeless, encouragement to those who are discouraged Spirit of the Lord, in all that is done in the process of preaching, it is my prayer on this morning that you would get all the glory and all the honor and all the praise. For I have nothing that is worthy of saying except you said it. And so I pray that you would speak through these lips, the very word of God, everlasting life. Now have your way, God, as we trust you in this hour. In Jesus' name. Amen and amen. Kettering, we started off our new year on Tuesday night, shared our theme from Ecclesiastes chapter three, the theme for this year and subject of the text on Uh New Year's Eve service was its time to sow. As we examined Ecclesiastes in the first part of this series of messages, we discovered that to everything there is an appointed time. The interesting thing about that, even as I think about it on this morning, is though there is an appointed time for everything, we don't always know the time. Secondly, we looked at the idea there. How how do you know when it's time to sew specifically? And we examined there it If you're in the desert time of harvest, if you've already harvested and everything else is dead, then guess what? It's time to sow again. And so we have to examine even in our own lives where are we with that and how it is individually, is it time for me to sow more, to put down more crop, to put down more seed for the future generation, for the future of my own life, for the future of my own situation, that I might reap something later. And thirdly, we saw there that there's a time to pluck up what is sown. That helped us understand that there are seasons and and fragments of time and that we examine through that that yes After you've plucked up and after you've gotten up everything that you've sown, then it's once again the cycle begins all over again. And so what Solomon shared with us there in Ecclesiastes was the extremes of life and death, sowing and reaping. So on this morning, as we continue to build on this thematic idea of its time to so I thought it best to uh kind of look into this a little deeper and Even though we don't know how much time we have to sow, I believe from the depth of my heart is time to sow. Y'all still here? Interestingly enough, what I have examined is that oftentimes at the beginning of the year, everyone wants to hear a message about reaping. Amen, somebody. In fact, you probably can go back to most platforms and examine what people have said to you and and look at all the Facebook post and all the messages that you get from all the different platforms, and everybody's saying this one particular thing, and that is that 2025 is going to be a prosperous year. Amen. They said that in 2024, 2023, 2022. 2021, 2019, 1995, 1998, 18, 32, 16, 15. They've been saying that every year. Am I right? So this is my my conclusion is that every year can't be a reaping year. Realistically, if we reaped all of 2024 Then at least in 2025 you gotta sow something back down. But everybody wants to reap, reap, reap, reap, reap, but I Stop to let you know it's time to sow. We've done a lot of reaping. Go ahead and examine your own life. You've done a lot of reaping. Amen, somebody. Been a whole lot of reaping going on. Matter of fact, you done reaped so much that you owe people for what you reaped. I'm preaching way better than you saying amen. But I think in order for us to kind of get a better sense of this, I think it's best for us to understand our assignment of sewing. What is involved in it? What's the best what do I need to know about it? What can help me to be better at doing the sowing? Because we're probably really good at reaping. And so this morning I want to use this text to talk to you from the subject matter in the second part of the series, from the idea, some just some things to know. About sewing. Y'all still here? This will help you. It'll help you along the journey of 2025 in sewing if you know what this is all about, because we don't do it a lot. First and foremost, as I look into the text, in verse six, it says, let him who is taught the word Share in all good things with him who teaches. Now, the reason and the way I want to share with you from this idea of just some things to know. One, I think it's good to get the instruction from the things to know about sewing from God who is The one who's calling us to be sowing this year. Y'all still here? And so, first and foremost, this verse 6 tells us that you need to sow back into the sower. I knew it was going to get quiet. I'm just reading the Bible. The Bible says in chapter 6 of Galatians, verse 6: Let him who is taught the word share in the good things with him who teaches. It is greatly beneficial to you and me to sow back into the people who sowed the word of God into us. Trust me, this is not a tithing message. I'm just preaching through what the text showed up with this morning. So listen. If someone has been sewing into you the Word of God, and you have been benefiting from what they've been sowing into your life. This could be a Sunday school teacher. This could be a parent, a friend, a pastor, a preacher. Could be a number of people who have been sowing the word of God into your life. And as a result of you receiving the word of God. And witnessing the word of God bring about change and fruit in your life. The Bible says, now Pastor Sterling, the Bible says it's to your benefit to sow back into the sower. Lord help me Jesus. Paul in the text is most likely speaking to the Galatian church relating to money More likely than not, that's his reference because this offering this was to to give and and he make sure that they're gonna do their part and all this is going on and so the he's more likely talking about money, but the the application of this is broader than money Okay. So let's just walk down a little little road. So if someone is sowing encouragement into your life. From the word of God, this won't cost you a dime to encourage them back. Help me, Jesus. Let me say this from a pastor's perspective. Let's just deal with the elephant in the room. If I am laboring in the word Sunday after Sunday, week after week, and I'm not asking for anything, I'm just I'm just preaching the word. But if I'm doing that and you're leaving every you, oh my god, I'm so encouraged. Every once in a while you might want to say Pastor, who you encourage me, I want to encourage you. I didn't say write no check. I Pastor, you bless me. I want to bless you I want to encourage how is your week going? Now don't don't everybody text me this week. But look, that's easy to encourage someone who's encouraging you. To support somebody who's supporting you through the word of God. I mean, you're we we get blessed by what people put out. And so if they're putting out the word of God and the word of God is blessing me through them, I need to go back and sow back into the sower. Watch this. This is not unprecedented. Even God Himself says, Sow back to me. Am I right? We are required to sow back to God that which belongs to Him. And so Galatians says, let him who is taught the word share in all good things with him who teaches I I think it's it's not hard to do, but it needs to be said. And it doesn't have to be expensive, but it also doesn't have to be cheap. Amen, Jesus. I knew this would happen. Why should I sow back into them who sowed the word into me? The reason why you want to sow back into them who sowed the word into you is because what they sowed into you was an eternal, living, powerful, life-transforming word. You can't get that anywhere. There's a whole lot of people throwing out stuff, but it's not changing your life. There's a whole lot of people motivationally speaking. And they're motivating you, but they're not changing you. But that someone is sowing the living word of God into you. That's a powerful, life-changing, life-transforming. Some of you are not in prison because somebody sowed the word of God into you I wish I had some honest witnesses in the house. Some of you, your life would be a whole lot different had someone not been pouring the word of God into you. And as a result, you ought to bless them. Matter of fact, it's not Mother's Day, but or Father's Day, but some of us need to go back to Mama and Daddy and and thank them today For them sowing. I know we was rebellious. We were teenagers. We thought we knew everything. But mama and daddy sowed the word of God into us. They told us what the Word of God said. And even though it didn't, watch this, it didn't produce fruit right away, it's there for you to produce even fruit now. And some honest Christians would say you bumped your head on every wall, but thanks be to God, by his grace, you're still standing because somebody sold the word into you. Am I right? Let me move y'all through the text because I knew that one wasn't going to be a good one. But so you need to I'm just telling you some things about about sewing. This is just some things to know about sewing So you want to first of all, you need to sow back into the sower. Verse 7 says, do not be deceived, God is not mocked, for whatever a man sows, that will he also reap. Do not be deceived. So the second thing I want you to know about um just thing to know about sowing is that you will reap what you sow. Y'all already knew that, right? You will reap what you sow. Don't be deceived. God is not mocked. You can't fool God. You can't get around this fundamental principle that God has established. What you sow, you will reap. Amen. Amen, Jesus. This is heavy right here. What you sow, you will reap. Why? Because God is involved in it. Mm-mm-mm-mm. You can't go around sowing hatred everywhere and expect that all you're gonna reap is love. I'm preaching now. What you sow is coming back to you. Whatever, it doesn't say whatever you sow out of your hand, but I'm saying it is whatever you sow, whether you sow it out of your mouth Lord have mercy. You go around cussing everybody out and you think that the clerk not gonna cuss you out when you get to the store? Whatever you sow, you're gonna reap it. Amen, Jesus. Whatever a man sows, he's going to reap. And we can't mock God. We can't get around this universal principle of God. Whatever we sow, we're going to reap. So watch this. We need to determine what is it that we want to reap. Here's a good word for you for 2025. What do you want to reap after you get done sowing? What is it that that you want to come up? What kind of fruit do you want to come up? What kind of seed is in your hand? What kind of seed is in your mouth? What kind of seed is in your heart? Because what you might need to do is you might need to go back and search through the seeds before you start sowing. Because if I want to reap love and joy and peace and patience and long-suffering, I need to start sowing the same thing. If I want to reap hatred and misery and unforgiveness, then keep on sowing it. Y'all still here? Whatever you sow. You're gonna reap. You can't get around it. You cannot mock God on this principle. That's what that's what the text says. Don't don't be deceived. Don't fool yourself You cannot mock, you won't, you don't, don't, God, God's not gonna be mocked. Whatever a man sows, that will he also reaps. It's coming back up. So we need to decide. What do I want to reap? Now, what we typically want to reap, we don't want to sow. I just let that one settle for a while. If I said how many people want to reap a million dollars? All the hands will go up. I see you. Amen, baby. Send it my way. But you sowing change. So change, get change. Whatever you I'm just pr this is the principle, you can't get around it. Whatever you sow, you reap. You sow ones, you reap ones. Boy, y'all got the tightest faces. I'm just I'm just saying whatever you sow, you reap, you tricking everybody. Somebody go trick you. The trickster gets tricked. You cheating? The cheater gets cheated on. Whatever you soak Whatever put it out there, whatever it is. And so then I need to ask myself, what do I want to reap? If it's sowing time, if I'm focusing on sowing, what do I want to reap? Because whatever I sow, that's what I'm going to reap. And listen, I'm I'm I'm gonna help you Get deep as I get deeper in this, it's I'm gonna help you hopefully, because this is a challenge for us to reap what we really want based on what we've sown. We always want to reap by the grace of God, right? Like, okay, God, I know I didn't so I didn't sow none of that, but look look what God gave me. Bless His name. We always want that. But it's time to sow. So you can reap in the end what you've sown. And the idea is to decide what you want to reap so you can start sowing that. We all still here? All right, so let me let me move on to verse 8. Verse 8 says, For he who sows to his flesh will of the flesh reap corruption. But he who sows to the Spirit will of the Spirit reap everlasting life. Here's my third point. You will reap From the field that you sow in. You will reap from the field that you sow in Now, it would make common sense to you if I said, you can't sow in your field and come reaping in mine. Don't be over in my field. You did not sow over here, you can't reap over here. That makes sense, right? So the field that you sow in, that's the field that you're gonna reap in. That's where you're gonna reap from where you sow. But I want you to also realize that, watch this, all soil can't grow everything. Boy, I'm really preaching. I'm really, this that's that's heavy stuff. Watch this. You can't plant orange trees in wet Rice fields because the roots of the tree were rocked in the water. So every field won't reap The right types of fruit. And so you need to understand what kind of field am I going to sow in based on what kind of fruit do I want to receive? If I'm sowing in the field of my flesh, which means I am giving all of my energy and all of my attention to myself To my flesh, to my self-gratification, to me being the top of the pile, for me having everything, for me being first For me getting the best and the most and everything, if I'm sowing to my flesh, then that's where I'm going to reap. I'm going to reap fleshly stuff. And Paul says in the text, When I sow to my flesh, I can expect to reap corruption because the flesh is corrupt soil and it cannot produce righteous fruit. Whoa, help me, Jesus. Let me let me slow this down for the unchurch people that just showed up for the first Sunday. When I talk about sowing to the flesh, I'm talking about taking care of you. Now, what I'm not saying is I'm not saying That you shouldn't take care of you. You need to take care of you. You need to take care of yourself. But you should not take care of yourself exclusively. Amen. If more than one person that you know that is honest with you has told you that you are selfish, examine yourself When I talk about sowing through the flesh, I'm talking about the thing, in other words, my energy, my efforts, my my my majority or massive amounts of my time are being spent on things For me. So let's take a week, for example. How many hours in a week are you investing in someone else's life other than your children? And your spouse. How many hours in last year did you spend maybe going to a homeless shelter, feeding some people that were hungry, witnessing to some people that were lost on the street? How much time? I mean you don't you don't have to say, but I think you're getting the picture here that we might be spending way too much investment sowing in the field of our flesh. Because if we compare the time that we spent witnessing discipling someone, intentionally, deliberately, in discipling someone, mentoring someone in the Lord, sharing the gospel. Feeding the poor, visiting the sick. Perhaps if we compared that to the time we spent shopping, searching to see who said what on this page and that page Eating and checking out all the new restaurants in town and the one I heard about that's not even close to town, and doing those special getaways because I need a break today. Maybe if we start comparing the two, that we would see that I'm putting more energy in me than I am in anything in anybody else. That's a simple way of putting it. And so what the text is saying is if that's where my energy is being invested, and that's where I'm sewing. It can only produce corruption. It does not produce righteous, which is right with God fruit. Y'all still here? I had to simplify that because everybody ain't churchy. They didn't understand when I was talking about righteousness. It's like, what? What is he talking about? So I want to make sure everybody got it. It's simple, but it's necessary for us to understand that we can only reap in the field that we sow in. Now, if we want to reap righteous fruit, then we've got to sow to the spirit, to the field of the spirit That's where we're going to spend time in prayer, in meditation, in studying our Bible, coming to Bible study. Because on Wednesday night, I teach Bible study, by the way. I usually have a few, well, more than a few, extra seats. Just waiting for you. And now that we have an online opportunity to do so, there's plenty of opportunity for you to tune in online. Not just to turn it on, but to tune in. There is a difference between turning on Bible study and being tuned into Bible study. Are you here? Because sooner or later, even a broken clock is right twice a day. Amen. But if you s if you get in there and you tune in, you begin to learn some things. Now you may not learn all and everything and all the depth of it, but because it's continuously being poured out from the word of God. It's going to continue to be speaking to your heart and to your life. And it's going to be transforming your life. And watch this. And all the things that you were spending all the other hours seeking after God says, I'll provide those if you seek me first. If I sow into spiritual soil, if I sow into the kingdom of God, if I sow into my spirit, if I sow into investing and building my spirit man up, guess what begins to happen? I begin to Grow in gaining spiritual insights and spiritual wisdoms that I can never ever get in the flesh. There are things that you will see and become attuned to. and attentive to your ears will become sensitive to the voice of God spiritually when you are in tune to the Spirit of God. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits Down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations, you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.