For it is in your most wonderful name I pray. But if I realize that the source of my supply is coming way beyond me from a God who has unlimited resources that I can keep on serving with what I have. For a couple of reasons. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. of Kettering Baptist Church, under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Voices behind the song. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. The word of the Lord from John, Gospel of John, chapter thirteen, beginning at verse one, reads as follows Now before the feast of the Passover Jesus, knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands, and that he had come from God and was going to God, rose from supper and laid aside his garments, took a tile and girded himself. But you will understand after this. Then you have no part with me. That you might draw that one, that man, that woman, that boy, that girl, that you might draw them back into a right relationship with you. That the scripture may be fulfilled, he who eats the bread with me has lifted up his heel against me. And so he's going to empower them. From the idea that a servant's heart requires being knowledgeable and comfortable with your space and your place. Look at verse 2, it says, Supper being now ended, the devil had already put into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, to betray him. And he's going to betray him for 30 pieces of silver. comfortable in your own space and place allows you to love people even when they betray you. That we weren't so sophisticated. And if I then, being your teacher and your Lord, have washed your feet, then you also ought to do the same for each other. When Jesus knew that his hour had come that he should be that he should depart from this world to the Father, having loved his own who were in the world, he loved them to the end. And Jesus said to him, He who is bathed needs only to wash his feet, but is uh completely clean. We want to live for you. Father, there may be someone who is listening today who doesn't know you as Lord and Savior of their life. To surrender their lives unto you so they can stop trying to fix it themselves. I'm praying, every Father, that you would encourage the saints of God, that you would edify this body. Uh in John chapter 13, this text records the activities of the last Passover meal that Jesus is having with his disciples. Whom he had given all his love and his care to. And whose he was and where he was and where he was going. without losing out what I have. We understand who we are, whose we are. There was a time that if something was needed, you worked together with others because everybody was in the same need. The neighbor, Amen, down the street. And if I'm not staying here, ain't no need me holding on all this stuff down here. Now, this is not so so much specifically literally washing feet, even though some are th apply it that way. In the same way, if I being God and being your master and teacher can humble myself and wash your feet I've given you an example. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. the voices behind the song. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III. And supper being ended, and the devil having already put into the heart of Judas Iscariot Simon's son to betray him. And after that he poured water into a basin, and he began to wash the disciples' feet, and to wipe them with the towel with which he was girded. for he knew who would betray him, therefore he said, You are not all clean. If I then, your Lord and teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another's feet. If you do know these things, blessed are you, and if you do them. that when it does come to pass, you may believe that I am He. Would you pray with me? Most assuredly I say to you, a servant is not greater than his master, nor is he who is sent greater than he who sent him. And we were at one Kettering Drive and unknown to my ministers and deacons, I was preaching this text and I called them forward and had them sit across the church and I said, No, take your shoes off. In order to have a servant's heart. And their place have the ability to love other people. That they won't talk negative about me, that they might not post stuff up online about you. was comfortable in his space and his place. I can give my time when I know that my time is coming from the one who's standing outside of time who can multiply my time and give me more time. The Father has He's has given him all things, and so He's never gonna run out of things. Down here as if you're gonna stay here. So I need to be putting some I need to put in some investments in what lasts, what's eternal, and only what I do for Christ will last. It requires serving with humility. Both feet and he wiped them with a towel with which he had girded himself. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. Via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Then you also ought to be able to humble yourself and wash each other's feet. And after nobody else did what should have been done, then you also ought to be able to serve each other. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Jesus, who is always the teacher, takes this opportunity at this final Passover meal to teach his disciples a great lesson on serving. Having a servant's heart and being, first of all, knowledgeable and comfortable with your own space and place, it's going to require you to be able to love people. Y'all still here? Some of the people you love will betray you. When we work together as a community to watch people's kids. Because a servant's heart, watch this, a servant's heart will allow you, Lord Jesus, a servant's heart will allow you not to gather stuff down here and spend all your time and all your energy doing stuff Then he came to Simon Peter, and Peter said to him, Lord, are you washing my feet? By washing his disciples' feet. To the Father, having loved his own who were in the world, who he loved to the end. He loved his people and he loved them to the end. But I also need to warn you about this because even though you can be comfortable in your space and your place, and you can love people, it doesn't prevent people from betraying you. And Jesus is a perfect example of that. Is looking down on us and he provides for us all of our needs. Serving in humility. And he says to them, I have given you an example. I have done to you. You can't have a servant's heart if you don't love people. I'm trying to help us. Lord have mercy. We could serve better if we remember where we came from. I don't want that wood stuff. And then you died, you didn't put all this money aside, you ain't served the Lord none of the time because you was too busy trying to gather up stuff down here. Watch this. These men he's going to empower with his spirit to carry on the ministry that he has before them, to fulfill the great commission, to make Christ known to the world. to make disciples of all nations, teaching them whatsoever things that he's taught them, that they might observe those things also, that they might know him and be able and willing to surrender to him. But it is a critical um lesson that I think every servant needs to learn It'll help you in life to know, first of all, w where you came from and where you're going. Just by speaking it into existence. The text says he came from God. He came from God and he was going back to God. Y'all probably heard me say this a thousand times. Because who feels like washing anybody's feet after you just ate some lamb chops? Drink some coffee or something. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. But it's a humbling experience, not only for the one whose feet is being washed, but also for the foot washer. He knows his hour has come, verse one says, and and and listen to what he says. But once we we grow into this, we begin to learn that the fact that I love people and the fact that I I serve people doesn't mean that some of these same people won't betray me, they won't stab me in the back. I can have a giving heart and serve people with a giving heart when I know that there's no end to my resources. But Lord, if we could just remember where we came from. As I look at this text on this morning, I want to talk to you from the subject matter having a servant's heart. It is not it ain't there yet. I'm good. Listen, when you can serve better when you know that the resources you have are coming from an unlimited source. And talk to us and say to us, we can serve better if we remember where we came from. We got nannies and and housekeepers, people coming in cleaning our houses for us, washing our cars for us, cutting our grass for us. Because for everyone else, it would have been easy, and they probably were, kicked back by now, relaxing, but Jesus doesn't relax at this moment, he gets up at the moment. And some of them were in awe that the senior pastor would wash my feet in front of the whole congregation. Verse 1 says as we look through this, here's Jesus. And so Jesus knowing that the Father had given him all things, verse 3 picks up. A servant heart, I think, is something that has some requirements and some things that we need to do. Jesus knew his space and his place. Because you're gonna die and leave it behind, and somebody else is gonna have all that you worked 40 years to accomplish. Amen. Y'all still here with me? Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. One, because it's after the meal that he washes their feet. In Jesus' case, it says, knowing that the Father had given him all things, and everything had been given into his hands. Lord help me God. Well Pastor, I can't serve, I can't do that, I I gotta do this, I gotta do that, I gotta I gotta make this money, I gotta make this hustle, I gotta do this. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. It's right here in the text because as we move through the text it says, even though Jesus loved them and he loved all of them all the way to the end. Amen. I've given you an example of humble servanthood. I'm really trying to help us to understand and prepare ourselves that having a servant heart doesn't mean that everybody's going to receive you well. That's where we are now. And what he's gonna do next, he's gonna teach them about humility. Father in heaven, we bless you this morning. You're comfortable. And so if I realize who's who's the one that's supplying my need, it helps me. I'm gonna wash your feet. He rose from supper and laid aside his garments, took a towel, girded himself, after he had poured the water into a basin, and he began to wash the disciple See, a servant's heart requires being knowledgeable and comfortable with your space in place, even when it costs sacrifice And Simon Peter answered and said, Lord, not my feet only, but also my hands and my head. We want to serve you in the way that pleases you. I know that we are very dignified now. Peter said to him, You shall never wash my feet. He's getting ready to leave. I'm not lying. This morning, this text that I read in your hearing, I read a little beyond where I want to go, but You got one from Auntie before you got there. I want some veneer. There was a time that you weren't so educated. You know one of the restrictions to a whole lot of folk for serving other folk is because they think they're gonna lose something that they have themselves. You ain't staying here. They don't want it. Because they didn't have a chance to get pedicures and stuff. He said to them, Do you know what I have done to you? You know who you are. Even though he has served and he has love with these disciples, here's one who already has already been prepared to betray him. Can can we just understand that? And the scripture says the same thing. You call me teacher and lord, and you say, Well, for I am. You got bedrooms that nobody sleep in, living rooms nobody lives in, basements nobody goes in. But if we can just remember where we came from. But I just want to warn you as we go about this whole idea of serving people and having a servant's heart, some of the people you serve will betray you And so being knowledgeable and comfortable with where you are allows you, listen, listen, being comfortable and knowledgeable of who you are and and being I've seen it a hundred times. I think first of all, as I look at this text, and in these first five verses that I've read in your hearing, I think it speaks to us Verse 13, verse 5, I think it was. As I surrender myself a vessel in your hand, accomplish your will, God, as only you can. He serves them at a time to me is it's interesting the timing of all this. He knows his time is coming to an end, and he's going to leave them behind, empowered to do the work of the Lord. And even if the riches in glory ever ran out, our God is so powerful, He's so creative that He can make new stuff. And in Jesus' case, he knew he understood his place and his space and what was being provided for him. You gotta know your space and your place. Having a servant's heart requires you being knowledgeable and comfortable with knowing or with your current space and place. And so there's no end. I just want to be honest about that. He knew where he came from. Thank you for your grace. Jesus had a good perspective of who he was You know where you are. Read through Ecclesiastes. You're going home to glory. They don't. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 10 a. We alright with that one. A servant heart requires you to know where you came from and where you're going. I want something that's plastic and painted. Ain't no need me gathering all this stuff down here. I remember a number of years ago, this was actually before we came to the Legacy Center, I was preaching out of this text. Thank you for your love. When you got home, you got a third one, Amen. If I ain't seen it once. Do you know what I've done to you? And I began to wash the feet of my ministers and my deacons, and some of them were in a state of panic. There's no end to what he has, and no end to what he can provide. If I can cross the sophisticated line. It doesn't mean that they won't do that. That's a great question. I wish I could just pour this right into each and every one of us because it'll help you in life to know who you are. Lord Jesus, not according to the world's economy, not according to the interest rates of the country. And so their actions don't change who you are. But, Father, we need to get and hear your word that will straighten us and rightten us and prepare us to do just that. When getting some bread from next door or some butter from down the street or we all know what I'm saying? Amen. That's a great question. God, I'm praying for that one who already knows you, but yet has drifted in fellowship from you. He's he's he's getting ready to leave. It's all in vain. That ain't even their style. I've modeled for you how you should serve each other when you don't feel like it. Most assuredly I say to you He who receives whomever I send receives me, and he who receives me receives him who sent me. Watch this. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome Thank you for the Word of God. It is my prayer, God, through the preaching of this gospel that they might come to know you and to be saved by you. Listen, people who are comfortable with their space There was a time that you weren't so lofty. If I, being master and lord, am able to humble myself to serve you after dinner. I do not speak concerning all of you. You don't love people, you don't have a servant's heart. And so for you and I, Ephesians chapter 1 lets us know we've been blessed with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. When what Jesus does here, he knows where he came from, knows where he's going. And correct folk. Oftentimes you'll find that people who can't love others are not comfortable with where they are themselves. You gotta know where you came from and where you're going. If you remember where you're going to, then you might have a better attitude to serve where you are. As a matter of fact, statistically speaking, statistics say that the average inheritance of anybody, regardless of the size, is gone in 90 days. So when he had washed their feet and taken his garment, he sat down again, and he said to them, Do you know what But God, above and beyond everything that transpires, it's my prayer that you, God, would get all the glory and all the honor and all the praise. Um everybody in your Lord in your love circle is not gonna is not gonna receive your love and and give it back to you the same. Praise the Lord. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. Jesus answered him, If I do not wash And that he was going to depart from this world. But he also knew where he was going. Vanity of vanities. And Jesus answered and said to him, What am what I am doing you do not understand now If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. It says, Jesus knowing that the Father had given him all things into his hands, and that he had come from God and was going to God. For I have given you, verse 15, an example that you should do as I have done to you That's not their style. No, I don't want that. I'm praying even now that you would open it up to our understanding. Because there was a time You call me teacher and lord, and you say, Well, I am. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. So prepare yourself for that and watch this. Cause guess what? Or virtually Y'all probably remember that when you got a whooping from And nobody answers. Because my resources are coming from God the Father, who has everything, and has He has the ability to provide everything. We're very high class now. If we could just remember where we came from, we could serve better. You have been listening to the Radio Broadcast Ministry. It helps me with my place. After dinner, he rises up to serve What what he's literally trying to say to them is that That's us old. I'm going up yonder. He knows what's gonna happen. I'm good with that If if we're ever going to have a servant's heart, we have to know who we belong to. But now you become garage dwellers where you push the button, roll in, the garage, close the door, don't know nobody in the neighborhood. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. All is vanity. You you For I have given you an example that you should do as I have done. They gonna want something different. You hustlin' for what? People get on your nerves. You die, and they go through your stuff like a hot knife through butter Now, I tell you, before it comes It is in Jesus' name I pray with thanksgiving and expectation. And you just had the Passover meal and you laying back, you getting ready to tell stories now or you get ready to snore or something. Amen, somebody. And Simon was Judas was one of the ones, one of the twelve, whom he loved. And so we need to understand our space I know whom I have chosen, but You gather all this stuff and package it all up and put it all up, and you don't know who's gonna end up with it. Are y'all still here? He's having this last Passover meal. It helps me in my space to know that I can serve other people. And now, Pastor Sterling. Now he's bringing you their stories. A servant's heart is not something you're born with. So what you done spent five thousand dollars on and you done work two years to pay for, they don't want that. Now he's bringing you their stories. And you are clean, but not all of you. And in doing so, it helps you to be comfortable with where you are. The One Degree of Andy podcast. That's old. He knew that, listen, where he came from That's who I am. No, he provides for us and he provides all of our needs according to his riches and glory. Watch what he does, verse 5. The One Degree of Andy podcast. org. Now But but secondly And not only our understanding, but our application. Amen, Jesus. Servant heart ain't in you. I don't want that. I'm Andy Christman. And um I'm Andy Christman. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. That's where you are now. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast. He poured out water. And your children don't want your stuff. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. We have all things, and our Father who sits in heaven. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with m. at the Legacy Center. Amen. org.