Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. I want to invite your attention to Galatians chapter 5. We'll begin reading at verse 18. The word of the Lord reads as follows. But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law. Now the works of the flesh are evident, which are adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lewdness idolatry, sorcery, hatred, contentions, jealousy, outbursts of wrath, selfish ambition, dissensions, heresies, envy, murders, drunkenness, revelries, and the like Of which I tell you beforehand, just as I also told you in time past, that those who practice such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, longsuffering, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. Against such, there is no law And those who are Christ have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit And let us not become conceited, provoking one another and envying one another. Amen. Would you pray with me this morning? Father, we bless you and we thank you for This opportunity and occasion to declare your word, even now, Eternal Spirit. I'm praying that you will equip uh me, God, to say what thus saith the Lord. Speak through these lips of clay with clarity and give my mind clarity of thought. Father, that the very word might come forward as the oracle of God. I pray, God, that you would speak through every barrier that has been erected. I pray that you would speak beyond every challenge that may be presented before your people. Lord, I pray that you would draw those who don't know you. As personal Lord and Savior, I pray you draw them to the saving knowledge of Jesus today so they can come to a place even by the end of this worship experience that they might be able to say, I am sure. That I have eternal life and that I'll live with Jesus Christ. Spirit of the Lord, I pray you would draw others who have drifted in their fellowship. Lord, I pray you would draw them back to you Father, the day is late and the hour is near that you will come back for these that are yours. We don't want to be found sleeping. We want to be found faithful to you when you come. And so, God, I pray that you would draw those who have drifted away. Drawn back to you, God, that they may make commitments to live for you, to stand with you, to never ever walk away again. Spirit of the Lord, have your way in this preaching hour. I am in need of you. It's just a vessel of flesh Weak, worn, and in need of your strength. So equip me, God, empower me with your Holy Spirit, that I might declare your word. And when it's all said and done, I'll give your name all the glory. And all the honor and all the praise for it is in the name of Jesus Christ I pray with thanksgiving and expectation. And the people of God said together, Amen. Catherine, we have been uh preaching through a series of messages entitled, Are You Sure? And I want you to be able to answer that question, are you sure about your eternal security? You'll be able to answer that question, yes. The question is, is your name written in the Lamb's Book of Life? Because if it's not, you as well as death and hell will be cast into the lake of fire. And so I began this journey in John chapter 10 by an evaluation of reconciliation. The question is, have you been reconciled to God? And then on our last time we were together, we were in John chapter 10 as well, and we looked at an evaluation of your relationship with God. Do you have a relationship with God? And it is it in line with what the scripture says? Not the kind of relationship that you want to have, but is it the kind of relationship that He died for you to have. So at the end of last week, while we were doing an evaluation of the relationship, I also share with you an evaluation of the rewards. Here's a reward. You shall never die. That's a reward of having a relationship with Jesus Christ. Why shall I never die? Because I am connected with him who took the sting out of death, and death no longer has power or authority over you. In this passage on this morning, I want to do our final evaluation, and that is the evaluation of your routine. If we evaluate your routine, How you live, how you walk, how you move, it will give great evidences as to whether or not you are a child of God. I believe that our routine or our Christian life ought to be an outward living of our inward submission to the Savior. In other words, the way I live outside is how I have surrendered inside. That's why I think we ought to be able to say, like Paul said in Galatians 2:20, I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live. It is Christ who lives in me. And the life that I now live, I live through faith in the one who gave his life for me. So we ought to be able to say, like Paul, that not me is Christ living in me and through me. And my routine ought to represent Christ walking the earth through me. In Galatians chapter 4, verse 6, he says, and because you are sons of God, he sent forth his spirit, the spirit of his son, into your hearts. Those of you who are born again or children of God, you have the Holy Spirit living in your heart. And if the Holy Spirit is living in your heart, then your routine of life, your regular behavior and patterns of life will manifest that Christ is living in my heart. There's a whole lot of people who are good at demonstrating for a limited time that they can masquerade As being good. Do you know who is a very good judge of your routine? Your children Because your children have heard you on Sunday say, hallelujah. Jesus is everything to me. But on the way home, when they're crying, can we stop by McDonald's? The things that come out of your mouth don't sound like praise the Lord. And here's another group that might have a good sense. People you work with, are they surprised when they find out you go to church? That's because your routine doesn't match what you're claiming to be. So I'm a firm believer that if Christ lives in you, it's going to manifest itself outside of you. Because my outward living is a representation of my inward surrender. And my inward submission. When I say submission, it means there's a flesh that I'm wrestling with all the time That wants to immediately respond in a negative way, but because I have submitted myself To surrender to the power of the Holy Spirit rather than me sending my flesh to the door to answer the question and to to respond to the negativity of other people, I sit still and say, Holy Spirit, can you go take care of that? Because if I go to the door, it won't turn out well So the first part of the text as we evaluate your routine is the evidence of a fleshly routine. Is what the Apostle Paul lays out here in Galatians chapter 5, beginning at verse 19. Now, the works of the flesh are evident. Which are adultery. I think it's interesting to me that when he starts off with the fleshly issues, he starts off with sensual ones. Because the flesh is extraordinarily sensual. And in fact, even in our culture right now, we are living in a sensually saturated culture. Even commercials, you can't figure out what's going on in the commercial. Sometimes you don't even know what they are selling. And so Paul starts off this works, these evidences of the flesh by saying Adultery, and and just in case you don't know what adultery is, because we've moved to a time where we don't want to call sin sin. We got all kind of other other names for it. We call it we call it an affair Affair takes the sting out of you being against the law of God. No, it's not an affair, it's adultery. And when Jesus talked about adultery, he he described it as having intimate relationships outside of the marriage. Watch this, physically or mentally. So in other words, he said, even if you think about it, you've already done it. Then he moves from adultery to another sensual issue is fornication Because the sexual intimacy is reserved for those who are married and in right relationship with God. So if I'm watching pornography and I'm saying this is a victimless crime, it's a lie No, you are defiling a relationship with yourself, and you're violating the law of God. These are the behaviors, these are the routines of the flesh. He keeps going, lewdness. That also has to do with sensual behavior, the uncleanness, idolatry. That is when you're worshiping anything in the place of God You're putting something above God and you're you're declaring it in essence in your behavior as your God. There's only one creator. And the worship of anyone other and anything other is idolatry, sorcery, hatred, contention. You know sometimes you go to your family outings and it's always somebody in the family that just loves to start stuff. Outbursts of wrath. You you always mad, you angry all the time. Jealousies. Selfish ambition. It's nothing wrong with being ambitious, but it's the selfish ambition. You'll knock everybody else down to get ahead. You just you declare yourself, I'm I'm an isolationist. No, you're a dissensionist, is what you really are. You just can't get along with other people. That's called dissension. Envy, murderers. drunkards, revelries, and I like the way the text ends, it says, and the like Which I tell you, he says beforehand, that those who practice such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God. Now, the reason why I want to focus on this word practice for just a second, when he talks about practice, he's talking about this is the routine of your life. This is not something that pops up periodically. No, if these are the evidences of the routine practice of your life. The Bible says that you shall not inherit the kingdom of God. The Holy Spirit, if it's in you, ought to manifest some godliness and not just fleshliness. And so if if if the only thing that is manifest on a regular routine basis of your life is fleshless, then that's all you got is flesh And these are not even all the issues. These is just a brief summary of some things. But check yourself and then ask yourself, am I sure that I'm a child of God? He comes back and he helps us on the other side because he also gives the evidences of a spiritual routine. It picks up in chapter 5 here in verse 22. But the evidences of a spiritual routine Fruit of the Spirit. The fruit of the Spirit, it'll cause fruit to grow on your tree. Because inside of you, there's life that Is beyond you. Lord, help me, God. And growing out of you is the Spirit of God in the form of who God is and what God represents And so he identifies this as the fruit of the Spirit, the manifestations of the Spirit, the evidences of the Spirit The routines that the Holy Spirit will lead you in if you are being led by the Holy Spirit. And if the Holy Spirit lead lives in you, the fruit of the Spirit, it starts off with Love. Why love? Why is love the number one thing? Because God is love. And this is not a central kind of love. This is a a love, an unconditional kind of love. And a God Pyolo. It's a love that loves when you shouldn't be loving. In fact, Jesus said even of his disciples, they'll know you are my disciples by what? The love that you have for one another. If the manifestation of love is not flowing out of me, then there's no love in me. When life squeezes you, what comes out? That which is in you. If the Spirit of God is in you, that's what's coming out of you. When you get squeezed, if the God is in you, love is coming out of you. Then joy. Joy, if I can say it this way, this is my definition. Joy is happiness regardless of the circumstance. In other words, I'm satisfied no matter what's going on. So what I have inside of me, this love of God, the spirit of God. Brings me joy and contentment and satisfaction and pleasure regardless of what's going on around me. I always have joy. He goes on, peace. I have peace with God, and I have the peace of God. The peace with God is that I haven't offended him And even in the areas that I have offended him, we have cleared that by reconciliation. So his blood Allows us to keep the air clear and my profession or confession allows us to have a a a smooth and clear relationship Because when I've got peace with God, because he's the creator of the world, because he holds everything in his hands, and because he has all the power, because I've got peace with him, I'm not worried about anything else. So then I have the peace of God. And people are wondering, how are you so calm? If I was you, I would be stressed out. I'd be running around. No, I got the peace of God. I'm good. I have the peace of God. Well, can you explain the peace of God? No, it's inexplicable. But I'm enjoying it. Is that my routine? Long suffering. How long is your your anger wick? How long does it take you before you just can't take no more? If your routine is spiritual, it's a much longer wick. It'll take a long time to get you to that point. Now, I think humanly speaking, we all will eventually get to that point. So you endure a lot because of him. And I'll help you with this one. When you're struggling and suffering, the greatest benefit we have, one of the greatest benefits we have is to be able to turn it over to the Lord. Because he can handle whatever it is. Kindness, goodness, faithfulness. Oh, I love faithfulness. That's another good one. Are you faithful to anybody or anything besides yourself? Gentleness. Self-control. Self-control really doesn't mean self-control. Self-control really means I have given up control to God. It means God is in control. Because see self apart from God never has control. Matter of fact, whether you're Christian or not, you ever wanted some food? And you you know you went and got it, but because it was so good, even though your diet and your your mind told you that's enough, but because we let the flesh talk. So the flesh apart from God has no control. So instead of you eating one ice cream cone or bowl or half gallon, you eat two. Apart from God, we have no control. None. We are out of control on our own. So we need to surrender that to Jesus Let me read through the rest of these. He says um against such there's no law. Um remember he beginning, he said verse eighteen, he says, If you're led by the spirit, you're not under the law. And this goes back to this whole law argument. point I'm laying out here. So we need to be sure. We need to evaluate our routine. Evaluate, is my routine fleshly or is my routine spiritual? Because it'll help me to answer that question about that event that's coming. That event is coming where those whose names are not found written in the Lamb's book of life shall be cast into the lake of fire. And the idea here is not that you're cast into this lake of fire and that's the end. No. You actually will obtain an eternal body. That means you will have a body that will never ever be consumed. And then that body, which has all the sensitivities that you have even right now, will be thrown into a lake of fire And first, before you get thrown in, death is thrown in, and hell is thrown into the fire Imagine this. If hell is an intolerable place where fire is and there's weeping and gnashing of teeth, and it's unbearable for the person, imagine how hot the lake must be if it's gonna burn up hell. So you get thrown into that lake with an eternal body that feels the burning every day 24 hours a day, seven days a week for the rest of eternity, and there is no end to it. Additionally, because you've got this decaying flesh, skin worms, the Bible says skin worms will eat your flesh. That's maggots will be eating your flesh while you're burning up. For eternity, and maggots will be eating your flesh, but they will never be consumed because your body will never ever be ending. And so you're going to have to endure that forever if you're not sure. So the so it's it's it's imperative for us as we evaluate our reconciliation. Have I been reconciled to God? Have I, as a sinner, born separated from God, born in sin, shaped in iniquity, have I been reconciled to the one who came into the world and gave his life for me? Have I accepted his free gift of everlasting life? Have I, as I evaluate, I need to evaluate my reconciliation. Have I been reconciled to God and I need to be sure about it? Do I have a relationship with God? Am I sure? Do I hear his voice? Do I follow him? Do I know him personally, intimately? Do I have a relationship with God? The rewards of God are great and awesome only if I know him. If I know him, if I if I'm his child, yes, it's great to know that he will never leave me. I'll never be separated from him, I'll never perish. I'll never die. Those are great to know. But just to make sure that we're sure we've walked through today. The evaluation of our routine. What is the routine of my life? What am I looking like? What am I walking like? How am I living every day? That might help me further to understand: did I really accept Jesus? Do I really have the Spirit of God living in my heart? Is God in me? Because I keep getting squeezed and what keeps coming out ain't sounding like God. It's not looking like God the way I live my life. It's not sounding like God. I mean, I'm going to church. I'm trying to do the good things. I'm trying to be a good person, but you can't do that without Him Does my routine manifest that I have God living inside of me? And so now am I sure that if I die today That I would immediately be with the presence of God because I'm his child. Or if I die, do I have nothing to look forward to but to be cast into the lake of fire where I will be tormented? Day and night, night and day, forever, and never be able to escape. I just want you to be sure about this This is not something that you should be guessing or hopeful. No, we need to be sure about this. Is there a record in the book of life that you have been born again unto life? We want to be sure about that. And so now when the invitation comes or somebody approaches us and asks us about our eternal life, we can stand with confidence and say, oh yeah, I'm sure about this. I'm sure for a whole lot of reasons. And if for none other, my pastor took us through a whole series of messages. And I'm sure that I was reconciled to God. I'm sure I got a relationship with God. I'm sure I got I got blessings and benefits and I've got, you know, rewards from God. And I'm sure because my routine represents God living inside of me. And if nothing else helps you, here's the one thing we can say for sure. The testimony of God from 1 John chapter 5 lets me know he who has the Son has life. He who does not have the Son does not have life. I'm sure that I have eternal life because I have the Son. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down. with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.