Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now Pastor Sterling. Just want to share a few verses to you from the Gospel of John, John chapter 10. Beginning at verse 9. The word of the Lord reads like this. I am the door. If anyone enters by me, he will be saved. And will go in and out and find pasture The thief does not come except to steal and to kill and to destroy. I have come. That they may have life and that they may have it more abundantly. Jesus says in verse 11, I am the good shepherd. And the good shepherd gives his life for the sheep. Would you pray with me for a moment, Father? We bless you on this day we find ourselves in need of you. And I pray, God, as we open this word of God up on today, that you would speak to their heart, speak to their circumstance, speak to their position in life. God move beyond the barriers that may be up, that would keep us from hearing from you, that would keep us from responding to you. And Lord, as the gospel is preached on this morning, it is my prayer that if there's anybody that doesn't have a personal, intimate, repentant relationship with God. That today would be the day that they would surrender their life and their eternity to Him. Have your way, God, in this time. And as I stand here, Lord, I just pray that your grace will be found sufficient in me. That you would speak through my lips, words of encouragement, words of life, words, Heavenly Father, that would give wisdom to those who are listening. Have thine own way, God, and we look forward with expectation of what you shall do. I believe by faith that you'll do it. It's in Jesus' precious and wonderful name I pray with thanksgiving and expectation. Amen. And the text that I've read and you're hearing is a portion of uh a long discourse of the Lord Jesus Christ Himself. And in this text, what Jesus does is he draws us into a conversation A shepherd and sheep comparative type of conversation. And normally if you're talking to a community of people who are shepherds or who are familiar with shepherding The things that he is saying here, and as he declares of himself the good shepherd, it would make clear and perfect sense. It would be very easily understood. But because we are so far removed from being a shepherding population, I need to explain some things about sheep and shepherds. Amen. And so first of all, let me talk about sheep because he compares us to sheep and himself to a shepherd. And I'm just this is just an analogy. I'm not you know talking about you. I need to tell you about sheep. Sheep are dumb animals They need constant supervision. They have a tendency to wander Sheep keep their head down and they're they're eating all the time and they're not conscious of the danger that's around them. So they need a good shepherd to take care of them. They need a shepherd that will watch over them, that will protect them, that will lead them into good pasture, because they'll eat anything. They don't know the difference between good grass and bad grass. They'll just eat whatever's there. So they need a good shepherd to be there to lead them and to protect them from the wolves and the predators that desire to devour them. And as the Lord Himself is laying out this text, he's trying to speak to the children here in the text, but also to us on this morning, trying to help us understand that we stand in need of a shepherd. I want to take a few moments to talk to you from the subject matter, the gift of a good shepherd. The good shepherd, in addition to the things that we talked about, the good shepherd won't leave the sheep. He stays with them. He eats with them, he drinks with them, he hangs out with them. In fact, the reason why the others don't care for shepherds is because shepherds sleep and smell like sheep. And at nighttime to protect them from the enemies and the predators, what they'll do is they'll corral the sheep into like a pen. And what they'll do is they will lay at the door of the pen so that no one or nothing can come in or leave out that belongs to the shepherd. So as I open this up and talk about the the gift of a good shepherd, the first thing that this text kind of reveals, he says, I am the door, and if anyone enters by me, he will be saved. And we'll go in and out and find pasture. He speaks first of the person and protection of the door. I am the door. I'm the way for the sheep to enter in. I'm the good shepherd, but first of all, I'm I am the person of the door. In other words, because for most of us when we talk about a door, we think about an inanimate object that's We open and close, but what he literally says, I'm the door. I am laying at the entrance of the of heaven. And if you want to get in, you gotta come through the door. But Jesus says I'm I'm the door. I'm the person of the door. I am the way in which you get into this place called heaven. My fold of sheep, except you come in through me. That's a very bold statement. But he says it in another way in John chapter 14. He says, I am the way, I am the truth I am the life nobody can get to the Father except you come through me. In fact, he even goes on in this text, he talks about if you come in any other kind of way, if you think you can get in any other kind of way, you're a thief and a robber. You can't even get into heaven except you come through me. I am the I'm the door. I'm the person. I'm the I'm in position of the door. I'm the way and the means by which you come in and you go out. You can't come into heaven. You can't be one of my children except you come through me. Not only that, he says he's he's the protector, he is the door of protection for the sheep, he says here in the text. He says, if anyone enters by me, he will be saved. Saved from what, Pastor? Save from the judgment that is yet to come. I don't know if y'all caught on to this yet or not, but uh we we're moving into some what they call latter days of time, and in the latter days of time We're beginning to see some things that we didn't see before, but they're written in scripture that they will happen. And just in case you were wondering whether it had to be written in scripture, you might be able to examine your own life and recognize that you're moving along in time a little bit faster. than you thought you might have wanted to. In other words, what I'm trying to say is that when about 10 years ago you had a whole lot of hair and now you don't have quite as much. Amen. About 15, 20 years ago you might have had your teeth, now you have the ones you purchased. I don't know if it happens to anybody besides me, but if you was a time when you got out of bed and you just jumped Out, hit the floor and ran to the bathroom. That was a while ago, but time is progressing. Amen. Somebody. And so now what we do is we get up and we feel ourselves first, make sure everything is there And we gotta massage and get the blood flow. That don't happen to y'all. As the old folks say, keep on living. And you'll sit on the side of the bed and you'll say, wait a minute, let's make sure the room ain't spinning. Make sure the floor is still in the same place. And then when you hit the floor, that you get pains that you feel like you was working out last night and you ain't done nothing but sleep And you're wondering where did that pain come from? All of these are signs, all of these are warnings, all of these are messages, I call them emails from heaven, to let you know that the day is soon coming that he's coming back for you. So we need protection because he's coming back. And when he comes back, he's coming back as a judge. Judgment is coming. And all of us are going to have to meet the Lord, whether we want to or not. And I know some of us are very traditional about being late for appointments. You are late for everything. In fact, I saw you come in late today. But on this day, when the Lord comes for you, you will not be late This is an appointment that we must meet and we will be on time. And that judgment is coming, and when that judgment comes, if your name's not written in the Lamb's Book of Life, you will Be subject to the judgment that's coming. The wages of sin is death. Eternal separation from God. That's the judgment that's coming. But he's the protector, you will be saved, the text say is. You'll be saved from the judgment that is coming You'll be saved from the danger that's coming, saved from the darkness that's coming, saved from the destruction that's coming. He's the protector. If we want protection from the danger, The darkness, the wickedness, the judgment that's coming our way. And trust me, brothers and sisters, it is coming our way. Matter of fact, every day we got stuff coming at us because we like sheep are prey to the enemy. And there's someone seeking you and desiring to devour you, and he's protection from that enemy. He's the door. He's the person of the door, but he's also the protection. And him being this door, he he closes off the opportunity for the enemy to get at you And the good news is even when we when we stand before him in heaven, if we have come in through him, guess what? The judgment We escape the judgment of condemnation because he declares us righteous by his blood that he shed for us on Calvary So he's the door. He he he he he's the door and in this this the second part here of verse nine he says And will go in, he says he'll be saved, and will go in and out and find pasture. That that portion of the verse is is is extraordinarily helpful to me as I try to explain salvation to people because for some people they think salvation means restrictions. It's like, oh wait. This is why people always say when you ask them, do you want to accept the Lord as your Savior? Oh wait a minute, I ain't ready yet. I gotta get myself together. You know what that means? That means I'm not ready to follow those restrictions I'm not ready to try to govern my life according to some structure of the Bible. Well, this verse right here helps me to understand that salvation is not about restrictions, it's really about freedom. Because he says, I'll save you, but you'll be able to go in and out and have good pasture. Watch this. So wherever I have you, I'll make sure that when you go in, is good pasture. But when you go out there's also good pasture. But I'm gonna give you freedom because he who the sun has set free is free indeed That's liberality. That's not restriction. Sometimes pastors just make it seem that way. They make it seem like Christianity is all about keeping rules and rules and rules. It's not It's about the freedom that we have. In fact, even if you're not a Christian, you're loaded down with freedoms. You have the freedom to choose how you're going to live. And guess what? You also have the freedom where you're going to spend eternity. That's your choice. It's up to you. Nobody's going to make you go to heaven or make you go to hell, but you choose to go That's your choice. At the end of the day, you can't stand in the judgment before God and say, oh my God, they made me go to hell. No, nobody made you go You chose that. That's your choice. It's freedom. God gave us all freedom of choice. We are subjects of free will And guess what? Even after you get saved, now I probably shouldn't tell y'all this, but even after you get saved, you still have free will. And that's why you see some Christians acting a fool Because they should be acting righteous, but they still act like a fool. Because of free will. But it's the grace of God that covers them, even when they're acting a fool, because the good shepherd is always watching out for his sheep. He's the person and the protection of the door. But secondly, he comes back and he talks about the position and the prowess of the devil. Verse 10. He says the thief. It's interesting how Jesus changed his conversation. First, he talks about himself. He talks about us being sheep, him being the shepherd, and then he talks about this whole thing of the thief. The thief does not come except to steal, to kill, and to destroy. Three fundamental purposes of the thief, the position and prowess of the devil Jesus as our protector will protect us if we come in by him. Come in by the door, he'll protect you. And you outside. You haven't come in, you outside of the protection of the Lord. But we like sheep are not even aware how much danger we're in because we're we're chasing after the The satisfactions of the flesh. Because we think our life is about flesh and it's not. Our life is about an eternal spirit with God. So we're wasting a lot of time chasing fleshly stuff while the real life is in the spirit. It's about having the spirit of God living in me so that I can have that life. Because I don't have life without Him. And so the thief comes to steal from us, to steal you from God To steal what we have, our opportunity of eternal life. He comes to steal, to kill, to take your future away, to kill your dreams, your joy. That's what a thief comes for. To destroy you. To destroy the vision in you and the future that you have, the potential you have to spend eternity with him in heaven. That's what he came for. He came to snatch you away from the Possibility of being redeemed and set right with God and being reconnected with God. That's where the thief comes from. He comes to steal, kill, and destroy. And first Peter 5 says Beware, cause he's prowling around like a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour, looking for a chance to devour us. Here's the good news: he's a toothless lion. At Calvary his teeth were removed because the sting of death was sin and Christ paid for all our sin on the cross. And so he's already a defeated foe, but for some, the roaring is enough to scare us to follow him. He can't win. And so now sin has no power over those who are in Christ who have come in through the door. And he protects you from the judgment that's coming on those who are still yet in sin. But the devil still wants to draw us away to his team. We're born on his team because we're born in sin and shaped in iniquity. But you can change teams. Told you about the person and protection of the door The position and the prowess of the devil. God was the gifted shepherd, the good shepherd. Even though the enemy comes to steal, kill, and destroy, don't worry. God's good shepherd will stay with you. Here's the last thing. I want to talk about the provisions and purpose of the divine shepherd. What does he provide? Verse 10, he says, the thief came to steal, kill, and destroy, but I have come that you may have life and that you may have it more abundantly. I love it, I love it. And he he lets you know I'm the good shepherd. The good shepherd gives his life for the sheep I have come that you may have life. I'm I'm the good shepherd. He's the gift from God. I'm not the hireling because the text tells us about the hireling. The hireling doesn't care about the sheep. He's just there for the money. But I'm not the hireling. I'm the good shepherd. I came through 42 generations. I came all the way from glory. Took off my royal diadin. Myself up in flesh, was born in a manger, lived 33 years, gave my life on a cross. I died for you as the good shepherd to make sure you wouldn't have to die I came to give you life. We're born spiritually dead. Remember, I told you we think it we think it's all about this physical life and this fleshly thing? Well, guess what? Fleshly, flesh-wise, we're dying every day. And I always say this, and this is true, if you don't think you're dying every day, when you go back home, if you didn't already clean the shower or the tub out, look for the ring around the tub. That ring around the tub is not just soap scum, it's dead skin that's falling off of you every day. Go check your comb or your brush and see how many hair follicles are are falling out every day because you're dying every day. Every day this flesh is passing away. So if this flesh is passing away, what more do we have except the spirit? But we're dead. We're born spiritually dead because of sin. Because sin separates us from spiritual life with God. But Jesus says, I came into the world for the purpose of giving my life for the sheep so my sheep could have eternal life Verse 27 and 28 of the verses here he says, I'm the good shepherd and I give my sheep eternal life. And guess what? And nobody can pluck them out of my hands. This is good news. I'm the good shepherd. I'm not like the other shepherds that promise you this and promise you that and then you don't get it. No, I'm a good shepherd. And I give my life for my sheep. I will die for my sheep. That's a good shepherd. The good shepherd would take on a wolf in the wilderness, a bear with a stick, in order to protect his sheep. But even better than the human shepherd is the shepherd who was sent as a gift from God. That was Jesus Christ himself. And that good shepherd wrapped himself up in flesh, and he gave his life so that we would not have to die Then he offers to us this opportunity to have everlasting life because look, I I came that you might have a life. Watch this. I want you to live. I want you to be spiritually alive. But it's not just about spending eternity in heaven. I want you to have an abundance of life right here. Right? Why you living here? I want this to be great for you too. Not so great that you want to stay. But I want you to have an abundant life here. But more importantly, the abundance of life in glory We have a choice. We absolutely have a choice. We can choose to inherit eternal life or we can choose to reject it. And spend our eternity in hell. But here's the thing I want you to know. When Christ went to the cross, he died for every single one of us. He died for you, whether your sin is, what you, whether you consider your sin small or big Because really there's no big or small sin. Sin is sin, and sin separates us from God. So Christ gave his life to take care of all of that. Here it is. And then he says, look, I paid for all of your sin. Come in at the door, come in through me, and I'll give you everlasting life. I'll give you eternal life. I came for you for that reason so that you can have life and have it more abundantly And this is what he says in verse 11. A good shepherd will do that. A good shepherd gives his life for his sheep. There is no other faith, no other religion. No other organization where the leader has given his life so that his followers can have life. No, none other. None other even proposes that. They have no guarantees. Maybe if you do this, maybe you do that. No, no, no. In this case, he said, I'll take on the burden that you can't carry. And I'll pay for it for you. Now here's my clues. I'm a pastor, and I know y'all think all pastors are rich. So let's just pretend like what you think is true. So I'm a rich pastor. I'm filthy rich. Filthy, filthy rich. I mean like, you know, add all the billionaires together and then I got them beat by hundreds of billions of more dollars. This is an illustration. Anybody got debt? Y'all owe anybody? Mortgage, car payments, loans, any of that stuff? What if me, being this filthy rich guy, loved you so much? So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna go all to all your creditors. Just give me the name of your creditors, whoever you owe money to, and I'll go to your creditors And I'm gonna pay off your debt. Pay off your mortgage, pay off your car payment, pay off your student loans that you've been paying for for 40 years. I'm gonna pay all that off I'm gonna pay for all that. And matter of fact, because you guys are so special and you took your time to come here today, I'm going to in fact tell your creditors if they incur more debt, guess what? I'll pay that too But there's one condition. One condition is this. They have to accept my payment. And if they accept my payment, all your debt is taken care of, and any future debt you add is taken care of. So here's my question. If that deal was offered to you, would you take it? Offered to me, I take it. Now some folks are like this. Here's some people. Now I don't want you paying my bills. I pay my own bills. Okay, keep paying your own bills. Only thing I ask is that you receive the gift that I'm offering. If you don't receive the gift, then you keep paying your creditor. Here's what I'm trying to say to you. We all had a sin debt we couldn't pay. And as much as we offered and kept paying, it's almost like paying off that bill that, you know, the more you pay it more like to seem like the more you owe. What Christ did was He came and He paid our sin debt for us. He paid it all off. We can be debt-free, but He says: if you want to be debt-free of your sin, you need to receive the gift that I'm offering you. That's all you need to do is receive the gift. That's it. Just like I offer, hey, receive the gift, and all your debt is taken care of. Same thing So Christ has made it possible for us all to be debt-free of our sin. And He not only paid for our sin that we had already done, He also paid for any sin that we in the future will do. Any of that sin that's on your calendar for the rest of the week for New Year's Eve, he paid for that too. All he asks is that you receive his gift. Come in at the door. Accept him as your good shepherd. He's the gift that God has given us. The greatest gift that we ever have received is the gift of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. The greatest gift that the Son of God has given us is the gift of his life, so that we could have eternal life. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance. For uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website Facebook and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org. Or contact our church office at 301-627-9500. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church. church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's Bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. One degree of Andy Podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts.