Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. This morning, Katherine, I want to invite your attention to 1 John chapter 4, verse 1. It says, Beloved, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirit. Whether they are of God. Because many false prophets have gone out into the world. Verse 7. Beloved, let us love one another, for love is of God. And everyone who loves is born of God and knows God. He who does not love does not know God, for God is love. In this, the love of God was manifest towards us that God has sent his only begotten Son into the world that we might live through him. And this is love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sin. Beloved, if God so loved us, we ought, we also ought to love one another. No one has seen God at any time, and if we love one another, God abides in us, and his love has been perfected in us. By this we know that we abide in him, and he in us, because he has given us of his Spirit. And we have seen and testify that the Father has sent the Son as Savior of the world. Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God abides in him, and he in God. And we have known and believed the love that God has for us. God is love. And he who abides in love abides in God and God in him. Love has been perfected among us in this. That we may have boldness in the day of judgment, because as he is, so are we in this world. There is no fear in love, but perfect love cast out fear, because fear involves torment. But we who uh he who fears has not Been made perfect in love. We love him because he first loved us. Amen Father in heaven, I need you on this morning that you might clearly articulate this text in such a way that if there's anybody that doesn't know you, that they would come to know you Speak, Lord, in such a way that they would know that they've heard the very oracle of God and that your word is being opening up and becoming alive in their presence and in their heart even on today. Spirit of the Lord, rescue someone from their waywardness and draw them out of the darkness and into the light. I pray for that one that is drifting in their fellowship. Perhaps they've come to know you, but through the circumstances of life they've been drawn away. Perhaps by some spirit that they haven't tested. But, Father God, I pray that you would have your way in all that is done and said in this place. That your name would get all the glory and all the honor and all the praise. I stand in need of you, God, a vessel to be used in your hand. Accomplish your will in the name of Jesus. I pray with thanksgiving and expectation. Amen and amen. In this uh epistle of John uh that has a theme of the joy of fellowship, uh It John lays out for us the basis of fellowship, first of all, what is the basis of our fellowship with God, and then he begins to talk through the the letter about the behavior of fellowship. To help us to understand and to see that our behavior, uh, if we have fellowship with God, it dictates our behavior. And so he lays out throughout the second through the fifth chapters the behavior of the fellowship. Verse number one. I wanted to get that in because he began this chapter by warning Christians, warning believers to test the Spirit. Now, what that first of all tells me is that there are some spirits that are pretending to be like God Y'all still here with me? And he says that we need to test those spirits to see whether they are of God. And John knows and understands and he puts forward in this text as well as through this letter, that you can test the spirit by the behavior of the spirit, because the behavior of the spirit will let you know who they have fellowship with. Y'all still here with me? So in other words, if I'm hanging out with God and I have fellowship with God, then my behavior will be like God. But if I'm hanging out with the devil and I've got fellowship with the devil, then my behavior will look like the devil. Are y'all still here? And so the behavior will reveal which spirit we have fellowship with. And as we now move into the summer year, summer time of the year, and Uh how do you say? Uh the temperature goes up along with the skirts and uh and and the flesh, you know, we put on less and we can see more Sometimes it's you know when we start seeing too much, we think we are in love. Amen. Talk to me, somebody Uh and because you know we we start to confuse uh the spirit of lust with the spirit of love. Are y'all still here? I'm really I'm really gonna get us there. I'm I'm trying to get there. I'm really am. Um and so I I'm I'm aware that this is that kind of year, this is that kind of time. And now you're getting ready to bust out and folk are I mean they are busting out. Praise the Lord. Amen. And it's hot, and we don't have to wear masks. You can see faces and you can see everything now. Amen. Praise the Lord. And there's a spirit that is counterfeiting the spirit of love. in the midst of our society. Stay with me here. Because as we deal with this uh item or this issue of of love uh and especially specifically in this text Um John is going to help us to know how and learn how to test the spirits, all of them, but specifically as when we get to our portion. The spirit of love. Um, because what John says in the text, he says, first of all, he says we can test the spirits by the confession of Jesus Christ as coming in the flesh. He says if the Spirit has confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh, that is of the Spirit of God. If they have not, they are not of the Spirit of God. He secondly says we we can test the Spirit by uh by by what they hear and what they uh what what what they can hear Uh if they can hear God, then they're of the Spirit of God. If they can't hear God, they're not of the Spirit of God. He he lays it all out in the text, and so he helps us to know that there's this some testing mechanisms in in Which we can test the spirit. Now, specifically, I'm kind of going to point in on this love thing, but we need to learn how to test every spirit and these qualifying tests. Principles work for every spirit because you can test the spirit, whether it's of God, by the testimony of the Spirit, whether it testifies that Jesus came. in the flesh and whether or not they can hear God or whether they can't hear God and who they hear is who they have fellowship with Say with me, somebody, because if I've been fellowshipping with God, I can hear God. If I have no fellowship with God, I can't hear God. And in fact, the things that God says If I have no fellowship with him, sounds strange to me, and I'm not going to follow, nor am I going to respond. Are y'all still here with me? Lord, Lord, Lord, help me here. And so in this text, there's a clear warning to us that there is a counterfeit spirit There are counterfeit spirits that are floating around. And John wants us to be aware that we would test the spirits to see whether they are of God. Now, specifically on this morning and in this particular portion of the text, John uh is is is narrowing in on this subject matter called love And so I'm going to talk this morning from the subject matter, testing the spirit of love. Now, the first uh behavioral trait, if you will, or or testing uh of the spirit he utilizes is is he asks the question and as I was kind of reading through this, John is in essence asking the question first and foremost. He says you can test the spirit of love by answering or asking the question: Does the spirit love? Y'all still here? Um that's the first question. You you you need to know does the spirit love? Okay? Now I know that sounds redundant. How are you gonna test the spirit of love by seeing if it loves? Well that if it's a spirit of love, it ought to love. Am I right? If the spirit hates, it's obviously not a spirit of love. So the question, first of all, is: does the spirit love? Now I need to start off by defining love. Okay? Love the word agape in the text, agapeo, is the unconditional, unending actions. That express the care and affection for the welfare of another without conditions Let me say that again. It's the unconditional and unending actions that express the care and affection. For the welfare of others without conditions. In other words, these uh, and I need to I need to point this out very poignantly as I did on Wednesday night: that love is an action word. Stay here with me. Love takes action and love is not a feeling. Love is not And emotion. Love stirs emotion. Love causes feeling, but love is not a feeling. I wish I had some honest people that could let us know that they felt some feelings but the same feeling didn't remain the whole time that they were in love I know y'all not gonna be honest because you sit next to her or him this morning, but the reality is that even though I can love, it doesn't mean I feel it all the time. Sometimes, and if folk will be honest with you, you know the problem, sometimes people just not honest. The reality is sometimes you just don't feel it. Matter of fact, I sometimes you might feel something else But but love is not a feeling. Now love will generate and stimulate feelings, but love is not the feeling. Love is the action and in fact love takes actions when you don't feel it. Whoo, I'm preaching now, I'm preaching now, I really am, I really am. Because love is taking the action and doing the the the the the thing for the positive welfare of the other. Regardless of the condition, regardless of how I feel. And so I you love anyhow. So the question is: does when I'm testing the spirit of love, does this spirit that I think is love, does it love? Does it love according to the definition of love? The spirit, does it act? Or is it just a feeling? An emotion? A movement? Does the spirit love? And John says, let us love one another. Verse 7, he says, Behold, let us love one another, for love is of God. And everyone who loves is born of God. Let us love one another because love is of God. And so therefore, if we've got fellowship with God, we're going to love one another. It will flow out of us. And so if if if the spirit is there as I'm testing this spirit, whether I want to find out this is this the spirit of if this is the spirit of God, is this the real true spirit of love? Does it love? And and we ought to, he says, love one another for love is of God. And so the question is, does the spirit love? Let us love one another for love is of God. It's of the essence of God when he says love is of God. What John is literally saying in this text, he says For love is of God. Love is of God. He is saying love is of the essence of God. Love is of the character of God. Love is of the behavior of God. Can I talk to somebody this morning? I pray somebody's listening to this one somewhere here in the sanctuary or somewhere online that somebody is evaluating their circumstance even right now asking themselves the question as they test the spirit of perhaps the person that's that's telling them that they love them Does this person exhibit, does their behavior exhibit the character of God? Does it because love is of God and so does it exude The essence and the character and the behavior of God. If you beaten on me, that's not the character of God. If if all you do is take, that's not the character of God. God is not a taker. God is a giver. Help me God, help me God. Love, for love is of God, it is of the essence of God, it is of the character of God, it is of the behavior of God. Does the spirit Love, does it act in the character of God? Is it promoting your welfare and your well-being with without conditions or does love say I'll only act this way if you do certain things and and when you do certain things Because see, this is how we got to test this spirit of love. I'm really trying to help some folk relationally this morning. I'm trying to help some people to understand and to test The spirit, whether the thing that they feel, whether the thing that they're experiencing is really, really love. You know, interestingly enough, I've had several phone calls over the last couple of weeks Uh, and I don't really know what the real motive was behind it, but I've had several phone calls over the last couple of weeks, and they've been questioning their their love relationships. Um I think it's you know I I I've got my suspicion what might be happening and what it was really all about, but I've got a you know a few calls. I got you know I'm I'm you know the questioning You know, it I'm I think I'm in love. I think I love this. So I'm I was like, you know, well we there's a way to test that. Um and because our society, because our culture has uh flippantly utilized the word love, we don't really know what it really is and so it's it's been callously spread around. So folk are are are are are are are are not testing the spirit, but they're they're being moved by their emotion or their feeling or uh the the the the the kind of fellowship the fact that they have any fellowship they feel like because I got fellowship it must be love. But fellowship is not love. It's just not. And so um the question we gotta ask is does the spirit love? Everyone who loves, the text says in the character of God is born of God. Y'all still hear with me? He who does not love does not know God. That's what the text says. He who does not love. Does your text say the same thing? Um i and and and knows God. He who does not love does not know God. He who does not love does not know God. He who does not act uh in the welfare and in the the in the benefit of others without condition. He uh and and she who does not respond in the character of God and is not exuding the essence of God in the fellowship that they have with you, uh then watch this, then they're not of God. I didn't say that. It's in the text. The Bible says It's they're not of God, and the reason is even listed in the text. And the text says he does who does not know he does not know God. He who does not love does not know God for God. Is love. If God is love, and I've got fellowship with God, which means I'm woven together with God, then love is gonna come out of me. But if I don't love and Lord help me, now I can create a feeling in you. I can disguise and counterfeit An emotional response from you. But it's not the same as loving in the character of God. Do you realize some folk are so starving for affection that a bomb on the street can walk up to you and hand you a flower? And say I thought about you this morning and they'll get weak in the knees. Maybe this is the one God sent me. Now what they just did is they evoked an emotional response from you. But they didn't love you. And if they watch you enough, they'll do certain actions when it looks like you're ready to give up. On loving them. Who I'm preaching now. Does love love Love. Love is of God. So how do we know? How do we know, Pastor? Like I said, that's a rhetorical, seems like a crazy question. Does love love? And if I'm testing the spirit of love, does love love? How do I know if love love? I'm glad you asked the question. Turn over to chapter 5, verse number 2. By this we know that we love the children of God when we love God, number one. So I know if love is loving, if I love God. I know if you are loving me if you love God. You can't love me if you don't love God You can't tell me what you're giving me and what you're expressing to me is love if it's if you don't love God. It's right there in the text. By this we know If we love the children of God when we love God. First of all. Second of all, when we keep his commandments. Y'all see that? I didn't write this. It was already here. I know if love is loving, if if the spirit is in love with God, and I know if the love is of the Spirit of God, I'm testing the Spirit, if the Spirit Right there in verse 2. If the Spirit is keeping his commandments, not bending his commandments. Not twisting his commandments, not manipulating his commandments, not legislating new commandments. I'll know if it is of God, if it is keeping his commandments. Can I talk to somebody right here? You can't love is not love when Lord have mercy when it's not in the character and in the essence of God because God is love. So if I'm getting something that's not like God and it's contrary to God's word, it's not love. Stay here with me. It's a feeling. I'll give you that. It might even be a fellowship. I'll give you that. But it's not love. Let me dig some more. We know the spirit of love because love is of God and it was manifest to us. Verse 9. I think it's around here. In this, the love of God was manifest towards us. God showed us what love was. And he showed us what love was in that he sent his only begotten son. For God so loved the world that he sent his only begotten son. So so God manifest, he showed us what love was by sending us his son. Are y'all still here? Into the world that we might live through him. Lord have mercy. Somebody might say, Well, I wasn't here when Jesus came, but if you are alive in the Spirit of God, you watch this God has manifested Himself to you. He's manifest love to you in that you were able to embrace the finished work of God and that you might live today in God. So every born-again child of God has had the presence and the Spirit of God manifest to them that they might know what love is, in that we now are able to live In him. God sent his son that I might live. God sent his son that you might live. God sent his son in love that we might see what love was God sent his son that he might die and be beaten and mutilated and brutal on a cross so that we can see what love Really look like love is sacrificial. Love is an action word. God didn't sit up in glory and say, I love you. No, he wrapped himself up in flesh, came down and did the action Did the work that we couldn't do because he was concerned for our welfare. That's love, and we have seen it, and it was manifest to us, so we know what love really is. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed By today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. And remember to reference the title or broadcast date. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship Services, Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlboro, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301 six two seven nine five zero zero please join us again as senior pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman in his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. He sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get. At your podcasts.