So he said to him, What is your name? And he went and he sat and he talked to his father because his father couldn't see who it was. They have left you with some scars. I can be getting ready to get put out, but destiny says I'm not going to let go because God said he's going to bless me. And get my hands around you and not leave with a blessing. I'm not letting you go. You can have more bills than money, but you'll hold on until the money comes. You need to break out some oil and anoint yourself in the name of Jesus and tell the devil, devil, you are a liar. I'm not letting go. I'm going to give you my Holy Spirit to dwell inside of you. I'm trying to help somebody here. It's a struggle, but it's your destiny to be like God. Have you done that? Ascending and descending up and down the ladder. This is my version of the story. Somebody gonna out trick you. Trickster, because his name was Trickster, but in chapter 25, verse 23, before he was born when his mother was having hard labor pain You supposed to be. Happened to Jacob, but then by the time he gets to verse 26, he says to him, Let me go, for the day is breaking. on the destiny either. Comes judgment. And unbelievers, you still got to appeal before the throne. At 301-574-3515. Voices behind the song. You know, go there. Growing, everything. Didn't leave on good terms, you know. cook. To you, if you give me your birthright. That she named Trickster, and he becomes tricky with his father that he puts on some wolf skin on his arm because his brother was hairy and he was smooth. your future because destiny won't let it happen. What I used to be, who people think I am, and what God is telling me I ought to be. Good place to be. He still got named trickster. Ain't nothing else we can do, but destiny says, I know I'm healed in the name of Jesus. to the place that God said to me. Get my blessing. Yeah, God, He didn't come through for me. Blesses you. No struggle. And so we take off over here. And then somewhere along the way you say, you know what, this ain't so fun after all. But it's hard because now I'm hooked. At 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlboro, Maryland. And I tell you about me, and I tell you how good I am. The Radio Broadcast Ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. Born and according to that he should not have had the birthright. Excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor Buchus Sterling III. with him. Where he's going to push him. is a tricky kind of guy. earth in you and in your seed all the families of the earth are going to be blessed. woman that he can't help himself. die for. you and that's where I'm going to make sure that your life ends up. you are you driven by that which inevitably is going to happen to you or have you acquired Some other driving force to lead your life, which is working against and wrestling against the destiny that God has ordained for you. I'm trying to help somebody. It says, then Jacob. Some of you got some names that we picked up on the block. Because his dad asked, I need some of that some of that venom that you I want some of that meat. See, all the issues of his past are because he doesn't know what he was destined to be. You used to do because even when God says I'm taking you here, you're looking at where you've been and you're saying to yourself, I can't, there's no way with this man. He's going through, and I'll say this, throw this out just for good measure. I'm not gonna let go of my God. Somebody needs to get in the presence of God tonight and tell the Lord, I'm not gonna leave until you bless me. I move in him. He said, Jacob. Much. And so you keep going at it and you keep going at it. And not poor. If it had not been for the Lord who brought me out, and if I had done it all by myself, I'd stand up in the pulpit Sunday after Sunday and I'd preach about me. Can I talk, y'all? From it. Minister in the Spirit of Excellence. Saw that he did not prevail against him, he touched the socket of his hip, and the socket of Jacob's hip was out of joint as he wrestled God and with men and have prevailed. Right, and then his mom said you need to get out of town. I'm gonna give this land is yours to you and your descendants. dream that was God's declaration if you will of his destiny and that's what's going to happen to you That this is what's his past. of the birthright and so Jacob is the driver of his past everything he did was about tricking for We're left alone to struggle on where God wants us to go versus on where we've been, and we're all by ourselves trying to struggle, wrestle our way through. The older is going to serve the younger. Now, divine destiny will always put you at odds with your past. It's impossible. But divine destiny is gonna put you at odds with that. But your current struggle won't cause you to give up. I wish I had some people that know what it's like to get your hands wrapped around God. And have prevailed. Because God says we're going to end up over there by that door. And our own power says we're going over here. And he'll remind you that your destiny was not over there, but I destined you that you would be with me over here Matter of fact, what I did was I died on the cross to make sure that you ended up over there, but you got up with your bad self Thought you had it going on. He destined you to better. So you can appreciate it when you get there. Because I'm a sinner saved by the grace of God. He checking, are you covered in the blood of the Lamb, the one who died for you? with the voices behind the song. process he actually is going to find out and as we walk through this text and I just want to kind of glean from it he's going to find out that all that God told him in that Now, as a result of his name, he began to live his life like his name He was already destined to be the ruler over his brother. Oh no, you're gonna give me a blessing. God for bringing me out of hell. Is written in that lamb's book of life. us that we've got to stand before the King of Kings and Lord of Lords and give an account for the life that He's given us. Our journey together, and we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services Sundays at 8 a. In other words, Jacob is not going to be held hostage because he was born and named trickster. man and oftentimes the challenge and the struggle that we have is when we're left alone with our past And so he's left there alone. She inquired of God and asked God, what's going on inside of me? Of his hip, and the socket of Jacob's hip was out of joint as he wrestled with him. And we can disguise what struggle we're having right now. I gave up. every Sunday morning to the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. Message. on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. So God gives him this great promise, gives him this great kind of picture of his journey and his destiny. So he gets tricked and he ends up working for Laban for 21 years. He even tried to trick Levin, but Levin tricked him. I know I got one or two people that got some past struggles. Jacob, the name, verse number 24. Jacob the trickster in his past has been living a tricky life. You lived according to the name that was given to you. Brother went out hunt, hunted, fish, all that kind of stuff. I will not let you go unless you bless me. But here's the good thing about God. You thought you were supposed to be poor, but destiny says you're gonna be rich. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. I'm gonna bring you back to this land, and I'm not going to allow anything. No longer having a desire to please self, but wanting to please God with your life. With this man, this angel, as he wrestles with this angel, and the Lord declares to Jacob what his ultimate goal is for him. I gotta have her. You don't know what your destiny is. And so he goes there, and on his way there, he falls asleep. God is blessing him, is multiplying in the land. One who trips or grabs the heel because he was born a twin and he came out holding his brother's heel It's all this is going through. Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. Somebody gonna out finagle you. The reason why a whole lot of people don't want to be alone is because they know that their past is going to worry them and trouble them, so therefore they always hang out with people and they never want to be alone because they don't want to deal with the struggle of their past. You're not going to let go no matter what the struggle is. I know you've been wrestling a long time, but hold on. I gave up because I was struggling. See, your past struggles can't hold you hostage, and your current struggles won't cause you to give up. But struggle leads you to your destiny. What that means is all of us are destined to appear before the throne of God. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. The word of the Lord reads as follows, then Jacob was left alone, and a man wrestled with him until the breaking of day. He don't know what his brother's gonna be up to you know when he comes back. You know why? And he said, Let me go, for the day breaks. Now, just to kind of give you an up to where we are in the text, Jacob has already kind of been going through a lot, if you will, in life. And so he says, Oh yeah, work seven years. Oh no, I'm not letting go. He said, Man, I'm famished. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. You told me you wouldn't leave me, you wouldn't forsake me. But if I had not gone through the struggle, my worship over here would be hindered. I'm talking about your past now. He said, Your name shall no longer be called Jacob, but Israel. You thought you were supposed to be a thug, but destiny says, I've set you apart as holy. That's what our destiny is. They've left you with some limps. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Now, that word right there is the beginning of what can teach us a lesson about being driven by destiny. Nobody can possibly know what you're going through. Last movement of this text is that your struggles will lead you to fulfill your destiny. Matter of fact, some of us are not just looking at our past, we're looking at our whole family's past, and we're saying that sure enough can't be because my whole family always was And over here we get into all kinds of stuff. I got an addiction. Just a moment. She's fine than fine, sweeter than sweet, all that bag of chips and change. Because I believe you have been wrestling just like Jacob is wrestling against the destiny that God declared for your life. I'm trying to help somebody because just because they named you something, or just because you didn't know that you had a destiny doesn't stop you from getting to it. He's been to Padam Haram. You don't know what's driving you. And there, as he's sleeping, in this vision, in this dream, God speaks to him and gives him these promises. Hi, Don Crow here for Passport Auto Group, a family-owned business with a stellar reputation for superior customer service before, during, and long after the sale. So God had already told the mother what the destiny of Jacob was going to be. You struggled and you wrestled, but now you're my child So he says, verse number 23, 25, 25, I'm sorry. I know it doesn't look like I'm gonna make it, but destiny says I'm gonna get there. I like that. Her name is Rachel. I would not know how to worship God for bringing me out of drugs. It's always somebody out there. I'm not gonna let go of my belief. I just gave up on church. You ought to let your destiny drive you to get in the presence of God and give him all the glory that's due his name. And he said, Jacob. I have my being. I'm about to die. Here's the problem with Jacob and his name and the way he's behaved. I like it. God just says, this is where I'm gonna get you. For the unbeliever, there's gonna be a book check. Everything is going wonderful in the land. Doesn't matter what I'm going through right now. I'm just glad that I've gone through some things. I'm gonna give you this land. He was rough, rugged kind of guy. I'm talking about when you were smooth. And his mother went through all this trickery and all this stuff to get him to be that, which God had already declared he's gonna be. Oh no. I'll give it to her. He doesn't know what his destiny is, but the text says Jacob was left alone with this And it's gonna be a struggle. In your past, some of the wrestling matches that you had, trying to do things your way, other than the way God had ordained it to be And somewhere along the way, you meet a man named Jesus. I want to tell you about all of your destiny. And when his father issued the blessing, he issued the firstborn blessing to him, tricking his father and his brother out I like doing that. Your match is out there somewhere. But nevertheless, by the help of his mother, they tricked his dad and tricked his brother and tricked him out of the birthright Amen. You gonna bless me because just because I'm struggling now doesn't mean I'm giving up. He's head over heels in love with her. I'm not talking about today right now. Because over here looks better than over there. Amen. But watch this. You told me you was always gonna be with me. Y'all know this story, right? But Jacob is being driven by destiny. But watch this. This is my version of the story. Then Jacob was left alone. I don't care about a birthright. I didn't come this far and go through this much mess and this much trouble to get a hold of God I'm trying to get my way and ease my way out of here and I gave up on God. He was sent there by his parents after he had tricked his brother and his father out of the first birth right. He don't know if they're gonna sabotage him or what's going on. Either it is or it's not. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Bucas Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family. And he said, Your name shall no longer be called Jacob, but Israel, for you have struggled with Destiny is defined in so many words is that which is inevitably going to happen to you Let me say this. Your blessing is coming. If I knew exactly every component of how I was gonna get to the destiny, I wouldn't struggle as much. And I'll give you power to walk on over here where I destined you to be He comes back and tells them the second thing. Now you gotta keep on holding on till he blesses you. I like oh yeah, I like Oh, let me go back over there It's gonna be a wrestling match. I'm not letting you go. Because of him. Y'all know about it. And now, Pastor Sterling. When you are driven by destiny, if you look here the second word of verse 24 And his brother came home hungry one day, asked him for some stew. And so he sends him out to hunt and his mom steps in the middle, helping the trickster And your hips have been put out of joint by the th by wrestling against the destiny that God had for you. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. So your current struggle won't cause you to give up. And I'll tell you how good I've always been. Mom and dad probably didn't name you that name. But am I ready for my destiny? We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building for a copy of this sermon on That's a great question. I don't care how smooth you are, how bad you are, how tricky you are, how great a liar you are, somebody gonna outlie you. And then God says it's time for you to go back home where you came from. When you're driven by destiny, whatever happened in your past can't hold you hostage. But he tricked his father by putting on the wolf skin Jacob said, I'm not, I'm not gonna let go. You thought that you was gonna live a life that had no struggles at all. And during this time he's growing, his families are growing, his children are growing, his flocks are growing. And God said to her, You've got two nations wrestling in your womb The man who's wrestling with him says, Man, let me go. I'd wish I had some people that knows what it's like to go through hell and high water to struggle all the way through, but yet when you get in the presence of God. Brother's mad at you probably gonna kill you. Watch this, that's this. And some of us are struggling with life cycles and life struggles and even issues of past, and some of us still present because we don't know what God destined us to be. He worked seven years and dad gives Leah. Because he rescued my soul from a sin, sin-filled stained hell. I'm talking about in the past. In him I live. I gave up on worship. And on his dream, God is standing at the top of a ladder, and from the ladder there are angels And so we're left alone. Divine destiny is going to put you in a wrestling match with what It won't make you give up when you're driven by destiny. They're gonna open up a book. And then he finally says to him, look, I'm going to be with you. That's a great question. As we look at this text, we want to join Jacob in looking at this wrestling match that he had But watch this. Life and our own intellect. That's your destiny. Give me some stew. And that's what's happening here. You look like you got it going on. I'm getting ready to go back and deal with my brother. But it doesn't tell you how you're gonna get there. And while we're going through all the stuff, it started out fun, but it ends up hell. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information When you're driven by destiny, the doctor can say Confess your sin. And so the trickster gets tricked. And so with that I kind of want to look and dig into this taxology I'm here and I'm not locked up. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church, where we minister in the spirit of that Gotta tell God I'm not gonna let go. And I don't want to let none of that get away from me. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. But he said, I will not let you go unless you bless me. He says, Your descendants of Jacob are gonna be like the dust of the earth. I'm gonna I'm not gonna leave you, I'm not gonna forsake you until I've brought you back and fulfilled everything that I said that I was gonna do for you Nobody knows that. You driven to be rich. Either you have given your life and heart and committed to him, or you haven't. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. But finally, finally, verse number 27 he says, So he said to him, What is your name? And this is really what I like. But after all these years, after 21 years plus, he goes back and he's on his way back, and in this Just because that's what you were in the past, it's not gonna hold you hostage for you And um let me help you there. So now when he saw that he did not prevail against him, he touched his side m. Have you committed your heart and your life to him? And it was all driven because his mother and father named him Trickster. I'm not gonna let you go. I wouldn't know how to worship God for bringing me out of alcoholism. It's not because of me, but it's because of him that I'm driven by destiny. Am I driven by that destiny? or 11 a. So he gave it to him. See when you're driven by destiny And in that book, everyone who has accepted Jesus Christ is their name If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. But even though God had already told the mother what the destiny of Jacob was going to be, This next passage, he says to him, Let me go. Because I wouldn't know how to worship Then Jacob, Jacob, his name, means trick. He's wrestling with all of that in this art in this in his wrestle Every once in a while, can I help somebody here I gave up on religion. Because if I hadn't gone through some things, I wouldn't be as strong as I am We all have a destiny. Believe in your heart God raised him from the dead, just like the scripture says Get out of town, go somewhere else, go get a wife from Padana Ram. So while he's there, he's alone. See, Jacob says, I'm not letting you go. For you have struggled with God and with men. You go stand before his throne. I want to invite your attention to Genesis chapter 32, beginning at verse 20. But you picked this name up, and you have been living in your past. Now he goes into Badamaram and he ends up meeting this When you're driven by destiny, what happened to you in your past can't hold you hostage. And I'm not letting go of the promise of God until I get my blessing. We're gonna keep on wrestling until I get my blessing. m. And I'll tell you how wonderful a gift I am to the world. When you get left alone, that's a good See, we want to go through life with And Leah wasn't all that as Rachel was Father was getting ready to die. at our new edifice called the Legacy Center, located He said, I'll give it If you don't come up with the right amount of money by January the 5th, you're going to be put out. I know we don't like that part, but trust me, that's the really good part. In him. Now it's going to affect his life, don't get me wrong. You're supposed to be holy, you're driven to holiness. I'm going to keep So can I have her You smell good too. And you said you were going with me. I I gave up on reading my Bible. You told me you were bringing me back to the land and you were gonna bless my listen Jacob is behaving like a trick. But when you're driven by divine I'm not gonna let go of my faith. And so he goes to her dad and says, hey, your daughter, this is my version, is today He wrestles with this man until the breaking of day I'm not six feet under. When you're driven by destiny, your past struggles cannot hold you hostage. Believer and unbeliever, that's what ought to drive. Now he's bringing you their stories. He was born a twin. Eyes goddamn, couldn't see very much. org or contact our church office Till he blesses you God says to him, in essence, I will give you this land on which you are laying. I'm on my way. So there's some of you in that same spot. Every single one of us. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Now he's bringing you their stories. Now when he saw Oh, I'm gonna rest. Surrendered. And so Jacob's a little bit anxious about that because his brother, you know, he Praise the Lord. And he is He was the second The One Degree of Andy podcast. I ain't letting you go until you bless me Yes, Lord. We hope that you have enjoyed We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's And that's what happened. Brother comes in from hunting. He's wrestling Now I want to try to just break open some things here. I don't care if it's daybreak, afternoon, I'm holding on. Mother said, Okay, your brother's out hunting. I gave up on Bible Walked away I'm Andy Christman. Believers. Thank you, God. Somebody ought to give him glory because it's been too good. Judgment is coming to us all I wish some of you would not give up. You just don't know where you But God said, I'm gonna take you through some things. You've been listening to And Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. On Andy Christman. The Bible says after death. His brother was a hunter, he was a Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. I can give glory. But because that ain't the truth. And because of you. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down Jacob said, I'm not, I'm not letting go. Too many people are giving up. I ain't don't get Nobody knows that.