Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now Pastor Sterling. I want to invite your attention to Joshua chapter one. And we'll begin our reading in verse number eight. The word of the Lord reads, This book of the law shall not depart from your mouth, but you shall meditate in it day and night, that you may observe to do according to all that is written in it. For then you will make your way prosperous, and then you will have good success. Have not I commanded you, be strong and of good courage. Do not be afraid. nor be dismayed, for the Lord your God is with you wherever you go. Then Joshua commanded the officers of the people, saying, Pass through the camp and Command the people saying, Prepare provisions for yourselves, for within three days you will cross over this Jordan To go in and possess the land which the Lord your God is giving you to possess. Would you pray with me on this morning? Father, we bless you for your provisions and for your blessings. We thank you even for the challenges, God, that we have to deal with from day to day. It causes our heart to depend more on you. So now, Lord, as we stand to declare your word, I'm praying that the power of the Holy Spirit would manifest itself in this place, to tear down walls and to speak to us and to meet us on the pages of our life. That you, God, might get the glory and the honor out of all that is said and done. Father, I need you as a vessel to stand before your people. To be used by your hand, God, to accomplish your will. I pray that the preaching of the gospel will draw someone who's lost. Draw them closer to yourself, Lord God. Cause them to come and ask, what must I do? That I might know that I can be saved. Father, I pray that you would not only save the lost, but you would reclaim the drifter. Someone who knows you, Lord, but they've drifted in fellowship. God, I pray you would draw them back to the place where they would Reconcile the broken relationship. Father, I pray for the edification of this body. Grow your people to know you more and to know how to serve you all the more. God, I pray that you would have your way in everything that's done. Lord, and above and beyond everything that's done and said, it is my fervent prayer that your name would get all the glory and all the honor and all the praise, for you alone are worthy of it all We glorify you, God, in this place. And advance, I thank you with expectation of what you shall do. It's in Jesus' precious and powerful name I pray. And all the people of God said together, Amen. And amen. This morning, Katarine, I believe that many, if not all of us, are facing some uncomfortable and unknown shifts in our life. New chapters, if you will, some because of a loss of life, perhaps of a loved one, a family member. Uh maybe it's because of retirement And a new chapter that you're facing. And God is saying to you in so many ways, it's time to turn the page and start a new chapter. In the text here, I picked up in verse eight, but what has happened is that the children of Israel have been wandering in the wilderness uh for forty years. They had come to the promised land, and Moses has come to the end of his journey of dealing with all of these people for 40 plus years. And he got a chance to come to the top of the mountain and look over into the land, but God said, I'm not gonna let you cross over And so Moses dies, and then now the baton, if you will, of leadership passes on to Joshua. And then Joshua, the new leader. uh who's taken over from from Moses who's been the leader for forty years is being encouraged by the Lord for the journey that is yet ahead of him. Not only for Joshua is this a new chapter, but this is a new chapter for all of Israel And all of this is a turning of the page, if you will, uh, for the people and for Joshua. And I think in similar ways, many of us are facing that turning of the page. It's it's things are about to change, it's going to shift, or it needs to. Now it's time to cross over, and these uh words as I've read are kind of the final instructions of God and getting these people ready uh for this next chapter. I want to talk from the subject matter on this morning, preparing for the next chapter. First and foremost, the Lord says this book of the law. As he's been encouraging Joshua, encouraging Joshua, encouraging Joshua, and he comes here in verse 8 and he says, Now this book of the law shall not depart from your mouth, but you shall meditate in the day and night, and you shall observe to do according to everything that is written in it. For in doing so it'll make your way prosperous And then you will have good success. I think as we look at that first verse there, it is going to be helpful for us as we prepare for our next chapter. is to first of all prepare for future prosperity. I need to define prosperity. Prosperity is not money. Okay. Money can be a benefit of prospering, but prosperity is not money. Okay. I know everybody prosperity, give me that, give me no no wait Pra prosperity as it relates to a relationship with God has a much deeper and much richer value than any coin or any paper that could be printed in America or any other country. The the relationship value is deeper than than any gold or silver or precious stones that you we might be able to acquire. So if we're going to prepare for our next chapter, we need to also prepare for future prosperity. And in preparing for it, the text gives us three things that we ought to do First and foremost, he says, Keep the word in your mouth. This book of the law shall not depart from your mouth. Can I help somebody right here? If you want to prosper in your next chapter, keep the word of God in your mouth. It has to first be in your heart. Because out of the substance of the heart, the mouth will speak. Lord help me. And so we need to first of all have the word in our heart that it might remain in our mouth. I know that what's commonly in their mouth is far from the word of God When there's some advice that needs to be given to brother man or sister girl, it might come from some movie or some clip, but it's not the word of God. We need to make sure if we're going to prosper in the next chapter, we've got to keep the word. Word of God in our mouth. He told him to do in Deuteronomy chapter six. He says you need to be speaking about this law all the time. When you when you go out, you need to be speaking about it. When you when you come in when you ought to be speaking about it. When you sit down, you ought to be talking about it. Let the word Word of God be the regular that's coming out of your mouth. And if the word of God becomes regular in your mouth, it helps to guide you in your next chapter. And so he says to Joshua, let this book of the law not depart from your mouth. Let it remind you that God is always talking. Do you realize if you get a diet of the word and the word is constantly proceeding out of your mouth, it's a reminder that God's word takes precedent over yours. God has an answer to the problems that I'm facing, but if there's not the word in my mouth, my prosperity quickly diminishes. Secondly, he says, keep the word in your mind He says, you shall meditate in it day and night. Keep thinking about the word of God. Keep sorting through your mind, what is it that God is saying? Sometimes I think we as Christians have become so routine and so regular. in our practices that we haven't done a good job of developing of the relationship through conversation with God by meditating on what he said. We read the word of God to check off the check mark that I did my devotion this morning. But we really didn't stop and pause and meditate on it all day long to see, God, what are you saying to me? We need to make sure that we keep the word of God in our mind because if I meditate on the word of God, I not only hit the surface of what he is. I get to go a little deeper and grab some substance to what he means and what he's literally saying to me. It'll help me to prosper where I'm going. He's revealing to me deeper things about his word. And as I'm exposed to the deeper things about his word, it strengthens me for the journey that's ahead of me And so he says, keep this word in your mind, meditate on it. And as the psalmist says, How I love your word, we ought to be in love with the word of God that we would meditate on it all the time. As Philippians 4 says, we should think on whatever things are pure, lovely, good, of good report. And whatever things are holy and righteous, these are the things we ought to think on and meditate on as it relates to the Word of God. It'll help us through those challenging times. It's going to help us in preparing for prosperity. The third thing that he tells us here in preparing for the future prosperity says: keep obeying the word. Verse eight he says, observe to do according to all that is written in it, for then you will make your way prosperous, and then you will have good success. If I have the word in my mouth and I have the word in my mind, but I'm not doing it, I have not completed the recipe. There's a lot of people who have the word of God in their mouth. I mean, they can go around and quote you all kinds of scriptures, and they can hit you with this and hit you with that. They got the word in their mouth And there's a whole nother group of folks that they got it in their mind. They're thinking about the Word of God. They might even be meditating on it periodically, but they're not doing it. Okay? That this is a threefold necessity if you're going to prepare yourself for the prosperity in the next chapter. What God says to Joshua, Joshua, where you're going is a new place. We get ready to turn the page on the history of Israel moving from one leader to another, moving from wondering wandering In the wilderness to being able to have a place that we can live and be comfortable. But I need you to have this word in your mouth. I need you to have this word in your mind, and I need you, Joshua, to make a commitment that you're going to do. And follow what the word of God says, and then you'll prosper. In Deuteronomy chapter 11, he says, Behold, I lay before you these two mountains. On one mountain blessings and the other mountain curses. If you obey me and you obey my word, if you keep my word, I'll bless you. I'll bless you in the city. I'll bless you in the country. I'll bless you in the field. I'll bless you going in, and I'll bless you coming out. Nothing will fail when you obey my word. But on the other hand, if you disobey me, I'll curse you. I'll curse you in the city. I'll curse you in the field. I'll curse you going in, and I'll curse you going out. Nothing that you put your hand to will prosper if you disobey my word Your prosperity in the next chapter is contingent upon obeying the word of God. Secondly, we got to prepare for God's providential placement. Don't get into your next chapter and act like you don't know God and act like you don't need God. Because you know sometimes when God prospers us, we start getting a little beside ourselves So the second step he tells them here in the text is he says, prepare for the providential placement of God. Listen to verse 9. Verse 9 says, Have I not commanded you be strong And of good courage, do not be afraid nor dismayed, for the Lord your God is with you. Listen to this. Wherever you go. Sometimes our fear, our anxiety of turning the page and moving into our next chapter is what takes us off path. And I think the thing we need to do first is to know that the place or the chapter that you're going to is already providentially assigned by God. He says here in the text, verse 9, have I not commanded you to be strong and of good courage? If you back up to verse 3, that's what he told us. He tells us, Be strong, Joshua. He says, I've given you this land. Don't worry about it. You just be strong. Don't fear the future. Don't get to the place that you freeze up and and get paralyzed. With turning the page and moving to the next chapter. He says, in every place that the sole of your foot will tread upon, I have given you. Can I talk to somebody? The next chapter is for you. God's already providentially assigned it for you. You just need to walk into it But fear will cause you not to move. And ten years from now, we'll be having the same conversation if you let fear paralyze you And I don't want you to start hoarding the present, saying I need to hold on to this. And if I can't take all this, if I can't hold on to this, but I'm not moving. See, this is what this is what hinders us from moving. to the next chapter in the way God wants us to move. He says, look, I I've already prepared what's ahead of you for you. It's yours. It's providentially assigned to you, Joshua and Israel. I just need you to keep going and walk into what I've assigned for you. Have I not told you, verse 6, be strong in your heart, be strong in your mind, be strong. If God has said, I'm taking you there, come hell or how water, I'm gonna get To where God has or signed for me to get. I'm turning the page. He says, Behold, be of good courage. Do not be afraid or dismayed. This idea this idea of being dismayed is to be discouraged or broken down. Don't be dismayed. Don't be don't be frightful. For the Lord your God is with you. That should Alleviate your fear, your anxiety. I'm not doing this on my own. God is with me. But watch this. Here's the better part. Wherever you go. Because what happens to us is that we get to places in life when we're ready to turn the chapter and we get to this point where we don't know whether we should go left or should we go right? I'm not sure. Should I take this or should I take that? And we're praying, Lord, tell me which way to go, Lord. I don't know whether to do this. I don't know whether to stay. I don't know whether to go. And we're in the middle. We're frozen in the middle. And we're praying, God, shall I go to the right? Or should I go to the left? I stop by to let you know. He said, wherever you go. If you go left, I'm with you If you go right, I'm with you. What you need to be going. It's time to turn the page. It's time to move the chapter. We can't stay here We've been here already 40 years wandering around. It's time for us to cross over this Jordan. And so wherever you go, I'm with you. You just go. And God says, I'm with you. Listen, if we're preparing for the next chapter, we need to prepare for future prosperity. Secondly, we prepare for God's providential placement because wherever we go, He's with us. He has set it before us. He says, I'm giving it to you. Here's the last thing, I'm out of your way. He said we we need to prepare for the future prosperity, prepare for God's providence replacement, but finally Prepare provisions to cross over. Listen listen to verse ten and eleven. It says Then Joshua commanded the officers and the people saying, Pass through the camp, command the people, saying, Prepare provisions. For yourselves, for within three days, we're going to cross over this Jordan and go in and possess the land which the Lord your God is giving you to possess. Who are you packing for? Joshua gave the command. He says, Pass through the camp and command the people, saying, prepare provisions for who? Prepare the provisions for yourself. In the last chapter, you had leeches all over you. You had people sucking the life out of you. You had people that was dependent on you and you was doing this for them and doing that for them. But now this chapter You get the provisions ready for you, for yourself. If they want to cross over, they better get their own provisions Prepare what you need to cross over this Jordan. Now watch this. He tells them to prepare what they need. You go home today and tell them I'm I'm I'm about to start a new chapter. And you ain't in it. Yeah, no, it's a new chapter. I'm turning the page and I've got the provisions, and there's only enough provisions for me. Amen. I know that sounds selfish, but listen, this new chapter is a new chapter. You did good last chapter, but it's a new chapter now. And this the the text, I'm just reading the text. He told Joshua, tell the people, prepare provisions for yourselves. For within three days you're going to cross over this Jordan and go in and possess the land which the Lord your God is giving to you. Now, in these provisions, he says to them, okay, now we know who we pack them for, how are we going to how how much? Pack provisions suitable for crossing over the Jordan. Some stuff we're gonna leave behind because it's not suitable for crossing over the Jordan. Okay? It was good in the last life and in the last chapter. We needed all that stuff, or at least we needed it to make us feel comfortable. But God has in the next chapter everything you need. Israel, when you get over into the land, I'm giving you houses you haven't work for or labor to build. I'm giving you vineyards that are already right that you didn't have to bother planning. I'm gonna prosper you everywhere you go. I'm gonna give you all of this. All you need to do is get yourself ready. Get the process Provisions for yourself so that you can cross over the Jordan to take possession of what I am going to give you. What do I pack? Pack the provisions that you need so that you can go in and possess the land. What pastor what what what what that might be? What might that be? You need to pack the weapons of God, the word of God The worship of God. The faith in God. This is what you're gonna need. Bring a bag full of expectation So that you can, when you get into the new chapter, you can start filling your bag up with all the things that you had expectation that God was going to do. Help me, Jesus. Can you imagine going into a new land of ec uh and of expectation? You get over there and all the things that all these multiple things that you had expectation of, they're right there and you ain't got nothing to gather them in No, carry a bag of expectation so that you can fill that bag up and watch this. When you get over into the land and you had this bag of expectation and you get over into the new chapter and you start seeing, wow, God fulfilled this. God fulfilled that. Whew, God took care of it. After a while, your bag gets a little heavy. And when you start realizing the heaviness of the bag, it changes your worship of God. Because now you start thinking, and you start thinking, God has done marvelous things. And you start worshiping God a whole new way because your bag of expectation was being fulfilled in the new chapter. So it says to them, now look, Israel, when you go over, there's some people in the land, they're gonna want to fight for the land. But Israel, I'm gonna fight for you. Alright, so so Lord, what do we need to pack? Um what kind of weapons do we need to pack? Well, this warfare is not carnal. So you don't you don't necessarily need carnal weapons. Ephesians chapter 6 says, I need you to dress up in the whole armor of God. I need you to put on a belt of truth. I need you to put a breastplate of righteousness on. I need you to put a helmet of salvation on. I need you to have a shield of faith. And the only offensive weapon that I need you to have is a sword, which is the word of God. And as you go across, you don't have to worry about fighting. I'm gonna fight for you. I'm gonna dispossess the people for you. I'm gonna drill you. Drive them out from before you. All I need you to do is stand. You get over in the land and stand, and I'm gonna drive them out And all you need to do is go in and possess what I have for you because I've already got it for you and I'm giving it to you in the next chapter. So as I go into the land, I can prepare for this crossover. And as I prepare to cross over this Jordan, which represents all the obstacles in my life, it represents the things I'm concerned about. Because you know we got all kinds of concerns when we get ready to move to the next chapter. What about this? What about that? That's the Jordan River. Watch this. When they Cross the Jordan River. God even took care of the Jordan River. He told the Jordan Rivers back up so my people can go on across And they went on a cross and watch this. And there was nothing about the river that impacted their crossing over. There's nothing about your fear. And your anxiety and your worry that's going to impact you when you cross over. God will hold all that back so you can go across on dry land. And you get to the other side and just start walking and possessing and living in the new chapter Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web Please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship Services, Sundays at 10 a. m. At the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301-627 Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family Minister in the Spirit of Excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the songs. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to 1Dree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts.