Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message In its entirety. And now Pastor Sterling. We'll begin our reading in Philippians chapter four, verse four. The word of the Lord reads as follows. Rejoice in the Lord always. And again, I say, rejoice. Let your gentleness be known to all men. The Lord is at hand. Be anxious for nothing but in everything by prayer and supplication. With thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God, and the peace of God which surpasses all understanding will guard your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. Finally, brethren, whatever things are true, whatever things are noble, whatever things are just, whatever things are pure, whatever things are lovely, whatever things are of good report, if there is any virtue and if there is any praiseworthy Meditate on these things, the things which you learned and received and heard and saw in me, these do, and the God of peace will be with you. But I rejoice in the Lord greatly that now at last you your care for me has flourished again, though you surely did uh care, but But you lacked opportunity, not that I speak in regard to need, for I have learned in whatever state I'm in to be content. I know how to be a base and I know how to abound. Everywhere in all things I have learned both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer need. I can do. all things through Christ who strengthens me. Would you pray with me this morning? Lord, we bless you in this place. We thank you in advance for what you're getting ready to do We stand in need of you, Lord, and we sit at your feet. We need to hear from you today, God. We've come through a week of battering and turmoil and and all kinds of stresses and all kinds of things that are going on around us, and we need to be quiet before you, that you might speak to us today, God. Someone, Lord, may be listening that doesn't know you as Lord and Savior of their life Their life has been turned upside down and they're looking for direction. God speak a word through this vessel this morning that might lead someone to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. Father, speak a word in a way that we'd all be edified and encouraged today as a result of having tuned in or come by this place. I pray, Lord God, that you would draw someone back to you who maybe has drifted in their fellowship. God, let your will be done, let your way be accomplished. I stand in need of you, God. That I might be that vessel that you can use in an awesome and incredible way. So Lord, allow my thought to be clear, my articulation to be crisp and clear. Spirit of the Lord, have your way in all that is done. And all that is said. And we will give your name all the glory and all the honor and all the praise. For it is in Jesus' precious and wonderful name we pray. With thanksgiving and expectation, and all the people of God said together, Amen. Amen. Praise the name of the Lord The Apostle Paul, he writes to the saints at Philippi to encourage them because they're going through a horrendous time. They're facing a lot of challenges during a time where their lives are in danger for being Christians. He's imprisoned under the leadership of a tyrannical leader by the name of Nero. This guy murdered everybody in his family who could possibly be in secession to his throne. And he is capturing Christians who name the name of Jesus, impaling them on poles, dipping them and pouring ash on them, and setting them afire. for fun to light the garden in his backyard. And Paul is in prison under his leadership. And Paul is a Christian who is promoting the gospel And in danger of whatever this guy, Nero, decides to do with him. But while he is in prison In Rome, he writes this letter to encourage others who are going through. A lot of people are dealing with high anxiety. But what Paul does is write and tell us that there is a medicine for our malady. There's there's some a remedy for our circumstance. There's there's a way out of our I want to talk to you this morning from the subject matter Anxiety Medicine Cocktail A medicine cocktail is described as a combination of prescribed medicines that work together. To maximize or enhance the benefits of bringing resolve or correction to the disease or the malady or whatever that the person might be dealing with medically speaking. But in this text, and I'll hit these as we move through it, what Paul does in my s understanding and my interpretation of this is that he lays out one after another after another of these f medicines that we can take, uh things that we can do that will help us and heal us of anxiety. And then there are those who are safe, but at the same time, when I go to the grocery store just to pick up a couple of things, I come out and it was $120 And then when I get my phone bill, my electric bill, my water bill, everybody has gone up and then looks like everybody is reaching in my pocket And we're trying to figure out how am I going to keep doing this when the rent is going up, the mortgage is high, the the children are needful, and and all this is going on. And nobody seems like they understand my situation. We've got those that are in leadership that are. . are pointing a finger at each other and they ain't even coming to work, but they're getting paid. We're living in some tumultuous times. And it wouldn't not be unusual that we have some anxiety about tomorrow. And so we need some help to help us deal with this anxiety and this stress that is pressing on us day by day. And so we find ourselves here in Philippians, and what Paul says first, the first peel he offers to us is to rejoice in the Lord. Uh verse four, he says, rejoice in the Lord always, and again I say, rejoice. What Paul is trying to help us to understand is if we let our rejoicing be based on the conditions of our circumstances Then we might find ourselves deeper in anxiety. But if the source of my emotional enthusiasm for a day comes from the Lord, then I'll always have rejoicing because the Lord doesn't change. What Paul says is we ought to be rejoicing in the Lord. He says it here in this verse, verse number four. He says it twice, but he also says it in chapter three, verse one, rejoice in the Lord, which helps me to understand that Paul is hammering something home to us that our rejoicing should not be. in the bank account that we possess, the president who's in office, but our rejoicing needs to be in the Lord Jesus Christ. Let your joy, let your rejoicing be in Jesus Christ. He never changes. He doesn't say rejoice for him only when things go well. He says rejoice in him always and again I say rejoice. I know what you're thinking. Pastor, that's easy for you to say I ain't got no paycheck, my my my bank account empty I I need to remind you something. I need to remind you who it is that provides seeds to the sower. I I need to remind you who it is who you claim shall supply all of my needs. Right? That's the verse we like to quote. My God shall supply all of my need. So why are you anxious now? Let your focus be on Jesus. Let your joy come from your relationship with him. Rejoice in the Lord always. And again I say rejoice. That's pill number one. Pill number two. He says, verse 5, let your gentleness be known to all men. The Lord is at hand What generally happens to people when they're a little stressed out or when they're dealing with anxiety, they have a tendency to get short with you. They might even cuss you out. Normally quiet, passive, gentle speaking people who are stressed out and dealing with anxiety and trying to figure out where's my next meal coming from and how am I gonna pay these bills and what's going on and where am I gonna never get another That person might just change and get a little snappy. But Paul says that there is appeal, there is part of the cocktail. Uh the anxiety cocktail that can help you deal with that. And he says that the pill or the part of the cocktail that you need to take is to remember that the Lord is at hand There's two ways to think of this. One, you need to remember that the Lord is watching you And listening to you in your responses, even when you're stressed out and experiencing anxiety. Now I know I know when you when you fix yourself up before you come to church so you kind of get yourself all prepared. But at home when the children come and there's mama can we go to Target? Can we go to get some I I need something from Chick-fil-A and I need to and That anxiety that you already dealing with, that that just kind of shoots off on the kids, and the children get knocked down just by your words. And they heart get crushed and they don't know what's going on. Why is mama and daddy so so short with us? So before you cuss the kids out, And before you before you lash out, remember the Lord is at hand. The Lord is watching, the Lord is present. And so that's why Paul says we our our response needs to be gentle. I think that's what he said. Let your gentleness be known to all men. Let let gentleness be the response while you're suffering through the anxiety, as opposed to Your harshness because you need to remember the Lord is at hand. But watch this. Here's another thing about the Lord being at hand that is beneficial to you. Remember that the Lord is at hand to deal with whatever it is that's stressing you out The Lord is at hand to bring deliverance to your life. The Lord is at hand to provide substance to get you to the other side. We need to remember the Lord is at hand. We're not dealing with the situations that we're dealing with and God has somehow abandoned us. He's still here. He's still present. He's still with us you he still loves you he still cares about you he's still looking out for you he's still providing for you Imagine being the Apostle Paul sitting in a prison in Rome and Nero is the president. Nero would burn in people. For being Christians. And you're a Paul sitting in prison, and it looks like your life is going to be taken by this lunatic who's in command. But Paul says I'm not I'm not stressed about that because I I remember the Lord is at hand. Now I do need to say this because some of the things I'm saying, if you're not a real Christian, it really ain't gonna help you. Christ doesn't live in him. And if Christ doesn't live in you, everything I'm saying to you right now makes no sense. The true Christian knows that I am who I am because of him. It's no longer I who lives, but Christ lives in me. He's my hope of glory. He's my medicine when I can't get to it The third one picks up in verse six and seven. It says, Be anxious for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving. Let your request be made known to God, and the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus Here's the third appeal. Request with thanksgiving. So it's not just prayer and supplication. It's prayer and supplication with thanksgiving So in other words, this request that you have that you put before the Lord, it needs to come in two parts. One, it's the supplication. I'm going to tell God what I'm in need of, but I'm going to tell him with thanksgiving When I put my petition before God, because I know I'm giving it to God, I can already thank God for receiving what I ask when I ask it in His will So here's what how how a lot of our prayer goes. But we pray and we tell God all this stuff that we need him to do. As if we are the boss and he is working for us. And we we we leave the prayer with hopefulness. I hope he can do it. No, Paul said that's not the way you pray. If you want to deal with anxiety, you want to deal with this uneasiness. What you need to do is you put your prayer before God. And you with confidence say to God, thank you, Lord, for answering the prayer. In other words, your prayer has to be full with faith that what I'm asking God to do, I'm believing He has already done it. If I pray and I put petition before God and I don't believe that God can do it, I'm adding more anxiety To my anxiety, and now I've added a request to the throne room of God, but I'm anxious whether or not he can do it. But if I know he can do it And I know I'm praying in his will. He will not withhold any good thing from his child. And so when I pray, I can pray and say, thank you, Lord. I can get up rejoicing in the Lord because I know He heard me and He's gonna answer my prayer. Help me, Jesus. I know He may not answer how you want Him. But he will answer it. He might not answer it when you want it, but he's always on time. One thing I know about my God, he's never late. So so he says, look, we've got to have some thanksgiving. In our requests. And the thanksgiving speaks of an attitude of gratitude for what I have not yet seen. I'm praying in a way that. That blows the natural mind. And watch this. Listen to what verse 7 says. And the peace of God. When I pray and I I don't and I can't say thank you for the answer to my prayer because I don't I'm not sure it's coming, I've added stress and more anxiety. But when I pray and I believe and I know that he's gonna do it, then the peace of God comes. The peace of God that surpasses all understanding. This is blow your mind kind of peace. I don't know if anybody ever has been in this situation. I've been in a situation where I'm I'm sitting in a situation and I'm watching all the stuff go on around me, but I'm I'm calm. And watch this and and my and my my humanity begins to have a conversation with itself And my humanity says, you ought to be freaking out right now, Pastor. You should be stressed out. But my spirit says we get we got this. And so there's a calm on me when my mind is saying I ought to be flipping out. And that's the peace of God That surpasses all understanding. My own sarcase, my own flesh can't figure out how it is that I have peace in the middle of this storm when all the stuff is falling apart You still got peace. And that peace will guard your hearts and your mind. Watch this. It'll send a garrison of spiritual guards around your mind. So so that when when thoughts come in your direction, that would add stress or anxiety to your life The guard said you can't come in here. Here's the next appeal, fourth fourth appeal in the in the in the cocktail, in the anxiety medicine cocktail, is redirect your meditation. A lot of times when we get stressed out And we we're going through anxiety some kind of way. I'm not exactly sure what happens, but it seems like we get addicted to bad news. And so I'm stressed and I'm watching CNN. I turn it off and guess what? I gotta see what's going on. Something must be happening. Because stress causes you almost to be addicted to try to figure everything out and to consume more. And what happens is while you're flipping through the channels, getting more, you just get more bad news It's how the enemy works on us. Because he knows if I can get you in that place, you're not trusting God. And so what the psalmist says, we need to redirect our meditation. Stop meditating on bad news. But you already stressed, and that's adding stress to stress. Now you're worried about stuff that really don't have nothing to do with you. Paul says, meditate on things that are good Change your meditation on things of God. Read some scripture. Meditate on the word of God. Let the peace of God be a part of your diet every day And let that be what you meditate on. Let that be what you think on. Let it let me let me start thinking about how did how did Paul write this sc this text while he was in prison? Start meditating on some stuff like that. What is this psalm talking about? What how is God trying to speak to me? As you're redirecting your meditation, if you don't know exactly how to do it, look at what I've done. I'm in prison And Nero's threatening my life. But I'm meditating on the Lord. I'm at peace. I'm able to send you an encouraging letter to enhance your place and your disposition. So he says, model me. As I model Christ. Because even Christ could have been stressed out about that crucifixion. But he had peace that only God could give. That he surrendered himself and gave his life as a ransom for us in the middle of all the chaos that was going on, he still submitted to the will of the Father, even to the point of death. And that being death on the cross. He didn't get all bent out of shape about what was happening with the people. Here's what Paul says verse 11. Not that I speak in regard to need. Because I've learned in whatever state I'm I am, I've learned to be content. Watch this. One of our major Contributors to anxiety is lack of contentment. And the things that we thought we could be content with aren't satisfying. The last pill in this cocktail, you can only acquire it through learning it. You gotta have some experience. You gotta have some scars. I've got some scars. From my past because I hadn't learned how to be content with Jesus. I was chasing this and that when I already had what I needed. And so it was my covetousness, my desire to have more of what I already had enough of. That drove me to a place where I got scarred, but I've learned from my scars. I've I've learned that if I've already got a closet full of clothes. I shouldn't keep running my credit card up to a place where I can't pay it. Paul said, I I've I've learned whatever the state I'm in, I learned how to be content. That's it's a great place to be. He says, um I I know I know how to abound, I know how to have a lot, and I know how to abase, I know how to not have nothing Because what he's learned is that no matter what state he's in, he's with the Lord. I like the way he says it. He says Um verse 12 he says I know how to be abason, I know how to abound everything in all everywhere in all things. Even if I'm in prison, it doesn't matter. I'm okay, I'm good. I've learned both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer need. Then he comes back and he says, I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. I I can't do all things through Christ who strengthens me until I learn to trust in him. You gotta learn how to trust in him. You gotta learn how to rejoice in him always. You gotta learn how to redirect your meditation, and then you can rest and be content. And you can understand that it is nothing that you can't do through Christ. Applying these principles collectively Reduces and removes anxiety and stress. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III. where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web Please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services. Services Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website. Facebook and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org Or contact our church office at three zero one six two seven nine five zero zero. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. Sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your