Where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And he preaches it with authority. But what the you you got you can tell them I'm not guilty and you sitting there with your mouth closed? Who did it? The one who's saying is being fulfilled in your presence right now. You can't go to grandma and nana. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. They come through the Son. Oh my God. That's Mary's boy. And the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. And so he says, preach the gospel to the poor who are poor spiritually. He got his pants hanging all down. Voices behind the song. In biblical times, if the king wrote an edict and said, set all of the prisoners free, then all of the prisoners went free. He says, preach that they will recover from the blindness that they're enduring. I'm gonna let it shine. Oh, I don't even know what he's talking about. I think we have failed on fulfilling the Sunday school song that we were taught as children. Pray for them every day. Ask them into my heart, he saved me. you don't you know it's okay to say I don't know okay but just share that part share what you know if you don't have all the scriptures and all that it's it's easy Something to do. They've got to pay the full debt for everybody's sin. From the synagogue, everybody's looking at him. And so he's only read up to the point where I've come to save you, I've come to establish Jubilee, I've come to release you from the penalty of sin. See closes but he began to say so all bore witness to him. Marvelous. Drag you down after you didn't spoke eloquently. with him. He's the very son of God. Yes, he's the only one and the only way we can get to God, we've got to go through this one, this prophet of Jubilee And he paid it with his own precious blood. But I thank God I got a God in the spiritual realm that whatever sin I sin, He takes care of it. Suffered blood and died to pay it all. Who is anointed by God, appointed by God, empowered by God to lead us into freedom from all our sin and freedom from all of the debt that we owe to God as it relates to sin? Him. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together, and we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 8 a. called the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlboro, Maryland. Go to our website at Kettering Ministries. Artist personally. The Asian, the Hispanic, the rich, the poor, those who got degrees, those who don't have degrees, those who walk in the street, those who live in homes, those who drive in cars, those who don't Me, but that's why it's so important to stay in the book, it's so important to preach the text, and the reason is because the only thing that's gonna help your soul, the only thing is gonna help Bring healing to your broken heart is going to be a living word from God. That can heal your broken heart. Heart, but there is a word from God. Preach a word of Jubilee. Everybody can't do that. This particular verse it says the opening of prisons, the way Isaiah articulates it, preached the opening of prisons. You ever notice the things that seem to be the most sinfully fun seem to happen at night Jubilee preach light into the darkness, preach truth into the lies, preach so that they can see the error of their ways. I mean you was woo all the way live turned all the way up didn't happen till night matter of fact there was a song that came out that said the freaks come out at night So that they can know which way to turn and which way to go. You can take it or leave it. With two to three people every day. Say something that would cause you to not spend the rest of your life in jail. Fire because we sat in a witness chair. That's our responsibility. What does that mean, Pastor? Of Jubilee. And so his ministry, his mouth, his message is a message of grace. I love the fact that he loved me so much that he laid down his own life. He is the prophet of Jubilee. And any other thing I put on my account, he'll pay that too. accuses you and says look at what she did look at what he did my father says but it's been paid for Christ paid it all at Calvary yes he did he for being my prophet of Jubilee. Have a car. So Jesus in his assignment, he was assigned to preach the good news to the poor. And so even though Isaiah says it a little bit different from what you see here in Luke, it literally is saying the same thing because what he was to preach was to preach with power that would open up blinded eyes. Preach with authority that would cause those who are ignorant to the truth to have the light of God. And so his assignment is to preach to the poor, to preach a word of healing to the brokenhearted. Because sin causes us to love darkness more than we love light. Just write down three people. About their faith. But don't stay there because there's tools and ways in which you can grow and get to know even a better presentation. And you're working with them every day, and you're riding the bus with them every day, and you're interacting with them every day. So your attorney brings the person, they bring the witness to court, sits them in the witness chair, and says to them, starts asking them questions. But while they're sitting on that witness chair, they refuse to open their mouth. Then the other attorney gets up and starts asking questions. For God. That's what this prophet of Jubilee has as a qualification. and disconnected. What Jesus is literally doing is he's saying to them, today, this prophecy, up to the point that I've read, is being fulfilled. Why doesn't he keep reading the rest? But Jesus didn't come into the world to judge the world. When he says that, people who are in the synagogue act like people today. And when he opened up this text in the hearing of those in the synagogue, he opened it up with grace, letting them know that God is going to do this The carpenter? This prophet of Jubilee who came to set us all free so that we can all celebrate that we've been free from sin. In his death, in his burial, and in his resurrection. Lord, maybe there's someone here under the sound of my voice that needs a savior. To come and accept the free payment that you made for them. He loves us so much that he gave his life that we won't have to die and spend our eternity separated from This is your backstage pass. Okay. And so there's a witness that your attorney brings to court. Part of his assignment is do what's necessary to make sure that everyone who is oppressed by sin is capable of being set free With that. Is in him. To keep them in despair, to cause them to keep running and running from God. He has sent me to heal through my preaching to those whose hearts are broken by sin and those whose hearts are broken because of sin. Preach to them a word of healing. And so in essence, what the assignment of this prophet of Jubilee, his assignment is to preach with authority. As a king. Shined on them to open up their blinded eyes because sin has a way to draw us into darkness. About Jesus. Y'all looking at me funny like Pastor, I'm not doing that. and could have given witness to Jesus Christ and we didn't open our mouth. He had in his assignment to come here to earth and die. And he doesn't finish it. Establishment of Jubilee, this establishment of freeing you from your sin through a prophet who has been sent by God, but he's going to accomplish it on your behalf by grace. Jubilee in Christ Jesus. Himself. Amen. The good news to those who look like you. To his own. But his assignment was to preach the good news to all the poor, the black, the white. Only Jesus. That we are Christians. I think we need to start sharing Christ because there's a lot of lost people around us. Declare and proclaim that God is now willing to accept all who were once foreigners and sinners. I mean to tell you that he came through 42 generations. The truth is, he is our Savior and our Lord. You don't have to know every answer, but what you know, stay with that. Because this prophet, his assignment is to pay the debt that everybody owes. But the reference is only to the gracious words. But today, God, because you paid the price for all of our sin to be forgiven, I pray today that you would move on their heart. Create a sense of urgency because they know not how much time they have. And while it's clear in their heart, do it today, God. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. So Lord, open up the eyes of the blind today and draw them to you. Separated from God and cast into the lake of fire, and you don't even say anything. Just tell them what you know. You know, once I've once you've done all that, verse 19, proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord. They marveled. We have an assignment. But right after that, they said, is not this Joseph's son? Because the prophet is without honor in his own country and especially in his own house. It ain't take long. And watch this. That's Acts chapter 1, verse 8. Here's a good question to start the conversation off. So who is this guy who can speak so well? The gospel was to go to everybody, and it didn't matter who they were, and guess what? For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. I want you to just be praying every day for three people to be saved this year. And he acknowledges, even in the midst of his own people, today, this scripture is being fulfilled in your very hearing. Now he's bringing you their stories. Verse 20. Yes, his sisters are among us. And so, but declare it to all. If you're already doing it, wonderful. Who set at liberty did what it took to set everybody free? Praise the Lord. Look like they don't smell too good. See, this is how you're going to be able to identify who he is. Everybody can't stand up and preach with that kind of authority as if they are the king. So he preaches, he proclaims liberty to the captives, that deliverance is available That's all it took. That means whoever this prophet of Jubilee is, this prophet of Jubilee has to take on the responsibility of paying the debt that God will only accept. That's why today I celebrate Jubilee. We sang that with excitement, enthusiasm. Y'all checked out when I said y'all gotta do something, didn't y'all? You know he couldn't be connected to speak like that. No, you've got to go to him. The one degree of Andy Podcast. There's nothing I can come up with. Here's something I'm I'm gonna challenge you. Even for my online listeners and those of you in my live stream, write down three people who you know are not saved and You and I would be lost. He preaches, I am the way, I am the truth, I am the life. And so when you do that, we join darkness in allowing darkness to prevail. Pastor, wait a minute. He stops in the middle of it, gave the book back to the attendant, and sat down. In fact, if you look at Matthew's version and Mark's version, it's like, where did he get all this wisdom? Well, that's all you need to tell them. And while everybody is looking on him, he responds in verse 21, and he began to say to them, Today, this scripture is fulfilled in your hearing. One moment they patting you on the back, the next moment they mad at you. Yes, when he stretches his arms out wide, he's gonna bleed for your sin and for my sin. I once was lost, but now I'm found. The assignment of Jesus He's fulfilling, and we get to validate that He is the prophet of Jubilee. He is the one who is able to save my soul. Oh yeah, you know what I'm talking about. God is willing to accept them all, but they got to come through the Son. Because the rest of the prophecy is not yet to be fulfilled. Paid for my sin past, paid for my sin present, paid for my sin future. I stand before you Kethering today to introduce you to the prophet of Jubilee, the one, the only one. Your redemption was not with silver and gold and precious things. You have the directions to make sure that that person you run into doesn't spend their eternity You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III. Preach a word of deliverance. Because you're running in the people every day. Jesus is reading, and the Bible says, verse 20, he's reading that prophecy of Jubilee from Isaiah chapter 61. I don't know all the Bible. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. I'm not talking to them. And the witness won't respond, won't open their mouth, won't say anything. You shall be my witnesses in Jerusalem, in Judea, in Samaria, and to the othermost parts of the world. Jesus spoke eloquently. org or contact our church office at 301-627-9500. Ask the person, anybody you come in, if you died today, are you sure you're going to heaven? Because if I care about lost people, I ought to be praying for their salvation, shouldn't I? I'm Andy Christman. Lighten up the darkness. The prophet of Jubilee. If we just stay in the book and preach the book, then the word of God will heal the broken heart That's why I said you're covering up your light. As smart as I might think I am, I can't come up with no seven points and some principles and some dynamic or PowerPoint presentation that's gonna heal your. Everybody came to him and said, Oh, that was so nice. He's the only way you're gonna get all your debt of sin forgiven. Lord help me here. I want I want I want Kettering to take this challenge this year, 2019. Yes, we know his brother, Judah and the others, Simon and the others. That's the one. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. I don't know all that. No, you take the gospel to everybody. Well, what if they ask me a question? If he had only gone to his own, he would have only gone to the Jews. That's part of his assignment. Muhammad didn't do that. How'd it happen? Preach a word that would allow those whose heart is broken, whose spirit is broken to be revived through the preaching of the gospel. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. You know what? And now you become Christians, pious won't shine your light nowhere. In the back, in the dark, in the corner, diamond in the back, sunrooftop, digging in the scene with the gangster lean. So that's why my hope is in him. And so they get a life sentence to hell to the lake of fire. John says God didn't send his son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved. Save that lost soul. I celebrate freedom from sin. Do you know how you got saved? He's the one you gotta go to. You at the grocery store, you at 7-Eleven, you jumping in the back of Uber. I wish I had somebody in this earthly world who would pay my debt like that How are you feeling about that moment right then? I declare that he is the prophet of God That they would give their life to you. Preach with the authority that you have the right to set them free. Preach a proclamation as if you were a king who has authority to release the people. Show forth your light. I asked Jesus into my heart. Y'all just came to get, but now it's your turn. They marveled at the gracious words which proceeded out of his mouth. I mean to tell you that he is Joseph's little boy. That's a great question. It's smooth, it's nice, it's easy to take in. Only one person can fit this bill. Somebody should have shouted right there. He was anointed by God to die. I can't put my hope in nobody else because nobody else can do what the scripture says he can do, and he fulfilled it all in his life. Maybe their life has been a mess and it's been in turmoil. And so we're drawn to the darkness. Acts chapter one verse eight. Okay? And now they turn to negatives. Who came from a carpenter's son? And that hadn't changed. I'm not asking you to be God. But watch this: our greatest prison is our blindness to the truth. That's one. And for 10 minutes, they go at them and ask them question after question. Now, the final movement of this text, after we've seen the authority of the Prophet of Jubilee and the assignment of the Prophet of Jubilee, finally there is the acknowledgement of the prophet of Jubilee. There's simple, you know, simple tools. Probably disqualify him. Because after he stops, the remaining part of the prophecy deals with judgment. This is how people are. A whole lot of lost people around us. You know this how people do you. Isaiah says it a little bit differently in You've got the keys to help someone get into heaven, and you're not sharing He's the only way we can get to God. And don't be trying to get hyper spiritual and making up answers either. You can't go to the pastor, you can't go to the deacon No, he redeemed our soul with his own precious blood. And you know, here's something that I believe that we have um kind of failed on as Christians That's all you need to know. I repented of my sin. When this witness tells their version of the story, you're gonna be set free and you ain't going to jail for life But Lord, today I'm praying you draw them out of the darkness into the marvelous light of truth. Don't just preach If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. There's nothing I can say Because after he says it, Man, that was good. Remove the fear, the anxiety. Two, I want you to at least attempt to share the gospel. Imagine this for a moment. Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. Because everybody needs to hear this good news. So I really want us to take this challenge. Well, guess what? I celebrate liberality from sin. Reclaim that drifter today. Everybody can't say, I am the way. Once you've paid the price for sin. Because nobody can get to the Father except Because when he started laying it out to them, then they it's like When the spirit of the Lord comes upon you, you shall receive power and you shall be my witnesses. This is how we know who he is. And then in the other version of this story, I think Mark's version says, Then the people got angry. And he sent me to heal the brokenhearted and to proclaim liberty to the captive. Even when the devil comes and On the one hand, they're saying, Good job. Then watch this. Thank you, God That's the kind of authority he had. He's the only one that can pay For additional information Because if Jesus had come along and only preached Preach recovery of sight to the blind. How many folk made? When he sat down, all the eyes were fixed on him. You know, they they look for your low point so they can Do you mean to tell me that the prophet of Jubilee is going to be a carpenter's son? I want you to think for a moment. So now we we got classroom going on. That's Jesus. I want everybody, it's up to you. We know his brothers. That was a good sermon you preached this morning. Where did he come? That's why my faith. We still need to take the gospel to everybody, regardless of what they look like. Now, some of the people might be folk in your family. And it happened. Buddha didn't do it. m. Well, I repented of my sin. But God says, Prophet of That's Joseph's boy Jesus Christ I'm asking you to be a witness for God. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. or 11 a. So all of the Gentiles would never experience Jubilee. In the day of judgment, there will be folk mad at us because we were in the witness chair The enemy wants to keep them in darkness And how do you know it? But okay, I want to challenge us in that. Everybody's sin. And now, stay tuned for the conclusion of last week's message You are on trial for life, for something you didn't even do. And the scripture says he could not do many works in Nazareth. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist. Preach a word of healing to the brokenhearted. I mean, Uber drivers need Jesus too You shall be my witnesses. He had the Spirit of the Lord upon him so he could die for us. But let them make a decision today while they have the opportunity. This little light of mine. And you're running into them every day. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. I really want us to seek out opportunities to challenge people. We're hiding our light. Pastor, what are you talking about? I've fulfilled that, and today is being fulfilled in your presence His sisters are here with us. Yes, he has great wisdom because he's not who you think he is. Yes, he's gonna introduce us into Jubilee. m. That's it. So he's to preach and He's to set at liberty those who are oppressed. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. He's the prophet of jubilee. How do you feel while that witness is on the witness stand who can And so when the people get that part of the message, they're happy. at our new edifice Yes, he came through Mary, the Virgin, and she had not been with a man. Now he's bringing you their stories. That's all I know. So that Draw them back to yourself. You can 15 minutes, 20 minutes, 30 minutes goes on, and that witness won't say anything. Confucius didn't do it. This is how we can validate who he is. There's no other. That's a good way to start the conversation right there. I celebrate the fact my debt has been paid. I put my faith in Jesus Christ. They've sinned against you, they've sinned against heaven, sinned against Mother Father. The One Degree of Andy podcast. You should be the ones that take the gospel to the world. So we got some Well, guess what? Patty him on the back. Father in heaven, thank you for your word this day We're covering our light so that nobody can see. I come to church every Sunday, Monday through Saturday. Isn't that Joe's boy? They might be your brother, sister, mother, father, auntie, some I want to challenge us because I think we need to do that Matter of fact, no other faith has ever even said that. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III. Tell them that And you're talking to them every day. I'm Andy Christman. Oh, that was good. There's only one person. Now finally, he said Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. That wasn't happening in the daytime. Jubilee. In the name of Jesus Christ, I pray. Because when Jesus spoke Just ask them that In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Everyone who's born again, you are a witness. You should be looking at folks talking about That's a great question. Lord have mercy. Yes. He's not just Mary's boy. Who are you telling? That was at night. Yes. If you love Christian music,