Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling I want to invite your attention to Judges chapter seven. We'll begin our reading at verse one The word of the Lord reads like this, and Jerubal, that is Gideon, and all the people who were with him rose early and encamped beside the well of Herod. So that the camp of the Midianites was on the north side of them by the hill of Morah in the valley. And the Lord said to Gideon, the people who are with you are too many for me to give the Midianites into their hands, lest Israel claim glory for itself against me, saying, My own hand has saved me. Now therefore proclaim in the hearing of the people, saying, whoever is fearful and afraid, let him turn and depart at once from Mount Gilead. And twenty-two thousand of the people returned, and ten thousand remain. But the Lord said to Gideon, the people are still too many. Bring them down to the water, and I will test them for you there. And then it will be that of whom I say to you, this one shall go with you, and the same shall go with you. And of whomever I say to you, this one shall not go with you, the same shall not go. And so he brought the people down to the water, and the Lord said to Gideon, Every one who laps from the water with his tongue as a dog laps, you shall set apart. Likewise every one who gets down on his knees to drink, and the number of those who lap putting their hands To their mouth with was three hundred men, but all the rest of the people got down on their knees to drink water. And then the Lord said to Gideon by the three hundred men who lapped I will save you and deliver the Midianites into your hand. And let all the other people go, every man to his place. So the people took the provisions and their trumpet in their hands, and he sent away all the rest of the Israel and every man to his tent. And he retained those three hundred men. Now the camp of Midian was below him in the valley. Would you pray with me this morning? Father, we bless you. Today we thank you for your incredible and amazing and overwhelming grace. Because even as we have sang this morning, if it had not been for the grace of God, Lord, where would we be? So we're thankful today for your grace. Because your grace has kept us, your grace has blessed us, your b grace has brought us even to this very hour that we have opportunity to hear your word So Spirit of the Living, God, I'm praying that your grace will be more than enough and more than sufficient to draw those that are in darkness into the marvelous light. I'm praying, God, that your grace will be enough. God, I'm praying that your grace will be poured out into the heart and into the life of every person. That every concern that they brought to the place this morning might be addressed according to your will and your way. Spirit of the Lord, I know that there may be someone listening to me on today that doesn't know you in the pardon of their sins. Save them by your grace. Others, God, who are questioning whether or not I should leave or whether I should come or go. God, I'm praying you give direction to them so that they can stay faithful to you. While the world is drawing them away, God, I pray that by your power you draw them to yourself. God, in all that is done and said on this day, I need your power. I need your grace to stand and to declare this word. Allow my mind to be clear, Lord, my lips to speak clearly, the articulate your word as the very oracle of God that we would know we have heard from you. Have your way, God, in this time, and we'll give your name all the glory and honor and praise. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. As we've been on a journey through a series of messages entitled Family Dynamics and we Started in Esther chapter four and spoke about the sacrifice to save the family. We moved from Esther chapter four to first Samuel chapter three and we spoke There from the subject matter out of the same house. And then on last Sunday, uh we were in John chapter 19 and we spoke from the subject matter, behold your mother Well, this morning, I want to continue looking into our series on the family dynamics because in this text there's a huge family dynamic going on. We as men Have been called by God to lead and to walk not in our own strength, but in his strength. So we've been called and we've been equipped with the Holy Spirit and we've been gifted by God with His presence in us. And in us, we have the ability to accomplish things that in our natural flesh would be absolutely impossible to do. And on this morning, I want to talk to you from the subject matter: a small army will do. In this text, we see an imbalanced warfare that's about to take place. The Midianites had overcome uh Israel and every time Israel would plant crops and Every time they would have their animals out, the Midianites would come up and take all their crops and take all their animals. And they had Israel hiding in caves and in secret places. And here is this Man Gideon who's hiding on the threshing floor trying to preserve some food for the family so that they can survive. And while he's there, Thres wheat on the wine press floor, the angel of the Lord shows up to him and calls him and says, Gideon, God is with you. You mighty man of valor, when you are walking in the power of God, you can be what you're not at the moment. When God looked at Gideon God saw Gideon as a mighty man of valor when Gideon didn't even see himself as a worthy man. God doesn't see you how you are. He sees you how you can be if you surrender and submit to Him. In this text. We begin seeing Gideon responding to this call, and Gideon has at his disposal 32,000 Physically capable, able, body, knowledgeable, strong men who can fight in the battle. And God says to Gideon, Gideon, the number that you have with you is too many. Now watch this. Wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute. These 32,000 come from my tribe. These are cousins and and uncles and and brothers and and family members. And and God has said I'm going to deliver all of Israel by your hand, Gideon. And so Gideon said, well, I've gathered together. I've got 32,000 fighting men. And God says, well, Gideon, you got too many. The Lord said to Gideon, verse number two, the people who are with you are too many. For me to give Midian into their hands, lest Israel claim glory for itself. If you win the battle with these 32,000, they're going to say they did it And they're gonna think that the glory belongs to them, and they're gonna think nobody can touch us. And so God said that's not the only issue, Gideon. He says there's some characteristic traits among the people in your family. That make it not beneficial for them to go to war with you. Ask them. Anybody who's fearful, y'all can go home. 22,000 went home. Can I talk for real? For real? Fearful people will get you killed If I'm going to war and you're fearful, I can't count on you when it's time to charge the enemy. Fearful people won't trust The power of God to work when we need it to work because fearful people are afraid to trust God. The reason why they're afraid, Gideon, is because they're counting the numbers. And they're looking at the enemy And they're thinking about all the victories that the enemy won in the past when it was just them fighting the enemy in their physical flesh. But Gideon, this ain't a physical war that we're getting ready to have. Can I talk to somebody? You're looking back on your life and you're looking back on the victories that you lost or the wars or battles that you lost, and God said, I want to take you forward, but we only need a small army. And you thinking, man, if I can get some more people, if I can get some more prayer warriors, I can get some people on my side. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Sometimes it's just too many. And the fearful people might have ulterior motives if they stay. First of all, God said, I'm going to win the battle, but if I give victory with all them people They're gonna try to steal my glory. Let the let the fearful men go. So God deals with these fearful men and they leave and they go home. So then there's a a second round Picks up in verse number four. It says, but the Lord said to Gideon, the people are still too many. What do you mean it's too many? We only have 10,000 left now, Lord. But the Lord says, Gideon, the people who are with you are still too many. He says, let me take them down to the water, and I'm going to test them there. So the Lord says to Gideon, Gideon, the ones who lap like a dog, I want you to set them aside The ones who who get on their knees and drink, set them aside. And the ones that I say. Can go with you into battle, those are the ones who go into battle with you. And the ones I say send them home, send them home. God says, before you make up your mind who you want to send home, I'm gonna tell you who needs to go home. Some of us have people standing in our lives and they need to go home Let me read the text. Verse 6. The number of those who lap putting their hands to their mouth was 300. Now I'm at a place where is me and 300 and Jesus. I asked the question as I was going through this text, God, what were you testing them for at the water Here's what I came up with. Those who kneeled down. They went to the water to drink. They got on their knees. They bowed their head and they drank from the water. Now, we are right next to our enemy's camp. And we're outnumbered by thousands. The Bible says that the number of soldiers that were in Midian were as the locusts of the land. And the soldiers' camels were as the sand of the sea. They were innumerable. And we're right next to their camp And all of those people got down on both knees, put their head down, buried their face in the water, and slurped up water. That's foolish. Is foolish because they did not value the danger that was close by. They exposed their characteristics that they were more important Than the plan that was on the table. The ones that are on both knees are foolish in that they're not considering that our enemy could be on us at any moment. And I won't be able to see the enemy coming when my face is buried in the water. These are foolish people. And so you don't want these people in your camp, Gideon, tell them to go home. The ones who lap like a dog, the text says they picked up the water up in their hand, and they pulled it to their face, and they licked the water out of their hand like a dog. Those people are the ones who are ready to go at any moment. Yeah, I'm taking care of my thirst, but I'm ready to take on you too. Come on, bring it. No, those people are ready. They're attentive to the spiritual atmosphere that's going on around. There's a spiritual warfare that we are all in, and I don't need people in my camp. Who aren't spiritually alert. I need people when I'm fighting spiritual war who are spiritually attentive. Can I just be honest with y'all? This thought came to me. I said, Lord, I need an army. I need a big strong army of men. And God didn't answer. And so I waited a day or two and I went back and gave him the same request. God, I'm I'm praying, Lord, I need a I'm I'm looking for a big strong Army of men. God didn't answer. I said Lord, I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm looking I I'm I'm praying God I know I'd like to see it uh us come together at Ketherin with a big, strong army of men. Can appews be be packed with men who love you You and who who are gonna fight for you and who are gonna serve you. God, I'm looking, God, I'm praying for a strong, big army, God, so we can do this warfare for the devil. And God said a small one would do. That's not the answer I want it, but I got it now. Because I I can't fight this fight that we have. Lord Jesus. I can't deal with these carjackings and these murders and and these issues of pornography and And sin and and distress and and homosexuality and depression and thieves and I can't deal with all that. God when I'm distracted by people who first of all are fearful and I showed enough don't need no foods with me No, I need some people who, even when they're tired, who are attentive to the spiritual atmosphere. Who are aware our battle is not against flesh and blood, but it's against spiritual wickedness in heavenly places And so Gideon now has his 300 men. God has eliminated the fearful. God has eliminated the foolish And now we're down to this final group. We got 300, and I'm going to call these 300 the faith-filled men. Verse 7 says, and the Lord said to Gideon by the 300 men who lapped, I will save you. And deliver the Midianites into your hands. Let all the other people go, every man go to his own place. So the people took provisions And their trumpets in their hands, and he sent away all the rest of Israel, every man to his tent, and retained those 300 men. Now the camp of Midian was right below the valley. Pastor, why you call these men faith-filled men? Watch this. Because they're getting ready to go into warfare against all the thousands of the Midianites With their provisions, that's nothing more than a bag lunch. That's what you're gonna eat, a pitcher, and a trumpet. These are the weapons that the 300 go into warfare against the thousands of Midianites. Probably in the natural sense, a lot of people would check out, Pastor, we going on a suicide mission. No, we're going into victory Listen, because when you're walking in the power of the Holy Ghost, the victory is not in flesh. It's not in the weapons of humanity. It's in the power of God. And so these men have to be filled with faith in order to go into warfare with this as their weaponry. So they go. Now, this is something else that's interesting. God says to Gideon, Gideon, we're getting ready to go up. But he says, but if you're afraid, Gideon, I want you to go down over there. I want you to go come on. Creep over there. Bring your servant with you. I want you to hear what they're talking about in the camp of Midian. Verse 9. Gideon! Gets up and goes, which tells me Gideon is also got some anxiety about this. He's fearful And Gideon goes over to the Midian camp and he's hiding out. He's listening. And he hears them telling a story about a dream one of the soldiers had. Where a barley loaf of bread rolled into the camp and hit a tent, and the tent fell over, and the tent was destroyed. And the servant said, That's nothing but the sword of Gideon. And the God that He serves and they're coming for us. And Gideon said, oh, I know I'm on the Lord's side now. Gideon goes back with great confidence and he passes out the weaponry to everybody and take a torch with you and what we're gonna do we're gonna we're gonna go over there and I want you I want y'all to go over here, a hundred here, a hundred there. I want y'all to disperse around and abroad that can. And and I want you to do what I do. When I pray, you pray. When when when I bow, you bow. When I lift up, you lift up. You do what I do. I know we're outnumbered. I know it looks impossible. I know we don't have the weapons that you think we ought to have, but God is with us. Help me, God Gideon rises up and he says, now break the pictures. They got the torch and the picture and he throws down the picture and breaks the picture. And he says, now blow the trumpet. And they blow the trumpet from all around. And they surprise the Midianites. And they jump up and they go, oh my God. Gideon and his army are on us because Gideon is crying out, and he's having his men cry out. It's the sword of Gideon is coming, the sword of Gideon. And they're they're all afraid. They jump up and they're afraid and they start just swinging And in the process of them swinging, they kill 120,000 of each other. When you're walking with God, impossible things can happen. And the leaders take off running Gideon takes off running behind them. When Gideon's running behind them, Gideon is exhausted. He cat they catch up with the princes of the of the Gideon, the Midianites, they catch up with them and they they take care of them, handle them. And then he's running, they still run, they're going after the the the kings, and they stop by their brother's house Two of them, Succath and Penew, they go by there and they say, my soldiers are thirsty. It's 300 of us. And they say, we ain't helping you. Do you have the king's head yet? Even when you win in, family won't help you. But listen, Gideon's not winning for himself What Gideon is doing is gonna help all of Israel. It's gonna free all of Israel. But while Gideon is working to free all Israel. All he asked for from the other tribe was that you give us some food and water. So that we could continue the journey. He didn't ask them to send those soldiers out. He didn't ask them to give up nothing else. He said, Can you just give us some provisions? Give us some water, some food so we could we're exhausted. Can you just help us out? They won't help. This is how family is sometimes. Gideon goes on and he defeats the armies of the Midianites. Let me tell you how family this is how family worked. When he gets done defeating the Midianites, he goes back home. He's tired. He got all 300 of the men. None of his men died. He's good. So then Ephraim comes down and says, why you ain't called us? Y'all got family like that? While everything was going headache and haywire and you were trying to fix it and do it by yourself and there was nowhere to be found, then when all the victory is done. when all those stuff is finished, all the chaos is over, after you spent all your money, after you've gone through every headache and say, you shouldn't have called me. So Gideon has to deal with them Y'all knew what was going on. Y'all knew the Middle Nights were taking all our food. You know we were hiding in the caves and all that. You should have been the first to come out in the first place to come help us. They didn't. But now they want to act like they was going to support the matter That's family. This is just family dynamics. I love scripture because the scripture just talks about all the stuff that happens in our families too. But here's the here's the kidger. In all the complaining of the family and all the stuff that was going on, we gotta step back from this story and realize that what God has just done with a small army Is absolutely amazing that with 300 men he could conquer thousands in an army and all they were armed with was pitches and trumpets. Come on here That's the power of God working from the inside. And if I can just get some Christians to begin to walk in the power of the Holy Spirit Spirit, I believe you'll start seeing some enemies fall before you. I believe you'll start seeing some victories in your life that you will Thought were impossible. I just believe that God will begin to exalt you and raise you up and strengthen you and watch you see that He can do more if you just surrender to Him and let Him have His way. He's working in us if you let him. God says to Gideon, Gideon, all I need is a small army. Sometimes a small army is just you and God. Because when God is on your side, there's nothing that he can't do. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the Radio Broadcast Ministry. of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301 six two seven nine five zero zero please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. On Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations, you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.