You won't even ask them for two dollars to buy a piece of bread because pride won't let you. Praise the Lord. A one degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts He's the one that closed the keys to the treasury of heaven. It's a prayer of salvation that says, Lord, I want to come in. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III. Heavenly Father, I pray, God, in all that happens in the preaching of this gospel, that your name would get glory, that we would glorify you, and we would praise you and exalt you, for you alone are worthy of it all. Visit us at church-redeemer dot org. Philippians chapter four, we spoke to you from the subject matter. To this particular part of the text, what he does, he says, Now, there is a methodology of getting your prayers answered, your petition prayer. Notch type of stuff, you might not have had Chuck Taylor's. called the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlboro, Maryland. Voices behind the song. with thanksgiving and expectation. Persevering in watchfulness, praying knowing that God has heard your prayer, will answer your prayer, and you're watchful, waiting for the answer to come because you know you prayed according to the will and purpose and plan of God. Someone else's behalf. Your life. Prayer, we ought to just spend time worshiping God and praising God and exalting God. Line. For heavenly blessings, because heavenly blessings are gonna satisfy this kingdom child. From the subject matter, petition prayer power. He says, seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. To you. Won't even knock on the door. Because I'm not qualified. But he brought you in anyhow through the blood of the lamb. If he acts for a fish, will give him a serpent. Ask for a piece of bread. Because I had worn them out, or somebody had passed them down to me, and then I had worn them out, or I passed them down to my brother, and then he had worn them out. New podcast, One Degree of Andy. the family of Christ today. Fish will give him a serpent. God on high. A peace that surpasses all of the understanding of man. We talked from the idea. Same. Consecration. Prayer is just when I'm just sitting before the Lord listening. on the mountainside and he's teaching them all these principles and all this greatness. Prayer. Receive from God. Prayer is the prayer of petition. Seen and they want to be heard. Is called the outline for prayer. Who this message is going to. If you've got your mind on the earth, then you're gonna pray for earthly things. People can come over your house, they be hungry, stomach growling, they ain't eating a couple of days. I'm good. Way to a door. I'm gonna seek. Speak well. A normal parent. their child asked for meat would give them a serpent or rather give them something that would hurt them. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. I didn't have six, seven pairs of jeans and I didn't cut my own holes in them. is in heaven give good things to those who ask him. Has limited resources for what you want. the resources and he's got the power to disperse the resources in your direction. of Christ who gave his life on the cross who died two thousand some years ago and was crucified and buried in a tomb and raised the third day he got up with all the power in his hand and with that power Excellence. seven verse seven the word of the Lord from Matthew chapter seven verse number seven reads as follows ask and it will be given to you seek and you will find knock Written in the Lamb's Book of Life who do not know the power that they possess in prayer. In line with what the Spirit of God wants to pray. And lifting him up. 5, 6, 7, is what is known as the Sermon on the Mount. Do you realize when you throw up a prayer petition into the heavenly realm, which is in the atmospheric realm, there are other things and entities in the atmospheric realm other than God? Hollywood be thy name. So you've got to have your mind on heavenly things because my heart is in heaven and my treasures are in heaven where moth and rust cannot get to it. Not satisfied because we're praying for earthly stuff, and earthly stuff won't satisfy a kingdom person. I say to us, Ask and it will be given to you. So he needs to tell you to ask. See a whole lot of folk get right to the door, get disappointed. I say you gotta knock on that door like on the other side of that door is the blessing I need. Knock with authority. We get right there and we afraid. Ask for it, knock for it, seek for it, and it'll be given to you. There's a kingdom treasury of unanswered prayers that all you have to do is go to your father and tell him that's what I want. He comes back verse number nine and says, Or what man is there among you who if his son asks for bread will give him a stone? Parents that would do that. The child. Or contact our church office at 301-574-3515. I might have had some may pops, but I had some tennis shoes. Of this petition provider. for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. But there's different kinds of prayers. All the time. Prayer and he says, first of all, ask. So he gives two qualifiers. Whatever it is that you're asking for, you've gotten that close, and so the only thing separating you from the request is a door. There's no comparison to him. That there was a roof over the head, and that you wasn't getting put out on the street. And it will be open to you. And so we need to stop underestimating its power because in our underestimation of its power, we're not using the most powerful resource we have to deal with the warfare that we're in. I would probably suggest that we can probably stop a whole lot of people fighting if we realize that people are not our enemy. And you demand it from him as if he was somehow some ecclesiastical bellhop waiting to just run and grab for you all the things that you need. For those things and and we think that that's the only kind of prayer, but there's multiple kinds of prayer. And you know, go on and on with that prayer, but that's just the pattern of prayer. There is someone called the Prince of the Powers of the Air. Holy would be his name. That's where your treasures are. James chapter 4 says, You have not because you ask not. Then he comes back second round, he says, seek and you will find it. How do I know that? Knock anyway. And I'll tell you I can spend some time there because I feel like I'm talking to somebody. He is preeminent above every other and any other. But many ways in which God has just been favorable. And so he goes through and shows us a whole outline how we ought to pray, how we ought to approach the throne of God, how we ought to make our petitions known to God. And then as he moves from there, he says to them, Look, now what I need you to do is focus your heart on heaven. So he starts off by giving us a recipe, if you will, for perseverance of petition. Knock on the door. The children had decent clean clothes to wear. Some of these modern day parents, their children will be hungry and they'll be fly to the nine. Seek and you'll find it. Yay, but his grace allows us access, and because we have access I didn't ask you did you have a degree? For their child. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. So you've got to know who your enemy is and prepare for him by getting dressed up in armor that will allow you to withstand his assault when he comes. And they turn around and say, I I ain't going nowhere. Knock on the door. for how to approach the throne of God. But he has another part. Shoes or clothes or eating a fine meal to make sure that the children had a decent meal to eat. First of all, we did identify prayer as a conversation we're having with God. That's the prayer when you're setting aside things for the service of God, for the use of God, consecrating it unto God, purifying it for God and for his usage. So if you're seeking the kingdom of God and his righteousness, all the things. Their needs to make sure that their children had their basic needs. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. He don't think that that's gonna make anything any better. Because a normal parent will go out of their way to provide the basic essentials You've been listening to the Radio Broadcast Ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of advantage We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together and we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services Sundays at 8 a. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. He begins by telling them, first of all, don't pray in the hypocrisy of the synagogue leaders. And he says, and you are evil and do that. Speak a word, Heavenly Father, in this place that would cause your name to get all of the glory and all of the honor and all of the praise. You're praying for a family member, a loved one, a friend. He lets them know they have their reward for what they're doing. I am convinced that there are far too many born again children of God, part of the family of Christ, adopted into his family with the name of So on this morning as we look here in this particular passage of scripture, I need to kind of open up something and help us to understand that all prayer is not the same. There's different kinds of prayers. Don't you dare disqualify yourself from the blessing that God has for you, for the answer to the prayer God has for you. We're talking about bread and meat here. I need your power. Prayer allows you to withstand the enemy's assaults. Then there is the prayer of confession. If you're at the door, that means you've moved from where you were and you've gotten close enough to whatever it is that you need. I didn't ask you that you speak well. He says, if you then being evil know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will the father who Draw them, Lord God, this day out of darkness into the your marvelous light. Too much pride to ask. Because in the context of this passage in Matthew chapter 6, verse 33, he tells us what to seek and how. There's something inside there and on the other side that door that belongs to me. Little old me. Father, if there are others here in the midst who have drifted in fellowship, preach a word through these lips of clay that would draw them back into fellowship with you. Get up there and we say this is what it really gets me. Jesus said, what normal parent do you know that when their child is hungry and the child Verse 8 says, everyone who asks receives. He sits down with the voices behind the song. Or what man is there among you who if his son acts for bread will give him a stone? There's prayer of intercession. Seek first the kingdom of God and the righteousness of God. Now, I'm gonna have to travel back in time a little bit. He says, and his righteousness. If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your father, who is in heaven, give good things to the Amen. We need to put our father's stamp on it. There's none like him. If you didn't come that far. I need your strength. You're petitioning a God who is above every other God. Petition is when you're asking for something. Get right there, won't even knock. But the prayer that you are probably most commonly familiar with and you probably thought was the only kind of prayer We call it the Lord's Prayer, but it's just an outline to outline for them how prayer ought to be structured. What normal parent do you know that would give them a stone? And so the example that he's giving here is that no normal parent would do this, especially when we're talking about the essential needs of That's not really what his name is. And so if I get your heart focused on heaven, because in heaven there are the treasures that are the answers to the prayers you're gonna pray. Matter of fact, sometime in our prayer of Thanksgiving, we ought to just be thanking Him for being God. I'm just I'm just meditating on him. There ain't no sign on the door that says only those who do have degree knock. Father in heaven, we need you on this day that you might preach a clear word from on high. Prayer brings joy, rejoicing, and peace. I know Chuckston came back now, but there was a time when Chuck Taylors cost $12. Ain't none of us qualified. Now this prayer is when you are confessing your wrong. His kingdom is coming. And let your heart be focused on heaven because there are treasures in heaven. And he says here in the text, ask and it will be given. You're approaching a God who has the ability to provide everything you need. So he's kind of teaching them this whole idea of prayer. So guess what? We have been preaching through a series of messages entitled Don't Underestimate the Power But what I want you to understand in the process of this whole series of messages that prayer is powerful. Believe it or not, I thought this was simple. He is superior and supreme. And if your mind is on the treasures of heaven, if you're seeking first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, he's got the power to release it in your direction. The following program is sponsored by Kettering Baptist Church. A sandwich. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. That's what I'm praying or you're praying in the place of someone else. First of all, we need to acknowledge and identify who we're talking to. I need your articulation. There is the prayer of thanksgiving. And so around about chapter six he begins to turn and focus his attention of teaching on But don't take on that hypocritical kind of prayer attitude. Oh Lord, I'm not gonna knock because he might say no. Now, this is what I call the parental petition example because what he does, he uses the example of a There is power in the prayer of petition. Broke. Knock on the door. Knock, and the door will be open to you. They get right there in it and God saying, look, I got this for you. The children had the basic essentials of life. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Maybe that's where you are today. If you're at the door, your blessing is on the other side. I didn't have all the fancy stuff, but mama and daddy made sure I had the basic things. We call him Satan Slowfoot the devil. And he says, put pride aside, ask. This is what we do. Because by the time holes got in them in my day, it was time to get rid of them Let the Spirit of God pray through you. And on the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus is teaching and preaching, if you will, giving insight to his disciples and all that are gathered there His name is holy. Seek and you will find. Since you didn't let me in, I'm gonna ask, I'm gonna knock Y'all gotta forgive me for my regression, but there was a time when parents would sacrifice Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. Who couldn't use that kind of peace? That's when you come before God. And a whole lot of people don't have certain things because you haven't asked for it. Disqualifying yourself. That's what we're talking about. Ain't got a dime to your name. Not asking for anything, just exalting Him and worshiping Him and praising Him. You got a spread laid out there in the house, and you say, Come on in, help yourself. See, a whole lot of people have sought the kingdom. He was not saying you need to say these exact words. Don't turn around just because there's a door there. They did what they could, and they did everything they could to make sure the basic essentials were there for you. That's a great question. Oh Lord, I didn't press my way all the way up here. Maybe today, the petition that you have is a prayer first of repentance. I'm thinking about him. Our father who ought to heaven. Let us not be able to just sit by the fire, but Lord, let us come into It is us speaking to God, but also us taking time to listen to God speak to us. And guess what? You've got to understand you're not asking a mother or father who is earthly who Pastor, is he saying seek what you want? We let fear and self-disqualification keep us from the answer to our petition. And now, Pastor Sterling. I need you, God, to speak through me so that the people who hear this word would know they have heard from you. But on today, I want to kind of focus on petition prayer in this series of chapters here. Well, I nobody ain't gonna hire me. His will be done. The power of petition, boy, I tell you, don't erase your own blessing by disqualifying yourself. His name is above every other name because But in the olden days, mama and daddy worked two, three jobs to make sure there was food on the table. Last thing I'm out of your way. That's when you're praying, just giving thanks to God for the multitude, the blessings that He's poured in your life, for the protection of your The reason why sometimes we pray for stuff and even after we get it, we Why does he have to tell me to ask? Open the door. But earthly things will not satisfy a kingdom person. Now, an earthly person will be greatly satisfied with earthly things. Then all the things will be added to you. First of all, you have to prepare for the enemy. You tell him what he doesn't know that you need. He's giving you the structure for approaching the throne of God. You weren't qualified to be in the kingdom of heaven. So he says, if you are evil and won't do that, why did you expect your father to do something? He's going to give you three things to do to persevere in your pursuit of petitionary. And he who seeks finds. Knock and it will be open to you. What things, Pastor? And if you seek the kingdom and the righteousness, all the other things, what you want, things, all the other things will be added to you. Knock on the door like you the police You've got to understand the preeminence Or maybe your prayer today is a prayer that says, Lord, I need to return to you. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Ketarick. And the peace that it comes through prayer is I'm I'm waiting to hear from him. You satin at the lunch table with your buddies and your friends. Do you know any normal normal? Well I ain't qualified to knock on the door That's what he gives the structure. Pastor, you gotta be kidding me. For additional information, go to our website at Ketteriministries. And then finally, praying And then last week we looked at Ephesians chapter six. Amen. And then he comes back a second time he says, and also what normal parent do you know that when He also gives them what Now here's the idea and concept of knock. There is a prayer of dedication and constant There is no God like God. He also tells them: don't be praying just in vain repetition, saying the same thing And so what we need to do when we pray, we need to first of all address Now I'm going back a ways because the modern day parent might not exactly function like that You gotta see the preeminence of the petition provider Not my will, not your will, but his will be done. Knock on the door. We saw in Ephesians that our enemy is not flesh and blood, but it's spiritual wickedness and heavenly places. You are confessing your sin. All the things that heaven has in the treasury for you, they'll be added to you. I don't have no degree. You got right there. I'm too old. Open your mouth and ask. I want that kingdom ticket. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast. You're interceding on someone. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. They like to pray out loud and in public, all adorned, and and they want to be I want to invite our attention on this morning to Matthew chapter 6. No. None of us is qualified, none of us deserves it, but the grace of God That's a great question. A word that may cause someone who's lost to come asking, What must I He gives us that as an hour He starts off by Because there are people who, even though they have me, pride won't let them ask. See, we get to the door and we're like, well hang on. You mean to tell me people can have need and not ask? And he says, knock, and the door will be open. Ain't nobody asked you how old you were. I've been slaving, I've been fasting, I've been praying, and I'm at the door. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast Our parents did what they could to make sure we had and that we had the basics. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. And then we need to hollow his name. You want something to eat? What he was doing is giving the structure He's not saying go seeking after stuff. Well, um I don't m. And to him who knocks, it will be open. I'm in poised position to re When I read this, I said, Well, you know, you can't knock unless you've pressed your Now he's bringing you their stories. or 11 a. He focused on this petition prayer. And I didn't get no Chuck Taylors, but I had tennis shoes. You need to know who your enemy is and who you're fighting. And so that's the prayer petition when we're asking God It's in Jesus' name I pray And knock on it like something behind the door belongs to you. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Or if he acts for a feel I want to be able to get in, but they're not seeking the righteous walk. No, I'm alright The One Degree of Andy podcast. Because where your heart is, We also learned on last week we need to also pray in the spirit, that is Y'all do know of something And if you open your mouth and ask, it will be given m. He has unlimited And we pray, our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. To approach his throne, understanding that his name is holy. So I'm praying They went without at our new edifice. So as we come There is the prayer of praise and worship. I had at least a pair of pants Knock on the door. So he says, look, we need to persevere in the petition. Or if So I want to talk Oh yeah. He's giving us a structure for prayer, an outline for prayer. So he says, Set your mind and your affections on It's simple. And then there is a prayer also of meditation. Prayer is dialogue. Now you might not have had the top of the I'm Andy Christman. org Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. He says, ask. Everyone. It's not Hollywood. And so we started this journey in Philippians. Now, Lord, I surrender myself as a value. Ask for what you want. Now he's bringing you their stories. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. I like this. Ask, and it will be given. But far too many people. Sometimes in our The One Degree of Andy podcast. Watch this. You know, Hollywood is not his name. Second But there's a door He says they're just going to be added. I'm Andy Christman. Listen now to