Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. Amen. Bless his holy and adorable name. This morning, Katherine, I want to invite your attention to Genesis chapter 3. In Genesis chapter three, where we will find our text on this morning, the word of the Lord reads as follows: Now the serpent was more cunning than any beast of the field which the Lord God had made. And he said to the woman, Has God indeed said, You shall not eat of every tree of the garden? And the woman said to the serpent, We may eat of the fruit of the trees of the garden, but of the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the garden. God has said, You shall not eat it, nor shall you touch it lest you die. Then the serpent said to the woman, You will not surely die. For God knows that in the day that you eat of it, your eyes will be open, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil. Would you pray with me? Father, in the name of Jesus, I stand in need of you this morning as we attempt to open up this scripture and preach your word Father, someone is standing in the need of your assistance this morning. Someone's lost and they need a savior. Someone is drifting. And they need to be rescued. I'm praying for that one who, Father, this morning is just in trouble and crying out, have mercy on me this day. God speak a word in this occasion that might speak to the needs of the people who are listening, that might save someone who's lost, reclaim someone who's drifting, give hope to someone whose hope is slipping away. Father, give wisdom to those that are in need. And I pray most importantly, God, that all that we do and all that is said on this day, that your name will be glorified Father, I stand in need of you that you might give clarity of thought and mind and articulation of speech, that your word might be clear in the hearing of your people. Father, have your way Spirit of the Lord, manifest yourself to the tearing down of strongholds, to the uprooting of that which is not of God. Spirit of the Lord Move now, not only in this sanctuary, but through the airways and through the platforms that you are allowing the word to go forward in. So have your way, God, and we will bless you and we will glorify you, for you are worthy of it all in Jesus' name. Amen. This morning, Katharine, I want to try to be of help uh to some people who are being adversely affected. By lies. More specifically, I want to try to be of help to some people who are being adversely affected by lies From the liar. Are y'all still here with me? Can I can I let me just let me just read a passage so that I can give clarity to what I'm trying to say here. John chapter 8, verse 44, when Jesus is talking to the Pharisees and they're kind of going back and forth because they think that God is their father, he responds to them in John 8, 44 and says, You are of your father, the devil And you desire your desires of your father, you want to do He was a murderer from the beginning and does not stand in the truth because there is no truth in him. When he speaks a lie, he speaks from his own resources. For he is a liar and the father of it. I really what I'm really trying to say this morning is that the devil is a liar. And uh I want to actually preach from that topic right out of this text this morning as God will give strength and direction that the devil is a liar. I need somebody just to go ahead and repeat that with me this morning, whether you're sitting on your bedside at the kitchen table or right here in the sanctuary. I just need you to repeat that this morning because I want you to get it in your spirit I want this reality to sink and settle in you such that it is a part of what you think all the time. The devil is a liar. But I need you to say with a level of conviction that the devil is a liar. Alright, y'all getting better. That's getting better. That's getting better. Now I want you to keep preaching that to yourself throughout this week. I want you to keep Saturating yourself with that because I what I'm while I'm standing here right now, there's a scheme already set in place for you. There's already a lie being uh conspired to come your direction. In fact There's a lie you're wrestling with right now. In fact, some of you have been wrestling with the lie for a while, but I I I stopped by to tell the truth this morning and let you know that the devil is a liar. Amen. Somebody the devil he he lies. And what John said, when he lies, it comes from his own resources. Repeat a lie. He is the father of lies for the devil is a liar. I'm really trying to help somebody this morning. I know y'all are trying to figure where is he going with all this. I'm I'm I'm I'm trying to come up your street. I'm trying to walk through your bedroom. I'm trying to walk through the kitchen in dining room I'm I'm trying uh to come through the family room and talk to you wherever you are this morning on your On your radio or wherever you may hear this message, I want you to understand something, and I want it to sink and settle in your spirit as truth that cannot be refuted. The devil is a liar So in this particular text, I want you to note some things. I want you to notice a few things about this text. In the text that I read in your hearing, which is the infancy of the uh the destruction of humanity as it relates to the relationship we had with God. It is not a whole lot of stuff that the devil has to say. He he doesn't have a whole long conversation. He a matter of fact his words are very brief and His conversation is very brief, but though his conversation is brief in the text, uh his his conversation is i in the form of the lies that he tells are so powerful that they impact the the the the the destiny of mankind and in fact it's going to impact the eternal destiny of some and if not for the grace of God it will have impacted the eternal destiny of us all Stay here with me. It just goes to show you don't have to say a lot to destroy a lot. I'm preaching already. I I I I want you to see that in these matter of fact watch this in these words that he says. In verse three, he says, you shall not, uh, no, wait a minute. First four, he says, you shall, you will not surely die. That little phrase. When he says that, and I'm gonna try to open this up today, to see that he will be lying in regards to the permanency of our failure. He will be lying in regards to the potential of our future, and he will be lying about the perfection of our Father. Y'all still here with me? His question that he asks in the text, he asks the woman a question. He says, Um, did God say Has God said? Has God indeed said that you shall not eat of every tree of the garden? Now, that that's the first thing he has to say. But the first thing he has to say is a is a alley oop to the lie that he's getting ready to tell. Lord Jesus for my for my NBA fans He threw his own self and Aliuk to the slam dunk that he's about to make to destroy the relationship that God had with man. He he's he's just he's he's arranging the words and the thought processes of the woman such that he can settle the lie in so that she can go for the bait. This is important. Sometimes it just starts off in the form of a question. But the question is in contrast to what is already stated as truth. Lord have mercy. I wish I could really get this into you today. In other words, he's asking a question that he knows the answer to, but he's raising doubt about the source of truth. Y'all still hear? In other words, God already told them what they were supposed to do and what they couldn't do, but he raises a question because he wants to introduce Watch this. He wants to introduce in them the freedom to challenge God's truth And he hasn't stopped his his same approach he still uses today. He throws out a question to To invite you into the freedom and the sense of authority to challenge what God has already said is true. But can I can I guess keep right reminding you that the devil is a liar and there's no truth in him, and he's the father of lies. When he speaks a lie He speaks it of his own resources. He speaks it of himself. It comes right up out of him. He doesn't have to think about a lie. It just flows out of him because he's a liar. Y'all still here with me? The first area I want to kind of look at here in this is just a brief version, brief passage, or text. But I want you to look here as he lies about the permanency of our failure. He says in verse 4 to the woman, the woman responds, and y'all know this already, you familiar enough with this passage, I hope, that when she responds, she doesn't respond correctly. She doesn't respond exactly how God said. She added some stuff in. And I blame her husband because he was sitting there with her, but that's a whole nother sermon And nevertheless, and she so she responds, but it don't also let the devil know that she doesn't know exactly what God said. That's already a problem. Can I talk to somebody? Because you're likely to fall for a lie when you really don't know the truth. Lord help me right here. In other words, if you don't know what the Bible says, somebody can always tell you what the Bible says. Whew. And in fact, if you just know a little bit and you you you kind of sorta know it, then somebody can twist the kind of sorta to something else that's a lie. And that's what he's getting ready to do right here in the text. with the woman, but not with the man. That's a whole nother sermon because the man knew exactly what God said. But the devil is a liar and the father of it. Y'all still hear? So he lies. He gets the woman to respond, but he lies to the woman and he says to her In verse number four, he says uh to the woman, You will not surely die. Because she said in verse 3, God said that when we eat of the fruit, that you're gonna die. But he comes back and he says, You will not surely die. And so in other words, what he he's lying to her about how permanent the consequences of her actions are. In that sense, what he says to her, you're not gonna die for real, for real. You it's not really gonna be a permanent death. It's not gonna be it you not it's not gonna be holistic to I I mean you know it's it's kind of sort of not like you think it is He's lying to her, twisting it. In fact, I could almost hear him say it's not that serious. Um, you you just go ahead and do what feels good to you. I mean you ain't gotta be so uptight about it. You're not gonna really die. That's what he says. See, it's not, it's not, the consequences ain't that extreme. You're not gonna surely die. That's what he says to her. But that oh that this that act of disobedience that she and her husband enter into as a result of this lie that the devil tells Is the means by which humanity is plunged into a state of depravity and separation from God, which is Truly dying. Spiritually they die to God. And this Lord help me. But but the devil says he he he he convinces her that it's it's really not that bad and and watch this He's still telling the same kind of lie today. I know God said this, but did God really mean it that way I mean, love is love, and I mean, you know, this is this and that is that. I mean, can't can't you just do what feels right? Why can't you just go with uh what what positive energy you feel It's not that bad. You won't surely die. God won't surely kick you out. God won't surely judge you. God won't really destroy you. It's not that serious. He's still talking the same lie. There's not a lot changed about this rascal. Same old thing. Different day, different scheme, same old plan. Steal, kill, destroy. That's what he does. That's who he is. And he lies to do it. And so he he he he wants them to believe that that their disobedience is not going to be permanent. It's not is just and it's not that serious. And and I as I looked at this Um this this lie that he tells when he says, you will not surely die. You will not surely die. It's like he's saying to the woman, it's Um, you know, I know God said you were gonna die, but it's not it's not that type of dying. You ain't gonna die like that. It's not gonna be it's And he softened, trying to soften the blow. And but when I thought about that, I said, now if he'll lie about the permanency of our failure, he'll also lie about the positive benefits of our obedience. Y'all still here with me? So, in other words, he he's lying to people even today about the benefits of being obedient to God. And he does so in such subtle ways, he's always cunning and you know smooth with it. He wants people to believe that obeying God is not that beneficial. In fact, can I talk to some Christians this morning if we could just be for real, for real? Because I want you to know that he's more interested in lying to you than he is lying to those he already owns. He don't need to lie to his children, those that are his, as I read in John 8:44, they already have a desire to do what he tells them to do. That's what the scripture said. But he's more interested in lying to you about being obedient to God because if he can convince you not to be obedient to God and that there's no benefit in being obedient to God, and that there's no There's no reward in being been d being obedient to God, then he can destroy the reputation of God and he can make it seem as if the value of the death, burial, and resurrection that Christ went through to redeem you was a worthless act and he shouldn't have had to go through it anyhow because we weren't worth it. We already know that, but his lie is that that that I can destroy that reputation and so he's going to lie to you to say to you You trying too hard. Look around you at everybody else's life. They ain't going to church on Sunday. You should have sat at home And watch from your television screen. He's trying to convince you that your obedience to God, that your walk with God in obedience to God, that the benefits are not worth it. Continuing to go after. He'll even subtly say to you, you know what? You can sin a little, you can lie a little, you can cheat a little, you can get drunk a little, you can get high a little. It's not that bad. So he's going to lie to convince us. Watch this, first of all, that our disobedience doesn't have permanent Results, but also he's gonna lie to tell you that your obedience doesn't have any beneficial results to you either. And I would probably suggest if there's anybody who's really tried to live for the Lord that you've heard him whisper in your ear and tell you you're the only one that's working so hard to be so righteous. You don't have to do all that. Watch this, this is how he does. Can I can't I'm gonna just really get in everybody business. He comes to you and says, you know God loves you. See, this is how he gets you, this is how he set you up. Remember I told you to give you that setup question. You know God loves you, right? He said, yeah, right. God loves me. I'm God's child. He says, well, if God loves you, you think he mind if you just slide off a little bit? I mean I know you trying so hard and everything, but I mean really is it is it paying off? I mean you you you you doing all the right things but look your bills still ain't getting paid right. Your children still acting a fool Look at your neighbor. Look at your neighbor. They don't even go to church. Look at the car they driving. And you know how you got that car. You playing the lottery. You can go and play a cheetah little bit. God won't mind. God loves you, right? See, this is kind of he kind of whispers in your ear to lure you away in disobedience to God because he wants you to believe that Your disobedience has no permanent reactions or responses, but also your obedience is not really paying any dividends either. Y'all still here? I'm trying to get us to get to this point that the devil is a liar. He's a liar. Now, I know there's probably nobody here this morning that would testify and be honest about it and say that the that the devil has tempted you to walk away from being faithful to God. So, since y'all won't tell the truth about it this morning, let me tell the truth about it this morning. The devil has tempted me many occasions to walk away from being faithful to God. He has put in front of me opportunities, opportunities to walk away from preaching the gospel He's put in front of me opportunities to not be faithful in studying the word And so when you get tracked in if what you're studying, what they'll do is they'll send you, you know, oh you must be a preacher, so we're gonna send you sermon shortcuts. Online sermons. So I don't have to spend Friday, Saturday, Thursday, Friday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednes Tuesday, Thursday, Friday, sir, preparing for A sermon I could just boop push a button and there's my Sunday sermon. That's a temptation. To not be faithful to what I've been called to do. The devil is a liar. I just say the devil is a liar. Delete. I've been tempted to not have to deal with sanctified, set apart, blood wash. Hardheaded, stiff-necked people. I'm just trying to be honest this morning. I'm trying to be transparent. Y'all can look at me all funny like, oh bless me. Yeah, I have I have it ain't easy, it ain't easy. And sometimes the devil whispers in my ear and says, you know, you could have a nine to five. You could be punching in and punching out, and you wouldn't have to deal with all of this, but I've been called by God and I can't. And walk away from it, and I realize the devil is a liar. So he tells this woman in the text. He says you will not surely die. And when he tells her that, he is lying about the permanence of our failure because we were plunged into Darkness and separation from God as a result. But secondly, he lied about the potential of our future when he told her, you will not surely die For when he said you will not surely die, our he was saying about our future, that our future would not include death. That's what he was saying. So he was lying about our future when he said you will not surely die. He was saying our future is bright. And promising. Our future would not have depravity. Our future would not include separation from God. He's lying, but he's a liar. That's what he does. We shouldn't be surprised. He lies. And he goes on not just to stop there when he's uh building this lie about the potential of our future. But he lies some more. Verse number five, he says, for God knows That in the day that you eat of it, that is the fruit, your eyes will be open. This is what he says about our future. Your eyes will be open and you will be like God, knowing good and evil. He lies again. He lies. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed By today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries And remember to reference the title or broadcast date. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301 627-9500. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family. Minister in the Spirit of Excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing You, their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. One Degree of Andy Podcast. Listen now to one degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts