Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety and now Pastor Sterling. I want to ask you to turn y to uh Genesis chapter forty eight. We'll begin reading at verse number one and we'll also look at a few verses in chapter forty-nine. The word of the Lord reads as follows. Now it came to pass after these things that Joseph was told, Indeed, your father is sick. And he took with him his two sons, Manasseh and Ephraim. And Jacob was told Look, your son Joseph is coming to you, and Israel strengthened himself and sat up on his bed. Then Jacob said to Joseph, God Almighty appeared to me in Lus in the land of Canaan and blessed me and said to me, Behold, I will make you fruitful and multiply you, and I will make of you a multitude of people, and give you this land to your descendants after you as an everlasting possession. Now Uh your two sons Ephraim and Manasseh who were born to you in the land of Egypt before I came to you in Egypt are mine, as Reuben and Simeon, they shall be mine. Your offspring whom you begot after them shall be yours, and they will be called by the names of their brothers in their inheritance. But as for me When I came from Padam Rachel died before me in the land of Canaan on the way, when there was but a little distance to go to Ephrath. And I buried her there on the way to Aphrath, that is, Bethlehem. Then Israel saw Joseph's sons and said, Who are these? And he said, Please bring them to me, and I will bless them. If you would turn over to CHAPTER forty nine, verse twenty-eight. Chapter 49, verse 28 says, And these are the twelve tribes of Israel, and this is what their fathers spoke to them. And he blessed them, and he blessed each one according to his own blessing. Then he charged them and said to them, I am to be gathered to my people. Bury me with my fathers in the cave that is in the field of Ephraim, the Hittite, in the cave that is in the field of Mekpelah. which is before Mamre in the land of Canaan, which Abraham bought with the field of Ephraim the Hittite, and as a possession for a burial place. And there they buried Abraham and Sarah, his wife, and there they buried Isaac and Rebekah, his wife, and there I buried Leah. The field and the cave, that is, there, were purchased from the sons of Heth. And when Jacob had finished commanding his sons, he drew his feet up into the bed, and breathed his last. And was gathered to his people. Would you pray with me? Father, we bless you on this morning. Thank you for the word of God. Thank you for this opportunity once again to declare your word Father, I pray that even now the power and presence of your Holy Spirit will manifest itself in this place. That if there's anybody listening that doesn't know you as Lord and Savior, has not come into that personal relationship with you, God, I pray that today will be the day That their hearts will be open to receive you as Lord and Savior and surrender to you. Father, for those that are drifting in their fellowship I pray you draw them back to you, God. Help them to realize even the more how much they need you. And I pray that they will reconcile the differences and they will come back to you today. Father, edify this body, for we need to hear a word from you. We need your guidance. We need your instruction. We need your wisdom, Lord God, that we might live this life. I pray, eternal God, that you might have your way in all that is done and said. As I yield myself as an instrument in your hand, use me, God. I need your strength, your power. Allow my tongue to be clear, allow my thoughts to be clear. Lord, and I pray that when you have done what you are deciding to do in this place, And through me, Lord, that we would just pause to say to your name belongs all glory. And that we would give you all that is due unto you, because you alone are worthy of the praise. So thank you, God, in advance for what you're going to do We're going to honor you. We're going to bless you. We're going to glorify you in the mighty name of Jesus Christ. I pray and I thank you for what you're about to do in this place. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. But there is one particular thing that we have a tendency to live as though there's no time for, and that is our departure. I know you're enjoying it down here. You're just so involved and so wrapped up and everything that's happening. You never want to leave. But uh we have to leave here. Ecclesiastes chapter seven there is a common saying that we should cry at birth and rejoice at death. The problem is the reason why we can't rejoice at death is because most people haven't prepared for it. And so at death what happens is instead of rejoicing, it's fighting and chaos and confusion. So as much as we don't like to talk about it, I just thought about to let you know we're going to die. Except and unless the rapture comes, and then we'll be caught up and meet the Lord in the air, and we will forever be with him Which would be wonderful. The fact that you prepare to die does not mean you're about to die right now. And if you have family members who get sad because you're preparing, you let them know you'll be sadder if I don't prepare. In this text, what we get to see is Jacob prepares for his death. People are so afraid to deal with this reality of life, which is death. Because in in all honesty, from the very moment we break the wound, from the very moment we come into this world, we are already dying. It's a progression of death. We're moving towards it every day. When I'm preaching um homegoing services, I like to remind people that you're dying and they they kind of look at me funny and I say, Well, you don't believe me, go back home and check the ring around the tub That dirt around the tub, it's not just dirt, that's dead skin. That's your body dying away. And so the message on this morning is preparing for your departure. I kinda try to break out four areas that I believe it is important for us in our preparation for our departure. Jacob makes this statement here, Genesis forty-eight, verse three. God Almighty appeared to me at Luz in the land of Canaan, and he blessed me, and he said to me, Behold, I I'm gonna make you fruitful and multiply you. I'm gonna make you your your your the as the multitude of people. I'm gonna give you this land and your descendants as an everlasting possession. First point here I want to kinda talk through is you need some departure plans for your soul. Since all of us are going to die, and after death comes judgment, it is to every one of our advantage to make some departure plans for your soul. Make sure that your soul is safe. And in order to assure that your soul is safe, you need to have an encounter with God. Jacob was Running from his brother that he had tricked out of his birthright. And on the way he ran to the mountain and he he fell and he saw angels descending and ascending from heaven. And it was there that he had this encounter with God, and he was intrigued with what he saw. And it caused him to draw nearer because when God shows up, it has a tendency to cause you to come nearer. He calls this place Bethel. In other words, he says, this place is the house of God. And as he's there, he has this supernatural encounter with God. And later on in the text of Genesis, somewhere around Genesis chapter 32, we find that Jacob is having this encounter with God to the extreme that he's wrestling with God because God is trying to deal with him in the wickedness of his way. And I'm trying to help us to understand that before you leave here, you need to have an encounter with God that causes you and God to wrestle with the wickedness that you have within you. God deals with Jacob because Jacob was a trickster. He tricked his brother out of his birthright. And God had to deal with him. And he dealt with him until Jacob said to God, I'm not going to let you go until you bless me. We need to have those kind of encounters with God. We need to have an encounter with God that causes us to realize I need a blessing from God. My life is a mess. I'm wicked. I'm tore up from the floor. I can't fix this thing myself. The only way I'm gonna get to heaven, I need you, and so I'm not letting go till you bless me But that not only does it have this encounter with God, he gets an everlasting promise from God. God blesses him and he says to him right there in the text, I'm gonna bless you and your descendants with this land as an everlasting possession. Listen to me. So what you and I need as an everlasting promise from God is we need an everlasting relationship with Christ. One who won't ever leave us or forsake us. We need that eternal promise from God that he who has the Son has life, and he who does not have the Son does not have life. We need that eternal promise from God. So, in order to prepare my soul, I need some eternal promises and I need to have an encounter with God. Secondly, we need departure plans for our service. In chapter 47 Verse 29, what Jacob is doing is he is making sure that his family knows where his plot is. It says, When the time drew near that Israel must die, he called his son Joseph and said to him, Now, if I have found favor in your sight, please put your hand under my thigh and deal kindly and truly with me. Please do not bury me in Egypt. But let me lie with my fathers, and you shall carry me out of Egypt, and bury me in the burial place. And he said, I will do as you have said. He talks about where he wants to be buried. And he later on he says, look, this is the plot that Abraham bought. And Abraham was buried there with Sarah. And Isaac was buried there with Rebecca. And I'm buried Leah there. And I I want you to make sure that's the plot. That's my plot where I'm gonna be buried. As I look at that, I can't help but think That in the process of our burials, we need to make sure we have a plot. Some of you have bought plots and nobody knows where that is. And when you die, we don't know where to put you. Do you know that the cost of the average funeral today is between eleven and fifteen thousand dollars? And if you get cremated is about eight thousand dollars. There is something called a life insurance policy. Get one. That will as a minimum cover your burial fees. For those of you who have children or the family relies on your income, I want you to think about this. When you die, who how is your spouse going to take care of the children without you and without your income. So you need to make sure that your insurance policy has some money to take care of that. In the planning of your services, it is good to work on your program in advance. Number one thing I always encourage people to do is write your own obituary. You know what you want on there. You know if you finish school or if you want to be honest on there or not. But don't write your own obituary and hide it. You need to write it and make sure that somebody who's living behind you has it and they know where to get it. So email it out to your family or kids or somebody. Let them know, hey, in the event of my death, here's my obituary. Here's my program. If you got some ideas about your program, put that in there too, just some suggestions Keep keep all your documents organized and in a place and space so when we go looking for them when you pass away. There's some documents you're gonna need. For those of you who have military family or your military, DD 214, always gonna ask for that. Social Security information. Even if you don't give it to them now, at least tell them where it's at. Put it in the document with all your other stuff, because they're going to need that. If you apply some of this, it will make your homegoing service and celebration much easier Just as a cost saving measure, in terms of pre-planning for your home going services and all that, you can go talk to a funeral home and say, Hey, this is what I want to do, blah blah blah. You can set all that stuff up and you can start paying for it now on a payment plan. That's called pre-planning. After you pass away is called at need. The cost is 15, 10 to 15% higher when it's at need. So If you got a family member or you happen to be, and tell your children this, if I happen to be on the hospital bed and they say she got two days to leave, tell them go to the funeral home. They can save 10 to 15% on the total costs Just because you came in before the person passed away. 485 says, and now the two sons of Ephraim and Manasseh who were born to you in the Land of Egypt, before I came to you in Egypt, are mine, as Reuben and Simeon, they shall also be mine. Your offspring whom you begat after them shall be yours, and they will be called by the name of their brothers in their inheritance. And what he's doing here in these verses As it relates to his departure, what he does, Jacob promotes Ephraim and Manasseh over Reuben and Sibion. Now what he does in doing this He's now making Joseph the primary recipient of the inheritance so that Joseph gets double Than the rest of the brothers, okay? He is leaving his last will and testament. Oh, y'all got a lot of stuff. Amen. So, how do we separate this stuff? When you pass away. You need a wheel. Can I say this, mothers and fathers? Your nice children who are nice now. They're sensible. They'll sort all this out. They know what to do. No, they don't. They're gonna fight. They're gonna argue. They're gonna pit against each other. It's gonna be struggle. Right a wheel. It says this is how I want my things to be divided. And it also helps with a lot of distribution of the estate properties and stuff like that. I found out in the state of Maryland requires you to have a you have to have a literate will. Now there are some online stuff you could do. My recommendation is go to an attorney, have them write it up for you That's my recommendation. But right one. So we know how stuff is supposed to be divided. Um waste. A lot of your stuff is gonna get wasted. It's going to the landfill All them little trinkets that you got in the little curio cabinet and in the they don't care about none of that. Oh, it's gonna be worth something one day. They don't care Jacob was trying to make sure was that whatever the children had and whatever he was going to designate, he laid it out for them He let them know what to do and how to do the land and all everything. He was split it all up. He tells them. He gives blessings to each one. How they gonna do all these kind of things. And and then as a result of Jacob shifting the entitlements to Joseph That meant that the other siblings now are going to be looking at Joseph and saying, how come we didn't get it? So you need some departure plans for your stuff, whatever it is, however you're gonna distribute it. And let me say this as well, since you know that There's going to be a lot of waste of your stuff, and you know that your children don't really care about your stuff. You might want to if you've got some special you know designation for that stuff, put it in your wheel Tell them hey sell this, whatever, do whatever with it. Make sure they know whatever it's gonna be that they're gonna do. So the last thing that we see that Jacob does, he has some departure plans for his seed, and I think we need to have departure plans for our seed. Jacob in chapter 49, verse 1, Jacob called his sons, and he said, Gather together that I may tell you what shall befall you in the days in the last days. He's already talked to Joseph What Jacob does is he tells all his children about themselves. And he tells them what shall come as a result. This is what your your future in essence is coming your way. And so The ones that are trifling, he says, you trifling. So he he he tells them and lays everything out there for him. And so as it relates to your seed, my seed, the seed is when I say seed is that's your sons and daughters. Some things We need to tell our children before we die. Like if you have other children. If you have Been married before and nobody knows. You got other husbands and other wives? Tell them. Let them know. It's really very difficult to be grieving and to find out you have another set of family. At the funeral. And these people coming up hugging on your daddy or your mama, you're like, people keep a lot of secrets. What I love about what Jacob does, he unravels all of that. There's no secrets. Jacob is setting the he's setting things in order. And he lets he uncl unveils everything. So if you have any of that secret accounts, you got a car that you paying for that ain't at your driveway. Let your children know. So they don't have to deal with that. What Jacob does, he brought all his kids together, he said, Hey, this make remember This is where I want to be buried. Remember he already told Joseph. So now he comes back and he tells all them. This is how I'm going to be buried, where I want to be buried, and this is the deal Um he charged them all, verse 29 of chapter 49. He charged them all and said, I I'm I'm getting ready to be gathered to my people. I'm going to be buried with my fathers in in the cave in the field of Ephraim the Hittite. And he lays it all out for them. And verse 33, and then when he had finished commanding his sons, he drew his feet up in in the bed, breathed his last, and he was gathered to his people. But before he left Before he departed, he had planned well. He had done everything. He had set everything in order well I love this story because it aligns with what our Savior did before he left When God sent his Son Jesus Christ into the world, he was here for 33 years. And at the close of his 33 years, he knew he was getting ready to die. He called his disciples together and he says, Let me talk to y'all. He says, Look, I I've I've got to do some some preparation, some planning. I'm preparing for my departure, but I need you to know I'm I'm not gonna be with you always, but I got to leave here and and it and and I'm going to prepare a place for you, but if I go and prepare a place I'm I'm gonna come back and I'm gonna receive you to myself. He's doing the planning. He already he he he was doing some some pre-planning for them, if I can say it that way He had planned for his soul. Watch this. But before he left, he put his soul in the hands of his father. He trusted his soul into the hands of the one he knew would But have it for safekeeping. He planned for his services this way. He says, look, I don't need no long drawn-out service because I'm only gonna be in the grave for three days. But on the third day, I'm getting up with all power in my hand. They didn't understand it. They thought they were gonna have to playing a funeral they thought they were gonna have to wrap the body they thought they were gonna have to go through all that now he said don't worry about it by the time you get back to the tomb I'll already be up. I gotta plan for the stuff I'm leaving behind. Listen, he says, look, I'm going to prepare a place for you, but I'm not gonna leave you orphans. I'm gonna leave my Holy Spirit here, and the Holy Spirit will not not only be with you, it'll live in you. He says, my peace I leave. Not as the world gives, but I'm gonna give you my peace. I'm gonna leave that while I'm gone. Help me, Jesus. And he makes sure we have what we need. So that we can grieve smoothly and live on this life, but he lays every little piece and part out for us as he plans his own departure. He plans to make sure that everything is taken care of as he departs. He walks us through it in John chapter 14 and 15 and 16. It's Jesus preparing for his departure. He lets them know. And even when they they were like, oh no, we don't want you to go. He says, No, I gotta go. It's it's to your benefit that I leave. If I don't leave, the comforter is never gonna come. Help me, God. And if if if I stay here, you're gonna be grieving all the time. But I'm I'm I got to go. I got to leave here, but watch this. But I'm going to my Father's place. And I'm going to prepare you a place so that you can come where I am. That where I am, there you may be also. And the way you know Thomas said, how can we know the way? And Jesus said, I am the way. I'm the truth. I'm the life. Nobody can get to the Father except They come through me. He lays out the plan for his departure. I'm leaving here, but I'm coming back. When are you coming, Jesus? Nobody knows the day nor the hour. And I need you to live like I'm coming back When are you coming, Jesus? I'm coming like a thief in the night. You don't know when I'm coming, so you need to be living like I might be coming today. You need to get your life in order today because he just might be coming back. Today! And if you don't have Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, you're not ready. To leave here, but let me tell you this: Def doesn't ask the question, are you ready? No, Def has a roster, and he's just calling names. When death calls your name, you leaving here. The only question I have for you is are you ready for your departure? Praise the Lord! You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web Please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services. Services Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website. Facebook and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org. Or contact our church office at three zero one six two seven nine five zero zero. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. Sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your