Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now Pastor Sterling. I want to turn the attention to Luke chapter 10. We'll begin our reading at verse 30. The word of the Lord reads as follows: Then Jesus answered and said, A certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho and fell among thieves. Who stripped him of his clothing, wounded him, and departed, leaving him half dead. Now By chance a certain priest came down the road, and when he saw him, he passed by on the other side. Likewise a Levite, when he arrived at the place, came and he looked, and he passed by on the other side. But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came where he was, and when he saw him, he had compassion And so he went to him and bandaged his wounds, pouring oil and wine, and set him on his only animal, brought him to an inn, and took care of him. And on the next day when he departed, he took out two dinera, gave them to the innkeeper, and said to him, Take care of him and whatever more you spend, when I come again I will repay you. So which of these three do you think was neighbor to him who fell among the thieves Would you pray with me this morning? Father, thank you for the word of God. Thank you for your grace, your kindness, your love. I pray, eternal God, even now that your Holy Spirit would manifest itself. As we prepare to declare your word, God give strength and grace and power such as only you can. It's my prayer, eternal God, if there's anyone who doesn't know you as Lord and Savior of their life, there's anyone who's walking and drifting and Whose life is hanging in the balance and they are in need of salvation. I pray that today would be the day that they turn their heart and their life over to you. Heavenly Father, I pray that as I declare your word, that you would give my mind clarity of thought, my lips Clarity of speech, that what I say, God, might be clear in the hearing of all who hear it. Now let the words, God, of my mouth, meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight. I stand in need of you, God. So strengthen me to do thy will. In Jesus' name I pray and I thank you. Amen. Well, Catherine, we started on last week a series of messages of the things that belong to God that are holy unto him. And we kind of started that journey also in 1 Samuel chapter 15, speaking from the subject matter, stealing a little from God. I want to speak to us on this morning from the subject matter, lending to God. I realize that when we talk about lending, That automatically causes some people's jaws to tighten. I hate it when people come to me, Pastor, and talk about can you lend me this? Can you lend me this? No, get out of my face. Because I've been burned before. I lend money to this person, that person never got it back. And so we already have Some anxiety about lending. But in this case, I want to talk about not lending to your brother, your sister, or that person that's never paying you back. I'm talking about lending to God Because in Proverbs, it says, he who has compassion on the poor lends to God, and God will repay it. And so as we we delve in this, this text kind of plays itself out where the a lawyer comes up to Jesus and he asks of him a question. He says, What is it that I need to do to inherit eternal life? But he really wanted to test Jesus. So Jesus says to him, What does the law say? And he says, Well, you know, you should love the Lord the God with all your heart, soul, mind, and your neighbor as yourself. And Jesus says, okay, you got the law right. Go do that. And so the text says, in in an effort to exalt himself. He says, well, who is my neighbor? And what Jesus does when people want to act like they don't know, he'll help you understand what you act like you don't know. So he he shares a parable with him, which a parable is a it's an earthly story that has heavenly or divine meaning. By tell taking you through a story and you get caught up in the story and then he's Then he points you out in the story so you can have the answer to the question that you had or the way in which you thought you act like you didn't know, he kind of reveals it to you in the process of a parable. And he said, so we that brings us to where we are, where he he began in verse 30, and he says, then he starts to tell this parable of a certain man. He doesn't name the man, just this could be anybody. A certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and he fell among thieves. And they stripped him and of his clothing, and they wounded him, and they departed, leaving him half dead. The first movement as I talk about this whole idea of lending to God is the process of a condition. Being created. Because in verse 30, what we literally are watching is we're watching the process of a condition Being created. Now, I need to confess something, and don't don't be hating on me because I'm trusting y'all with my confession. I am not greatly sympathetic. Two panhandlers on the street. When when you know you know when you drive up and people on the side of the road and they got signs and stuff. Hungry, need help, and they put the children out there and they hold and I'm just not I'm not greatly sympathetic to those people And and can I just be I'm gonna just be transparent for a moment. Don't judge me, because God's gonna judge me. Oftentimes when I pull up and I see the sign, this is just me, I'm I'm looking at what they're wearing. Some thinking, man, you dressing better than I am. Sometimes, you know, you got on I can't even afford them tennis shoes. You got on Jo Air Jordans and you out here asking for help. That's one thing. I think I look at what the how they dressed and stuff like that. Now I know all of this is wrong. I'm confessing. All of this is wrong. This is what I do. I look I I check out what they how they dress. I I and then I think to myself, you look pretty healthy. You could be working somewhere. And matter of fact, if you go right across the street, right over there, there's a help warning sign. You can go wash some dishes, you can go rake some lead. Y'all, y'all Am I the only one as Okay. Well this is my confession. Okay. So I'm not I'm not greatly sympathetic to people that And me and God was having a conversation about this before y'all judge me. So me and God was having a conversation about this, and especially as it relates to this text, because I was looking in this text and I was saying, okay, here's this dude on the side of the road and He needs help. And so in the same way that I have this reservation about and and I've I'm not very I didn't say I'm I'm I didn't say I'm compl I'm not completely sympathetic at all. I say I'm not very sympathetic. Okay, there's a difference. Doesn't mean I'm not I'm not compassionate at all. I'm just not very sympathetic. I just that I don't ride up and say, oh man, let me grab my wallet, let me see how much I can give you. That's just not me. I'm not that guy. I'm not that dude. Money comes hard. So me and God was having a conversation and God said to me and and this this was revelatory, God said There are panhandlers, the the panhandlers, that's their career. This man on the side of the road, this is his condition. Watch this. And God revealed this to me. He said, There are people that you're gonna come upon. Some of whom this is their career. In other words, they beg that's their profession. They have no intention on getting a job. That is their job. Y'all follow me? In other words, they get up, they get up in the morning. In the same way you get up to go to your government job, they get up in the morning at 6. 30, 7 o'clock. They take their shower, they do whatever they're gonna do, they polish their sign off, they rag their jeans up a little bit You know, put a little smudge on their face or whatever. And this is their job. Their job is to go out and to convince you To give up the money that you have worked for so that they don't have to work any harder than standing out on the street in the middle of the rain, the cold, and all the different other climates To ask you for money. That's their career. They do it for a living. Don't judge me. This is this is what God revealed to me. But there are other people who find themselves in situations Be not because this isn't something they professionally do. They've just found themselves in a condition. Where they need help. Y'all still here? So there's two there's two different kinds of people that we may come across on the side of the road. This man in verse 30, we're going to get the opportunity to watch the process of the condition being created in his life. Stay here with me. Watch this. Verse 30 says, A certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho. A certain man. We don't know who the man is, but this man He's healthy as much as we can tell. He has viability as much as we can tell. He's living a normal life as much as we can tell There's nothing unusual that's depicted about him in the text other than he is a certain man who's leaving from Jerusalem and he's on his way to Jericho, and more likely than not, this is a Jewish man. Okay, so everything's okay. He's good, he's cool, he's a middle-class dude just like you and me. So that's how things start off. But now, as he's traveling along this dangerous Desert road from Jericho, uh rather from Jerusalem to Jericho while he's on his way traveling. This is an 18-mile track. And the road is not like 301. It's not a road like the road that comes into your community. It's not a road where cars are riding up and down and there's room on the side for bicycles. It's not that kind of road. This is a dirt path that's That's kind of a uh how do you say um almost a a a foot-drawn path that's that's walking through the desert And the the climate is hot and it's deserty and it's dusty and and there's there's areas where people can hide and and jump out on you. So so this isn't so so this is what we we gotta change our thinking when we think about this dude on the side of the road because we're thinking like he's laying, I'm riding by my car and I see him on the side of the road. No, it's not that. This dude is laying As a matter of fact, the road that he is that he's laying on, we call it a rope, it would be a footpath. And and this changes the dynamic of the story because It changes how the people who come upon him have to pass him. If if we're talking about a road that leads into your community, someone can be laying on the side of the road And you can pass them by and not perhaps not even see them. But in this case, you're walking down the road Or you're coming down the road with your animal, your mule, or your donkey, or whatever it is you got, but but it's only enough room for you to pass. And so if I'm laying in the road, you got to step over me. To pass by me. Are y'all still here with me? I'm trying to help us. So this dude is laying on the side of the road, but watch this. This is how he got there. He's a normal guy. Everything is well. He's taking this 18-mile track down this road and like a footpath. And he fell among thieves So in other words, thieves jumped out on him. Oh help me. Let me see if I can make this plain. They they carjacked him. Donkeyjacked him. Something. Snuck up on him. And and watch, listen to the text. It says, he fell among these who stripped him of his clothes. So they took his they took his Canada goose jacket. So we'll we'll take that. You know, this I'm just trying to make it modern day. This is stuff that's happening right now every day in our own communities and societies. I like that jacket. I'm taking it. They took his jacket. They took his clothes, and they and then they beat him up. And they left him on the side of the road, and the text says half dead. He didn't start his journey in this condition. This condition built and built and built until he got into this position. Help me, Jesus. I'm trying to help us to understand. Don't don't don't look so far down on somebody else because of their condition. Because you and I may be on our way to a condition that we don't even see. Lord have mercy, Jesus. When this guy left on his way to Jericho, he thought everything was wonderful and fine. He had no idea he was going to need some help along the way Help me God when you got up this morning and you checked your bank account and you knew you still had a job and you had some money in the bank and everything was wonderful, you thought everything was fine, but you might be on your way walking into a condition. Your doctor gave you a good report on Friday. He said everything is fine with you. I'll see you in another year. But you don't know what's going on inside your body because nowadays they don't even check everything. And so you might be on your way to a condition. This this this guy Falls upon thieves, falls among thieves. They they they steal from him. They they beat him and and he cannot help himself now. He's laying on the side of the road Progressively, he was traveling alone. He was on a dangerous path. He fell among thieves. You see the progression of things? He was robbed and beaten and left for dead. And now he has a condition that he needs some help. That was a process. And then as the text continues to build, we see the process of people choosing what to do. There's three people in the text that have a choice of what they can do. We start the text with this priest. Okay? Now, let me talk about the priest Let me read. So now by chance, a certain priest came down that road, the same footpath from Jerusalem to Jericho. Here comes a priest, a Jewish priest. He's coming down now. I need to I need to I need to open up this this vision of this for you This priest watch this who Eats the food that's provided by God. This priest who lives in the house of God This priest who ministers before the people on behalf of God. This priest. Who uh who has the benefit of wearing the holy clothes of God This priest has all of this going on for him and he he comes upon this man who has a condition. Not a career, he's not a professional beggar. This guy fell into this, progressively grew into this, and he comes upon them. And now this priest has a choice. Will I help him? Will I lend to God of the resources that I have that really belong to God anyway? Or not. And the text says, and when he saw him, he passed by on the other side. The priest, the man of God, the holy, sanctified man Even what the priest has is provided for him by the holy tithes of the people that come into the temple. So what he's handling every day and what is sustaining him belongs to God. Comes from God and is uniquely given by people who are trusting God, and yet when he comes upon someone who has a need, he chooses to go the other way. Instead of lending to God. Then there's another one. Verse 32. Likewise a Levite. When he arrived at the place, he came and he looked, and he passed by on the other side also, the Levite. The Levite is is a Jewish servant who serves in the house of God. The Levites Are the chosen of the tribes of Israel who are the possession of God? And God says to the Levites, You can't own anything because I am your inheritance. This Levite who has God as his inheritance. This Levite who survives from the resources that come into the house of God. This associate minister who's on staff. His whole family is eaten from the table of God. He comes upon this man who has a condition, who's on the side of the road, who's half dead, and he looks I said, mm-mm, you're not getting none of none of what belongs to me. But wait a minute, Pastor. So everything belongs to who? God. But this priest passes by. Now the Levite passes by, and this dude on the side of the road, who still has a condition, is still laying on the side of the road. Let me see if I can dig in a little deeper. Finally, verse 33, a Samaritan comes But a Samaritan, as he journeyed, he came where he was, and when he saw him, he had compassion. Let me let me let me let me see if I can can move us through that. Because this Samaritan, watch this. Jews and Samaritans have no dealings with each other. They are diametrically opposed to each other. We already established that most likely the man who's laying on the side of the road is a Jew. The two people who passed him by are Jews. Y'all still hear? And not only are they Jews, they're just not Jews. They are they these these are the people that live in God's house, that are benefiting from God's resources, and they won't use God's resources to help another Jew. Now comes a Samaritan, and Samaritans have no dealings with Jews Matter of fact, what Jews do to avoid passing through Samaria is they'll take the long way around. To avoid even passing by or coming in contact with Samaritans at all. But this Samaritan comes along. And has compassion. But watch this. Before compassion kicks in, there's something here in the text that I think is going to help us all. The text says, and when he saw him, y'all see that? Herein is the problem I think that we have Because I know y'all thinking, where are we in the text? I'm bringing you to it. I think the problem we have in our life is what this text is manifesting. The text manifests something that is simple but is profound. The Samaritan saw him. Lord have mercy. The Levite just looked and kept going. It didn't tell you what the priest did. He just jumped to the other side of the road and kicked it on. But the but the but the Samaritans saw him. I'm trying to help us here because there's a lot of people in our lives, there's a lot of circumstances around us, and we just don't take the time to see There's a lot of people that are hurting. There's a lot of people who are in need. There's a lot of opportunities that we have to use God's resources to bless his kingdom, but we just don't see it. And so therefore, because we don't see them, we don't witness to them. This Samaritan saw him. And after he saw him, the text says he had compassion. You will never have compassion until you see what people are going through. Praise the Lord You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org. Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he said Down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations, you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.