Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucha Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now Pastor Sterling. I want to invite your attention to Isaiah chapter 43, verse number 10. The word of the Lord reads as follows, you are my witnesses, says the Lord, and my servant whom I have chosen. That you may know and believe me and understand that I am He. Before me there was no God formed, nor shall there be after me. I, even I, am the Lord. And besides me, there is no Savior. I have declared and saved, I have proclaimed, and there was no foreign God among you. Therefore you are my witnesses, says the Lord, that I am God. And indeed, before the day was, I am he. There is no one who can deliver out of my hand. I work, and no one will reverse it. Thus says the Lord, your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel, your for your sake I will send to Babylon and bring them down as fugitives, the Chaldeans who rejoice in their ships I am the Lord, your holy one, the creator of Israel, your King. Thus says the Lord, who makes a way in the sea. and a path through the mighty waters, who brings forth chariots and horses, the army and the power. They shall lie down together They shall not rise. They are extinguished. They are quenched like a wick. Do not remember the former things, nor consider the things of old. Behold, I will do a new thing. Now it shall spring forth, and shall you not know it, I will even make a road in the wilderness and rivers in the desert. The beast of the field will honor me, and the jackals and the ostrich, because I give waters in the wilderness, the rivers in the desert. To give drink to my people, my chosen. This people I have formed for myself, and they shall declare my praise. Father, bless our word on today, our experience in front of you. I pray that you would empower me to declare your word in such a way that it's clear. That it helps us in the circumstance and the situation we find ourselves in today. Someone, God, may be here or under the sound of my voice, viewing via live stream, or perhaps they'll tune in at some future time Who does not know you as personal Lord and Savior of their life? They've heard about you, but they don't know you They haven't come into that place where they've surrendered their life to you. They're still trying to do it on their own. God, I'm praying that today the power of the word would meet them on the pages of their life and cause them to surrender to you and give their heart and their life to you. That their eternal destiny might be secured with you in heaven. Father, I'm praying for that one who's walked away from you, who's drifted in the fellowship Who God has not been what they ought to be, who's not walked the way they should. But God, I pray that on today, that through the preaching of this gospel, you would draw them back into the fellowship with you. That they would renew the broken fellowship and be restored today. Spirit of the Lord, it is my prayer that in the process of preaching that you would allow each and every one of us to be edified And that we might grow closer to you, that we might have greater wisdom and insight to live this Christian life. Father, in the name of Jesus, I need you as I stand here to declare your word, allow for my Thoughts to be clear, my speech to be clear. I need you, God, that you might speak the very oracle through me, that you might accomplish what you desire to be accomplished on this day. Lord, and when it's all said and done We'll give your name all the glory and all the honor and all the praise for you, God alone, are worthy of it all. You are holy. And we bless your holy name in this place. So have your way now, God. In the powerful and precious name of Jesus who is the Christ, I pray. Amen. Isaiah chapter 43 tells the story of God's redemption planned for Israel, his chosen people. It unravels, if you will, a long history of God's faithfulness and his uh protective uh practices over uh this chosen people Israel. It is a passage, if you will, where oftentimes we come to the to draw strength from. I want to talk to you from the subject matter, confidence for the future. This word comes in a time where perhaps uh Israel is watching their their powerful stand with God and their Their favor from God to wane and falter. And perhaps they're at a place, and perhaps some of you have entered into this place on today, and you're at a similar place where your confidence is failing. What Isaiah says to us in this text is that Israel, you ought to have confidence in the future, but It comes through, first of all, knowing the person of God. He says in verse 10, you are my witnesses, says the Lord. Let me help you who might be struggling in this place this morning. I want you to understand something. The confidence that you have Or can have in the future will depend on you knowing the person of God. Have you ever met someone, or perhaps you've been in the company of someone, and From the outside, you have a certain perspective of them. In fact, some of these kind of people they might even tell you, I'm a difficult person And it doesn't take long before you could probably agree with them. But if you get to know the person beyond the persona You'll find out that outwardly they might be a difficult person, but inwardly they're warm and friendly. And then on the other hand, there are some folk that you meet on the outside who are warm and friendly. But when you really get to know the person, you'll find out that they're conniving, backstabbing, unfaithful, selfish. And on and on and on. What I'm trying to say here is that there is a difference in the outward persona. And knowing the person. Our confidence in the future comes not by knowing the persona of God Because there's a whole lot of folks that know the persona of God, but they don't know God. They have no intimate knowledge of who God really is. And when you don't know who he is, it'll cause you to be in question of what he can do. What Isaiah says here in the text is that you are my witnesses, Israel, as to who. I am. But what I love about what he says here about them, he calls them in verse 8 and 9. He says, you're blind and you're deaf. And he says, call out these as witnesses who are blind and deaf. Not that you don't know, but you know and you act like you can't see it. And you act like you can't hear it. Israel, I've been with you, I've walked with you, I've been your God, and yet you act like you don't even see me, you act like you don't even hear me. But I'm I'm calling you out today as witnesses. As to who I am. He says, I want it to be known and understood that others might know and understand and believe. Who I am. And in verse 10 he says, I am he. You're my witnesses, says the Lord, and my servants, whom I have chosen. That you may know and believe and understand that I am He. Now, let me just say this. You know, we use words and phrases that we have come up with that we use to to say that someone is is big and mighty and great. Like for example we use the word goat. The greatest of all time. Well, God has a higher word. I am In other words, I am whatever and whoever that you need me to be. He just says I am he There was no God form before me, nor shall there be after me. I, even I, am the Lord. I love it. When God repeats himself, I am the Lord. I am the supreme, the superior. I am the one that is high and above every other person and every other thing. I am the Lord. I am the highest you can get. He's not just a figment of the imagination of men that they made up some God stories so that you could have something to keep you in line. No. He is the one who before there was nothing stepped out of nowhere, stood on nothing, and began speaking, and everything that is began to be. He is the the I am. When you say I am The tenth of the verb that's used here is an eternal verb. In other words, it's in the The biblical tense of Eris that means that there was no beginning of it and there is no end of it. In other words, I always am in the present tense. If you spoke to him today about yesterday, he wouldn't say yesterday I was. He would say yesterday I am. And watch this. And at the same time, he's in 2025 as present tense. And he never moved. There was no God before me, nor nor shall there be after me. I even I am the Lord. And besides me, there is no Savior. So if you're looking for another Savior, there is no other Savior. If you're looking for someone else to come, there won't be another. If you're waiting for IAI to get developed to be sophisticated enough to save your wretched soul, there is no other savior And there's none other coming. There's no God that was before me, and none that man will come up after me. I am God. I I have declared and saved, I have proclaimed, and there is no foreign God among you. Therefore, you are my witnesses, says the Lord, that I am God. There's there's no other to compare with me. There's no other equal to me. I'm not a God. I am the God. This is important. Because if my confidence for the future is based on a God, that means that that God had to come into existence some other time. Within the sphere of time, somebody or something created him. And if that God could be created, that God could also be destroyed. The thing when God says, I am The the the best way I can explain it to you is that I am out of nothing. When did you start? I just did When are you gonna be finished? I never will be. I ex nihilo. I exist out of nothing. Nobody made me, nobody created me, nobody formed me or shaped me. I just am And if that is the one who holds my future, then I can have confidence in my future. He goes on to verse 12. He says, I declare I've saved. I have proclaimed there's no foreign gods among you. Therefore, you are my witnesses, says the Lord. Verse 13. Indeed, before the day was I am. I'm he. And there is no one who can deliver out of my hand. When I do something, nobody can reverse it. I want you to know who he is. Beyond the persona of a cross around your neck and a tattoo on your arm. You need to know who this God is And when you have intimate understanding of him, it changes life perspective. There are many day by day who give up and have no confidence in the future and they take their own lives. Because things seem so bad that it seems like There's no hope for my future. And so they give up. But if I know who God is, It changes the future because watch this for Israel Israel I am the one Who's your deliverer? Then nobody else who has or can deliver you. Israel, you're in Babylonian captivity because of your own disobedience, but it was me who brought you out of Egypt I'm that God. But watch this. The confidence for the future depends on knowing the person of God, but it also comes in knowing the power of God. Because if the power of this God that I put my confidence in is low-level voltage, then he can't do much. But if I put an ohm meter on him and it the needle goes all the way to the far right side and it says all power then I know that there's nothing he can't do We need to know his power. Listen to verse 15. Verse 15 says, I am the Lord, the Holy One. Well, what does it mean for him to be holy? That means that he is without sin. He is without blemish, he is without mar, without scar. He is complete and thorough and perfect in every aspect of every way, and he maintains it. God, in all of his perfection, in all of his preciseness, for generations to generations, from eons to eons, he has never faltered. Or failed in being perfect. Lord have mercy. His power has allowed him to stay holy. Lord have mercy. So as long as he's been God, which is before there was a was, he was holy. And as long as he's going to be after all the other things have passed away, he's still gonna be holy because he has the power to maintain his holiness. He says, I'm holy, I'm the holy one, the creator of Israel, your king. I've got Power. I am the creator. He created all of this that we have, that we see, that we possess, all that we utilize all he he created it all he is the creator of everything now if my future rests in that kind of power I can have confidence in my future. If my God has creating power Then there's nothing that's happening that he can't work out. It says, for your sake I will send Babylon, I will bring them. All down as fugitives, Chaldeans. So they're in this Babylonian captivity, they're under the hostage. They're being held hostage for 70 years has already been declared He says, I am the Lord the Holy One. He says again, I'm the Lord the Holy One. I'm the creator. I'm your King. I'm your King. I am your King, Israel Um I'm the one that's looking out for you. I'm the one that's over you. I'm the authority. I'm your creator and your savior. I'm I'm all that to you. Thus says the Lord, who makes a way in the sea As you remember, I opened up the Red Sea so that y'all could cross over. I made a path through the middle of waters. I'm the one who brings forth chariots and horses and power and armies, but at the same time I can I can put them out like you put out a wick. What it says to me is that there's no problem that can come my way. There's no person that can come up against me that my God, through his power, can't quickly extinguish. Because he's in control of his power, he gets to decide when he's going to put the wick out. Because sometimes the wick is burning for our own good. Israel was in Babylon for a reason. Sometimes we're in our mess for a reason Some of us are in some situations because you, through your hard-headedness and your deliberate intentionality to get what you wanted You kept going, you kept pushing, you kept pursuing, and then you realize when you got too far, oh my God. Now you in a mess. But even in that, there's still hope for your future. It picks up in verse 18, he says, Do not remember the former things, nor consider the things of old. But he says to them, Behold, I will do a new thing, and now it'll spring forth, and you're gonna know it. Now Here's the thing. I think everybody can testify. Wouldn't it be great if you knew what God's plans were? In simplicity, here in this text, this prophetic message from Isaiah to the children of Israel comes to give them a backdoor view, an idea about the plan of God. Here's the great thing about God. He already let them know when they went into captivity. He says you're going to be there for 70 years. He already told them that. But he says to them here He gives them kind of a precursor, if you will, on the on the next coming deliverance that's coming their way. He says, um There's a whole lot of people That get excited when we hear God says, I'm gonna do a new thing. But wait a minute, let me give you some context. God says, I'm gonna do a new thing to deliver you. That means you're in a mess. Amen, Jesus. In other words, I've delivered you so many times, but this time I'm going to deliver you a different way. I'm gonna do something new in the way that I deliver you. I'm not going to send a Moses to tell Pharaoh to let my people go. I'm not gonna do it that way. I'm not gonna open up a red sea so you can walk through. No, I'm not gonna do it that way. Forget about how I deliver you. You last time, I got another plan for you. He says, and when I do it, you'll know it. The new way that I deliver you You're gonna have to say God did that. And he says, What I'm gonna do is I'm gonna make a road in the wilderness and I'm gonna make rivers in the desert. Now think with me for just a moment what it would take in biblical era times to do that with no heavy equipment operators and no Here's the purpose behind it. The plan of God, He reveals more of His plan than the details of the how. The purpose of the plan is so that I can get glory out of your life. It's right there in the text. He says, he says here in the text, verse 20, the beast of the field will honor me. The jackals and the ostrich, ostriches, because I will give water in the wilderness and rivers in the desert. To give drink to my people, my chosen people, you, my chosen people, who will call by my name. This people I have formed for myself, and they shall declare my praise. That's that's the purpose. Let me help you. Stop trying to figure out The details of the plan focus on the purpose of the plan. The purpose of the plan that God has is to get praise out of your life. But but here's the deal. When I do what I'm going to do to bring you out of the mess that you're in, to bring you out of the sin that you're in, to bring you out of the circumstances that you're in, you're going You praise me I can start praising him when things don't look good. I can start giving him glory when I don't understand how he's gonna do what he's gonna do because I know he's got power to do it. I ain't got to worry about a thing. I know it might look dark, but my God has all the power. He can do anything but fail. Listen, I've learned something about God. I've learned that I get to know him more when we go through trouble together. And the more I know him, the greater I can praise him. Here's the good news. It's not too late to join our team. Because when Jesus died on that cross, he not only died for our sin, he died for yours too. He not only died for our pain and our struggle, he died for yours too. And watch this, he loves us so much that he provided opportunity for every single one of us. To be on his winning team. The scripture says it this way: I'm not willing that any should perish, but all should have everlasting life. And guess what? You don't have to fix yourself up. You don't have to get yourself together. You just come just like you are. That's how he that's he already knows he knows you're unqualified to be on the team. But he loves you so much he's gonna he'll he'll bring you on the team anyway. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of senior pastor Buchus Sterling. the third where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed By today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web. please visit our website at kettering ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 10 a. m. At the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301-627-95 CB. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts.