So, Spirit of the Lord, preach through me. As God had no rule over them, as if somehow they were sovereign and apart from God. Keep that in mind. And so I said, you need me so that you can make this clear. Because I just believe that we need to understand and we need to comprehend in this day and time, in the weight and the pain and the suffering and the anguish and the anxiety that we're dealing with right now, not just in the United States, but around the world. This is the armies of Babylon that are on their way to overtake the city of Judah and Jerusalem. There's there seems to be no home. And that's what Jeremiah says, he is, my my heart is faint within me. And as Jeremiah is listening into that, and Jeremiah is dealing with that, it's as if the cries have unraveled Jeremiah, and he asked two questions. Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Who had heard the word of God warned them if you don't turn around, God's gonna bring judgment. So they had seen God bring judgment on their northern tribal brothers Israel and then God brings the message to them Turn around, turn from your wicked ways, but I said, well I'm gonna I'm gonna start around verse eighteen or so and then as I was beginning to work through verse eighteen and the the verses before that said hey wait a minute preach me preach me too In order to go in and take from Israel everything that God he had given them. of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. He sits down with the voices behind the song. At your podcasts. Voices behind the song. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. We looked for peace, but no good came, and for a time of health, and there was trouble. And the whole land trembled at the sound of the name of his strong ones. Jeremiah chapter 8. uh of Jeremiah and others, they also had the witness of their own brothers of the north, Israel. And children and infants, but they're also old and and weary, and and there are also those that are walking with God. have to labor for everything that I gave into them, I'm taking it from God says I'm I'm I'm removing my blessing, uh my favor and and and and what blessings that was on I'm I'm I'm I'm removing it from them because they have not heeded And in the suburbs and and we can die out here in the suburbs and in the fields, or we can at least go into the fortified cities. Fight against this enemy that's coming. In other words, no more sweet water, no more healing water. is because they really don't want to have to declare that we have sinned against God. That they want to do and they operate outside of God, how is it that God would judge them and yet let us get away? He says, we we heard the judgment coming. It picks up in verse 18 that this main cries of the people. With sorrow, in other words, there's sorrow on every side. I'm surrendering the the Lord help me the the the the the pressures of death and sorrow for Jeremiah are overwhelming And I can say with all honesty and all sincerity, as a pastor, as a man of God, who's dealing with family after family after family, and situation after situation after situation. And watching what's going on in our country and watching what's going on in our world and watching the the sin of people that still pervades and I'm I'm watching and dealing with that, but as the pressure comes on the people of God, and the pressure comes on the young and the innocent, and the pressure comes on the old and the and the destitute, I it's sometimes overwhelming, even for me. Because sometimes, unfortunately, there are those who seem to disconnect themselves from the pain that others around them are suffering. The cries from fear and the cries from being dragged away from their homelands and their countries and separated from their family. And I'm not positive, but it seems as if his questions are directed to God. Preachers out and teachers out. One person survived and another not survive. Please visit our website at kettering ministries. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III For the Lord our God has put us to silence and given us water of gall to drink, because we have sinned against the Lord. and all that is in it, the city, and those who dwell in it. From a far country. I am mourning. Why then is there no recovery for the health of the daughter of my people? A word, eternal God, that might cause someone who's never come into that personal relationship with you, that today, God, would be the day that they would enter into that relationship with you and have eternal life And, you know, God had not only sent Jeremiah and other prophets that will come and say to them the same thing. And so, as a result of that, judgment finally comes. And all of this as a result of the fact that they rejected God, they they thought that they could stand apart from God, they thought they had no need of God But yet God brings the judgment on him, and the judgment comes. Not just men, but men, women, and children are dying. And so, as that happens, the judgment comes, and the judgment comes not only upon the guilty, so to speak, but also upon the innocent, even though no one is really truly innocent as it relates to sin. And so judgment comes and those uh the people are dying that that have been engaged in idolatry as much as those who are are dying who had not engaged in idolatry. Morning, so we can kind of look at it in that in that fabric and in that way and see how perhaps God is even through this text speaking From the subject matter as a means to encourage us, as a means to push us on, as a means to lift up our hearts and lift up our spirits. God has already made up his mind. uh figs on the tree no leaves uh they're gonna fade away he says and and the things that i have given them shall pass away from them Because there's nothing else we can do. Handle far beyond what we can manage. Because we can't fight this. And so verse 14 lets us know not only do they realize they can't deal with it, they realize where it's coming from. And God has done this. He's given us his gall to drink because we have sinned against the Lord. One of the reasons I believe that far too many people are are are really skeptical and a little shy and a little reserved about calling what we're going through now a judgment. Lord help me Jesus. Because you're sinning against God by worshiping idols, you're doing exactly what I told you not to do. So the economy started falling and faltering, and jobs start getting lost. They've come and taken over the land. In this first movement of the text. How can the people of Israel be being dragged away by a heathen nation? And he's not really asking a question because he knows the answer. How is this possible? How is it possible when the Lord is in her? We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. I would comfort myself in sorrow. And now, Pastor Sterling. As a guarantee for their soul. Come before you, honoring you, blessing you, thanking you, and in great need of you that you might speak clearly into our hearts today, that we might be able to hear a word, God, from you that might draw us to the place of strength. That your name will get glory, that the body of Christ will be edified. to Judah on multiple occasions and letting them know look if you don't turn around if you don't if you don't repent of your sin uh judgment is coming on you Judah Even though they had all that, they still rejected God. For something specific, they did, but God is targeting the nation, He's targeting the group of people whom He had assigned his own holy and private relationship with. as the judgment of God. To us, because for me personally, God literally put me in the shoes of Jeremiah, and I feel the pain of Jeremiah, and I feel the needs that Jeremiah feels, and I feel like God has a word for us And the weight is just sometimes almost unbearable. Another person passing, another person sick, another person ill, another person dealing with this, another person dealing with that. In my pain, in my uh attempts to bear up under the burden, and in your pains and in your griefs, we it seems like there's no end to what we're going through We need to be reminded that there is a bomb in Gilead. Judgment of God on the people. No grapes, no wine. Everything that I gave them when they came into this land, everything that I provided for them, that they didn't have to work for the houses that they are living in, that they didn't build, the fields that they're eating from, that they did not My word, and so my judgment is coming upon him, and so God declares his judgment. But they realize this is against God. Said judgment was coming because you're doing things your own way, because you've turned away from God, because you've abandoned the truths of God, because you Peace is coming, peace, peace. But trouble came instead. And in some ways, Lord help us, Jesus. And we heard them coming all the way from Dan, and the whole land trembled at the sound of the name of his strong ones Look at verse 17. The only thing you seem like you can comfort yourself with is sorrow. This is where I am. The voice, the cry of my people. That are dying in the street, that are being evicted from their homes, that are being dragged off to Babylon. He said, Listen to the voice of those who are crying out, my people, the cries of their grief, the cries of their pain, the cries of no hope, the cries of their losses. To the cries of the people and and then there's their cries of dismay. How is it possible? We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship Services, Sundays at 10 a. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlboro, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. In Jesus' name. And assemble ourselves, let us let us enter into the fortified cities. Why why would they provoke me with their carved images and their foreign gods? I will surely consume them, says the Lord. I'm going to send amongst you that which will bring judgment. Is not the Lord in Zion? six two seven nine five zero zero please join us again as senior pastor And given us gall to drink. And so these people, they said it got worse. So after this dismaying cries of the people comes the divine reply of God to the people. Bloodwashed, fire baptized, serving the Lord, faithful to their families, faithful to their children, faithful to their spouses, living, loving, helping people. This dismaying cries of the people create and pushes Jeremiah to this place. Jeremiah is trying to wrestle with that, and as he's throwing out these questions, how is this happening? Why do we sit still? There is a bone in Gilead. But no good came. To him, we heard all this coming. uh the dismaying cries of the people who are crying out and he's listening and he's hearing it When the Lord says, Why have they provoked me? Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. And so I want to remind us, I want to encourage us uh this morning as I speak to you in this text and out of this text. The daughters of our people from a far country. The harvest is past, the summer is ended, and we are not saved. We've been weakened. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Because even as we walk through this period of time right now, the COVID virus, and I want you to look at it kind of in the in the fabric of this text This is a despairing cry of Jeremiah. We'll begin our reading on today. How can they uh receive the judgment of God because they rebelled against God and gone their own way and act as if they can make up their own laws, make up their own rules, do things Jeremiah cries out in dismay. We can't we we we we can't deal with this this this this this uh judgment that's coming upon us I'm gonna send amongst you Israel that which you can't wiggle your way out, that which you can't quit pro quo your way out. God has gotten to the point where he's gonna do what he said he was gonna do, what he had warned he was gonna do. It's God that we're in battle with. The only way I can bring comfort to myself is to stay and remain in sorrow. How could it have taken my mother out, my father out? He says, listen. Astonishment has taken hold of me. Now I know a lot of people don't want to say, oh, this COVID virus is the judgment of God, but I want you to examine the text with me on this So the least we can do is least let's let's gather ourselves together. For behold, I God says, This is my judgment, this is me doing this. It's just faint within me. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Is not the Lord in Zion? And literally what they're really articulating is that we we know judgment's now coming and we see it coming, and the the the wave of this judgment that's coming is far beyond what we can Amen. All the way back in verse 13, the Lord declares his judgment upon the people. This is in verse number 11, chapter 8, verse number 11. Use me as an instrument in your hand to accomplish your will. And so they are giving up. It's just flooding throughout the land. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. So I backed up a little more and then I had to back up a little more. We don't have strength. We heard the horses coming. Spirit of the Lord, I'm praying that this morning, even as we stand to declare your word, that you would allow the strength in my body to be able to be used in such a way And then, secondly, as we keep on reading through the text, we see not only the declared judgment of God on the people, but secondly, we see the dismaying cries of the people. Uh on this morning, if you have your Bibles with you and you should, I want to invite your attention this morning to Jeremiah. We thought things were gonna get better, but it didn't get any better. They realize we can't do anything against it. Is not her king in her or with her? How can I, as a nurse or a doctor, be in a position that I've got to make a decision who gets the ventilator and who doesn't? My heart is faint in me. And amen. They still pushed God away. We we heard the sound, we were afraid, for they have come and devoured the land and all that is in it. So in essence, it's a rhetorical question. It's almost like he's talking to God. Jeremiah says, these are my people. Assemble yourselves, and let us enter the fortified cities, and let us be silent there. But now we're drinking the bitterness. When the Lord is our God and God is still in Zion, God is still in the world, God is still amongst his people. No grapes shall be on the vine, nor figs on the tree, and the leaf shall fade, and the things I have given them shall pass away from them And they're dying because the judgment has come upon the land. No grapes, no jelly, no grapes on the vine. It's really not Babylon. They're just based basically saying, Well, let's go and at least give up in the city. That's a vinegar. Jeremiah chapter 8 at verse number 13 reads as follows. It is the judgment of God that you cannot escape. Listen, the voice, the cry of the daughters of my people from a far country. I need to point this out. How is it possible for Christians, people who are born again, children of God Times got worse. We heard them coming from Dan. It sounds like they're crying as they're being dragged away. For behold, I will send serpents among you, vipers which cannot be charmed, and they shall bite you, says the Lord. And when judgment does come amongst the in the nation of Judah, and amongst these people, hundreds of thousands of people are going to die. Far too many believed the false prophet, and so they continued to do what they wanted to do. There's pain on every side. And they looked for peace because their false prophets told them peace was coming. He had given them time. Is not her king in her? But we can't stay there because there's a bomb in Gilead. We don't have the ability to deal with the enemy that's coming. And and Assyria came in and routed them out and spread them all abroad. These questions of the maze like: how can all this be happening? They continued to do what they wanted to do, as if God had no authority over them. And the people are beginning to sink in hope and in disparity, and then they respond in verse 14. What the people in Essence are literally saying is they say, look How could we be dealing with all this? org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. Is there no bomb in Gilead? God, I stand in need of you today. It's a sour drink. They said, peace, peace, every everything's gonna be alright. Just to give you a little bit kind of backdrop as well, fill you in here, Jeremiah, along with many other prophets, had come to It's God who's who we're fighting against and we can't win. This is Jeremiah now speaking. Praise the Lord. The judgment comes upon the nation. Hundreds and thousands and everything is being destroyed. That's a great question. So I backed up all the way to 13. And they know it's because of their sin. How can Babylon be taking over God's people? As if God was somehow belonged to them rather than they belonging to God. As I looked in this text and I began to delve through it, I started This text begins with a declared They understand, they realize that the judgment that has come is because of their sin against the Lord. But the false prophet rose up and said, It'll be okay, everything's fine. It got harder. He had given them time to repent. He said, to God or to whoever that would hear. And he's trying to reason his way through it, the Lord answers. You want to know how is this happening? And Jeremiah says, in essence, how can this be happening? Here I am, yielded to you. Well how can Israel, God's people For they have come and devoured the land Let's go into the fortified cities, and we'll go into the fortified cities and we'll be silent there They can't believe what is happening Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome And if I can say it this way, now we're reaping what we've sowed. Listen, the voice, the cry of the daughter of my people These are the ones that the heathen nation that God rose up And he says, in essence, is not the Lord in Zion? It seems almost unbearable at times. There's dismay on every side. So I I rema Lord help us. It got worse. We heard when things had kind of broke loose The dismaying cries of the people Jeremiah says, I would have to comfort myself with They said, in fact, in verse 16. You have been listening to the Radio Broadcast Ministry For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web That's a great question. I'm losing. But as Jeremiah is trying to deal with this And not only had they had the voices and the warnings of the prophets. Now he says, I'm gonna do it. How can the innocent child be being taken out? org or contact our church office at 301 Notification after notification after notification after notification after notification after notification Listen to the latter part of verse 14. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. This is my people. I said, oh, god, that's as far as I can go for right now. And he says, I will surely consume them, says the Lord. I'm gonna send serpents among you, vipers, which cannot be charmed This is the people of Israel. He's in dismay of what's happening. Have thine own way. Because of that, judgment is coming. For the hurt of the daughters of my people, I am hurt. And there is suffering, there is pain, there is poverty in the land Amen. But but that is coming amongst the people of God, judgment has come upon the land of God, but it's not the individual people. God has given us vinegar to drink. I can hear the cries as they those that are nearer louder, as those that are farther away fade. Is there no physician there? And so we could we could do one or two things. God answers and says, Why did they provoke me? And listen what they say. And not only did health not come, but everything else got worse The judgment of God is declared. I would comfort myself in sorrow. Why have they provoked me to anger with their carved images, with foreign idols? That's basically what they told him. I'm giving in. For without you I can do nothing, and without your strength, I have none Listen, he says The divine reply of God to the people comes in the second part of chapter verse 19. A snorting of the horses was heard from Dan. And so the judgment that comes, the deaths that happen, the things that occur, are not being, God is not individually targeting people. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. I mean we can't speak for ourselves, we can't stand for ourselves, we can't Well, I would suggest that we perhaps might need to reshape our thinking Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. Would you pray with me this morning? There's And so he says, look. But Jeremiah cries, oh listen! No But God declares his judgment on the people, and they say How can COVID be wiping out good people? I'm gonna consume them, says the Lord. He's God has put us in a place of silence And I'm trying to comfort myself with sorrow, but how do you comfort yourself with that which brings more sorrow? These are my brothers. We'll go there and wait, and we'll be silent in the city I want to speak to you from the subject matter. But I'm gonna back up even more, and we're gonna try to get as much of it in as we possibly can Listen, Jeremiah says, listen to the cries of my people In the name of Jesus Christ, I pray, with thanksgiving and expectation of your answer. And hope for so many people, hope for so many people seems to be slipping away. He says, Well, the Lord God has put us in silence. They say in verse 15, they say, look, we look for peace. Don't get don't stress out, don't worry. They're taking it over. How can all this be going on when God is in the midst? God said, judgment is coming, but false prophets rose up and say, judgment's not coming. Everything's gonna be good, it's all good. He says, listen. m. We can sit out here in the fields and in the These are my sisters. Now he's bringing you their stories. at the Legacy Center. And as they continued to do what they wanted to do, the judgment of God was being rolled out. How is it possible that I have to witness and watch Father, in the name of Jesus, we. That's question number one. How is this happening when God is still alive and God is with us? We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together The One Degree of Andy podcast. There is a ball in Gilead. How is it possible when the Lord is with her? Now he's bringing you their stories. My heart is faint And the people say, Why do we sit still? How can COVID be taking pastors out and There are those who are dying who are young and The One Degree of Andy podcast. No grapes on the vine Even though God threw his prophets I'm Andy Christman. Peace is coming Is not her king in her? Does God not still live in the redeemed? And then we say he said we look for health. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. These were God's people I'm Andy Christman in his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. And they begin dying, and they're dying. But listen, he says I feel like Jeremiah. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get. And the Lord help be of Jesus.