With the Awesome Relationships DVD Study Kit. If you've been listening to the broadcast for a while, you know that Rick is always saying that God wants your relationships to be more than just fair, average. My email is rick at pastorick. Isn't that interesting? This four video series and workbook will give you the tools you need to build an awesome marriage and family, along with awesome friendships and partnerships And I'm sure that millions of other people have now heard the good news and the truth of the gospel through the work of Daily Hope and your ministry. But it's the truth. Voices behind the song. Right now, here's Pastor Rick with part two of a message called Fighting for an Awesome Marriage. because you, as a man or woman, were created in God's image. Ready? and sex. human race. is saying. There's more great teaching coming up. This study kit is great for individual, small group, and even a whole church study. So if you know somebody who would like to enjoy reading these daily devotionals in Korean, just email me and I'll send you the link to sign up. Now he may be listening to it on the internet because I don't think we're on a radio station there, but he's getting the Daily Hope messages with Pastor Rick in mighty ways to evangelize the whole world with the living word of God. and your wife and your children and all the people you minister to know that we're going to pray for you uh right now. So let's pray for Daniel right now. Sits down with the voices behind the song. Now in just a few minutes, we're going to tell you how you can take all of your relationships to a level you never dreamed possible. And then we would live with him forever and ever and ever in his eternal family in heaven. Family when they grow up in a marriage with a mom and a dad. And while you're there, be sure to sign up for his free daily email devotional. Good, or even great. Because they are different from many of the dysfunctional relationships all around us. This 4 video series and workbook will give you the tools to build an awesome marriage and family, along with awesome friendships and partnerships. Topics include fighting for an awesome marriage, fighting for an awesome family, fighting for awesome friendships, and becoming best friends with God. Call 800-600-5004 or go to pasterick. Thanks so much. Okay. They're more likely to do jail time. On the other hand, children who live with their own two parents growing up, statistically proven, enjoy better physical health. in their life. called love. I'm too hot, I'm too cold, I'm hungry, I just pooped, I need to be cleaned up, or whatever. God is love. But God's purpose in your life is to make you wholly not happy. It's like a butterfly. Now, if you've been listening to this broadcast for a while, you know that Rick is always saying that God wants your relationships to be more than just fair, average, good, or even great. That's pastorick. Video topics include fighting for an awesome marriage, fighting for an awesome family, fighting for awesome friendships. That's pastorick. And he wrote me this, Pastor Rick, I live in Yangon, Myanmar, or Burma, which is the country where there are very, very few Christians. And I thank you for the pictures that you sent me of you praying with six people. in this country of Myanmar or or Burma, and that many, many Christian leaders will actually arise up out of his ministry because of the important work that he and his wife are doing. And we as a daily hope family ask you to protect them and bless them. This program is sponsored by Pastor Rick's Daily Hope and your generous financial support. Or you can just text the word daily to 99000 to find out more. Is that you become more loving, more giving, more serving, more sharing, more mature, more unselfish. When you start caring about other people rather than your happiness, you're gonna get happy in order to love it. So God's first command to the human race is get married and have sex. And fill the land, fill the world. within you. But they are worth fighting for. You were literally totally helpless. And you were going to need somebody to feed you and dress you and nurture you. Kids without two parents are more likely to be involved in substance or alcohol abuse. And they live men who marry and stay married live longer than single men. It works out better in your life. with a mom and a dad. And the statistics bear it out. We don't fund orphanages. A compliment. that statement. Okay, God created marriage for the connection of men and women, for the multiplication of human race, that's how we all got here, for the protection of children. You're clothes to heaven. You get opportunities to think of the other person, to care about them. And they have that most impact. Just the way God wired the universe This is Pastor Rick's Daily Hope. Awesome relationships cause the world to stand up and take notice because they're different from many of the dysfunctional relationships all around us. Healthy relationships aren't automatic or easy, but they are worth fighting for. And becoming best friends with God. Call 800-600-5004 or go to Pastorick. Myanmah or Burma. and not really uh sanctioned in a in a in a formal way. For us to pray for this Christian family in a very closed country where Christianity is frowned upon and is actually uh doesn't have all the freedoms that it it could have. To continue sharing the message of daily hope as we share it with him and they share it with others, that many will come to know and love Jesus Everything in the universe God made to love it. who want kids and for whatever reason uh cannot have them or have been unable to have them. And men who marry and stay married have fewer injuries and illnesses. Now, another one of the facts about when you were born, not only were you helpless, you were completely self-centered Now, the Bible says this in Proverbs 18. I can't think about just me, myself, and I. Your wife's prayers and your prayers for us on the Daily Hope Team mean a lot to us. Thousand Andy Christman afore him has spent forty plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. And God said, I want to love and I want to express my love. of marriage. Because if people don't have kids, nobody's those kids aren't going to be born. Now why did God create marriage for the protection of children? have lower rates of depression than either single women or mothers cohabitating with a guy that they're not married to. And so we're working in Rwanda. Those who obey and respect the Lord have a secure fortress. and security and not worrying is dad gonna walk out? Nothing on the planet Earth is more self-centered than a new baby. And so how do I get out of that? Your spouse. So my wife and I are thankful for Daily Hope with Rick Warren Ministry because it helps us grow in our lives. Ants don't love because they're not made in God's image. The only reason there's love in the universe is because God is love. Here we go. It's not the only purpose, but it's a big one. or the lack of a marriage on children. I want to read to you some of the statistics. 150 or so studies have shown. of our character. is that you become more loving, more giving, more serving, more sharing, more mature, more unselfish. And as you become that, guess what? Marriage. You could not do anything. than children living in any other family form. It'd be more important to help finance a family to take that child in. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. In it, Pastor Rick Warren will show you how to take your relationships with family, friends, co-workers, and even God from average to awesome. What it is saying is that we're all alive because some couple got together. And if men and women weren't getting together and marrying and having sex, then there would be nobody in heaven. In fact, real happiness comes in giving your life away and being unselfish and being serving and being loving. Now let me show you some verses. Creating both male and female with his image. Now we uh I asked my researchers to go out and research all of the national and international studies on the effect of marriage Women who marry and stay married have a lower risk of being a victim of a crime, have a lower risk of violence Children's instruments are best perfected in an intact family. To being an unselfish adult. Because you don't get to do everything you want to do once you get married. These are not Christian studies. God, not you, made marriage. And commanded them. There is an increased risk that they are going to A fail in school. And God wants you to become like Him. They don't have to be saved. Can you sometimes do something that's maybe best for somebody else? Now here's the interesting thing. Now, this is not an indictment for a childless couple, couples who don't have kids. Women who marry and stay married have a higher net worth than those who are living with a man they're not married to. Staying together for the sake of the game. Now, this is called maturity. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. God commanded them, be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth. So he created the universe, so he could create the human race, so he could love us, knowing that some of us would choose to love him back. Hi everybody, it's Pastor Rick Warren with some big news. How about men? In fact, you'll never be happy trying to always do what's best for you. God wants to make you like Jesus Christ. You are taking your character. Number three. God created, God invented marriage for the protection of children. You're always reaching for it and you never get it. And for many generations, when people stayed together for the sake of the kids, that was considered an honor. Claude, that's a pastor's cuss word. And we've done a pretty good job at that one. And it's all about me as a baby. You were made in order for God to love you. That's the way he chose. com. com with two R's in the middle. Here's Pastor Rick Warren. And why does he, God, what does God want from marriage? We don't build orphanages. Hello and thanks for joining us here on Pastor Rick's Daily Hope. Now we're in a broken planet, a broken world. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations, you won't hear anywhere else. They're unselfish. I want you to write this down in your outline. Well, marriage is a lifelong course in learning to be unselfish. If you'd like to connect with Rick, just go to pastorick. Oh no. Thanks so much. Lord, I thank you for this faithful uh young man and his wife and their ministry to the children in Yangon. He wants your relationships to be awesome. Children survive and thrive in families, not in institutions. Rwanda will become the first nation on the planet Earth by the end of next year, hopefully, to be the first nation with no orphanages. This is why Pastor Rick Warren wants you to have the Awesome Relationships DVD Study Kit. These are studies by Harvard uh University and the United States government and the National Institute of Health. Genesis 1. The third reason God created marriage is for the connection of men and women, for the multiplication of the human race, third, for the protection of children. God created marriage for the perfection of our character. So the most important thing you can do in life is build your character. They're still God's number one tool to make you like Christ. So we're all here. Now, here is the very first command God gives to the human race. If you'd like a copy of today's message, including portions we didn't have time for, or if you'd like to sign up for Rick's free Daily Hope email devotional, just go to pastorick. Studies have shown that men who marry and stay married earn more money than single men with similar education, job histories How about women? What are you talking about? How many of you as who are married had to learn pretty quickly that once you got married, you couldn't always do whatever you wanted to do? This DVD study kit is great for individual, small group, or even whole church study, and it's yours today when you support Pastor Rick's Daily Hope with a financial gift. Look at this next verse. com. They're more likely to live their entire lives in poverty. Once you become holy, that's how you get happiness. And Daniel says he's very encouraged by the Daily Hope devotionals and by the teachings and the Bible verses. Now, every single study done has proven that kids develop best Do you know some adults who are still selfish babies? When you start caring about other people rather than your happiness, you're gonna get happy. But men and women have the capacity to love because we're made in God's image. That's rick at pastorick. You couldn't feed yourself, you couldn't dress yourself, you couldn't change your diaper, you couldn't blow your nose, shoot, you couldn't even turn over on your back when you first started. We don't believe in orphanages. And the Bible says that God created the universe because he wanted a family to love. They're mature. It's the number one goal in his life. You can find out more right now by going to pastorick. 27 says this. Here's Pastor Rick with a letter from one of our listeners. I asked them to find me all those studies. He wants you to learn how to love. You get more happiness. There are about seven billion of us on the planet because your parents and their parents and their parents and their parents and their parents were fruitful and multiplied. Today in our narcissistic culture, we judge everything by, I've got to do what's best for me. You'll find this message and others along with more helpful resources. Squirrels don't love because they're not made in God's image. Nobody would be in heaven if God hadn't created marriage. 1. You gotta do what's best for you. Because when you were born, you were born completely helpless My Daily Hope devotionals are now available in Korean God knew that human children needed a safe environment Their children have a place of refuge and security. That's why you exist. Not everything works right. The number one purpose of marriage is to make me holy, not happy. God's purpose in your life is to make you holy, not happy. Studies show that women who marry and stay married. If God was not a loving God, you would not have any love in your life. Yeah, you can clap for that. They stayed together for the sake of the kids. It is selfish and it is stupid to think only of yourself Malachi 2. Studies have shown that if children grow up without two parents, without a mom and dad, Life is a laboratory of learning how to love. The point is that God says, one of the purposes of marriage is for the multiplication of the human Yep. Is mom gonna walk out or whatever. You have to learn to compromise, you have to learn to think of the other person. And if you'd like to let Rick know how this broadcast has touched your life, you can email him at rick at pastorick. Notice this verse, Proverbs 14, 26. He wants you to grow up. You say, but my spouse, my husband, my wife, is not even a Christian. What's that saying? That's a great question. And the Bible says everything that God has made, he made it simply. com to get your copy. Why? You'll be a selfish little clawed, bitter The first word a baby learns is, I And that's the purpose of God's marriage for your life. You'll never be happy if you make it the goal of your life. Healthy relationships aren't automatic or easy I want to say to you, Daniel, uh I I read how that you teach in a preschool in a very impoverished area His spirit inhabits even the smallest detail. I was so touched by that. You're listening to Pastor Rick's Daily Ho They can't get into heaven. A baby does not even have the capacity to think about anyone else. In Jesus' name. We know that. Because no kid deserves to grow up in an institution. If God didn't want to love you, you wouldn't exist. Now think about this. 15. Can you sometimes do something that's best for somebody for the sake of someone who's more vulnerable than you are? Awesome relationships cause the world to stand up and take notice. Yes, you do. He wants to build character. Because every day you get hundreds of opportunities to not think about you com and click on his social media links. Men who marry and stay married amass more net worth than those who live with a woman and not being married to them It's just saying something real simple. That's why Pastor Rick Warren wants you to have the Awesome Relationships DVD study kit. That's a great question. And it's yours today when you support Pastor Rick's Daily Hope with a financial gift. com. com to get yours right now. They're more likely to experience distress, depression, and the risk of suicide. He's real clear. You were going to need somebody to protect you, to guide you, to train you, to care for you, and all these things. Now, I didn't say this, this is just what. I want you to read it aloud with great gusto. And they're more likely to increase the risk that they themselves will divorce or will bear children outside of marriage. Being holy makes you happy That's 800-600-5004 or pasterick. You're listening to Pastor Rick's Daily Hope. Don't look at them, but you know who they are. Kids without two parents are more likely to not graduate from college. But that doesn't mean that we say the ideal isn't real. Don Crow here, I'm sure you're aware that many of our brothers and sisters in Christ are suffering for their faith as never before in our lifetimes. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Here they are. For God created people in his own image. Number four I love this in the message paraphrase. Daniel, I I want you That's pastorick. Then so not everybody males don't have all the image of God. That's why at Saddleback, we don't believe in in orphanages. Sharing the gospel, teaching preschool students how to pray. And if you can't if you're married and you can't have kids, uh God is not disappointed in you. Really? And no relationship has greater impact on your life than marriage if you get married Today I want to share a letter from Daniel, who lives in Asia in a country called You're not taking your car, your career. And Why is love the most important thing in life? Amen. Well today we continue with our series called Awesome Relations. com while you listen to today's message The Bible says that God is love. Now, you know in the past you used to hear about couples, they say, oh, they they stayed together for the sake of the kids. And so the whole goal of your life is to grow from your total self-centered self as a baby. And we learn to love and learn to be unselfish. Okay? If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. We all know that kids grow better, healthier, stronger when they grow up in a stable family. Because once you get married, I can no longer think about me. Wow, what a bold statement for someone in a country where Christianity is repressed. You'll never be happy if you make it the goal of your life. Godly children from your union. That, by the way, friends, is the only command of God the human race has been able to keep God chose everybody who's going to be in heaven to come into existence through marriage. The number one tool that God uses in your life to build Christ-like character, if you are married, is. Worms don't love because they're not made in God's image. And for thousands of years, God has used marriage to populate heaven. Because they're closest to you Maturity and the purpose of life is to grow up and realize it's not all about you. He wants godly children from a union. When you do it God's way. Today, people laugh at me. Happiness is elusive as a goal. That's 800-600-5004. Be sure to join us again next time as we look into God's Word for our daily hope. So I'm going to ask everybody who's listening There are couples. Those who obey and respect the Lord. They deserve to grow up in a family. Daily Hope is doing a great job around the world. com. And marriage is the laboratory for learning how to love. Because everybody's come into existence through the tool that he designed. That's what every child needs growing up. Do you always have to do what's best for you? Or just text the word daily to 99000. There would be no love in the universe. No, you don't So I thank God for you. And that's the purpose of marriage for your life. Because Now he's bringing you their stories. That's the second reason, a second purpose of Once again, here's Pastor Rick Warren. They're not a follower of Jesus. Because we've been using in the peace plan churches, moving them into families. Wow. We've talked about this many times. It's never meant to be a goal. The One Degree of Andy podcast. There's about 150 uh different studies Females, we we both get parts of God's image. That is so counter-culture. Now he's bringing you their stories. So guard the spirit of marriage. It is. All it can think about is itself. Happiness is elusive as a goal. They're not a believer. You don't want to miss a second of this relationship building series. A place of refuge and security In other words, do life the way God says to do it. And and I I I want you to know that The One Degree of Andy podcast. And I pray that you will use Daniel and his wife. Number four, this is a big one. May God continue to use Daily Hope I'm Andy Christman. That's his character, it's his nature. The only reason you are able to love is because com with two R's in the middle. Or just go to PastorIck. That's called narcissism. Doesn't matter. He wants your relationships to be awesome. I gotta think about we. He patterned them after himself. That's called maturity. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. I'm Andy Christman. It's never meant to be a goal The rest of you are liars. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. God created marriage for the perfection. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your That's not what this voice is verse com. Thank you for their faithfulness. That's called unselfishness. Then God blessed them. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. com. com. That's called the