Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling the Third Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. The word of the Lord from Luke chapter 5, beginning at verse 16, reads as follows. So he himself often withdrew into the wilderness and prayed. Now it happened on a certain day as he was teaching that there were Pharisees and teachers of the law sitting by who had come out of every town of Galilee, Judea. and Jerusalem, and the power of the Lord was present to heal them. Then, behold, men brought on a bed a man who was paralyzed, whom they sought to bring in and lay before him And when they could not find how they might bring him in because of the crowd, they went up on the house top and they let him down with the His bed through the tile into the mist before Jesus. And when he saw their fate, he said to him, Man, your sins are forgiven. And the scribes and the Pharisees began reasoning, saying, Who is this who speaks blasphemies? Who can forgive sin but God alone? But when Jesus perceived their thoughts, he answered and said to them, Why are you reasoning in your hearts? Which is easier to say, your sins are forgiven, or to say, Rise up and walk. But that you may know that the Son of Man has power on earth to forgive sins, he said to the man who was paralyzed, I say to you, Arise, take up your bed, and go to your house. Immediately he arose before them, took up what he had been lying on, and he departed to his own house, glorifying God. And they were all amazed, and they glorified God, and were filled with fear, saying, We have seen strange things today. Would you pray with me? Father, we love you, we honor you, bless you, thank you for this incredible opportunity we have to preach your word. Lord, let your word go forward in such a way that there's anyone that does not know you as Lord and Savior of their life. That today be the day, God, that they would say, yes, I receive you. I believe in you. Save my soul. Save my life God, I pray that you would bless in such a way, God, that as we hear your word, that you would begin to minister to us and to change us from the inside out. Pray that you would edify this body, God, and above and beyond everything else. I pray that you glorify yourself. Lord, I stand in need of you as a vessel here, Lord, yielding to the power and presence of a holy God. Lord, have your way in the midst of all that is done and all that is said. Lord, I need you. So speak in me, Lord. Speak through me. Give my lips clarity of speech and my mind clarity of thought. Lord, that everything that goes forward from this pulpit on this day will bring glory to your name. It's in Jesus' name I pray with thanksgiving and expectation. Amen and amen In the infancy of Jesus' ministry, his earthly ministry, if you will, Jesus, chapter 4 actually of Luke records him actually going to his hometown of Nazareth. And in his hometown of Nazareth, as many of you know, he could not work many works because he was so familiarly known to the people. But it is on a particular Sabbath day that he goes into the synagogue, and on that day they hand him the book of Isaiah to read. Jesus turns to Isaiah chapter 61 and he begins reading at verse number one of Isaiah 61 and he reads This passage. The Spirit of the Lord is upon me because the Lord has anointed me to preach good tidings to the poor. And he has sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives and the opening of prisons. To those who are bound to proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord and the day of vengeance of our God. To control or to rather comfort the uh all who mourn, to console those who mourn in Zion, to give beauty for ashes, the oil of joy for mourning, the garments of praise. For the spirit of heaviness, that they may be called trees of righteousness, the planting of the Lord, that he may be glorified. Jesus reads that passage and actually in Luke's Gospel chapter 4, Luke chapter 4 records a portion of that phrase or those verses that Jesus reads of Isaiah chapter 61. And then Jesus, in chapter 4, verse 21, Jesus finally takes the book, closes it, and chapter 4, verse 21 says this. And he began to say to them, today this scripture is fulfilled in your hearing. This experience that the people had sitting here with Jesus reading about a time when God would come and Bring healing and bring deliverance and bring comfort and consolation. And to hear this Jesus, whom had spoken with such words of life. And such authority and power that they've never heard before. To hear him on that day say today, this verse, this passage is fulfilled in your hearing had to bring uh a chill to some spine, uh had to cause some to be confused about what is he saying. What do you mean this day, this thing is fulfilled in your hearing? And I'm sure that as they were listening to him, they had no idea of what was going and what was about to transpire. But as I was reading that passage and it brought me context to where we are on this morning, caused me to realize how powerful it is to hear Jesus when he's talking. Lord help me, Jesus. Jesus goes from there after The early part of his ministry being described in chapter 4, he moves on and he begins to heal people. And he's teaching and he's preaching, and he's healing people and he's casting out demons. And he goes by Peter's house and he heals Peter's mother-in-law. And then the Bible records him encountering a man who's a leper, and he heals him of his leprosy. And as Jesus goes about and he's preaching and he's teaching and he's performing miracles and he's healing people all over town. The word about Jesus gets out and the crowds begin to follow him and pursue him. And everywhere he goes, there's crowds of people who are crowding and pushing to hear him speak and to have him heal them of their infirmities and their diseases, and they're coming from all over the place. So that they can be in the presence of this man called Jesus. I want to talk to you this morning from the subject matter: the power of God is present. I believe it's fair to say that we are living in a day and time when there are a lot of sick people. There are those who are sick physically. There are those who are sick spiritually. There are those who are sick emotionally and psychologically. And we are witnessing every day those who are sick with a sickness call sin. And in some ways, if I can be honest with you on today, I have to ask myself, God, how sick can a person be? To do some of the things that we're hearing and we're witnessing them do. That's why I've come to the conclusion that there's a lot of sick people That are in need of healing. As we look at Jesus in this text, and it's interesting to me that as he comes into this place where we are, and He's uh gathered all this group together and and all these people Those who one have need and those who are looking for opportunity to bring him down. All this is coming together, but while all that's coming together. The power of God is present to heal them. Let me let me see if I can Point you to where I'm trying to get you to because I I believe that the text is going to demonstrate for us, first of all, that the power of God is present to heal While he is praying. The text says that in verse 16, he himself often withdrew into the wilderness and prayed. Now, you gotta understand that Jesus having such popularity, everybody wanted a piece of him. I mean they wanted to touch him, they wanted to get close to him, they wanted to they wanted to to state their case and their cause so that he can so that he can rectify their sickness and and change their lives. They wanted to get close, and so he was dealing with this all the time. But the Bible says that he often would get away, withdraw. From the crowds and pray. He withdraw and pray He'd withdraw and pray. He'd withdraw and pray. I'm going somewhere. What what I didn't see at first in this text was That Jesus wasn't just physically getting away. Help me, Lord. But the structure of this sentence in the Greek language gives us the understanding that he was constantly withdrawing And constantly praying. Lord, help me, Jesus. In other words, it wasn't that he said, Hold on, wait a minute, I gotta go get away and get over here and pray. No, while he was talking. He was praying. While he was in the midst of the crowd, he was withdrawing. Lord help me, Jesus. And and I know Maybe you can't quite understand how that's possible, but I I kind of understand this because sometimes I can be sitting in a crowd of people. Lord help me God And people are talking and conversations are going back and forth. And while all that's happening, I'm I'm not really there. I've withdrawn from the conversation. I've withdrawn from the sport. Talk. I've withdrawn from the tail bearing, and I'm in the space physically, but spiritually, I've left the place so that I can go talk with Jesus. Lord, help me, God Because I've learned that in this world, if you don't have a little talk with Jesus all day long, the sickness of this world will contaminate you too. Lord help me God. And so Jesus is able to be present and absent at the same time He's withdrawing from the people and he's praying and talking to God. This this gives a better understanding of the scripture that lets us know that we ought to be praying without ceasing. We oftentimes ask, how is that possible that we can pray without ceasing? And and I'd say that this text helps me to understand that a little better, that here's Jesus in the middle of ministry, but yet at the same time talking with his daddy. He's drawing from his father everything necessary to deal with the circumstances and the situations that he's facing and what he's about to face. Lord help me God. Look with me in the text because what I want you to understand that while he's praying, the power of healing is present Lord God. And if you haven't figured it out that when we get away and pray Um God's power is manifest as a result of our prayers Lord help me. Have you ever been to the hospital and or maybe just with a sick child or someone sick and you were the vessel to pray for them? Lord God. And my I'm I'm hoping that if if that was you, you were praying for someone who was sick and You were desiring that they would recover, that your prayer would have power enough to move on behalf of the person who was ill, so that the sick person could recover. Can I talk to somebody this morning? I would suggest that your prayer has to be a prayer of faith and not just a prayer of repetitious words. Lord God help me here. In other words, what I'm trying to say is prayer is good, but prayer with faith works power for healing. Lord Jesus. You can repeat the same words over and over and over again and say you're talking to God and no power manifests itself. But when you pray with expectation that God is going to do something, then power is present. Jesus is drawing away to pray, and while he's praying, the power of healing is present. Healing, watch this, in the ministry of Jesus, and we see this on a couple of occasions, the healing process deletes virtue from him Like when the woman with the issue of blood grabbed the hem of his garment, he turned around and said, Who touched me? And his disciple says, Man Everybody's touching you. What are you talking about? And Jesus says, No, someone specifically touched me because I felt the virtue leave out of me. Lord, help me, Jesus. And watch this. But when healing Draws out the power. Prayer restores the power. I wish I had somebody who knew that when you pray, you get empowered. And so Jesus is praying while he's withdrawing so that the power is never depleted. Whoo, my Jesus. As he prays for Lazarus to come forth from the grave Lord, now this is powerful prayer. Imagine praying and calling someone from a four-day retreat to death. But yet he has enough power that's present in his prayer that draws Lazarus up from a four-day death sentence And raises him up to come shuffling to the door of the tomb. Lord have mercy. Because there's power in prayer when you pray with faith. Power of. God's healing is present when we pray. I'm trying to leave this subject, but I but I feel like I need to stay here because I want you to understand that the presence of power manifests itself when we pray. I know we become ritual in our prayer, we become religious in our prayer, we we know how to say certain things and we say them over and over and We say them because it's time to say them. We say them because we've been taught to say them, but I'm trying to get you to say them with some intent and with some intentionality so that you understand that while you're talking to God, There's power present to heal. Pastor, how you get that? Well, let me move on to verse 17 because The power of God is present to heal, not only while he's praying, but the power of God is present to heal while he's teaching and preaching. Verse 17 says, Now it happened on a certain day as he was teaching. That there were Pharisees and teachers of the law sitting by who had come out of every town in Galilee and Judea and Jerusalem. Here it is. And the power of the Lord was present to heal them. Lord, help me, Jesus. While Jesus is standing and teaching and preaching, stay here with me And the scribes and Pharisee teachers who came from all the various towns, not to hear a word from God, but to find fault in him. To find a way to bring him down because he was becoming too popular. While they had gathered together with their motivation, And with their own motives. The Bible says the power of the Lord was present to heal them. I love it. Because sometimes we come to church, we tune in to a broadcast for our own particular motives. But while the word of God is being taught, and the word of God is being preached The power of the Lord is present to heal. You might have tuned in to criticize, but God drew you in to heal you. You might have shown up to show off your tennis shoes, but God drew you to heal you. Because when The word of God is preached, and the word of God is taught with authority and power and accuracy and oracle. Healing takes place in the midst of the teaching. Lord help me God. I was in Bible study a couple of weeks ago, and I was teaching and I was talking about forgiveness. And in the middle of me teaching and and we were talking about being set free from old issues. And right in the middle of that, there was a lady sitting towards the back in the middle of the aisle, and she shouted out, I've just been set free. But help me, God. And what I realized is that the word of God was medicine to her soul Lord help me here. And you've got to realize something that this word is not just words on some paper. Or some papyrus. No, this is the living and powerful word of God. And the word of God is here to heal us of our Sensic diseases. Help me, Jesus. This word of God is alive. It knows what you're going through. It knows what you need. It knows how to meet you on the pages of your life. Help me Jesus. This word seems like it it it permeates my secret place Lord God it comes into my closet and it starts speaking to stuff that I don't want to talk about But it'll heal me while it's there. It'll change me while it's there. It'll deliver me while it's there. Because while the word of God is being taught And while it's being preached with biblical accuracy, the presence of the power of the Lord is there to heal you. You ever wonder why when you get to your lowest low, you turn to the Psalms and you start reading the Psalms because it's healing. It's medicine. It has a healing balm that that calms your spirit And remind you that God still loves you. Lord help me, God. In the middle of a world where everybody seems to be hating somebody, it's just good to know that God still loves me. Help me, Jesus. While we're reading all the bad news in the newspaper, the fact that the preaching and the teaching of the word has the ability to manifest power for healing. Is justification as to why we need to make sure that we stay in the Word of God. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. Under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org. Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. He says Down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations, you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.