Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now Pastor Sterling. The word of the Lord reads, Blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the ungodly. Nor stands in the path of sinners, nor sits in the seat of the scornful. But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law he meditates day and night. He shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water that bring forth fruit in its season, whose leaf also shall not wither. And whatever he does shall prosper. The ungodly are not so, but are like the chaff which the wind drives away. Therefore, the ungodly shall not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous. For the Lord knows the way of the righteous, but the way of the ungodly shall perish. Will you pray with me this morning? Father, we bless you for this day and for this great grace that we've been entitled to thus far. Thank you, Lord, for the worship experience that we've enjoyed together. Thank you for your powerful presence in this place. Lord, you're good and you're merciful and you're kind. Thank you, God, for being so gracious unto us that we have opportunity now to sit at your feet and hear from you. Spirit of the Lord, as I open my mouth to declare this word, I pray that you would give me clarity of thought and speech. That the very word, God, that comes from my mouth will be the very oracle of God and speak into the life and the situations of each person under the sound of my voice. Lord, there may be someone who needs a Savior on this morning. Save them and lead them. God to that throne of grace that they might find relief for their burdened soul. I pray, God, that you would rescue that one who's drifting from the fellowship and draw them back to yourself. God I pray that you would edify this body. We didn't just come here to shout and sing. We came to be edified that we might be equipped to go out and do the work of ministry. So, Father, edify this body But God, above and beyond everything else that transpires in the preaching of this gospel, it is my fervent and sovereign prayer that you glorify yourself, Lord God, that your name will get all the glory and all the honor And all the praise I need you, God, as I stand here on today. Use me as a vessel in your hand to accomplish your will. In the name of Jesus, I pray, with thanksgiving and expectation. Amen And amen. Praise the name of the Lord. I want to thank the men's chorus on this morning for blessing us. Praise God. And for my for my young men that came up and sang. James Brothers, bless you, bless you, bless you. Amen. Um as they were singing, it reminded me when my my uncles used to get together. All the time they would get together. This is true story. Whenever they would get together they would be drinking. And when they get to drinking they start singing. They be doing all that harmonizing and stuff and they was up there singing. I said that sound just like my uncles and my Father, they be just getting it all on. And it's just a blessing to hear you guys being used by God, even still yet, and letting God glorify and Himself through you. Thank you so much. We really appreciate you. Amen. Amen. This text that we have in front of us on this morning, on this Men's Day, uh, we have two men uh who are identified in the text. And in these two men's situations, there are two ways that we see in these two men and there are two different ends. That we see in these two men. And each one of these ways and ends is a choice of each individual. See if I can get you there s slowly but surely. Um in other words, we see these two uh uh diametrically opposed lives, but each one has chosen how he wanted to live. Y'all still here with me On this morning, as much as it is Men's Day and this text, perhaps you might assume that it's just for men, it's not. Amen, somebody. So as I preach on this morning, I'm not just preaching to the men, I'm preaching to the women too. Amen. Amen. This this this text will hit us all. But as I was uh and I walked through this text and we see these two men who have two different ways of life and two different endings. It allows us to see there are a choice as to how we're going to live our life. And today there are many who claim identity with Christ. And they claim to be Christians and they say that my identity is in him, but their ways don't say that. Are y'all still here? In fact, if I can just get down to the real nitty-gritty, we are living in a time when everybody is identifying with something. But what this text does is it it narrows down our choices of identity to either man number one or man number two. In other words, you don't get to choose whether you want to be a cat or a dog or a fish. That is not a choice of your identity. You get to choose either man number one Or man number two. Now, what the text does is that it helps us to understand how and who we're really dealing with because The psalmist gives us the resolution, if I can say it this way, as to how to determine who people really identify with. And I'm I'm gonna say it this way: what the text says is if you undress the man You'll see who his real identity is. In other words, if I get past the facade of how you carry yourself on Sunday morning and how you dress yourself on Sunday morning. If I really follow you around and follow your ways and see how you act and see where you're going, then I'll know who you identify with. Even Christ Himself says you'll know they'll know who you are by the fruit that you bear, and they'll know if you're my disciples by the love you have one for another. We'll know who you really identify with. Y'all still here? In this text, I want to talk to you from the subject matter Two Men, Two Ways, Two Destinies. It's nothing complicated. In fact, if you look in your Bible, you might even see it laid out similarly. And as I reveal these two characteristics and the ways of these two men to reveal their identity. I want to remind you that you get to choose which one you want to be. Man number one carries us from verses one through three, and man number two carries us from four through six. The first thing that we see of man number one is that he does not keep bad company. Whether he's walking, standing, or sitting, he does not keep bad company. In fact, the text says, blessed is the man, favored is the man, happy is the man who does not keep bad company. In fact, it goes on and digs in deeper, and it says he he doesn't walk according to the counsel of the ungodly. He walks not according to the counsel of the ungodly. In other words, this man does not receive his direction from the world. He is not depending on the world to tell him how he ought to live his life. He does not allow legislation that comes through Congress or the Senate or the states to tell him what's legal and what's up. Allowable. But no no no this man his his of reliance his dependence is his company that he keeps if you will Is not coming from the direction or instruction of the world. This man, he doesn't walk in their counsel. He's not looking to the ungodly to tell me, how should I live this life? No, no, no, no. He doesn't receive his counsel from the world. He he doesn't stand in the paths of sinners This man, uh, he's he he doesn't keep bad company, so he's not standing around with sinners talking with them and pontificating with them about what What bad new thing we can do? Because he's not keeping company with bad people. Help me, Jesus. This man, he's not looking for the wicked to tell him how to be successful and and what him for being a good man. No, he's not using the barameters or the barometers of the world to tell him how to live out this life. Because he's not keeping bad company. This man he doesn't walk in the council of the ungodly. He doesn't he doesn't stand around with uh sinners He doesn't stand in their path, if I can the text literally says he he's not in the path of the the sinner. The man number one, who also could be a woman. Ought to be uncomfortable by the ways of the sinner. The pathway of the sinner ought to make the man number one uncomfortable. If you can walk in the path with the sinner and be very comfortable, then you're probably not man number one. Help me here, Jesus. Man number one ought to be uncomfortable at the club. At the bar. Man number one ought to be uncomfortable on certain sites. On their computer, on their laptop, on their phone. Man number one ought to have some some struggle looking at pornography. Man. Man number one ought to oughta have some some challenges with adultery and fornication and living in sinful lifestyles and producing children outside of marriage that ought to make man number one uncomfortable. I'm not trying to beat up on anybody, but I'm just trying to say the pathway Of the sinner is not where man number one stands. I'm not saying that we don't oftentimes sin. We do sin. Even man number one will sin, but he's not standing in the path. Where sin is. Help me God. Uh he man man number one, he's he he's he doesn't keep bad company and so Verse number one says he doesn't walk in the council of ungodly, he doesn't stand in the path of sinners, and nor does he even sit. In the seat of the scornful. He doesn't sit around with people that talk bad about his God. He doesn't sit around with those who make fun of Christianity. And join in the conversations or even just sit there comfortably. He ought to be uncomfortable with that position. Man number one, whether he's walking, sitting, or standing, he doesn't keep bad company. Y'all know the the old abdic bad company corrupts and so man number one is not sitting around corruption. He's not hanging out with corruption. Man number one Is going to flee fornication. He's going to flee adultery. He's going to flee bad habits. He's going to run from hanging out with that which does not please his God because he loves his God. And if he loves his God, he's gonna do that which pleases his God. And he's not gonna hang out in sin that his God died to save him from. Because man number one understands the value and the cost that it took to get him to move from man number two to man number one. In other words, if you didn't understand what I'm talking about, he understands that in order for him to have been saved from the penalty of sin, in order for him to walk around and call himself a Christian, in order for him to have been baptized Baptized by the Holy Ghost in order for him to be born again, for him to be bloodwashed. He understands that Christ had to give his very life for that. And I'm not gonna waste away my living and disgrace what God has done to save me. That's man number one. That's man number one. He he doesn't hang out with bad company. Man number one, not only Does not keep bad company. Man number one delights in the law of the Lord. Verse number two. His delight is in the law of the Lord. His his excitement, his enthusiasm, his desire is in the Word of God. This man doesn't he doesn't seek counsel from the world, but rather his counsel is in the word. In the law, he meditates day and night. This man, man number one. This is a good evaluation where you are. delighting in CNN or are you delighting in some novels that you just can't wait to get to the next one that comes out? What what's your delight? Where are you hanging out at? What is it that you uh enjoy taking in? Is is your delight in the law of God? Is it not only your delight to take it in, but is it your delight to live it out. Help me, Jesus, because a whole lot of people read it but don't live it. I'm way up in the church now. Help me, Jesus. I'm not even to mention those that won't even read it, but they'll carry it but won't read it. There's some that carry it and won't read it, and some that read it and won't do it. I know I'm preaching well now. I know I'm standing on good ground now because it's getting extra quiet up in here. This man, man number two, his delight is in the law. He delights himself. He's He's excited, he's enjoying. He he flourishes in the Word of God. His in his law, that is in the law of God, he meditates day and night This whole idea of meditating in the Word of God is that he takes in the Word of God and he won't let it go until he has exhausted all the nutrition out of it that he can get. Lord have mercy. It's like a ch a cow chewing the cud. And what the cow does is he'll chew the grass and he'll he'll chew it and he'll put it down in his stomach and then he'll He'll regurgitate it and chew it all over again because he didn't get everything out of it the first time. Help me, Lord. And so he doesn't he doesn't blow through the scriptures just so he can say, I finished reading the Bible. No He's he's spending some time in verse number two and verse number three and he's going back. Wait a minute. Let me go back to verse number one because this thing is so good. I I can't leave it. He's not in a hurry to get through the Bible. Some folk ask me, Pastor, how come we s how come it's taken us so long to get through the Bible in Bible study? Well, first of all, we're here for Bible study. Help me, Jesus. And so I kind of figure it like this way. We're gonna be here till Jesus comes, so we might as well keep on studying the Bible. And so that's why I don't skip passages and and skip verses and skip books because they're difficult or unpleasurable for you to hear about. No, we walk through from Genesis all the way to Revelation and deal with every text all the way through because we need to shoot this word. And regurgitate it and chew it again and work through it until we can exhaust all we can get out of it. Because guess what? I need the nourishment of the word in order to live as man number one I can't live as man number one with a surface relationship with the word. I need to get it deep into it so I can understand it, so I can I need to know what my daddy is talking about. I need to know what my father is telling me. How can I live? How can I deal with the challenges of this life? How can I progress when everybody seems like they're against me. How do I move on when it when I feel like the weight of the world is on me? Well it's all in my my fathers Letter to me, and so if I spend some time in the letter and I meditate on it and and think through it and pray about it and call on the Holy Ghost to help me to understand it Then I can get the nourishment that I need out of it so that I can live this life. That's what man number one does. He meditates on it day and night. It's right there in the word. Man number one, he does not keep bad company. Man number one delights in the law of the Lord. Thirdly, man number one, his destiny is eternal life and favor. Verse three says he should be like a tree planted by the rivers of water that bring forth its fruit in its season. Man number one is like this tree that has a constant source. of water and so he doesn't have to wait for it to rain. Help me God. Man number one is not affected by the drought. He's not affected by the pandemic because they didn't have church because he can have church by himself. Yeah, I'm liking this man man number one is like a tree planted by the water and And he's constantly being supplied by the Spirit of God that lives in him with everything that he needs to progress his way and live on because He has as a result of, watch this, as a result of his relationship with God, he's coming to a place where God has planted him uh by a place or by a river that he that never runs dry that will always supply to him everything he needs for life In other words, he won't die for starvation of having substance of water. He'll always have water. His roots will reach out into the into the rivers of water to always be able to supply him with what he needs. And if I could really help somebody right here, um sometimes as as we live in life This man number one, uh help me God, he he may look like he's dwindling, but his leaves are still flourishing, and the water is still in the roots and that it's still coming up in him. Watch this, and though the fruit might not have manifested the way you want to see it yet, God is bringing forth, God is moving in him, moving in her to bring forth the fruit and and and and sooner or later I'm trying to help somebody here sooner or later the fruit is gonna come on the on the tree because he's planted They're intentionally in a resourceful place so that he can have or she can have everything they need to produce. And their production does not end. It's in the text. It says He's playing by this river as a water that brings forth fruit in its season. In its season, not in your season. See, sometimes we looking at people and we judging people about by our season. And we think, well, you should have got over that by now. You should be doing this by now. It ain't your season. It's their season. And so when it's the season that God has set for them, the fruit will come. If they are man number one. And so that's why I always say, let God be God and let him do the judging. That ain't our job. Yes, they're here. I think God's good at judging, He can handle it. Because he knows some things about the case that we don't know. Help me, Jesus. There's some evidence that's not going to be presented in the case that you have. So you don't have all the evidence to give a righteous judgment. So let God be the righteous judge and let him handle all of that. But he'll, if they are man number one, God will bring forth fruit in season. Y'all still here? This man, number one, he not only has uh the fruit coming in season, his leaves also shall not wither. And listen to this: whatever he does shall prosper. Whatever man number one does shall prosper. Why is that, Pastor? Because man number one Is in Christ and Christ is in him. And in him there is no failure. And if there's no failure in him and you are in him, then you can't fail. You're living in a place and a position and a space that favor is always on your life Help me God. I know that we use his words and throw stuff around and we say, oh yeah, I got the favor of God. So do I. I mean, you know, we we say that like so that we can make somebody else feel like we somehow a little bit better than they are. I'm just walking in the favor. I got the favor, I got the favor. Well, if you are if you born again, if you man number one, you got the favor too And we can't fail. And so whatsoever we do shall prosper. This is hard. I know this is hard. I wish I had some some some some whole I I wish I had like an hour to deal with that for you. But let me let me see if I can fix it as fast as I can. Everything you do in Christ shall prosper because you're in Christ. Watch this. But the prosperity of it may not look like the world's prosperity. Stay here with me. And this is why man number one doesn't see Counsel from the world because the world will evaluate what God has done through you and say to you, that doesn't look prosperous Help me God, but when I do what I do for God, my prosperity is registered in heaven, and so you might not see it down here, but I've got treasure in heaven I might go out and witness and I'm sharing the gospel with all these people and I preach and I teach and all these people and not one person Accepts the Lord. And they'll say, man, that ministry is not even successful. But my success is not based on people responding My success is being obedient to go out and preach and teach and make Christ known. I was given a great commission in Matthew 28. Go and make disciples. I'm going to make disciples. It's up to God to bring the increase, but my success. Is in glory. So guess what? I'm prospering because I'm getting credit in glory for being obedient. I wish I could help somebody right here Your success may not look like the world's success, but man number one, whatever he does shall prosper. So his destiny is eternal. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the Radio Broadcast Ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he said Down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations, you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.